
    
      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be asked questions about your physical
      activity to make sure you are eligible. If you are found to have any pre-existing medical or
      dietary conditions that may prevent you from participating in this study, you will be asked
      to have your physician complete a form about your health conditions. You will only be allowed
      to participate in this study if he or she feels it is safe for you to engage in moderate
      physical activity. After physician clearance, if applicable, you will be scheduled for study
      visits at the Behavioral Research and Treatment Center (BRTC) at MD Anderson where you will
      complete tasks to measure your physical functioning ability. Information about your cancer
      and treatment history will be collected from your medical records as part of this study.

      First Study Visit:

      During the week before your first visit to the BRTC, you will complete the following tasks at
      home:

        -  You will wear an accelerometer and record your physical activities and exercise in a
           daily diary. An accelerometer is a small device that you wear on your waist during the
           day. It records how active you are. The accelerometer and diary will be mailed to you
           ahead of time, and a study staff member will call you to remind you when to start
           wearing the accelerometer and recording information in the daily diary.

        -  You will complete questionnaires that ask about any usual physical activities you may
           participate in, your health history, your quality of life, your social support, and your
           confidence for changing your eating and exercise behavior. The questionnaires will be
           mailed to you with the accelerometer and diary. You will complete the questionnaires at
           home when you have time. These questionnaires should take you no longer than about 30
           minutes total to complete.

        -  Within a week of your first visit to the BRTC, you will complete 2 online "24-hour diet
           recalls", 1 during a weekday and the other on a weekend day. One of the diet recalls
           will be done during your first visit to the BRTC and the other will be done at your
           home. This involves completing an online questionnaire that asks about what you eat and
           drink. You will report everything you have consumed in the last 24 hours (from midnight
           to midnight). A study staff member will call you and tell you when to complete each
           24-hour diet recall. Each phone call should last no longer than about 5 minutes,
           depending on if you have any questions for the study staff member.

      You will bring the accelerometer, daily diary, and completed questionnaires with you to your
      first visit to the BRTC.

      During your first visit to the BRTC, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will complete any of the questionnaires that you may not have had time to complete
           at home.

        -  Your blood pressure, height, weight, and waist and hip measurements will be recorded.

      You will also complete 5 simple performance tests that are designed to measure your aerobic
      function, lower body strength, upper body strength, agility (ability to move quickly),
      balance, and endurance:

        -  To test your aerobic fitness, you will complete a 2 minute step test. You will step in
           place. You must lift your leg up to midway between the knee and hip bone with each step.
           Your goal is to complete as many steps as possible within 2 minutes.

        -  To test your lower body strength, you will complete a 30 second chair-stand test. You
           will rise to an upright standing position from a fully seated position and then return
           to a fully seated position. You will repeat this as many times as you can within 30
           seconds.

        -  To test your upper body strength, you will complete a timed arm-curl test. You will hold
           a dumbbell in each hand and slowly curl your arm up towards your shoulder, then slowly
           lower it until your arm is extended. You will repeat this with your other arm. You will
           complete this as many as you can within 30 seconds.

        -  To test your agility and balance, you will complete the "8 foot up-and-go test." For
           this test, you will sit in a chair facing a cone that marks exactly 8 feet from the
           chair. You will start the test sitting in the chair. When instructed to start, you will
           stand up and walk as fast as you can around the cone (without running or hitting the
           cone) and return to a fully seated position in the chair. You will repeat this test 2
           times.

        -  Finally, you will complete a 6-minute walk test to measure your endurance. To complete
           this test, you will walk as fast as you can in an indoor hallway for 6 minutes. The
           distance you walk will be recorded.

      A study staff member will instruct you on how to complete each of these tests correctly and
      safely. You will be given a chance to practice each test, except for the 6 minute walk test.
      If you have any physical problem or condition that you think may interfere with completing
      any of the tests, you should tell the study staff member right away.

      Additionally, you will complete a dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scan to evaluate
      body composition. The DEXA scan exposes your body to radiation. The radiation you will
      receive is about a 10th of the radiation of a chest x-ray. If you are female, you will be
      asked if you are pregnant. If you state that you are not pregnant, you will receive the DEXA.
      If you are not sure if you are pregnant, you will have a urine pregnancy test done. If you
      are pregnant, you will not be able to take part in this study.

      The visit to the BRTC should take approximately 2 1/2 hours to complete.

      Internet and Phone Intervention Groups:

      After you have completed your first visit to the BRTC, you will be randomly assigned (as in a
      toss of the dice) to either the internet-based intervention group or the phone-based
      intervention group. Each intervention program will take 6 months to complete. Two (2) out of
      3 participants will be assigned to the internet group, and 1 out of 3 participants will be
      assigned to the phone group.

      If you are assigned to the Internet Group:

        -  You will be given instructions on how to access the diet and exercise information online
           (www.WalkingSpree.com) that will help you to monitor the amount of fat grams and
           calories you eat.

        -  You will participate in a discussion group online that will be led by the study staff.

        -  You will be able to email questions directly to the study staff at any time.

        -  You will also receive personalized reports about your progress in meeting the diet and
           exercise recommendations every 6 weeks by email from the study staff. This is to help
           you to stay on track with the exercise and diet recommendations.

      If you are assigned to the Phone Group:

        -  You will be given a fat gram and calorie counter to help you to monitor your eating
           habits.

        -  You will be given a binder of printed materials with information to help increase your
           exercise behavior and eat a more healthy diet.

        -  You will receive 1 counseling phone call each week for the first 3 weeks, then 1 call
           every 2 weeks for one month, and then 1 call each month for 4 months after that. Each
           phone call should last about 15-30 minutes. The calls will be recorded and reviewed by
           the research staff to make sure that the meetings are covering the program content.

        -  You will also receive personalized reports about your progress in meeting the diet and
           exercise recommendations every 6 weeks by mail from the study staff. This is to help you
           to stay on track with the exercise and diet recommendations.

      Both groups will receive the following:

        -  You will receive a pedometer, which is a small device you wear on your belt that counts
           the number of steps you take. You will need to wear the pedometer all day (from when you
           wake up to when you go to sleep). You will need to record your daily steps either online
           or in the binder, depending on which group you are in.

        -  You will receive resistance bands, which are long, flexible, rubber bands with handles
           on each end that are used for resistance training. You will be given instructions with
           pictures, either online or in the binder, that tell and show you how to use the
           resistance bands correctly and safely. If you have any questions about using the
           resistance bands, you should email the study staff or call the study counselor,
           depending on which group you are assigned to.

        -  You will receive a portion guidance plate, which you are asked to use while eating to
           help you learn correct portion sizes.

        -  You will be provided with recommended goals for your exercise, diet, and weight.

      After you have been on study for 14 weeks, questionnaires will be mailed to you to complete
      at home and mail back to the study staff. The questionnaires will ask about your level of
      physical activity, quality of life, and personal beliefs related to exercising and eating a
      healthy diet. The questionnaire should take about 20 minutes to complete.

      You will also complete 9 online surveys before your intervention sessions while you are on
      study. These surveys will ask for information about your exercise and eating habits, as well
      as your personal beliefs related to changing exercise and dieting behavior. This information
      will help the study staff to give program related information that is specifically designed
      for you. The surveys should take about 5 minutes to complete.

      Second Study Visit:

      You will have a second study visit 6 months after the first visit. During the week before
      your second visit to the BRTC:

        -  You will wear an accelerometer for a week, record your physical activities and exercise
           in a daily diary, and complete the same questionnaires. The accelerometer, daily diary,
           and questionnaires will be mailed to you ahead of time.

        -  You will also complete 2 more online "24-hour diet recalls" within a week of your second
           visit. A study staff member will call you and tell you when to complete each diet
           recall.

      You will bring the accelerometer, daily diary, and completed questionnaires with you to your
      second visit to the BRTC.

      During your second visit to the BRTC:

        -  You will complete any of the questionnaires that you may not have had time to complete
           at home.

        -  Your blood pressure, weight, and waist and hip measurements will be recorded.

        -  You will complete the 5 simple performance tests and a DEXA scan (after testing negative
           for pregnancy, if applicable).

      Length of Study:

      You will remain on study for up to 6 months after your first visit to the BRTC.

      This is an investigational study.
    
  