
    
      Scaphoid fractures

      The scaphoid bone is the most frequently occurring fracture of the carpal bones. Scaphoid
      fractures represent 2-6% of all fractures and 90% of all carpal fractures in the Netherlands.
      Scaphoid fractures typically occur in young, active patients aged 15 to 40 years old. The
      exact incidence is unknown, but approximately 21,000 scaphoid fractures are suspected in the
      Netherlands each year. However, only 15 to 30% represent real fractures. Because a
      significant amount of fractures (up to 65% immediately after injury) remain radiographically
      occult with conventional radiographic imaging, there is a trend of overtreatment of suspected
      scaphoid fractures, which means a lot of wrists are immobilized unnecessary.

      A scaphoid fracture has potentially far reaching consequences for the patient, considering
      the unique nature of this bone in the human body, as it articulates with five surrounding
      bones in the wrist. Because of this, it has an essential role in functionality of the wrist,
      acting as a pivot. The treatment of scaphoid fractures is found to be a challenge. Failure
      can result in avascular necrosis (up to 40%), nonunion (up to 21%) of the fracture and
      subsequently early osteoarthritis (up to 32%). Displaced fractures of the scaphoid bone can
      lead to an even higher rate of complications.

      The results of surgical treatment are variable13 and surgery is often initiated in a late
      phase of the treatment. Both complicated fracture healing and surgical treatment in a late
      phase of the treatment have severe socio-economical consequences.

      Diagnosis and follow up of scaphoid fractures

      The accurate diagnosis of a scaphoid fracture is the first step of successful treatment of
      this injury. Delay in treatment has been shown to negatively affect outcome, with adequate
      treatment of a scaphoid fracture increasing union rates from 55% to 90-100%.

      However, this knowledge supports the overtreatment-tendency in patients suspected of having a
      scaphoid fracture at the emergency department. It is estimated that only 15-30% of these
      patients actually have a scaphoid fracture, 1,3-5 resulting in a substantial number of
      patients wearing a cast for a limited period of time when they do not need it.

      As studies have shown, the clinical evaluation directly after trauma is not capable of
      reliably proving or excluding a scaphoid fracture. Current clinical practice in the
      Netherlands consists of conventional X-ray, followed by CT one week later when the initial
      radiographs are negative, but repeated clinical examination does not exclude scaphoid injury.
      Other imaging modalities such as MRI or bone scintigraphy are also being used. CT scan gives
      more useful information about the anatomy of a possible fracture and is more easily available
      in the Dutch situation than MRI and bone scintigraphy. Aside from the diagnostic delay it is
      difficult to objectify fracture healing with x-ray, CT scan, MRI or bone scintigraphy.
      Therefore, there is room for improvement of the arsenal to accurately and timely diagnose and
      classify scaphoid fractures and to evaluate scaphoid fracture healing.

      High resolution peripheral quantitative computed tomography

      The current clinical imaging techniques used in the diagnosis of scaphoid fractures as
      described above lack the resolving power needed for detailed cortical measurements and
      visualization of the trabecular morphology, for which a spatial resolution lower than 200 µm
      is needed. The development of high resolution CT scanners with a spatial resolution of 150 to
      95 µm enables these measurements, specifically for the extremities. These so-called
      high-resolution peripheral quantitative CT (HR-pQCT) scanners are smaller and less expensive
      than current clinical whole body CT scanners. A specific HR-pQCT scanner to visualize and
      assess trabecular structure of peripheral bones in a clinical (trial) setting is the XtremeCT
      platform (Scanco Medical AG, Switserland). The most recent iteration of this scanner, the
      XtremeCT-2, has a voxel size of 61 µm and a spatial resolution of 95 µm, which enables the
      direct assessment of bone micro-architectural parameters. In addition, after digitalization
      of the trabecular structure a so called virtual bone biopsy is available, which enables the
      estimation of bone strength parameters by micro-finite element analysis (µFEA).

      Validation and reproducibility studies of both the HR-pQCT scanner as well as µFEA have been
      performed, and in the last decade widespread experience has been gathered concerning the use
      of these techniques in (clinical) research.
    
  