
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) affects 54.4 million US adults and 23.7 million (43.5%) have
      arthritis-attributable activity limitation. As the condition progresses, pain and functional
      disability increase. Patients usually begin treatment with conservative measures including
      physical therapy and administration of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs before obtaining
      a corticosteroid injection. Corticosteroid injections have a patient-specific duration that
      often provide relief for a month before the effects begin to taper with most individuals
      returning to baseline by 2-3 months post injection.

      Unfortunately, data on intraarticular injections is not robust and primarily focused on hip,
      knee, and disease processes rather than the glenohumeral joint. For example, steroid
      concentrations have been studied in adhesive capsulitis, where 20 and 40mg of triamcinolone
      acenotide were used with no statistical significance between the two. When a placebo was
      added, both doses were better than the placebo, but once again no difference was seen between
      the two steroid concentrations. Another study, looking at knee osteoarthritis, found that
      high dose steroids had a larger effect on duration, but other studies have shown no
      difference in duration between the 40mg and 80mg concentration of triamcinolone acetonide.

      Intraarticular injections do have adverse effects. Similar to steroids taken orally or
      intravenously, intraarticular injections have a similar side effect profile. Fortunately,
      intraarticular injections are localized, by the nature of the procedure, and the chances of
      experiencing a significant side effect is rare. The most common side effects are steroid
      flare, allergic reaction, facial erythema, hypo-pigmentation, fat pad necrosis, cutaneous
      atrophy, and a transient increase in blood glucose. Some of the rare side effects have been
      seen in case reports include idiopathic central serous chorioretinopathy, decrease in breast
      milk production, sepsis, tendon rupture, and cataracts. In addition, the administration of
      steroid injections are limited to being done every three months due to risk of weakening
      tendons, and acceleration of cartilage loss.

      There is a void of literature for understating the ideal injectable steroid concentrations in
      glenohumeral osteoarthritis. Because of this, providers who perform intraarticular injections
      tend to perform them based on prior training experience or anecdotal evidence. We aim to
      evaluate the ideal steroid concentration that will maximize treatment effect for glenohumeral
      osteoarthritis, but at the same time minimize side effects, and better train our future
      providers.
    
  