
    
      Our proposed TOGA wil consist of portions of the PACE and some additional screening tools,
      and will be applied prospectively to all patients 70 years old and above seen in the UWCCC
      for a thoracic oncology surgery. Residents of nursing homes and assisted living facilities
      will be eligible for this study if they are thought to be appropriate surgical candidates;
      other institutionalized patients will not. The preoperative TOGA will be performed by either
      Drs. Weigel, Maloney, LoConte or Traynor or P.A. Block. The TOGA includes parts of the PACE,
      involving assessment of co-morbid illness, Activities of Daily Living [ADL], Instrumental
      Activities of Daily Living [IADL], Geriatric Depression Screen [GDS], Brief Fatigue Inventory
      [BFI], Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group/Zubrod Performance Status [PS], Mini Mental State
      Exam (MMSE), in addition to an American Society of Anesthesiologists Score[ASA] and mini
      nutritional assessment (MNA), which were not done in the PACE. The TOGA should take up to 25
      minutes to complete (Audisio, 2006), and will be done at only one time preoperativelOur
      hypothesis is that this novel, preoperative Thoracic Onco Geriatric Assessment (TOGA) will
      serve to predict outcomes for older patients going though thoracic oncology surgery, and thus
      will enhance geriatric patient care through the development of concise, validated,
      preoperative risk stratification.

      Our hypothesis is that this abbreviated geriatric screening tool will be a better predictor
      for surgical and oncologic complications after surgery than performance status alone (which
      is currently the only measure of fitness used in routine oncology care). In addition, we
      predict that parts of the TOGA, specifically the instrumental activites of daily living score
      (IADL), mini nutritional assessment (MNA) and the brief fatigue inventory (BFI), will be the
      strongest predictor(s) of outcomes in our thoracic surgery population. The outcomes data we
      generate will also be important in quality improvement and standardization of preoperative
      risk assessment for elderly patients with thoracic malignancies.
    
  