
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Asthma prevalence and mortality among Black children exceed levels among whites. Asthma
      management programs have reduced symptoms, attacks and emergency room usage. However, in 1990
      a pattern of underutilization and neglect of care among Black Americans in cases of asthma
      deaths among Black children indicated the importance of promoting ongoing versus episodic
      care, reduced exposure to triggers, sensitivity to signs of attacks, attack management, and
      communication with caregivers, professionals, and teachers. Research in Black communities
      indicated the importance of informal networks and neighborhood influences, in promoting
      improved asthma care within low-income Black communities.

      The study was part of a demonstration and education initiative "Interventions for Control of
      Asthma Among Black and Hispanic Children" which was released by the NHLBI in June 1989.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Working with an established community agency, Grace Hill Neighborhood Services and its
      Community Wellness Board, the investigators established Neighborhood Steering Committees to
      oversee development and implementation of a Neighborhood Asthma Collaboration (NAC) in each
      neighborhood. The 36-month NAC included (a) promotional campaigns to increase awareness of
      asthma and its care; (b) Neighborhood Volunteers disseminating leaflets encouraging
      identification of and continuing care for asthma, and recruiting participants into NAC
      programs; (c) Neighborhood Volunteers trained as Asthma Advocates to work with asthmatic
      children and their care-givers to encourage asthma co-management and to conduct management
      programs in local institutions; (d) an Asthma Management Course offered through community
      health centers, churches, and other local institutions; and, (e) local school programs
      including in-service teacher education on asthma management, an asthma program for all
      students to enhance support for asthmatic children, and school implementation of the Asthma
      Management Course.

      Prior to implementing the NAC, the investigators (a) reviewed, adopted, piloted and revised
      existing asthma management educational and promotional materials, (b) worked with asthma care
      providers to gain their involvement in program planning and patient referral to the NAC and
      (c) adapted procedures from other worksite/community health promotion programs for working
      with Neighborhood Steering Committees and training Neighborhood Volunteers. General
      evaluation included (a) surveys of community awareness of and attitudes toward asthma, (b)
      dissemination and implementation, and (c) pre-post changes in symptoms, attacks, ER visits,
      and hospitalizations among all child participants in the NAC. These measures as well as kept
      appointments and serum theophylline levels less than or equal to 5 mg/dl were used in two
      controlled studies within the NAC to compare (1) children from study neighborhoods with
      children from socioeconomically comparable neighborhoods, all of whom received care through
      Children's Hospital of Washington University, and (2) children receiving care through two
      Centers serving other, socieoeconomically similar neighborhoods.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  