
    
      We iteratively adapted and modified the NC woman-focused intervention (Women's CoOp),
      including the field manual and instrumentation, to focus on pregnant African-American women
      who abused crack, were currently in substance abuse treatment, and were at risk for HIV or
      were HIV positive. We then tested the newly developed intervention in a Stage IB pilot-sized
      randomized clinical trial (RCT) in a traditional substance abuse treatment clinic to
      determine (a) feasibility; (b) relative efficacy compared with substance abuse
      treatment-as-usual (TAU), across several domains of functioning (e.g., substance use, HIV
      risk behaviors); and (c) the intervention's potential mechanisms of action.

      The specific aims of this Stage IA/B study were as follows:

      Aim 1. To adapt the culturally specific, manualized woman-focused intervention to
      specifically address issues of pregnancy and substance abuse, relationships with men, social
      support, parenting, HIV status, living with HIV, antiretroviral (ARV) treatment, and HIV
      risk-reduction methods for pregnant and postpartum women.

      Aim 2. To compare the relative efficacy of the woman-focused intervention for pregnant women
      relative to standard substance abuse treatment to sustain reductions in substance abuse and
      sexual risk behaviors, maintain retention in drug treatment, reduce violence, and improve
      prenatal care and ARV treatment adherence (as needed) at 3- and 6-month follow-up.

      3. Estimated Enrollment: Can this be changed to 59 (the final enrollment)? Also, is there a
      way to change "Estimated" to "Final" or something more definite? 4. Study Start Date: Can
      this be changed to May 2007? 5. Study Completion: February 2009 (I know this date differs
      from the date in the email I sent earlier when I responded to your questions. Sorry, but this
      is the correct date to use) 6. Detailed Description: Can the current text be replaced with
      the following?

      APPROACH: During Stage 1A, the team conducted a series of separate focus groups with an
      expert panel (including researchers, clinicians, and service providers); our Community
      Advisory Board; HIV+, substance-using, postpartum women; and HIV-, substance-using,
      postpartum women. We first inquired about how we could adapt the existing measures in the
      instrumentation, adapt the intervention to address issues of substance-using women who were
      pregnant, and determine the fidelity of its delivery. After this first set of focus groups,
      the Woman-Focused manual, measures, and intervention were revised to reflect new adaptations.
      Then the second set of focus groups with the same members were conducted for review of these
      materials and fidelity measures. Feedback was solicited to verify our adaptations and then it
      was pretested to further refine and finalize the manual and measures.

      During Stage 1B, we recruited 59 women from treatment facilities in North Carolina. We
      marketed the study through a brochure as women entered the treatment programs. We also
      utilized existing outreach efforts for substance abusers at risk for HIV. Women who were
      eligible and consented to participate in the study gave a urine sample to assess drug use and
      take part in a 1½ hour ACASI interview. Topics included demographics, drug use, substance
      abuse treatment, physical health, sexual behavior, mental health, employment history, and
      criminal history. Once they completed the interview, the women were randomly assigned to
      either the women's intervention condition or a treatment as usual condition. Once randomized,
      women in the woman-focused intervention were asked to complete four one-hour intervention
      sessions within a month that included a personalized assessment and a personal action plan.
      As part of the second session, woman-focused intervention participants were offered HIV
      testing. Women in the TAU condition received the traditional substance abuse treatment
      services. Women in both groups were also assessed at 3-month and 6-month follow-up. Measures
      included behavioral outcomes, satisfaction with the intervention, and services received.
    
  