
    
      Selective internal radiation therapy (SIRT), also called radioembolisation (RE), with
      SIR-Spheres microspheres is an endovascular procedure, included within the interventional
      oncologic technologies to treat primary and secondary liver tumours. Using a microcatheter, a
      precise dose of resin microspheres is released in the hepatic artery, where they are carried
      into the arterioles and selectively lodge in the tumour microvasculature. The microspheres
      are loaded with the radioactive yttrium-90, a high-energy beta-emitting isotope with a
      half-life of 64.1 hours. Following administration, 94% of the radiation is delivered in 11
      days.

      In France, SIR-Spheres are listed as reimbursable by the national health authorities (Haute
      Autorité de Santé [HAS]). In order to evaluate the reimbursement after five years, all
      patients treated with SIR-Spheres will be entered into a registry that collects data on the
      real-life clinical application of SIRT and reports to the national authorities.

      The goal of the research project is to gain a better understanding of the real-life clinical
      application of radioembolisation with SIR-Spheres and the impact of the treatment in clinical
      practice. Secondary objectives will be to assess the observed treatment outcomes of SIRT with
      SIR-Spheres Y-90 resin microspheres in terms of safety, effectiveness, quality of life,
      technical considerations and diagnosis and treatment-related considerations.

      To better understand the palliative aspect of the treatment, acquisition of the change in
      quality of life is included by means of EORTC's validated quality of life questionnaire QLQ
      C30 with accompanying HCC module to measure quality of life in patients with hepatocellular
      carcinoma.

      Besides data collection on the initial treatment, it will be advised to collect follow-up
      data and quality of life data every three months for a minimum of 24 months after treatment.

      CIRT-FR is a post-market, prospective, non-randomized, observational study. Patients are only
      asked to be enrolled when they are treated with SIR-Spheres microspheres as part of their
      treatment determined by the treating clinician. In no way will participation of the patient
      in the registry impact their treatment plan, or influence the quality of the treatment.
    
  