
    
      Despite the availability of strong medicines for HIV infection, there is no cure for the
      infection. The current anti-HIV drugs, used in combination, are effective in slowing the
      growth of the virus and delaying the progression of the infection. There is increasing
      information to suggest that a vigorous immune response (a strong response of the body to
      fight infection) to HIV may also result in improved control of the HIV infection. Such strong
      immune responses are found in a small number of HIV-infected individuals, but not in the
      majority.

      Dendritic cells, or DCs, are a type of white blood cell that works together with other immune
      cells to fight infection. The DCs role is to bring substances foreign to the body, such as
      viruses including HIV or cancer cell proteins, to the body's immune system. Large numbers of
      DCs can be made from blood samples and administered back to the same person as an
      individualized vaccine. Vaccines made from DCs have been studied in HIV and numerous types of
      cancer.

      The vaccines will be created by two different laboratory methods, standard or improved, using
      an individual's own DCs and either an individual's own inactive HIV that has been killed with
      heat or manmade HIV proteins called peptides. The peptides have not been studied for this use
      in humans, and these vaccines are not approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to
      prevent or treat HIV infection.

      This study will be done in two steps. During Step 1 (Entry-Week 12), participants will have 4
      study visits for tests, procedures and exams. At Week 4, participants will be randomized by
      chance into one of six study groups, like rolling dice. Four of the study groups will receive
      a DC-HIV vaccine while two of the study groups will receive a "control" vaccine with only
      DCs. Participants will have a 4:1 chance of receiving a DC-HIV study vaccine.

        -  Group 1: enhanced DC-HIV vaccine with inactive HIV

        -  Group 2: enhanced DC-HIV vaccine with HIV peptides

        -  Group 3: enhanced DCs only (control)

        -  Group 4: classic DC-HIV vaccine with inactive HIV

        -  Group 5: classic DC-HIV vaccine with HIV peptides

        -  Group 6: classic DCs only (control)

      Each participant will receive 6 study vaccinations at 4-week intervals beginning at Week 12.
      Researchers will compare the results from participants who get the active study vaccines with
      results from participants who get the control vaccines. Participants, the researchers and the
      clinic staff will not know which vaccine participants are getting.

      In Step 2 (Weeks 12 - 80), participants will have 18 study visits to receive the 6 study
      vaccinations and for tests to monitor health and safety and to see how the study vaccine
      affects the immune system and the virus.
    
  