
    
      Per the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, tremor is an involuntary,
      rhythmic muscle contraction leading to shaking movements in one or more parts of the body. It
      is a common movement disorder that most often affects the upper extremities but can also
      occur in the head, vocal cords, torso, and lower extremities. Tremor may be intermittent or
      constant. It can be present at rest, during action, or mixed between rest and action.

      Tremor can occur at any age but it is most common among middle-aged and older adults; once it
      occurs, it often progresses over time. This disorder shows no gender predilection. Although
      tremor is not life threatening, it can be severely disabling, making it difficult or even
      impossible to perform work and daily life tasks.

      Deep parts of the brain that control movements appear to be involved in tremor development.
      However, most types of tremor have no actual known cause. There are some forms that appear to
      be inherited and run in families. There are more than 20 types of tremor. Tremor can occur on
      its own (such as essential tremor (ET) or be associated with other neurological disorders,
      such as Parkinson's disease (PD).

      Tremor is a common symptom of Parkinson's disease. The classification of patients with
      Parkinson's disease into tremor-dominant and non-tremor subtypes is well established. The
      pathophysiology of tremor in patients with tremor-dominant Parkinson's disease (TDPD) may be
      distinct from other their other symptoms, such as bradykinesia, rigidity, and gait and
      balance symptoms. Importantly, tremor in PD responds less well or can even be highly
      resistant to dopaminergic treatment than bradykinesia and rigidity. Therefore other treatment
      strategies may need to be considered.

      Essential Tremor (ET) is a common neurologic condition characterized by a tremor that can
      occur either with posture or action. In the US, there are reported to be as many as 10
      million people with essential tremor. A significant subset of patients experience persistent
      disability and disruption on activities of daily living from tremor and require intervention.

      Treatment approach depends on the penetrance of disability into a patient's life, but
      typically begins with pharmacologic intervention. Patients with disabling tremor refractory
      to primary and secondary pharmacologic interventions are evaluated for surgical treatment
      with deep brain stimulation (DBS) or thalamotomy. However, a sizeable subset of these
      patients are unfavorable candidates for surgery due to medical or neurological
      co-morbidities. Additionally, a significant subset of patients simply does not wish to
      undergo the awake craniotomy required for DBS lead placement for tremor. Stereotactic
      radiosurgery (SRS) thalamotomy is an alternative for those patients. SRS thalamotomy targets
      the ventral intermediate (VIM) nucleus of the thalamus based on predetermined stereotactic
      coordinates.

      Almost all prior SRS thalamotomy studies performed have used the Leksell Gamma Knife
      treatment unit and demonstrate that about 80% of properly selected patients respond. The
      efficacy of Gamma Knife radiosurgery for tremor has been studied prospectively and has been
      modeled based upon prognostic factors in larger retrospective studies. These studies provide
      benchmarks for measuring the safety and efficacy of frameless Virtual Cone radiosurgery in
      this trial. In order for possible frameless Virtual Cone radiosurgery to be a standard of
      care in the treatment of tremor, additional clinical data is required. This pilot trial of
      Virtual Cone radiosurgery will assess the safety and efficacy of this treatment. A target of
      forty patients will be treated to confirm the feasibility of the protocol procedures,
      efficacy, and safety of the treatment. Secondary endpoints will include quality of life and
      patient satisfaction. The investigators hypothesize that the recent improvements in LINAC
      delivery, image guidance, and patient position monitoring will allow a safe frameless
      procedure that has a high patient satisfaction and low toxicity.
    
  