
    
      Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) which is a major cause of morbidity and mortality
      in the intensive care unit, is characterized by decreased lung volume, decreased lung
      compliance, increased pulmonary vascular resistance and pulmonary hypertension, which
      ultimately lead to right ventricular dysfunction. Moreover, through biventricular
      interdependence and inter-ventricular septum shift, the left ventricular filling is limited,
      which eventually results in a decrease in stroke volume. Due to the high risk of
      ventilation-induced lung injury, protective lung ventilation is recommended, mainly through a
      reduction in tidal volume. However, due to the profound hypoxemia inherent to this mode of
      ventilation, lung recruitment strategies are recommended. When the application of a
      recruitive positive end-expiratory pressure fails to correct hypoxemia, prone positioning
      (PP) is recommended. A randomized controlled trial (PROSEVA) reported that early application
      of prolonged PP sessions in patients with severe ARDS significantly decreased 28- and 90-day
      mortality. In addition to its respiratory effects (improvement in arterial oxygenation and
      lung recruitment), PP exerts different cardiovascular effects. By increasing oxygenation and
      recruiting lung regions, PP can reduce the right ventricular afterload. By increasing the
      intraabdominal pressure (IAP), PP can increase the venous return and the cardiac preload.
      This effect might depend on the level of IAP, because a high IAP might collapse the inferior
      vena cava, especially in the case of hypovolemia. If cardiac preload increases, the resultant
      effect on cardiac output might depend on the degree of preload responsiveness. Finally, by
      increasing the IAP, PP can increase the left ventricular afterload. In a recent clinical
      study, our group showed that PP increases right and left ventricular preload and decreased
      right ventricular afterload. However, PP increased cardiac output only in patients with
      preload responsiveness. In this study preload responsiveness was detected by an increase in
      cardiac output > 10% during a passive leg raising (PLR) test. Since PP sessions are
      recommended to last between 16 to 18 hours per day and since patients with ARDS often have an
      associated sepsis, hemodynamically instability may occur during PP sessions. The therapeutic
      decision is very tricky since the administration of fluid (the main therapeutic option in
      case of hemodynamic instability) is risky due to alteration of lung capillary membrane
      permeability. Thus, it is important to predict the benefits of fluid administration by using
      indices of preload responsiveness. The recommended indices of preload responsiveness are
      pulse pressure variation (PPV), stroke volume variation (SVV) and PLR. However, PPV and SVV
      cannot be used reliably during low tidal volume ventilation. Moreover, conventional PLR
      cannot be performed during PP. It is thus important to develop other preload responsiveness
      tests doable during PP. Our group proposed to perform an end-expiratory occlusion (EEO) test
      to predict fluid responsiveness in the supine position and more recently to perform a tidal
      volume challenge (TVC) by transiently increasing tidal volume from 6 to 8 mL/kg and observing
      the changes in PPV.
    
  