
    
      Behavioural science offers theory-driven and evidence-based behaviour change techniques that
      can support people in losing weight and maintaining it long term. These techniques have not
      yet been assessed in within-person studies that not only examine aggregated between-group
      effects (e.g., intervention versus control comparisons) but also determine personal
      trajectories of weight loss and maintenance and tailor accordingly to the strongest
      predictors of outcomes. The aim of the proposed study is to develop and test a digital
      intervention that uses Ecological Momentary Assessment (EMA) and tailors the evidence-based
      behaviour change techniques that are based on theory to the strongest predictors of outcomes
      (based on EMA responses collected over time).

      This study will determine the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the proposed
      intervention through the Randomised Controlled Trial (EMA tailored intervention versus
      control), with within person component embedded in the trial. Study hypothesis is that
      participants in the EMA tailored intervention group will lose significantly more weight than
      participants in the control group from baseline to 6 months (post program comparison -
      primary outcome) and at 12 months (maintenance effects assessment - secondary outcome).

      This is a two-group intervention trial adopting a randomised controlled design. It is a
      hybrid trial assessing intervention effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and implementation.
      This study has within person component embedded in the design and intervention group will
      answer EMA questions during the initial 3 months of the study and will receive tailored
      intervention at month 3 combined with additional EMA. There are two phases of the 6-month
      intervention (I) observational EMA phase and (II) active intervention phase.

      The proposed intervention is delivered online through emails and text messages and based on
      the EMA responses in phase I, it is tailored in phase II. The intervention will have a
      non-automatic component, meaning trained facilitators will answer participants' queries and
      provide additional resources if and when needed to improve the engagement with the
      intervention. The study meets CONSORT criteria for RCTs and study ethical approval was
      obtained from SWPS University of Social Sciences and Humanities, Wroclaw, Poland (approval
      number 03/P/12/2019).
    
  