
    
      An Open-label randomized prospective study of HF patients (NYHA grade II-VI), hospitalized
      with COPD exacerbation. Eighty patients will be randomized in a 1:1 fashion to conventional
      and intervention testament groups. Informed consent will be obtained from all patients prior
      to study enrolment.

      Randomization will be performed using RED cap - secure web application. The conventional
      therapy group will receive 40mg of oral prednisone daily, while the intervention group will
      be treated with oral dexamethasone in an equivalent anti-inflammatory dose of 6 mg/day.
      Glucocorticosteroids will be administered throughout hospitalization and will be continued
      for at least 5-7 days. Dose changes through this period, as well as subsequent tapering will
      be on the discretion of the treating physician. All patients will also be treated with
      short-acting bronchodilators, antibiotics, oxygen, positive pressure non-invasive mechanical
      ventilation and VTE prophylaxis - based on the GOLD 2019 guidelines and clinical judgment of
      the attending physicians. An order for low sodium diet will be written. Discharge decisions
      will be based on the GOLD 2019 discharge criteria list. Patients will be discharge without
      steroid tapering regimen unless indicated by clinical judgment. Patient's demographic data
      will be documented at baseline (age, sex, GOLD severity stage, data on hospitalizations in
      the past year, patients' chronic drug therapy, Last spirometry and two-dimensional
      echo-Doppler examination results).

      On admission, patients' weight, height and oxygen saturation will be measured and routine
      blood tests will be drawn for evaluation of complete blood count, chemistry, NT proBNP
      levels, troponin, C-reactive protein and venous blood gas. Blood test results will be taken
      from the patient electronic medical record and will be based on the tests taken in the ER and
      during ward admission. Upon recruitment, the patient will be asked to complete COPD
      assessment tool (CAT) questionnaire and the Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire
      (KCCQ-12, the short form version) in order to quantify their health status. A follow-up
      telephone call visit will be performed 14±2 and 28±2 days after enrollment. The following
      measures will be obtained: KCCQ-12 and CAT questionnaire scores and documentation of current
      diuretic dose. After study completion, each patient will be followed for 30 more days post
      admission in order to document further hospitalizations.

      All the date collected during the study and after patients enrollment will be documented on a
      specialized case report form (CRF) built on RED cap - secure web application.
    
  