
    
      Rehabilitation engineering is a relatively new field that encompasses many diverse
      disciplines in engineering, technology, and medicine. Many hospitals do not have a
      rehabilitation engineering department and their patients are limited to products that are
      commercially available. These products are often very expensive and not ideal for the user.

      Each individual has unique needs. The REC at Madonna Rehabilitation Hospitals (MRH), as well
      as other RECs around the world, are focused on efficiently developing novel devices for
      specific patient needs and creating robust modifications to existing technologies to redirect
      something designed for the "average" person into something that is customized to the
      individual.

      At Madonna this service is important for individuals with disabilities. Thus, the purpose of
      this work is to seek input/feedback from end-users regarding the impact of the adaptive
      device on their function, independence, and quality of life. The investigators expect that
      the feedback received may guide future design integrations and will document the impact of
      such services on individuals with disabilities and their caregivers and clinicians. The main
      goal is that this feedback will demonstrate how a REC, such as the one at MRH, impacts
      patients' lives and therefore improves patients' outcomes. Enhanced patient outcome measures
      are valued by all hospitals, and therefore may encourage other hospitals to establish a REC.
      Additionally, feedback recorded from participants could be integrated into presentations and
      publications aimed at knowledge dissemination to communities of interest.

      Per current REC and MRH procedures, each patient will utilize a device designed or adapted by
      a rehabilitation engineer within the REC with input from both patient and clinician, along
      with other relevant experts. These adaptive devices are expected to vary widely and may
      include items such as toileting tools (for bowel and bladder control), assistive transfer
      devices, and electronic devices for environmental control.

      Individuals in MRH's inpatient and outpatient programs provide care for individuals with a
      diverse range and level of disabilities. Approximately 2-3 patients each week receive a
      custom built assistive device to increase their independence and/or hasten their recovery.

      A MRH research staff member will meet with the potential participant after the patient has
      received the requested REC assistive or adaptive device and have indicated to their therapist
      that they would like to learn more about the study. The participant and a legal guardian (if
      appropriate) will be asked to fill out the informed consent/assent, Authorization to Disclose
      Health Information (to assist in understanding the participant's diagnosis and other
      potential health problems), and photo/video consent.

      Information about relevant functional activities (e.g. feeding, transfers, ambulation) are
      quantified using functional independence and assessment measures (FIM/FAM scores) while the
      participant is at MRH. FIM(Functional Independence Measure)/FAM(Functional Assessment
      Measure) scores may be requested from the participant's primary therapist (if the participant
      allows via the Authorization to Disclose Health Information) for areas that would be
      influenced by the use of the assistive or adaptive device (e.g., if a device is built to
      assist a patient in transferring, scores in relation to the Car transfer category may be
      requested). These scores may be requested for the most recent date prior to receiving the
      device, when the patient discharges, and periodically throughout their time at Madonna (e.g.,
      daily scores may be requested to help determine the learning curve required to utilize the
      device).

      As part of this study, the participant will meet with a member of the MRH research staff
      again after using the assistive device for at least 2 days (maximum of 30 days). As
      appropriate, individuals utilizing the assistive devices (or their designated respondent if
      unable to personally respond) will also be asked to complete one or more qualitative and
      quantitative questionnaires to help understand the impact of the adaptive device on their
      function, independence, and quality of life. Then each participant will be asked to identify
      the specific need the device addresses and will rate on a 7-point Likert scale how effective
      the adaptive device is at addressing the specific need. The clinician or a caregiver may also
      be asked to complete one or more of the questionnaires while thinking about how the assistive
      device affects their patient/loved one. Qualitative comments and ratings will be collected on
      the perceived potential value, ease of use, acceptability, and preference for the device.

      Individual patient outcomes will be evaluated as well as similar devices that are utilized
      for different patients and diagnosis will be compared. Data will also be evaluated with
      regard to diagnosis and type of assistive device (i.e., toileting, transfer, technology
      access, etc.) to help understand what types of devices certain populations are lacking.
      Quantitative data will be analyzed through descriptive, parametric, and nonparametric
      statistics, as appropriate.
    
  