
    
      Introduction: Treatment with ICIs is leading to a remarkable improvement in the prognosis of
      several types of cancer. However, the expansion of these drugs in the field of oncology is
      also causing the emergence of a large diversity of irAEs, whose optimal prevention and
      management are still to be clarified. Nowadays, there is a growing need for reliable and
      validated biomarkers to predict the occurrence of irAEs in patients treated with ICIs.

      Purpose: To assess the effectiveness of a battery of autoantibodies available in a laboratory
      of autoimmunity to predict the occurrence of irAEs in patients with cancer who will be
      treated with ICIs per standard protocol.

      Methods: A multicenter prospective observational cohort study was designed to include a total
      of 221 patients diagnosed with cancer amenable to treatment with ICIs. During a period of 48
      weeks, patients will be controlled in the oncology outpatient clinics of five university
      hospitals with accredited experience in the management of immunotherapy. Immune-related
      adverse events will be defined and categorized according to CTCAE v. 5.0. Considering a
      proportion of irAEs and losses to follow-up of 25% and 5% respectively, a sample size of 221
      patients was calculated to estimate an expected sensitivity of the autoantibody battery of
      0.90 with a 95% confidence interval not lower than 0.75. All the participants will undergo
      ordinary blood tests at specific moments predefined per protocol and extraordinary blood
      tests at the time of the detection of an eventual irAE. Both ordinary and extraordinary
      samples will be frozen and stored in the biobank of each participating hospital in the form
      of serum and buffy coat. Once the whole cohort reaches the 24th week (intermediate analysis)
      and the 48th week (definitive analysis), all the samples will be centralized in the same
      autoimmunity laboratory for the determination of the autoantibody battery. A predictive model
      of irAEs will be constructed with the autoantibodies together with other potential risk
      factors of immune-mediated toxicity.
    
  