
    
      The main objective of the research project presented is to improve physical activity levels
      in adolescents who present rates of diagnosed active impairment through the design,
      development and evaluation of a multidisciplinary intervention program of physical activity
      to promote healthier lifestyles . This program will follow the principles of the Theory of
      Self-determination, using Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs), a training plan
      for monitors, teachers and parents, with the aim of achieving greater adherence to the sports
      practice of adolescents from Extremadura, with the benefits at a psychosocial, cognitive and
      biological level that this entails.

      Students of 1st and 2nd year of E.S.O would be part of this project. of different educational
      centers of the Autonomous Community of Extremadura and the set of professors of the mentioned
      centers. Through the initial measurement made to 1st and 2nd year students of E.S.O, children
      who do not perform sufficient physical activity and can be part of the intervention study
      will be identified. In this way, identified young people who do not perform physical activity
      or do not reach minimum recommendable values, will be grouped by means of the sampling of
      random selection by conglomerates in a control group and an experimental group. Overall, the
      investigatos would expect to have a total of about 240 male and female students, with ages
      between 11 and 15 years, where about 120 students would be part of the experimental group and
      another 120 students would form the control group. Indirectly, parents of students and
      teachers in the area of Physical Education who will collaborate in different activities and
      events would also participate.

      To achieve the objectives of the project, a quasi-experimental methodology would be carried
      out, with an ABA'-A'' design, formed by a first phase of initial evaluation of the
      psychosocial and biological variables that the investigators are going to try to optimize, a
      second phase that would consist of the intervention based on different procedures developed
      throughout an academic course, a third phase of final evaluation of the different variables
      that aims to assess the effects of the intervention and the usefulness of the program, and a
      fourth phase with an extinction measure, aimed at evaluating the stability of the effects
      caused by the program.

      The benefits of this project would be framed in different levels. In the first place, the
      main benefit would be obtained by the direct recipients of the project, that is, the
      adolescents who would see their physical activity levels increased with the positive
      consequences that this entails and with the development of healthier living habits. Secondly,
      Physical Education teachers could have new methodological and motivational tools to encourage
      more physical activity among their students; and the parents of these, could value the
      importance of physical activity and lead an active lifestyle, collaborating from the family
      environment to promote the objectives of this project.
    
  