
    
      This is a prospective, double - blinded randomized clinical trial conducted in University
      Kebangsaan Malaysia Medical Centre (UKMMC) where there are two intervention arms. All
      patients from Ophthalmology Clinic in UKM Medical Centre from September 2019 till December
      2021 will be involved in this study. Patients who fulfill the inclusion criteria will be
      included in this study. All eligible subjects will be asked to sign an informed consent.

      The qualified patients will be randomized on a 1:1 ratio into each treatment arm. Qualified
      eyes were further randomized into one of four subgroups, which specified the time between the
      last drop of study medication and the time of aqueous and vitreous humor sample collection
      (i.e., 1-, 2-, 4-, and 6-hour subgroups- about 32 patients per subgroup-: 16 Levofloxacin, 16
      Moxifloxacin.

      For 3 days prior to the day of the elective vitrectomy surgery, subjects will instill exactly
      one drop of study medication into their operative eye four times daily. On the day of surgery
      (visit 2, day 4), patients will receive their final drop of study medication administered by
      trained study personnel at the study site.

      Samples of aqueous (0.1 ml), and vitreous (0.2 ml) humour were taken simultaneously from the
      same patient at the commencement of surgery by paracentesis using a 30-gauge needle on a
      tuberculin syringe. All samples will be stored at -80°C as soon as possible until the
      concentrations of the drug will be measured.

      Measurements for moxifloxacin and levofloxacin concentrations in aqueous fluid will be
      determined using HPLC with UV detection, which is currently undergoing method development and
      validation at the Faculty of Pharmacy, UKM. Measurements for moxifloxacin and levofloxacin
      concentrations in vitreous fluid will be outsourced to a laboratory at the Centre for
      Research and Instrument Management (CRIM) in UKM, due to the high sensitivity required to
      determine the drugs' concentrations in vitreous fluid.

      A compartmental analysis will be carried out using AUC0-6, Cmax, and time to Cmax (Tmax) will
      be determined by direct observation. The median AUC0-6 calculation will be performed using
      the linear trapezoid method. A Kruskal-Wallis nonparametric one-way analysis of variance
      (ANOVA) will be used to detect differences between the concentrations in each treatment arm
      at various time points. A p value of <0.05 is considered statistically significant. Data
      management and statistical analysis will be performed using the PKNCA package in R and SPSS
      ver 23.0, whichever deemed suitable.
    
  