
    
      In 2001, the CHADS₂ score (congestive heart failure, hypertension, age ≥75 years, diabetes
      mellitus, stroke) was developed to predict the risk of stroke in patients with non rheumatic
      atrial fibrillation.In this score, each patient giving one point for congestive heart failure
      , hypertension , age equal or more than 75 years, diabetes mellitus and two points for
      stroke, transient ischemic attack.

      In 2010, CHADS₂ was expanded to include three additional independent risk factors: vascular
      disease (coronary artery disease, peripheral artery disease, aortic atherosclerosis), age
      65-74 years, and female sex. So new, more inclusive scoring system is the CHA₂DS₂-VASc. Each
      patient giving one point for congestive heart failure, hypertension, diabetes mellitus,
      vascular disease, age 65-74 and female gender and two point for history of stroke, transient
      ischemic attack and age≥75.

      The CHA₂DS₂-VASc score is better to predict stroke risk in non valvular atrial fibrillation
      patients with a baseline CHADS₂ score of 0 to 1. The 2014 American Heart Association/
      American College of Cardiology/ Heart Rhythm Society guidelines also recommend the
      CHA₂DS₂-VASc for stroke risk in patients with non valvular atrial fibrillation. The 2016
      European Society of Cardiology guidelines recommend using the CHA₂DS₂-VASc score to predict
      stroke risk in atrial fibrillation patients and to give oral anticoagulants to men with a
      score of 1 or higher and women with a score of 2 or higher.

      Stroke is a serious vascular problem, 25-30 percent of the cause is atrial fibrillation
      inspite of paroxysmal or persistent types.

      Galectin-3 is known as a soluble beta-galactoside binding lectin that secreted by immune cell
      and mediates profibrotic pathways. Also it has a role in inflammation, cell proliferation,
      and tissue repair. So, it is involved in multiple diseases as liver, kidney, inflammatory
      disease.

      In cardiac disease, it has a role in pathophysiology of atrial fibrillation, heart failure,
      myocardial infarction as the level is found high in patients with ST segment elevation
      myocardial infarction than normal persons and according to the level the outcome of disease
      is suggested.

      Also if galectin-3 is greater than the median level, the patients have a higher risk of new
      or recurrent heart failure. Galectin-3 has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration
      as a prognostic biomarker in congested heart failure to be used in conjunction with clinical
      evaluation.

      Galectin-3 has an ability of binding to von willbrand factor so help in modulation of early
      thrombus formation, as the glycans on human factor VIII are similar to von willbrand factor.
    
  