
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the pathologic complete response rate in patients with resectable, locally
           advanced adenocarcinoma of the esophagus or gastroesophageal junction treated with
           neoadjuvant paclitaxel, cisplatin, gefitinib, and radiotherapy followed by surgery and
           adjuvant gefitinib.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the safety and tolerability of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine time to disease progression in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the plasma pharmacokinetics of unbound gefitinib in these patients.

        -  Conduct exploratory studies to determine if EGFR pathway component expression and
           activation correlates with response to therapy and survival of these patients.

        -  Determine if treatment with gefitinib alters the EGFR pathway in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a prospective study.

        -  Neoadjuvant therapy: Patients receive oral gefitinib beginning 14 days prior to the
           start of chemoradiotherapy and continuing until 7 days prior to surgery (10-12 weeks).
           Patients also receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour and cisplatin IV over 2-3 hours on days
           1, 8, 15, 22, and 29. Patients also undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 5 weeks.

        -  Surgery: Patients undergo surgical resection 4-6 weeks after the completion of
           neoadjuvant therapy.

        -  Adjuvant therapy: Patients receive gefitinib once a day beginning 2-8 weeks after
           surgery and continuing for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood samples are obtained at baseline and periodically during study for pharmacokinetic
      studies. Tumor tissue samples are obtained by core biopsy at baseline for biomarker
      correlative studies. Samples are analyzed by IHC to measure expression and activation of
      EGFR-signaling pathway biomarkers in pretreatment esophageal tumor tissue, including EGFR and
      phosphorylated (p)-EGFR, ERK and p-ERK, Akt and p-Akt, p70s6k and p-p70s6k, and p27.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for at least 5 years.
    
  