
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is one of the leading causes of stroke and heart failure. It is also
      a major cause of hospitalizations and mortality (Stewart, Wattigney, and Wolf). Patients with
      atrial fibrillation (AF) who are intolerant to Class I and III antiarrhythmic drugs often
      require endocardial ablation, which can include pulmonary vein isolation (PVI) using
      radiofrequency (RF) catheter ablation or cryoballoon ablation (Medtronic, MN) and reported
      success rates vary (Calkins et al). In patients with persistent and long standing persistent
      AF success rates may not be as high (Akoum et al) and there is little data analyzing outcomes
      for patients in this population (Calkins et al). Using an epicardial-endocardial, or hybrid,
      approach Gehi et al describes a 66% 12 month arrythmia-free survival rate following the
      procedure, with 37% patients still on antiarrythmic drug therapy at 12 months. Furthermore, a
      paper by Anderson et al reports that the hybrid ablation results in lower costs and higher
      quality adjusted life years for patients with non-paroxysmal AF as reported by the studie's
      results of fewer repeat ablations and maintenance of sinus rhythm at 5 years. Conflicting
      reports exist on how much endocardial catheter ablation is needed for patients in persistent
      and long standing persistent AF. Verma et al reports results for patients in persistent AF
      having endocardial PVI compared to P VI plus additional linear lesions. Eighteen month
      success rates for these patients were 59% and 46% respectively.

      Success of surgical hybrid ablation using epicardial ablation cocontaminent with endocardial
      PVI alone versus the hybrid approach using epicardial ablation with endocardial ablation
      consisting of PVI ablation and RF ablation has not been studied using a randomized,
      prospective approach.

      If it is found that the PVI alone is as effective as PVI plus additional catheter ablation
      for patients receiving a hybrid ablation, it may reduce the need for extensive catheter
      ablation, thereby reducing the radiation exposure, procedure time, and radiofrequency
      ablation time.
    
  