
    
      In Australia, hepatitis C virus (HCV)-related morbidity and mortality have doubled in the
      past decade, with health care costs of $220 million per annum associated with approximately
      200,000 chronically infected cases. The majority of new (90%) and existing (80%) cases of HCV
      infection occur among people who inject drugs (PWID).

      As there is a close relationship between imprisonment, injecting drug use, and HCV, in any
      given year, almost 20,000 of those with chronic HCV in Australia spend time in prison,
      including approximately 8,000 in New South Wales (NSW). These individuals are likely to
      represent the most marginalised and 'hard-to-access' subgroup of the affected population. In
      addition, the prison environment is a key venue for ongoing transmission. Amongst PWID in the
      prison setting the report of any injecting drug use decreased from 71% prior to prison entry
      to 27% following imprisonment. However, among people who reported injecting drug use, the
      proportion reporting sharing a needle/syringe increased from 29% prior to prison entry to
      73%. In the community, 15-20% of current PWID report recent (last month) receptive
      needle/syringe sharing.

      In prison, where there is no access to formal needle and syringe programs, sharing injecting
      equipment can be normative with inmates' accounts of injecting practice revealing few ways
      that they can minimise HCV risk. Establishing effective disease prevention in the prison
      context is challenging, as prisons are unique in physical structure, and prisoners form a
      distinct micro-society with their own rules and regulations. Many health problems amongst
      prisoners arise directly from conditions of imprisonment such as overcrowding, uncontrolled
      exposure to violence and illicit drugs, lack of purposeful activity, separation from family
      networks and emotional deprivation.

      The existing strategies for HCV prevention in NSW prisons are delivered by Justice Health &
      Forensic Mental Health and Corrective Services. Justice Health & Forensic Mental Health
      provides a targeted screening program for blood-borne virus infection with pre- and post-test
      counselling, and opioid substitution treatment (OST) for those who are opioid dependent.
      Corrective Services provides bleach (or the quaternary amine disinfectant, Fincol) to clean
      used syringes. NSP is not available.

      Despite these efforts, in the Hepatitis C Incidence and Transmission Study in prisons
      (HITS-p; n=590) led by CI-Lloyd, half of the cohort (49%) of PWID reported injecting drug use
      during follow-up in prison and 31% reported sharing injecting equipment. HCV incidence was
      14.1/100 p-yrs (95% CI: 9.96, 19.3). There was no apparent protective effect of bleach
      cleansing or OST, highlighting the additional challenges of HCV prevention in the custodial
      setting.

      Qualitative research shows that decisions about sharing equipment are multi-factorial and can
      include issues ranging from service access (such as distance to service and opening hours),
      concerns about anonymity, perceptions that HCV is ubiquitous and unavoidable to
      socially-located concerns that promote use of sterile equipment such as a desire to avoid
      "track marks". In the prison context, complex social, economic, and environmental risk
      factors contributed to injecting practices with the person supplying the drugs injecting
      first, and the person who owns the injecting equipment going next. Risk of HCV acquisition
      did not regularly factor into determining order of injection within networks. There is no
      research that examines sharing of injecting equipment in those who have been cured with
      antiviral therapy in either community or prison settings.

      Increasing access to HCV therapy is a key objective of national and NSW Hepatitis C
      Strategies. The advent of well-tolerated, simple, oral hepatitis C virus (HCV) regimens -
      direct acting antivirals (DAAs) - has the potential to transform this landscape. These are
      much shorter, tolerable treatment regimens with cure rates >95%, providing an opportunity to
      reverse the rising burden of advanced liver disease. From 1st March 2016, these highly
      efficacious HCV therapies have been listed on the Pharmaceutical Benefit Scheme, and people
      with recent injecting drug use including prisoners are eligible to receive them. These are
      important features of the listing. In many countries, people who have not ceased injecting
      drug use are ineligible to receive DAA therapy, despite the fact that they comprise a
      significant proportion of HCV cases. Australia is therefore is leading the world in the
      scale-up of new therapies to an extent that many countries with such exclusions will not be
      able to achieve.

      This feature of DAA access also affords unique opportunities with respect to the
      implementation of treatment scale-up in community drug treatment clinics and prisons.
      Australia has good treatment coverage for people who are opioid dependent, with over 50% of
      opioid dependent people estimated to engage in opioid substitution therapy (OST).
      Community-based drug treatment clinics and prisons represent a logical venue for expansion of
      HCV care beyond existing tertiary HCV treatment centres.

      Although response to DAA HCV therapy is high, lower responses have been observed among people
      with previous treatment experience, cirrhosis and those with baseline or emergent resistance
      associated variants. Such resistance associated variants can persist for up to two years
      after treatment, affect re-treatment options, and be transmitted to new hosts. Further, PWID
      are likely to be exposed to multiple HCV infections as a result of ongoing high-risk
      behaviours and might commonly harbour mixed HCV infections (infection with two or more
      distinct viruses). Underlying mixed HCV infection can contribute to nonresponse during
      therapy, which has implications for DAA regimens that are preferentially active against
      specific viral genotypes or subtypes. These data argue for surveillance of HCV resistance and
      mixed HCV infection among PWID to resolve residual concerns regarding their clinical and
      public health significance.

      Two systematic reviews assessing interferon-based therapy for PWID have demonstrated
      responses comparable to randomised controlled trials excluding PWID. These data have
      supported international recommendations for the management of HCV for PWID. However, there
      are limited data on DAA therapy among recent PWID. As treatment is broadened to include more
      marginalised individuals, many clinicians are reluctant to treat HCV among PWID with recent
      injecting drug use with new DAA therapies. Major concerns include poor adherence/response,
      increased risk behaviour and HCV reinfection.

      A major concern is that ongoing injecting risk behaviours following DAA therapy in PWID will
      lead to HCV reinfection, reversing the benefits of cure. Ongoing risk behaviours following
      successful HCV therapy may lead to reinfection and compromised treatment outcomes. In a
      systematic review and meta-analysis of HCV reinfection among PWID performed by the
      investigators, the pooled estimate of re-infection was 2.2/100 p-yrs (95% CI, 0.9-6.1)
      overall and 6.4/100 p-yrs (95% CI, 2.5-16.7) among individuals who reported injecting drug
      use post-SVR. The one study of HCV reinfection post-therapy in prison performed to date was
      small (n=74), retrospective, and did not assess the rate of HCV reinfection. Studies of
      reinfection following HCV therapy are limited by small sample sizes, retrospective study
      designs, incomplete follow-up, and a lack of sensitive methods to detect reinfection.
      Further, there are no data on HCV reinfection among recent PWID treated with DAAs.

      Although DAA therapy could limit HCV-related disease burden, as treatment is broadened to
      include more marginalised individuals, many clinicians are reluctant to treat HCV among
      recent PWID, given concerns about poor adherence (and lower response to therapy), increased
      risk behaviours (due to the ease and high cure rates of DAA HCV therapy) and HCV reinfection
      (thereby reversing cure). However, no data exist on the extent to which this should be a
      concern. Given that DAA HCV therapy is highly expensive, we urgently need data on the
      magnitude of risk for, and predictors of, HCV reinfection. It is also unclear whether PWID
      treated in these two settings will vary in their response to DAA therapy and risk for
      reinfection.

      The investigators have an excellent track record of conducting high quality cohort studies
      and clinical trials among PWID in the community and prison, with high participant retention
      in follow-up. The investigators have developed a network of community-based clinical sites
      providing HCV care in nine community-based drug treatment clinics, and many years of
      collaborative clinical research in the prison sector. In SHARP the investigators will explore
      the risk of HCV reinfection and treatment efficacy among recent PWID with chronic HCV and
      recent injecting drug use in the community and in the prisons.
    
  