
    
      Dry eye is a prevalent ocular disorder worldwide and recognized as one of the most frequent
      reasons for seeking eye care. Whether locally or systemically initiated, inflammation plays a
      key role in the pathogenesis of dry eye. Approximately half of the patients with clinically
      significant dry eye have an underlying systemic inflammatory or autoimmune disease. One
      serious disease that causes significant dry eye is Sjögren's syndrome (SS). SS is an
      autoimmune disorder characterized by immune-mediated destruction of the salivary and lacrimal
      glands, with subsequent development of sicca symptoms. It is one of the most common
      autoimmune diseases in adults, affecting 1% to 4% of the general population. Approximately
      10% of patients with clinically significant dry eye have underlying SS. Currently, the
      diagnosis of SS among dry eye patients is delayed by about a decade, largely due to lack of
      awareness and also diversity of patient symptoms and signs, adding to the complexity of
      diagnosis. Importantly, patients with SS are at risk for many ocular and systemic
      complications including central nervous system and visceral organ involvement as well as
      lymphoma. In fact, SS is the autoimmune disease most frequently associated with lymphoma.
      Therefore, identifying the subset of dry eye patients with SS is relevant.

      Diagnosis of SS remains challenging mainly due to the lack of definitive diagnostic tests.
      The presence of aqueous-deficient dry eye is an integral part of diagnostic criteria for SS.
      Arguably, the hallmark of SS-related dry eye is conjunctival vital dye staining related to
      loss or alteration of the ocular surface mucins. A healthy conjunctiva is essential for
      ocular surface health as conjunctival goblet cells are responsible for secretion of the large
      gel-forming mucin MUC5AC which plays an important role in maintenance of the tear film on the
      ocular surface. Reduction of MUC5AC levels in tears of patients with SS has been demonstrated
      in a single previous study. The investigators also found lower levels of tear MUC5AC, and
      higher levels of IL-6 an IL-8 in patients with SS-dry eye in comparison to non-SS dry eye and
      controls. In addition, the investigators found the conjunctival lissamine green staining has
      a role in differentiating SS versus non-SS dry eye, independently of the dry eye severity.

      In addition, increased levels of cytokines such as interleukin (IL)-13, IL-21, and
      interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) in tears and conjunctiva have previously been shown to correlate
      with goblet cell loss in SS as well as non-SS-dry eye patients. In murine studies, IFN-γ and
      tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) were reported to inhibit MUC5AC secretion in goblet cells
      stimulated with a cholinergic agonist. Such inhibition correlated with the expression of
      inflammatory cytokines in the conjunctiva of a mouse model of SS and significantly reduced
      tear MUC5AC levels. Nevertheless, targeting tear and ocular surface mucins and the
      relationships to various cytokines in dry eye as a diagnostic or therapeutic area has yet to
      be extensively studied.

      Furthermore, it is well known that patients with SS-related dry eye have much more
      significant visual complaints than ocular discomfort symptoms arguably due to high corneal
      punctate erosion scores and diminished corneal subbasal nerve plexus when compared with
      non-SS dry eye patients. Although the exact mechanism of this is not known, cytokine levels
      in the tear film might possibly be a contributing factor. Indeed, the worsening of the
      corneal staining after prolonged gazing, could possibly be attributable to lack of tear film
      mucin as the investigators demonstrated the correlation between the conjunctival lissamine
      green staining (a surrogate for goblet cell density which secrete the mucin).

      Lastly, although the advent of targeted biological treatments and other factors has led to
      renewed interest in Sjögren's among rheumatologists and immunologists, its ocular
      manifestations and burden remain underappreciated. As an example, the most widely used
      Sjögren's disease activity tool, the EULAR Sjögren's Syndrome Disease Activity Index
      (ESSDAI), does not include the extraglandular ocular manifestations of Sjögren's, such as
      corneal melt/perforation, uveitis, scleritis, retinal vasculitis, and optic neuritis. In
      addition, the EULAR Sjögren's Syndrome Patient Reported Index (ESSPRI) only includes one item
      that addresses the severity of dryness, but this refers to overall dryness and not
      specifically ocular dryness. Most importantly, these tools do not include any visual symptoms
      related to dry eye, such as blurred vision and visual or ocular fatigue. The investigators'
      most recent study points to a significant toll that the ocular manifestations of Sjögren's
      can have on patients emotionally, physically, and financially, in fact much more pronounced
      than other manifestation.
    
  