
    
      Sickle cell disease (SCD) disease is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait that results
      in several interactive processes: polymerization of hemoglobin S (HbS), hemolysis, nitric
      oxide depletion, and vaso-occlusion.[3] The most common manifestations of sickle cell disease
      are vaso-occlusive pain events, specifically dactylitis which typically occurs as the first
      clinical manifestation.[4] As patients age, the early onset peripheral pain moves to more
      central regions resulting in increased severity of vaso-occlusive crises.[4] Pain from the
      blockage of sickeled cells in vessels causes poor blood flow to a localized area. There are
      few clinical and laboratory findings to indicate the severity of pain associated with sickle
      cell crisis,[4] making it difficult for a physician to identify the amount of pain the
      patient actually experiences. Length of stay in the hospital depends largely on physician
      discretion and patient report.

      Sleep is instrumental to many aspects of physical and emotional health during childhood and
      adolescence. Sleep disruption from pain is a significant concern in patients with sickle cell
      disease due to the prevalence of their acute and chronic pain.[7] In a study conducted by
      Daniel et al., sickle cell patients between 4-10 years old, were more likely to exhibit
      disrupted sleep, specifically night-waking and sleep-disordered breathing, than children who
      were not diagnosed with sickle cell disease from similar demographic backgrounds. [7]
      Furthermore, children with more severe forms of sickle cell disease were reported to have
      more restless sleep than children with less severe forms. [7] Overall, the literature
      suggests that sleep disruptions may interfere with children's daily functions, along with
      their ability to cope with SCD and its complications.[7] Daniel et al. recommends discussing
      ways to improve sleep habits with children suffering from SCD because it may increase
      efficacy in pain management, priapism, and enuresis.[7] Another study by Valrie etal.,
      suggests that poor quality of sleep is correlated with increased occurrence of sickle cell
      disease pain the following day.[9] They also discovered that high pain severity was related
      to poor sleep quality and this relationship was exacerbated during stressful situations.[9]
      Developing a suitable sleeping environment (e.g. removing the television, or limiting the
      lighting) will maximize sleep efficacy resulting in better health outcomes and quality of
      life.[7] There has been minimal research on evaluating the relationship between exercise and
      sickle cell disease in children and adolescents. Studies conducted on sickle cell disease in
      adults with respect to the effects of exercise have produced mixed results partly due to
      patient comorbid illnesses. In 2012, Chirico et al. compared two fitness level group
      including, subjects who did not partake in regular physical activity for two years prior to
      the study versus subjects who partook in regular, weekly physical activity for several years
      leading up to the study. [5] Both groups contained sickle cell trait carriers and subjects
      with normal hemoglobin. [5] Subjects performed an incremental maximum exercise test while
      data was collected on heart rate via a chest monitor and on oxidative stress levels via blood
      samples at various points following completion of the exercise task. [5] Results indicated
      regular physical activity helped to blunt the increase in oxidative stress and the decrease
      in nitric oxide metabolism and up regulation of antioxidant enzyme activities in response to
      exercise in sickle cell trait carriers. [5] These findings suggest an attenuated sickle cell
      crisis in the subjects with regular exercise when compared with the sedentary group.

      Presently, at Phoenix Children's Hospital, no protocol exists for management of sleep and
      exercise in sickle cell patients. The most relevant policy named "Parenting and Visitation"
      includes guidelines regarding sleep and visiting hours but these are not well enforced. In
      our hospital, the sickle cell population is known to have some of the longest length of
      stays. Between October 2014 and September 2015, there were 89 admissions for a vaso-occlusive
      crisis with an average length of stay of 6 days and 12 admissions greater than 10 days and 5
      admissions greater than 20 days. Prior research suggests that implementation of standardized
      care (e.g. order sets, protocols, and flowcharts) can improve compliance and patient outcomes
      [8], reduce overall length of stay, and mitigate costs. Therefore, we have developed a new
      comprehensive care plan (CPP) that enhances standard of care by including the following care
      aspects:

        1. Patient Controlled Analgesia (PCA). PCA will be initiated and managed at the discretion
           of the Pain Management team. Naloxone infusion will be available for opioid related side
           effects. Once tapered, patients will be transitioned to oral opioids to be administered
           as needed. Patients will be discharged home, when appropriate, with oral opioids and
           weaning instructions.

        2. Other Medications. All medications will be given during daytime hours, if possible. All
           home medications will be continued while inpatient. Ketorolac will be given
           intravenously every 6 hours for 12 doses then switched to ibuprofen by mouth every 6
           hours until discharge home. Stool softeners will be utilized while on narcotics to
           prevent constipation. A clonidine patch may be used for adjunct analgesia and
           anxiolysis. A lidocaine patch may be used for localized pain.

        3. Pain Psychology. Consultations will begin on Day 2 and continue as needed. The
           psychologist will teach the patient sleep hygiene techniques, and non-pharmacologic pain
           management skills including: distraction, diaphragmatic breathing, progressive muscle
           relaxation, and guided imagery with medical hypnosis.

        4. Physical Therapy. Consultations will begin on Day 2 and continue as needed. Patient is
           expected to spend time out of bed by Day 2 participating in light activity.

        5. Sleep Hygiene. Will be introduced to the experimental group. Patient must sleep between
           the hours of 10 PM and 5 AM daily. Window blinds will be open by 8 AM. Patient must be
           awake and ready to participate in therapies by 9 AM. Napping will be at the discretion
           of the physician. Practitioners should examine care orders critically, such as routine
           vital signs, and determine if it is safe and/or appropriate to defer these during sleep.
           Room lights will be turned off to help promote the circadian rhythm. No video games,
           television, cell phones, or computers will be allowed during this time.

        6. Extracurricular. Will participate in child life activities as recommended (e.g.
           Playroom, or Zone). TV, phone, computer, and video games only between hours of 4-9 PM
           (computer okay outside of hours only for school work).

        7. Other. Patient will eat meals during regular daytime hours (e.g. breakfast consumed
           before 9 am) and shower daily. No overnight visitors will be allowed.

      We propose to evaluate the feasibility of the new CPP in a pilot randomized control trial to
      determine if pain and length of stay can be reduced in patients with sickle cell disease. We
      also propose to evaluate a sleep regimen to determine if this can reduce the hospital stay
      and help with pain. We hypothesize increased physical activity and proper sleep, as
      implemented in the CPP, are correlated with decreased hospital length of stay and decreased
      pain. Additionally, we believe that creating a standardized nighttime environment at the
      hospital will help the children stay in their circadian rhythm thus promoting improved sleep
      and a more effective inpatient disease management.

      Specific Aims Primary: To determine the feasibility and efficacy of the CPP to reduce pain
      and length of stay in patients with sickle cell disease.

      A.To evaluate if patients who follow the CPP physical activity regimen will have less pain
      and shorter hospital stay than patients receiving standard of care.

      B.To measure if patients who follow the CPP sleep activity regimen will have less pain and
      shorter hospital stay than patients receiving standard of care.

      Study Design This is a prospective pilot study of 20 subjects who have sickle-cell disease
      and are admitted to Phoenix Children's Hospital for an acute vaso-occlusive crisis. Patients
      will be randomized via a random number generator with equal probability of assignment to
      either CPP (experimental) or standard of care (control) trial arm. Eligible subjects and
      their family will be approached during the first day of hospital admission for consent to
      participate and randomization. After randomization, all subjects will be given multiple
      questionnaires to evaluate their current sleep habits, activity levels, and psychological
      constructs Procedures During the enrollment visit, questionnaires will be administered to
      every subject to evaluate current sleep habits, activity levels, pain, and quality of life.
      Subjects will receive the Actiwatch Spectrum Pro and be given instructions on how to use it.

      Control Group: Patient will receive standard of care. Nursing staff will be aware of study
      presence but will not receive any specific instruction for the patient.

      Experimental Group: During the enrollment visit, patient will go over the new comprehensive
      care protocol with the study staff and will sign the agreement stating compliance. Patient
      will be given a copy of the comprehensive care plan for reference. Nursing staff will be
      aware of study's presence and will help to support patient's compliance with sleep and other
      procedures according to care plan.

      Discharge Study staff will closely follow the patient's progress in the hospital. Once
      patient is ready for discharge, they will have a visit with study investigators and be given
      one final PedsQL™ to complete. An additional questionnaire will be given to the experimental
      group asking their opinion about the CPP. The Actiwatch Spectrum Pro will be collected from
      the patients and be properly disinfected.

      Measurement/Assessments Actiwatch Spectrum Pro Monitoring Device The Actiwatch Spectrum Pro
      activity device will continuously monitor activity (active minutes), sleep (minutes slept and
      quality) and allow the subject to input their numerical pain or fatigue rating. At the end of
      the patient's trial, the data will be extracted from the actiwatch and placed into the
      patient's alphanumeric account that is monitored by the research personnel. Patients or
      families will not have access to the accounts. We will examine the minutes of activity per
      day and minutes of sleep per day and compare it to the pain scores recorded by looking at the
      data extracted from the Actiwatch Spectrum Pro.

      Analysis Baseline characteristics will be summarized within the two care groups using
      descriptive statistics including count and percent for categorical variables and the mean and
      standard deviation (median and interquartile ranges) for continuous variables. Evaluation of
      the CPP with length of stay will be done using the T-test or the Kruskal-Wallis test,
      depending on the length of stay distribution. Analysis of variance for repeated measures will
      assess the effect of time on pain scores within care groups. Differences in mean cumulative
      pain scores between care groups will also be examined daily during hospital stay.

      Additional analyses will investigate the association of care components, physical activity
      and sleep, with length of stay and pain scores using appropriate statistical methods as
      described above. All statistical tests will have a significance level of 0.05.
    
  