
    
      This is a global, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, proof of concept
      study of LSALT peptide as prevention of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and acute
      kidney injury in patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19). Following screening and after
      establishing baseline parameters such as lung and renal function, clinical chemistries,
      coagulation, hematology, and urinalysis, and satisfying all inclusion and exclusion criteria,
      patients will be randomized to one of two blinded treatment regimens:

        1. 100 mL of 5 mg IV LSALT peptide infusion over 2 hours daily

        2. 100 mL drug-free IV saline infusion over 2 hours daily.

      Thirty (30) patients will be randomized to active drug (LSALT peptide) and 30 patients will
      be randomized to matching placebo. Patients and, if necessary, the Legal Authorized
      Representative (LAR), the Investigational Staff, and the Sponsor and its representatives will
      not know the randomization schemata. The Pharmacist at the site will be unblinded and prepare
      drug/placebo for injection.

      This double-blind, placebo-controlled, proof-of-concept Phase 2 study is designed to evaluate
      LSALT peptide compared with placebo in a defined number of adult hospitalized patients with
      the diagnosis of COVID-19. This is a 1:1 randomization comparing 5 mg LSALT peptide daily
      with matching placebo. LSALT peptide or drug-free saline will begin immediately once the
      patient meets all inclusion/exclusion criteria at the start of hospitalization and followed
      with daily physical exams, blood chemistries, coagulation, and hematology; ECGs will be
      recorded at Baseline, Day 3, and EOS. Patients will be maintained on standard of care,
      including prophylaxis or treatment for VTE, per institutional guidelines throughout the
      study. Questionnaires (APACHE II, SOFA, Berlin Definition, and modified Medical Research
      Council Dyspnea Scale) will be assessed at Baseline, when clinically indicated, and at EOT
      and EOS. Dosing will end on Day 14, or at cure or increasing severity of ARDS, or at death.
      Patients will be followed clinically, and safety and efficacy measures will be recorded at
      end of study (EOS; Day 28) or death, whichever occurs first.

      Duration of therapy will be a maximum of 14 days. Patients will be maintained on the standard
      of care for the treatment of COVID-19 as defined by the institutional guidelines.
      Co-morbidities and concomitant medications will be reviewed daily and documented in the
      patient's eCRF. The risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE), a potential consequence of
      SARS-CoV-2 infection, will be assessed daily and prophylaxis will be included as standard of
      care for every patient. Please refer to antithrombotic therapy in patients with COVID-19
      (COVID-19 Treatment Guidelines Panel, 12-May-2020).

      A Data and Safety Monitoring Board (refer to the DSMB Charter) will evaluate patients on a
      continuing basis for primarily safety assessments but also the adequacy of treatment based
      upon clinical data of the patient, target drug concentrations, and data obtained from the
      AB001 PK study in healthy subjects to offer recommendations to the Sponsor. In the absence of
      adverse events or any safety issues during the course of study, the DSMB may recommend
      continuance or suspension of the study due to futility or safety issues. The DSMB will meet
      at least monthly if not more frequently based upon enrollment throughout the study period.
      Per protocol, at no time will patients be dosed for more than 14 days of therapy. The DSMB
      Charter will outline all processes for changes to the protocol and protocol design prior to
      the first patient being enrolled into study.
    
  