
    
      Patients were randomly distributed into two groups i.e. control and intervention group. 30
      patients were allocated in intervention group and received nutrient rich bread mix i.e. IAtta
      (100 g) along with dietary and physical activity counseling and 33 patients were allocated in
      the control group who received only dietary and physical activity counseling. Patients in the
      intervention group collected 14 packets of 100 g of IAtta every fortnight during their
      clinician appointments while the control patients were advised regarding their dietary habits
      at every clinician visit for 6 months.

      Dietary counseling for 30 minutes was imparted to all patients on each visit by the
      researcher. Depending on the physical status of the patients, low level of physical activity
      (walking and/or stairs), was encouraged daily during counseling sessions.

      Nutritional, biochemical, quality of life and anthropometric estimations were assessed at
      baseline, after 3 months and at 6 months of intervention for all patients.

      Patients' daily energy, carbohydrate, protein and fat intake were calculated using food
      frequency (Indian Migrant study food frequency questionnaire- IMS-FFQ) questionnaire and two
      day 24 hour recall data. PG-SGA questionnaire was used to monitor patient nutritional status
      throughout the study.

      EORTC-QLQ- C30 questionnaire was used to analyse patients' quality of life and asked
      personally by the researcher.

      Haemoglobin and serum albumin levels were assessed at the start of the study, after 3 months
      and at 6 months of intervention for all patients.

      Indian Migrant Study Physical Activity questionnaire (IMS-PAQ) was used to assess patients'
      physical activity throughout the day.

      Anthropometric estimations included body weight, mid upper arm circumference and four site
      skin fold thickness (SFT) measurement (i.e. triceps, biceps, subscapular and suprailiac).
    
  