
    
      900 to 1000 children are admitted each year for bronchiolitis in the pediatric emergency
      department of the Toulouse Children Hospital. The diagnosis is based on clinical examination,
      but in some cases furthers examinations such as chest X-ray are necessary in order to look
      for a parenchymal condensation. Even if French recommendations do not place chest ultrasound
      in the care pathway to date, many recent studies show the usefulness, rapidity and
      reliability of ultrasound in parenchymal abnormalities. But regarding the bronchiolitis, few
      studies are available and including limited numbers of patients. In addition, the reduction
      of irradiation is a main goal, especially in children.

      We propose to performed a chest ultrasound in infants (<24 months) admitted for bronchiolitis
      with an available chest X-ray, in order to compare the performance of both examinations
      (X-ray and ultrasound) for the diagnosis of parenchymal condensation. Besides, to correlate
      initial chest ultrasound results and clinical evolution, parents will be contacted by phone 1
      month after inclusion.

      Primary outcome: The primary outcome is the sensitivity and specificity values of chest
      ultrasound for the diagnosis of parenchymal condensations diagnosed by chest X-ray. Positive
      and negative predictive values will also be estimated. This outcome is evaluated at the first
      visit (T0).

      Secondary outcomes:

        -  To describe chest X-ray and ultrasound abnormalities in bronchiolitis.

        -  To evaluate the performance of chest ultrasound to distinguish retractile and
           non-retractile opacities complicating bronchiolitis.

        -  To study the correlation between clinical evolution at 1-month (malaise, place and
           duration of hospitalization, re-hospitalization, oxygen therapy, antibiotic therapy) and
           chest ultrasound results.

      Follow-up parameters are recorded during a telephone call 1 month after inclusion.

      Study design : It is a longitudinal, monocentric and prospective study with the aim to
      evaluate a diagnostic examination.
    
  