
    
      Joint pain is a common ailment among adults in the United States. In 2014, an estimated 14.6
      million Americans with arthritis suffered from severe joint pain. It is therefore
      unsurprising that many topical ointments are currently marketed for joint pain relief
      including Bengay®, Icy Hot®, Jointflex®, and Aspercreme®. These ointments aim to reduce pain
      often through a combination of analgesic ingredients include capsaicin, salicylates, menthol,
      camphor, and lidocaine. Bengay® products, for instance, contain one or more of menthol,
      camphor, salicylates, and lidocaine. Icy Hot® products contain menthol, while some also
      include lidocaine.

      Yeahhh Baby! ointment is an herbal (botanical: plant-based) treatment for those impacted by
      joint pain. The product contains a variety of herbal ingredients that have been touted by
      some within the alternative medicine community as "healing agents." The product started
      selling in 2016 and is available commercially as an all-natural alternative to other
      commercially available products. This ointment consists primarily of coconut oil (98%), with
      magnesium and small amounts of herbal ingredients (tanner's bark, slippery root, sweet weed,
      velvet plant, walnut hulls, kidney root, green ginger, Indian pink, mad dogweed, and nigella
      seed) thought to reduce inflammation and to promote tissue healing.

      The present study will compare the impact of the Yeahhh Baby! Ointment, as compared to a
      placebo, on measures of joint pain and discomfort in those who regularly experience joint
      pain. We hypothesize that perceived pain will be reduced when subjects use the Yeahhh Baby!
      Ointment. Previous studies exploring the efficacy of topicals on joint pain relief have used
      a similar design and similar joint pain assessments as employed herein (The Western Ontario
      and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index [WOMAC] and visual analog scale [VAS] for pain).
    
  