
    
      The ITPR is an FDA-approved device intended to increase circulation and blood pressure in
      hypovolemic and cardiogenic shock. The device is inserted within a standard respiratory
      circuit between the patient and the ventilator. It functions by decreasing intrathoracic
      pressure during the expiratory phase to subatmospheric levels after each positive pressure
      ventilation. This decrease in intrathoracic pressure creates a vacuum within the thorax
      relative to the rest of the body, thereby enhancing venous return to the heart and
      consequently increasing cardiac output and blood pressure. Activation of the device is also
      accompanied by a decrease in SVR. The end result is a device that simultaneously improves
      cardiac output by increasing LVEDV and decreasing SVR while increasing coronary perfusion
      pressure by increasing blood pressure and decreasing LVESP/LVESV.1-8

      Interestingly, while the ITPR was developed as a non-invasive mechanism to increase preload
      in hypovolemic patients, its mechanism of action (generation of subatmospheric intrathoracic
      pressure) has been shown to reduce intracranial pressure6. This is critical in brain-injured
      patients, because elevated intracranial pressure is strongly associated with poor outcome in
      traumatic brain injury (TBI) patients - in a recent study of 846 TBI patients, those with ICP
      < 20 mm Hg by 48 hours had a mortality rate of 14%, whereas those with ICP > 20 mm Hg had a
      mortality rate of 34%9. Particularly interesting are the ITPR's combined benefits of
      increased MAP and decreased ICP, as hypotension is a well-known poor prognostic indicator in
      this patient population.

      In fact, according to the Brain Trauma Foundation Guidelines, "Hypotension, occurring at any
      time from injury through the acute intensive care course, has been found to be a primary
      predictor of outcome from severe head injury for the health care delivery systems within
      which prognostic variables have been best studied. Hypotension is repeatedly found to be one
      of the five most powerful predictors of outcome and is generally the only one of these five
      that is amenable to therapeutic modification. A single recording of a hypotensive episode is
      generally associated with a doubling of mortality and a marked increase in morbidity from a
      given head injury10."

      Importantly, cerebral perfusion pressure (mean arterial pressure - the greater of ICP or CVP)
      is only a surrogate marker for cerebral blood flow. The function of hypotension as a useful
      clinical variable is dependent on two factors - first, its correlation with the true variable
      of interest (cerebral blood flow) and second, the ability of clinicians to manipulate the
      underlying variable of interest (cerebral blood flow) based on the surrogate marker (cerebral
      perfusion pressure).

      The acceptable level of hypotension in patients with brain injuries has not been determined,
      and the Brain Trauma Foundation (BTF) Guidelines recommend maintaining systolic blood
      pressures > 90 mm Hg, but acknowledge that this number is relatively arbitrary and not based
      on any high-level studies (thus assigning it a designation of Level II evidence) 11. The BTF
      Guidelines further state that because hypotension is such a poor prognostic variable, it
      would be unethical to randomize patients to various blood pressure goals, and therefore Level
      I evidence is not forthcoming. Further complicating the situation is the lack of agreement on
      how to increase blood pressure (with the hopes of increasing cerebral perfusion
      pressure)12-15. Many of the pharmacologic agents used to increase mean arterial pressure have
      significant vasoconstrictive effects, which could counteract any increase blood pressure and
      lead to unchanged, or even reduced cerebral blood flow.
    
  