
    
      General practice visits can provide a unique opportunity to identify and treat individuals
      with or at risk for CVD. We plan to test implementation of system changes using nurse
      facilitation in the organization of primary care practices to enhance daily adoption by the
      practice staff of evidence-based guidelines and prevention strategies that can lead to better
      patient care.

      Specifically, we will:

      i) Establish an Outreach Facilitation program in primary care practices throughout the
      Champlain District to improve the secondary prevention and management of cardiovascular
      disease in the primary care setting. The program will assist the practices (Champlain CVD
      Prevention Network) with implementation of evidence-based guidelines (Champlain Primary Care
      CVD Prevention Guidelines) by targeting the following risk factors:

        -  Hypertension

        -  Dyslipidemia

        -  Diabetes

        -  Chronic Kidney Disease

        -  Smoking

        -  Obesity

        -  Physical Inactivity

      ii) Rigorously evaluate this program's efficacy and cost effectiveness

      Hypotheses

      Implementation of the outreach facilitation program for CVD prevention and management will
      improve: i) the processes of cardiovascular health related care delivery by primary care
      practitioners in the Champlain LHIN, and ii) the clinical outcomes for patients with
      established CVD and those at high cardiovascular risk. The improvements will be evident on
      the comparisons of the pre- to post-implementation performance within the participating
      practices, and on the between practice comparisons of performance in those randomized to
      begin the program earlier with those randomized to begin it later.

      Design

      We will use a "stepped wedge" design where the outreach facilitation program will be
      rolled-out sequentially to the trial participants, in geographic regions chosen by random
      order, over a number of equally spaced time intervals during the 5 year program
      implementation period.

      To allow for the sequential roll-out of the program, the Champlain LHIN has been divided into
      9 smaller geographic regions, referred to from now on as "divisions", using GIS mapping
      technology. The order in which these divisions begin the program has been randomized, but
      stratified by the west/central/and east location within the LHIN, so that each division per
      stratum will have the same probability of beginning the program at any specific time.

      There will be 4 data collection points throughout the 5-year implementation period. In the
      analysis, the data points before program implementation (the baseline section of the wedge)
      will be compared to the data points after the program begun (the implementation section of
      the wedge) both within and between the divisions. The multiple baseline data obtained for
      those divisions randomized to begin the program later than others will allow for underlying
      temporal changes to be considered as a variable in data analysis in order to determine, for
      example, whether any secular changes had an impact on effectiveness of the program.

      Impact Evaluation

      To measure the population-level impact of the program we will collaborate with the Institute
      for Clinical Evaluative Sciences (ICES). Specifically, we will evaluate the regional impact
      of the program on cardiovascular health by linking participating doctors with provincial
      administrative databases from ICES to determine the rates of CVD-related hospitalization and
      emergency department visits, mortality and morbidity, and drug prescription patterns for
      hypertension, lipid control, and other vascular protective agents.

      In addition, we will measure the success of the program at the level of the primary care
      practice through a qualitative assessment of the following aspects of program implementation:

        -  the impact of the intervention on physicians, associated staff and patients

        -  the resources and activities required to implement the intervention and the extent to
           which it was implemented as intended

        -  the factors which contributed to success or which introduce barriers to success

      Satisfaction with the program will be evaluated at the level of the physician, practice
      staff, and the facilitators.
    
  