
    
      An open label, single arm, phase II trial of Olaparib for PDAC patients with BRCAness
      (BRCA-Breast Cancer susceptibility gene).

      Patients with previously identified Loss of ATM (ATM serine/threonine kinase)by IHC OR-
      Family history of BRCA-associated cancers: breast, ovarian, pancreatic, gastric or prostate
      must be present in 2 or more first-degree relatives OR- Patients with previously identified
      genetic aberrations that are associated with HRD will be eligible [e.g. somatic BRCA
      mutation, Fanconi Anemia gene or RAD51(eukaryote gene) mutations].

      All patients will be retrospectively investigated for HRD(Homologous recombination repair
      deficiencies) signature using transcriptome profiling and ATM expression and the results
      correlated with PARPi (Polyadenosine 5'diphosphoribose [poly (ADP ribose)] polymerisation
      INHIBITOR) response rates.

      Eligible patients will receive treatment with Olaparib tablets p.o 300 mg twice daily until
      progression. Each treatment cycle is described as 28 days long. Patients will have tumor
      assessments according to RECIST 1.1(Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors) at
      baseline. Patients will then be followed for the final analysis of OS.

      Eligible patients will be those patients with stage IV pancreas cancer previously treated for
      metastatic disease. Patients must have received one prior therapy for the treatment of
      metastatic disease or refused chemotherapy.

      Following study entry, patients will attend clinic visits every two weeks for the first 4
      weeks of treatment (Days 1 and 15,). Patients will then attend clinic visits every 4 weeks
      whilst on study treatment.

      Patients should continue to receive study treatment until objective radiological disease
      progression as per RECIST as assessed by the investigator and as long as in the
      investigator's opinion they are benefiting from treatment and they do not meet any other
      discontinuation criteria.

      Following discontinuation of study treatment, patients should be seen at 30 days post
      discontinuation for the evaluations outlined in the study schedule. Patients will be
      contacted in the 7 days following a specified date (data cut-off date) to capture survival
      status at that point for each survival analysis.

      Patients will have tumor assessments according to RECIST at baseline and every 8 weeks
      (±1week) up to 40 weeks and then every 12 weeks (±1 week) relative to date of enrolment until
      objective radiological disease progression according to modified RECIST criteria. Ongoing
      collection of site review tumor assessment is required and must be recorded in the electronic
      case report form (eCRF).

      Any patient who discontinues study treatment for reasons other than objective radiological
      progression should continue to undergo scheduled objective tumor assessments according to the
      study schedule,in order to assess objective radiological progression of disease. Failure to
      do so may result in bias to the study results.
    
  