
    
      Primary:

        1. Determine the relative feasibility of switching to VLNC cigarettes vs reducing CPD when
           all participants are aided by nicotine replacement therapy (NRT).

        2. Determine whether switching to VLNC cigarettes or reducing CPD more effectively reduces
           nicotine dependence when all participants are aided by NRT.

           Secondary:

        3. Determine whether switching to VLNC cigarettes vs reducing CPD increases quit attempts
           and 7-day point-prevalence abstinence more when all participants are aided by NRT.

        4. Determine the relative effectiveness of switching to VLNC cigarettes and reducing CPD
           when all participants are aided by NRT with comparisons of a) craving, b) withdrawal, c)
           perceived harm from smoking and d) participants' enjoyment from smoking.

        5. Determine whether switching to VLNC cigarettes or reducing CPD increases use of
           e-cigarettes or other non-combustible nicotine products more.

      Rationale for Proposed Study:

      A policy to reduce the nicotine content of cigarettes could be useful for the majority of
      smokers who are not ready to quit. Specifically, the FDA recently gained the authority to
      regulate cigarettes' nicotine content and switching to very low nicotine content (VLNC)
      cigarettes has been proposed as a future regulatory policy to give smokers the option to
      decrease nicotine intake from cigarettes in order to decrease nicotine dependence and quit
      smoking. A review of clinical trials suggest that switching to VLNC cigarettes with and
      without nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) reduces dependence, carcinogens, and carbon
      monoxide and increases quitting; however, its long-term effects are unclear.

      Nicotine dependence is determined by nicotine intake (i.e., yield) as well as non-nicotine
      reinforcers conditioned by the repetitive act of smoking (i.e., multiple cigarettes per day).
      Presently, reducing cigarettes per day (CPD) is the most common strategy to reduce nicotine
      intake and appears to be an effective method of reducing dependence. However, a regulatory
      policy that introduces VLNC cigarettes will provide smokers with the opportunity to reduce
      nicotine intake without changing the frequency of their smoking behavior (i.e., CPD). Thus,
      reducing nicotine by switching to VLNC cigarettes may affect conditioned reinforcers and
      dependence differently than reducing nicotine intake via reducing CPD. The investigators know
      of no research that has compared the regulatory policy of reducing nicotine intake via VLNC
      cigarettes vs the common method of reducing nicotine intake via reducing CPD. This comparison
      will provide important information regarding the components involved in changing nicotine
      dependence and the potential effects of a policy that regulates the nicotine content of
      cigarettes.

      NRT appears to increase the feasibility and effectiveness of switching to VLNC cigarettes as
      well as reducing full nicotine CPD. In both scenarios, NRT facilitates a net reduction in
      nicotine. Further, NRT is currently available to smokers who reduce CPD, will be available to
      smokers if cigarettes' nicotine levels are reduced by the FDA, and is likely to be used as an
      aid for both.

      The present study will compare participants who switch to VLNC cigarettes vs participants who
      reduce CPD when all participants receive NRT patch. Specifically this comparison will examine
      differences in feasibility and effectiveness of reducing nicotine dependence.

      Study Design:

      Consenting participants will be randomly assigned to 1) switch to VLNC cigarettes with NRT or
      2) reduce full nicotine CPD with NRT during the 5-week study period. All participants will
      complete baseline measures and receive full nicotine or VLNC study cigarettes as well as
      weekly supplies of 21-mg nicotine patches with instructions to replace their old patch with a
      new patch each morning.

      During their first study visit, the investigators will provide all participants with a
      one-week supply of full nicotine study cigarettes (16.5 ± 0.17 mg/g) that totals 150% of
      their normal number of CPD in order to establish a baseline CPD with novel study cigarettes
      that are being provided free of charge. The 16.5 mg/g nicotine content NIDA research
      cigarette is estimated to have a nicotine yield (0.8 mg) similar to many commercial
      cigarettes. Participants will be instructed to smoke only study cigarettes, but to smoke as
      usual during the first week of the study. All study cigarettes are for investigational
      purposes only and are not available or intended for commercial use.

      Switching to VLNC cigarettes Participants who are randomized to switch to VLNC cigarettes
      will receive a supply of 100% of their baseline number of CPD during study visits (determined
      during week 1) throughout weeks 2 to 5 and instructed to smoke as usual (e.g., not to attempt
      to reduce CPD). They will receive study cigarettes with progressively lower nicotine content
      (mg/g tobacco) beginning with 11.26 ± 0.11 mg/g during week 2, 5.54 ± 0.27 mg/g during week
      3, 2.54 ± 0.05 mg/g during week 4, and 0.44 ± 0.01 mg/g during week 5. Participants will also
      receive a supply of NRT patches with instructions to wear one patch per day every day
      throughout weeks 2 through 5. This schedule was selected based on available VLNC cigarettes
      and findings that indicate that a gradual transition to cigarettes with a nicotine content of
      approximately 1 mg/g or less with the NRT patch is safe, effective and feasible. The
      investigators will estimate NRT use and compliance with VLNC study cigarettes with daily and
      weekly self report.

      Reducing CPD The investigators will provide participants who are randomized to reduce CPD
      with full nicotine study cigarettes (16.5 ± 0.17 mg/g) during each study visit throughout the
      5-week study period and instruct them to only smoke cigarettes provided by the study. After
      establishing a baseline CPD during week 1, participants will receive progressively fewer
      cigarettes beginning with 70% of their baseline CPD during week 2, 35% during week 3, 15%
      during week 4, and 3% during week 5. Participants will receive a minimum of 1 CPD during week
      5. Participants will also receive a supply of NRT patches with instructions to wear one patch
      per day every day throughout weeks 2 through 5. This schedule was selected to match the
      percent reduction in nicotine content of cigarettes for smokers randomized to switch to VLNC
      cigarettes. Further, this schedule of NRT aided reductions in CPD appears to be safe,
      feasible and effective. The investigators will estimate reductions in CPD, compliance with
      study cigarettes, and NRT use with daily and weekly self-report.
    
  