
    
      This study tests the hypothesis that the combination of Oregovomab and Nivolumab will improve
      intracellular Cancer Antigen (CA) 125 antigen processing and elicit a stronger systemic CA
      125-specific T cell response; in a manner that is synergistic, safe, and clinically
      efficacious in patients with relapsed EOC.

      This is an open-label, single-arm, phase Ib/IIa, single-center study with dose finding and
      dose expansion parts.

      In the phase Ib part, clinically recommended doses as monotherapy for Oregovomab (IV 2 mg
      Q4W, dose level 1) and Nivolumab (IV 240 mg Q2W) will be the starting doses for their
      combined use.

      A modified "3+3" dose finding design will be employed, with 2 lower dosages of Oregovomab
      (dose level -1 at 1 mg Q4W; level -2 at 0.5 mg Q4W) specified in case of excessive toxicity
      (defined as ≥ 2 dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) out of first 3 patients, or all 6 patients)
      encountered at dose level 1. Three patients will be initially enrolled into dose level 1. If
      0 or 1 DLT is observed, another 3 patients will be enrolled into the same dose level;
      otherwise de-escalate and enroll 3 patients at dose level -1. If ≤ 1 DLT is observed among
      the 6 patients, dose level 1 will be the RDE/RP2D of Oregovomab to be combined with
      Nivolumab. Likewise, in the event of de-escalation, if 0 or 1 DLT is observed at a lower dose
      level, a further 3 patients will be enrolled for that level; if ≤ 1 DLT is observed out of
      the 6 patients, that dose level will be the RDE/RP2D.

      A minimum of 6 and a maximum of 18 patients will be enrolled in the dose finding part.

      Approximately 14 patients are to enroll in the dose expansion part wherein they will receive
      Oregovomab at RDE/RP2D, combined with Nivolumab. In total, 20 patients from the dose finding
      and dose expansion cohorts will be treated at RDE/RP2D, and be included in the phase IIa
      study population.

      Patients will be followed up for survival and post-progression treatment(s) over a duration
      of up to 36 months from the time of treatment initiation (i.e., Week 0 until up to 36
      months).
    
  