
    
      The research will be conducted of emergency medicine department in The Derince Training and
      Research Hospital. Patients ages 18 and older, who will be received contrast enhanced CT scan
      in the emergency medicine department will be included to the study. Patients will be excluded
      from the study if The Mehran Risk Score is under 6 points. The Mehran Risk Score is a scoring
      system for prediction of contrast-induced nephropathy. This CIN (Contrast induced
      nephropathy) risk stratification score based on 8 variables. The variables included in the
      CIN risk score are: 1) patient-related characteristics (i.e., age >75 years, diabetes
      mellitus, chronic congestive heart failure, or admission with acute pulmonary edema,
      hypotension, anemia, and chronic kidney disease); and 2) procedure related characteristics
      (i.e., the use of elective IABP (Intra aortic balloon pump) or increasing volumes of contrast
      media). It is categorized into 4 groups according to MRS (Mehran Risk Score) (low-risk: 5
      (7.5%); medium-risk: 6-10 (14%); high-risk: 11-16 (26.1%); and very high-risk: 16
      (57.3%).Normal salin at a rate of 3 mL/kg/hour per 1 hour before contrast agents exposure
      followed by 1 mL/kg/hour for 6 hours after the procedure is administered whose Mehran risk
      score is greater than 6 in our daily practice. Patients with risk factors for CIN are
      recommended about the necessity of follow-up care with their physicians within 48-72 hours.
      Patients with low risk of contrast induced nephropathy, previous allergic reactions to
      contrast material, hemodynamically unstable and require excessive fluid resuscitation,
      undergoing surgical procedures, require renal-replacement therapy, who refuse to participate
      the study will be excluded. All of the emergency medicine physicians will be informed of the
      study. Participants were randomly assigned into two groups with a 1:1 allocation following
      simple randomization procedures by a program (www.randomization.com) generating an online
      random number. All participating patients will receive the standard hydration schedule as
      mentioned before. Patients in the study group will receive ischemia and reperfusion of the
      arm by inflating a blood pressure cuff around the arm at 50 mmHg above the systolic blood
      pressure for 5 minutes, followed by 5 minutes of reperfusion and this cycle will be repeated
      three times. Patients in sham group, will receive ischemia and reperfusion of the arm by
      inflating a blood pressure cuff around the arm at 10 mmHg below the diastolic blood pressure
      for 5 minutes, followed by 5 minutes of reperfusion and this cycle will be repeated three
      times. The allocation sequence will be concealed from the researchers and participants in
      sealed, sequentially numbered envelopes. Envelopes will be opened by the nurse who will
      administer the protocol. Less than 100 mL of nonionic, hypoosmolar contrast agent will be
      injected in all CT scans.All of the participants will be recommended about the necessity of
      follow-up care with their physicians within 48-72 hours. Participants will be called 72 hours
      after the treatment. Patients who are diagnosed with CIN will be followed for one month to
      see whether they will develop renal failure requiring renal replacement therapy. After 72
      hours the laboratory results will be recorded by the researchers.
    
  