
    
      This is a phase 2 clinical trial of nivolumab combined with ipilimumab in subjects with rare
      cancers. This study will allow an evaluation of the clinical benefit, as measured by
      progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS), provided by nivolumab combined
      with ipilimumab. If the safety profile is acceptable and clinically efficacy is seen, this
      study would support the use of nivolumab combined with ipilimumab in subjects with these
      cancers.

      Study Rationale Clinically advanced rare cancers pose a significant clinical challenge
      because evidence based treatments are seldom available for patients suffering from these
      malignancies. Despite little evidence that shows clinical benefit, these patients are often
      treated with chemotherapeutic agents that are used in patients with more common malignancies
      that arise from the same anatomical site. Furthermore, because of small numbers, they are
      often excluded from clinical trials with newer agents. The rare care project has defined a
      rare malignancy as a cancer with an incidence of less than 6/100000/year. It is estimated
      that 42,000 people are diagnosed with a form of rare or less common cancer in Australia every
      year (www.canceraustralia.gov.au). The cancer specific survival of patients diagnosed with a
      rare malignancy is significantly lower than with common cancers highlighting the need to
      improve management and treatment of these patients. Given the recent success of cancer
      immunotherapy with checkpoint regulators such as ipilimumab and nivolumab in a whole range of
      different cancer types, it can be postulated that these agents could be beneficial in rare
      cancers and improve the overall outlook of patients with these conditions. It is proposed
      here that patient cohorts which fall within three distinct tumour streams will be examined,
      with all patients receiving ipilimumab and nivolumab as combination immunotherapy. The three
      tumour streams are defined as: upper GI malignancies (comprising intra-hepatic/ extra-hepatic
      cholangiocarcinomas,gall bladder cancers and duodenal cancers).); neuroendocrine tumours
      (inc. Pancreatic, bronchial and intestinal carcinoid tumours) and rare gynaecological tumours
      (including but will not be limited to: vaginal or vulval carcinomas, clear cell carcinoma of
      the ovary, low grade serous ovarian cancer, mixed mullarian tumours (carcinosarcoma),
      sarcomas of the female genital tract and granulosa cell tumours). Although overall response
      rates for individual tumour types will not be established due to sample size (target 20
      patients per tumour stream, n=60 total), descriptive information of individual patient
      responses will guide immune-directed therapies to responsive rare tumour types and may be
      broadened to tumour streams.
    
  