
    
      The sample size is 10 volunteers. This was based on an estimate of the number of datasets
      required to ensure that at least some of the datasets show time courses that are suitable for
      the demonstration. The trial uses a cross-over double-blind placebo-controlled design.

      A participant information sheet will be given to the participant to read at least 24 hours
      prior to the screening. Eligibility of participants will be checked during the screening
      session. The participant anthropometric measurements (height, weight, body fat) will be taken
      and a Health Questionnaire will be filled completed.

      Inclusion Criteria: Healthy adults, BMI 18.5-30

      Exclusion Criteria: Any disease or medication that affects metabolism or digestion, smokers,
      common cold or other inflammatory illness at the time of bio-sample collection. Any other
      physical or mental condition that in the judgement of the experimenter would mean that
      participation in the study would be an undue burden on the volunteer.

      At the screening session, the participant will be informed the relevant details of the study.
      Specifically they must avoid consumption of fruits, vegetables and whole grain products,
      coffee and tea, beer and wine for 48 hours before the start of the intervention and 24 hours
      after it (however cola, 7-up and similar caffeine-containing drinks without any real fruits
      or herbs are fine). After they have had opportunity to ask any questions regarding the
      testing procedures, if they are happy to take part, they will be free to ask and sign a
      consent form.

      Antioxidant Intervention Session:

      Overall, each volunteer will be randomised to receive three treatments in a crossover design,
      one with epicatechin containing drink as treatment, one with vitamin C and another without
      antioxidants as placebo.

      The volunteers will avoid consumption of fruits, vegetables and whole grain products, coffee
      and tea, beer and wine for 48 hours before the intervention and 24 hours after it, and the
      intervention will be administered after an overnight fast (12 hours). At each test, the
      volunteer will consume 360ml of drink, with either 60mg vitamin C corresponding to a
      smoothie, or 80 mg epicatechin corresponding to approx. 56g unsweetened baking chocolate
      (Bhagwat, 2014) or no antioxidant (placebo) and all containing 13% sugar (providing 50g a
      mixture of glucose and fructose) and a relevant flavouring.

      The optimal timing of samples has been determined using mathematical models of the results
      from the initial study done for BBC with the help of Professor Gunnar Cedersund (Linköping
      University). Capillary blood samples will be obtained by finger prick and collected in
      multivette 600 tubes (600µl per tube). at baseline, 0, 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3.5, 5, 6, 8 and
      24 hours post dose. Breakfast will be served between 1.5 and 2 hours after consumption of the
      drink, and lunch after the 3.5-hour sample has been collected.
    
  