
    
      The drugs being tested in this study are called TAK-659 and venetoclax. TAK-659 in
      combination with venetoclax is being tested to treat people who have advanced NHL after at
      least 1 prior line of therapy. This study will look at the safety data, pharmacokinetic (PK)
      data and any early anti-tumor activity observed.

      The study will enroll approximately 53 participants.

      • TAK-659 and venetoclax doses will be escalated according to a Bayesian logistic regression
      model (BLRM) with overdose control escalation schema. TAK-659 60 mg + Venetoclax 400 mg is
      the starting dose.

      Participants could also receive 40 mg, 60 mg, 80 mg or 100 mg TAK-659 during dose escalation
      and 200 mg, 400 mg, 800 mg, or 1200 mg of venetoclax.

      Following dose escalation the safety and tolerability of the MTD/RP2D of the
      TAK-659+venetoclax combination will be further explored in two dose-safety expansion cohorts,
      Cohort A in participants with DLBCL and Cohort B in participants with FL.

      All participants will be asked to take one tablet of TAK-659 on an empty stomach at least 1
      hour before and no sooner than 2 hours after eating food and/or drinking fluids other than
      water. Venetoclax will be taken with a meal and water 2 hours after TAK-659 has been taken.
      No food or drink (except water) are allowed between TAK-659 and venetoclax. TAK-659 and
      venetoclax should be taken at the same time each day throughout the study.

      This multi-center trial will be conducted in the United States, Canada and Europe. The
      overall time to participate in this study is 20 months or until disease progression,
      unacceptable toxicities, or withdrawal from study by participant. Participants will make
      multiple visits to the clinic, and will be followed for 28 days (+10) days after the last
      dose of TAK-659 or venetoclax or the start of subsequent alternative anticancer therapy to
      permit the detection of any delayed treatment-related AEs. For participants enrolled in
      either the dose escalation or safety expansion phases, the maximum duration of treatment will
      be 12 months unless, in the opinion of the investigator and with the agreement of the
      sponsor, the participant would derive benefit from continued therapy beyond 12 months.
      Participants enrolled in the safety expansion part who stop treatment for any reason other
      than disease progression will continue PFS follow-up every 2 months after the last dose of
      study drug for up to 6 months or until disease progression or the start of alternative
      therapy, whichever occurs first.
    
  