
    
      Background:

        -  Romidepsin is a histone deacetylase inhibitor which has demonstrated efficacy and
           tolerability as an infusion in later stages of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL).

        -  Early stages of CTCL are typically treated with skin-directed therapies, which may lose
           efficacy over time and have adverse effects (i.e. risk of secondary skin cancers,
           difficulty of use).

        -  A topical form of romidepsin may be helpful in the treatment of early-stage CTCL.

      Objectives:

        -  Primary - To define the maximal tolerated dose (MTD) of topical romidepsin for
           early-stage CTCL when administered three times weekly, then escalated first in
           concentration, followed by increased frequency and lastly over increasing body surface
           areas.

        -  Secondary - To assess histone acetylation in topical romidepsin-treated skin.

        -  Secondary - To assess in a pilot fashion clinical efficacy of topical romidepsin in
           early stage cutaneous T-cell lymphoma.

        -  Secondary - To perform pharmacokinetic monitoring of blood levels of romidepsin in
           topically treated patients.

      Eligibility:

      -Patients age greater than or equal to 18 with confirmed early-stage (stage IA, IB, or IIA)
      cutaneous T-cell lymphoma.

      Design:

        -  A Cohorts of Three design to define the MTD of topical romidepsin in Aquaphor ointment
           initially applied overnight, three times weekly for 4 weeks, then escalated first in
           concentration, followed by increased frequency and lastly over increasing body surface
           areas.

        -  Skin toxicities, systemic toxicities, and disease response will be assessed throughout
           the study.

        -  The primary focus of the first part of the protocol will be to evaluate local skin
           toxicity, beginning with dose level 1 of 0.05 percent topical romidepsin on 25 cm(2)
           target area (0.005 mg/ cm(2). If tolerated, progress to higher dose levels of 0.25
           percent (0.025 mg/ cm(2); dose level 2) and then 0.5 percent (0.05 mg/ cm(2); dose level
           3) topical romidepsin on 25 cm(2) target area. Systemic toxicity will also be monitored.

        -  To date, we have completed the first 4 dose levels and have not yet established
           cutaneous MTD. To achieve this, we will proceed to the second part of the protocol,
           which will increase the concentration to 1%, then increase the frequency to daily
           application, then progress to 2% concentration, then 4% concentration, and then applying
           to progressively larger body surface areas. Our aim is to more fully address systemic
           toxicity by increasing drug concentration, application frequency, and body surface area
           (BSA) treated. We will utilize topical romidepsin at the MTD on increasing BSA (lesional
           & nonlesional skin): multiple lesions up to 3% BSA (dose level 4), multiple lesions up
           to 25% BSA (dose level 7A), 50% BSA (dose level 7B), and 75% or > BSA (dose level 7C).
    
  