
    
      Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is a rare and aggressive cancer arising from the
      mesothelial surface of the pleura. In Europe, the incidence is about 20 per million and is
      almost always caused by asbestos exposure, with a usual lag time of 30 years between exposure
      and presentation. Patients diagnosed with advanced MPM have limited treatment options,
      representing a strict unmet need. Despite decades of clinical research, cytotoxic
      chemotherapy remains one of the few therapeutic options that has been proven to improve
      survival in advanced MPM in a randomised controlled trial.

      The combination of cisplatin and pemetrexed has become standard first-line therapy worldwide
      for patients who are not suitable for aggressive surgery or in whom chemotherapy is
      recommended as part of a multimodality regimen. Carboplatin is often substituted for
      cisplatin, due to simpler and shorter administration and assumption of a more favourable
      toxicity profile based on experience in other diseases. Patients with MPM have limited
      treatment options, representing a strict unmet need.

      An antibody is a common type of protein usually made in the body in response to a foreign
      substance. Antibodies attack foreign substances and protect against infection. The two
      monoclonal antibodies (atezolizumab and bevacizumab) used in this trial are
      laboratory-produced antibodies. Atezolizumab is engineered to attach to immune cells to
      stimulate their activity against cancer cells.

      Atezolizumab and bevacizumab are both approved by the European Medicines Agency for the
      treatment of lung and other cancers. The addition of atezolizumab to bevacizumab plus
      standard chemotherapy for the treatment of MPM is being investigated in this trial.

      All participants will receive 4-6 cycles of standard chemotherapy consisting of carboplatin
      AUC 5 (area under the plasma concentration versus time curve) plus pemetrexed 500mg/m^2 given
      intravenously, on day 1 of every 3 week cycle for about 12 to 18 weeks.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups:

      Treatment 1

        -  Bevacizumab 15 mg/kg intravenously on day 1 of every 3-week cycle, plus

        -  4-6 cycles of chemotherapy

      OR

      Treatment 2

        -  Atezolizumab 1200 mg fixed dose intravenously on day 1 of every 3-week cycle, plus

        -  Bevacizumab 15 mg/kg, intravenously on day 1 of every 3-week cycle, plus

        -  4-6 cycles of chemotherapy

      Participants will continue to receive treatment until disease progression, or until treatment
      is stopped at the request of the participant or treating doctor, or the participant withdraws
      consent.

      A total of 320 participants from approximately 45 centres in Europe are expected to be
      included in this trial which will take approximately 6 years to be completed after the first
      participant is enrolled.
    
  