
    
      Subjects will be treated with either atorvastatin or placebo. We will test the function of
      the blood vessels at baseline and after 3 months of treatment. Treatment of people with high
      blood pressure with atorvastatin is experimental. It is necessary to compare the experimental
      treatment with placebo to know if it works. Subjects will be assigned to a group given the
      experimental treatment or placebo by chance (like flipping a coin). Subjects will be
      evaluated for heart, lung, kidney or liver disease. Only people without any of these diseases
      may join the study.

      Screening visit:

      Subjects will be asked to fast overnight before the screening visit. Chest Examination and
      EKG: On the first visit, we will perform a chest examination and an EKG. The subject's blood
      pressure will be measured several times, with 2 minutes between measurements after the
      subject has sat quietly for several minutes.

      Exercise Stress test: Subjects will be scheduled to have an exercise treadmill test which
      consists of walking on a moving platform. Your heart rate, blood pressure and EKG will be
      watched while you exercise. The speed and slope of the platform will be increased to cause a
      gradual increase in the workload. The EKG during exercise will show if there is good blood
      supply to the heart.

      Urine test for pregnancy: This test will be done for women of childbearing age who are of
      child bearing potential.

      Blood tests: We will draw 15 ml (about 1 tablespoonful) of blood for tests of cholesterol,
      glucose, liver and kidney function. After tests are completed during the screening visit,
      subjects are given advice about diet and healthy lifestyle to control blood pressure. The
      screening results will indicate whether a subject should not join this study. If there are
      any abnormal results, the investigators will refer the subject to their primary health care
      provider. The total amount of time required for the screening visit is two hours.

      If subjects qualify for joining the study, a baseline visit will be scheduled within 2 weeks.
      If a subject meets all conditions, except that the blood pressure is too high or if they are
      taking a blood pressure medication not allowed by the study, their health care provider will
      be contact for permission to give a blood pressure medication that is allowed. If the subject
      is given blood pressure medication, a follow-up visit after two weeks will be scheduled to
      check the blood pressure.

      Blood pressure check visit:

      This visit is scheduled only if blood pressure medication has been added or changed. The
      blood pressure will be measured several times, with 2 minutes between measurements. If the
      blood pressure is controlled, the subject may continue in the study. The baseline visit will
      be scheduled within 2 weeks.

      Baseline visit: Subjects will be asked to not take any medication for 24 to 48 hours before
      the visit and may not eat any food, or drink any coffee, tea, milk, citrus fruit juice or
      caffeinated soda for 8 hours before the tests. Pulse Pressure will be recorded after sitting
      quietly at rest. The blood pressure will be measured several times, with 2 minutes between
      measurements.

      Urine tests: Urine will be collected to test its chemistry. Brachial artery reactivity: The
      subject will lie on a bed. The blood pressure is measured in one arm.Another blood pressure
      cuff will be wrapped around the other arm. The artery of the arm will be studied using an
      echo machine that uses sound waves to image the blood vessel. The blunt tip of the echo probe
      will be placed on the arm after applying gel to the skin. Images of the artery will be
      recorded for two minutes. The cuff is then inflated and will squeeze the arm tightly for five
      minutes and will then be released. Images of the artery will be made throughout the five
      minutes while the cuff is inflated and for three minutes after the release of pressure.
      During the test the pulse in the fingers of the hands will be recorded using two finger
      straps.

      Pulse Wave Velocity: The investigators will use an echo machine to measure how fast the pulse
      travels between the subject's neck and thigh. For this test the subject will lie down and a
      technician will hold one echo probe on the neck and one on the upper thigh.

      Blood tests: At this visit 15 ml (about 1 tablespoonful) of blood will be drawn for tests of
      insulin, markers of inflammation and platelet function.

      Coronary Artery Flow Velocity Reserve: The subject will lie on a bed and a fine tube (an i.v.
      line) will be placed in the arm to allow study drugs to be injected into the vein. A drug
      that will make blood vessels clearly visible by echo will be injected in your vein. An echo
      technician will place the tip of the echo probe on the chest after applying gel to it. The
      technician will record images of your heart for 10 minutes. Then adenosine, which increases
      the blood flow to the heart, will be injected into the vein, and echo images will be recorded
      for the next 5 minutes. Adenosine is a drug that is used clinically in stress tests. Subjects
      may feel a desire to take deep breaths as if they had performed strenuous exercise. In all,
      the drug that will make the arteries clearly visible will be injected 10 minutes before
      adenosine and 5 minutes with adenosine for a total of 15 minutes. The i.v. drugs will be
      stopped after the recording. EKG will be monitored throughout the procedure. Subjects may
      request that the i.v. drugs and the recording be stopped they are very uncomfortable. The
      blood flow reserve can be measured later from these recorded images.

      The total time spent for the tests during the baseline visit is two hours and thirty minutes.

      Skin Cholesterol Measurement: Prior to the skin test the hands are washed. The palm of the
      hand will also be cleaned with an alcohol pad. A small amount of cholesterol binding solution
      will then be placed on the palm of the hand for 1 minute. This will then be blotted off. An
      indicator solution will then be placed in the same area for 2 minutes. This will result in
      the development of a spot of blue color. The blue color can be wiped off with a paper towel
      at the end of the test. A handheld spectrophotometer (a small device that can "read" the
      color intensity on the skin where the solution was placed) will be placed against the palm.
      This device is attached to a laptop computer that will generate a numerical skin cholesterol
      value. A sample of the cells from the skin surface will be collected by pressing a piece of
      sticky tape 10 times on each of the subject's palms. The tape is about as sticky as that used
      for office stationery. This tape will be sent to another laboratory for analysis.

      Dispensing of drug: Subjects will then be given a packet of medication to be taken over the
      next three months. Subjects will take one capsule each day.

      Final Visit: The final visit will be scheduled 3 months following the baseline visit.
      Subjects may not take any medication for 24 hours before the visit and may not eat any food,
      or drink any coffee, tea, milk or caffeinated soda for 8 hours before the visit. All the
      tests performed at the baseline visit will be repeated. Approximately 30 ml (about 2
      tablespoonsful) of blood will be drawn for tests including cholesterol, glucose, insulin,
      liver and kidney function, and markers of inflammation. Urine will be collected for urine
      tests. The total time spent for the tests during the final visit is two hours and thirty
      minutes.
    
  