
    
      According to the cancer stem cell (CSC) model, tumors are initiated and maintained by a
      cellular subcomponent that displays stem cell properties. These properties include
      self-renewal, which drives tumorigenesis, and differentiation (albeit aberrant), which
      contributes to tumor cellular heterogeneity. The existence of CSCs has been described in a
      variety of haematologic and solid tumors including those of the breast, brain, colon,
      pancreas, lung, liver, and head and neck.

      In addition to driving tumorigenesis, CSCs may contribute to tumor metastasis as well as to
      tumor recurrence after treatment. Although currently available drugs can shrink metastatic
      tumors, these effects are usually transient and often do not appreciably extend the life of
      patients. One reason for the failure of these treatments is the acquisition of drug
      resistance by the cancer cells as they evolve; another non-mutually exclusive possibility is
      that existing therapies fail to kill CSCs. The ability to shrink a tumor mass mainly reflects
      an ability to kill bulk, non CSC tumor cells. This is because CSCs represent only a tiny
      percentage of the total tumor cells in a neoplastic lesion and the majority of the bulk tumor
      cells have limited proliferative potential. It seems that normal stem cells from various
      tissues tend to be more resistant to chemotherapeutics than mature cell types from the same
      tissues. The reasons for this are not clear, but may relate to high levels of expression of
      anti- apoptotic proteins or ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters such as the multidrug
      resistance gene. If the same were true of CSCs, then one would predict that these cells would
      be more resistant to chemotherapeutics than bulk tumor cells with limited proliferative
      potential. Even therapies that cause complete regression of tumors might spare enough CSCs to
      allow regrowth of the tumors. Thus, therapies that are more specifically directed against
      CSCs might result in much more durable responses and even cures of metastatic tumors.

      The CSC (Cancer stem cell) concept has important implications for understanding
      carcinogenesis as well as for the development of cancer therapeutics. According to this
      concept, tumors are initiated and maintained by a cellular subcomponent that displays stem
      cell properties. These properties include self-renewal, which drives tumorigenesis, and
      differentiation (albeit aberrant), which contributes to tumor cellular heterogeneity. The
      existence of CSCs has been described in a variety of hematologic and solid tumors including
      those of the breast, brain, colon, pancreas, lung, liver, and head and neck. In addition to
      driving tumorigenesis, CSCs may contribute to tumor metastasis as well as to tumor recurrence
      after treatment.

      One of the therapeutic strategies being pursued to target CSCs involves inhibition of self
      renewal or survival pathways in these cells. These pathways include NOTCH (Notch signaling
      pathway), Hedgehog, and WNT (Wnt signaling pathway). Such strategies may be limited by the
      role of these pathways in normal stem cell function, which could result in systemic
      toxicities from pathway inhibition. In addition to intrinsic pathways regulating stem cell
      functions, normal and malignant stem cells are regulated by extrinsic signals generated in
      the microenvironment or CSC niche. In the breast, this niche is composed of immune cells,
      mesenchymal elements that include fibroblasts, endothelial cells, adipocytes, and
      extracellular matrix components. These components play an important role in normal breast
      development and carcinogenesis. If the cellular microenvironment plays an important role in
      the regulation of CSC growth and survival, then strategies aimed at interfering with these
      interactions represent a rational approach to target breast CSCs.

      There are limited data on the impact of treatment tailoring based on CSCs detection. Gene
      profiling of CSCs could lead to identification of therapeutic targets on CSCs (e.g. hormone
      receptors, HER-2 [Human epidermal growth factor receptor-2] expression, EGFR [Epidermal
      growth factor receptor] expression), and could represent tumor biopsy in "real time". Several
      groups showed frequent discordance of HER-2 status between primary tumor and CSCs, and case
      reports showed clinical utility to use of trastuzumab-based therapy based on HER-2 CSCs
      status. Similarly, the hormonal status of CSCs could be different from that of the primary
      tumor, which could lead to increase the number of patients suitable for endocrine therapy,
      but also could explain why endocrine therapy fails in a subset of hormone receptor-positive
      patients. The study provided the in vivo demonstration that CXCR-1 (Chemokine receptor 1)
      targeting with specific blocking antibodies or reparixin is associated with reduced systemic
      metastases. The experimental data provides another therapeutic target in metastatic disease
      and warrants a pilot study investigation in humans to further explore effects of reparixin on
      breast CSCs and the tumoral microenvironment.

      Reparixin seems to be a good candidate for use in breast cancer patients because of its very
      acceptable toxicity profile shown in the Phase I and II clinical trials conducted so far,
      along with its observed activity in vitro against breast cancer cell lines and in vivo in
      tumor xenografts in mice. It potentially addresses another therapeutic target in metastatic
      disease. The current phase 2 study thus aims to evaluate the Progression Free Survival of
      patients with metastatic TNBC [newly diagnosed metastatic or relapsed following (neo)adjuvant
      chemotherapy] receiving reparixin in combination with paclitaxel versus paclitaxel alone.
    
  