
    
      Atrial fibrillation is the most common of all sustained cardiac arrhythmias, with the
      prevalence increasing with age to up to 5 percent in persons more than 65 years of age, to 10
      percent in persons more than 80 years of age and it is a major cause of stroke.

      Since its introduction into clinical practice, catheter ablation (CA) aimed at cure of atrial
      fibrillation (AF) has become increasingly prevalent. Different techniques have been proposed
      and are currently under investigation in various electrophysiology (EP) laboratories, with
      increasing knowledge of the pathophysiology of human AF and critical assessment of clinical
      outcome after the curative procedure. The favorable results reported in different studies
      have fueled enthusiasm for CA of AF, with the number of ablation procedures increasing from
      1994 to the present time. However, these technologies have varied catheter designs, ranging
      from different forms of irrigation (external or internal irrigation). The increase of the
      rate of success of the AF by ablation with the development of new catheters has permitted a
      considerable reduction of the medical treatment and the disappearance of grave complications.
      The procedure will be " standard " with isolation of pulmonary veins and block through the
      cavo-tricuspid isthmus obtained.

      Following completion of the procedure, patients will have anti vitamin K drug therapy for 3
      months and antiarrhythmic drug for 1 month in case of early atrial arrhythmia recurrence.
      Two-dimensional echocardiogram will be performed systematically prior to discharge. All 3
      months, long-term follow-up consisted from the date of the ablation procedure with
      consultation, stress test, holter-ECG (24 h) and echocardiography. At 3 months a repeat EP
      procedure will be performed in patients with AF recurrence to assess whether or not lines are
      still blocked. If not, RF will be delivered to block them again and cure AF.
    
  