
    
      Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a continuum of neurodevelopmental disorders associated with
      significant communication, social, and behavioral deficits including impairments in verbal
      and nonverbal communication and excessive attachments to routine. These deficits can impede
      parent-child bonding, increase parental stress, and lead to dysfunctional parent-child
      interactions. While there has been progress into understanding the neurobiology and
      neuropsychology of schizophrenia and autism spectrum disorder, treatment options remain
      inadequate. Psychosocial interventions such as family therapy aimed at promoting affection,
      praise, and communication reduce oppositional behavior, but are time consuming and costly. A
      safe and cost-effective pharmacological intervention given to non-affected family members
      could augment current psychosocial therapies, improve the functioning of the family, and
      favorably influence the course of the illness in the affected child.

      Oxytocin (OT) is a neuropeptide associated with parenting and social perception in mammals.
      Exogenous OT can be safely administered intranasally in humans, enters the brain in high
      concentrations, increases positive interpersonal and parenting interactions, promotes
      cooperation and trust, and reduces stress-induced physiological responses. Due to OT's
      involvement in processes associated with parent-child interactions (e.g. bonding), we
      hypothesize that the OT system represents a highly promising focus of research into the
      biological underpinnings of family functioning, as well as a promising target for biological
      interventions aimed at improving communication between parents and their children with ASD
      and reducing unhealthy interactions. We will test these hypotheses by exploring the effects
      of exogenously administered OT to caregivers on parent-child interactions and physiology
      during a laboratory-based parent-child interaction task. If successful, this would represent
      the first demonstration of a neurobiological factor in the family functioning of persons with
      ASD, and would represent the first biological intervention applied to family members of
      persons with ASD, rather than to the individual with ASD.

      The purpose of the current study is twofold: 2) To determine whether administration of the
      affiliative neuropeptide oxytocin to the parent positively influences parent-child
      interactions of patients with autism spectrum disorders, and 2) to explore the mechanisms by
      which parental behavior affects children's behavior, feelings, and physiology.

      Participants will be 40 triads consisting of mother, father, and child with ASD and 40 triads
      of mother, father, and typically developing (TD) children. Families will come to our lab at
      UCSF's Parnassus campus for one 2-hour visit. Parent dyads will be randomly assigned to
      receive either OT or placebo immediately before the triad engages in triadic discussion and
      play tasks. We will monitor mothers', fathers', and children's physiological and behavioral
      responses during these tasks. In summary, this is a randomized 2 (diagnosis) x 2 (spray)
      between-subjects study of triadic physiology and behavior in children with ASD or TD in which
      both mothers and fathers are given either OT or placebo.
    
  