
    
      This is a study of pain, oral function and salivary biomarkers in oral lichen planus.

      The primary objective of the study is to determine the efficacy of dexamethasone rinse in
      reducing pain in patients with oral lichen planus. Secondary objectives are to evaluate a
      novel scoring system of severity of lichen planus, assess the changes in salivary biomarkers
      associated with the treatment, assess the impact of oral lichen planus on the quality of life
      using the SF-36 instrument and the Oral Health Impact Profile (OHIP-14).

      This is a double-blind parallel group design with 20 patients in each arm. Our primary
      outcome measure will be change in the visual analog scale that assesses pain. We will
      consider a decrease of 30 mm as clinically significant. Secondary outcomes will include
      reduction of oral symptoms as measured by the OHIP-14, amount of topical analgesic used,
      improvement in quality of life scores, and the severity of lesions as assessed with two
      scales.

      A new oral lichen planus scoring system will be evaluated for validity, reliability and
      sensitivity to change. This system will quantify the severity and amount of oral lichen
      planus lesions on a scale of 0 to 66. Validation of this scale is needed for future studies
      of oral lichen planus. The validity and sensitivity to change will be assessed by correlation
      of the scores with patient based outcomes as well as global scale. Inter- and intra-rater
      reliability will also be tested.

      The principal study interventions will be dexamethasone 0.01% oral rinse or identical in
      appearance and taste placebo rinse. Additional allowed interventions will be standard oral
      topical analgesic rinse and acetaminophen on an as needed basis. Diagnostic and research
      evaluations will include complete history and oral and general physical examination,
      laboratory investigations, saliva collection, and oral mucosal biopsy. The interventional
      period of the trial will be 4 weeks.
    
  