
    
      Post-dural puncture headache (PDPH) is a major cause of morbidity in postpartum patients who
      received neuraxial anesthesia for labor analgesia or cesarean delivery. The headache in PDPH
      is thought to be due to loss of cerebrospinal fluid causing downward traction on the meninges
      with parasympathetic ally mediated reflex vasodilation of the meningeal vessels. The epidural
      blood patch is currently the gold-standard treatment for postdural puncture headache, however
      it is an invasive procedure with possible risks and complications including bleeding,
      infection, pain, hematoma, neurologic complications, and repeat dural puncture. Patients are
      often offered conservative treatment including medications, bed rest, abdominal binders, and
      fluids for at least 24 hours prior to being offered an epidural blood patch. Once the
      decision is made to proceed with a blood patch, it may take several hours before the
      procedure is performed due to staffing issues. We propose that the sphenopalatine ganglion
      block, a relatively noninvasive procedure which has been used by neurologists as a treatment
      for a variety of types of headaches, may play a role in the treatment of postdural puncture
      headache in the obstetric population.The sphenopalatine ganglion is a parasympathetic
      ganglion located in the pterygopalatine fossa which can be accessed topically through the
      nose. The proposed mechanism of the sphenopalatine ganglion block is parasympathetic blockade
      preventing the profound vasodilation associated with the headache after a dural puncture,
      thus providing the patient with symptomatic relief. While the sphenopalatine ganglion block
      has been used by neurologists for the treatment of migraines and cluster headaches for years,
      little is known about its effectiveness in the treatment of post-dural puncture headache in
      post-partum women. A small case series by Kent et al demonstrated that offering the
      sphenopalatine ganglion block as a first-line treatment for post-dural puncture headache
      provided symptomatic relief and reduced the need for epidural blood patch. If the
      sphenopalatine ganglion block is found to be an effective treatment for post-dural puncture
      headache in the obstetric population, the block could be offered to patients as a firstline
      treatment as a way to improve VAS scores, reduce the need for medications with potential side
      effects, and possibly reduce the need for epidural blood patch.The primary outcome will be
      change in VAS scores at 4 hours after the sphenopalatine ganglion block. Secondary outcomes
      will include time to first Fioricet dose after the sphenopalatine ganglion block, presence of
      nausea at 4 hours, presence of neck pain at 4 hours, presence of visual changes at 4 hours,
      change in VAS scores at 12 hours, change in VAS scores at 24 hours, and need for epidural
      blood patch.
    
  