
    
      The National China Health and Nutrition Survey revealed that 42% of overweight children had
      at least one cardiovascular metabolic risk, such as hyperglycaemia, dyslipidemia or
      hypertension. Non-pharmaceutical life style modifications are the recommended intervention to
      these subjects, including caloric restriction and increased physical activity. However, the
      problems of poor compliance and metabolic adaptation are well known. Evidences from a number
      studies in rodent models and human indicated that intermittent caloric restriction (ICR) may
      stimulate series reactions in human body, including improvement of insulin sensitivity, blood
      pressure, oxidative stress and inflammation, and may be easier to follow. Evidence from
      larger human studies is strongly encouraged, while the effects, safety and adherence in
      chidren and youth need to be studied.

      This study is a randomized controlled trial of intermittent caloric restriction versus low
      carbohydrate diet in youth with cardiometabolic risk over one month period. The intervention
      is based on the 5:2 diet, which involves caloric restriction for 2 days (consecutive or
      nonconsecutive, 600kcal/d for male and 500kcal/d for female) per week and unrestricted eating
      during the other 5 days of the week. For control group, the subjects receive 7 days
      (consecutive or nonconsecutive) of low carbohydrate diet intervention during the 14-day
      intervention period,. Carbohydrate intake of low-carbohydrate diet should be controlled as ≤
      50g per day. Total trial duration is one month consisting of a 14-day intervention phase and
      a 14-day self-maintenance phase. During the maintenance phase, two follow-up electronic
      questionnaires were conducted.

      The study aim to explore effects of the dietary interventions on cardiometabolic markers,
      inflammatory reaction, oxidative stress and gut microbiome in youth with cardiometabolic
      risk.
    
  