
    
      The percentage of people aged >65 y in the United Kingdom increased from 15% in 1985 to 17%
      in 2010, an increase of 1.7 million people. One age-associated physiological change is the
      reduction in vascular function that is observed, both at the levels of the large arteries and
      the muscle microvasculature. In itself this vascular dysfunction is associated with reduced
      aerobic performance. Cardiorespiratory fitness (marked by aerobic performance) has been shown
      to be an independent predictor of postoperative mortality, which provides more accurate
      prognostic information than age alone. In contrast, physical activity can reverse elements of
      pathophysiology associated with these conditions, including vascular dysfunction.
      Nonetheless, major roadblocks to exercise as a strategy to combat age-associated vascular
      dysfunction and associated conditions exist, namely: i) poor exercise tolerance, ii) "lack of
      time", iii) age-related mobility impairments, and iv) exercise resistance.

      The aim of this study is to investigate whether if novel low-volume, time-efficient training
      strategies can improve indices of vascular health and cardiorespiratory performance in older
      individuals with a view towards improving their fitness for surgery. Numerous studies have
      demonstrated that periods of supervised exercise training effectively improve indices of
      cardiorespiratory (blood pressure, aerobic capacity and blood lipids and vascular function.
      However, the majority of these studies were conducted using high-volume continuous submaximal
      aerobic training (e.g. 50-65% VO2max for 30-60 min) or moderate to high volume progressive
      weight training. This research group have recently shown the efficacy of a time-efficient
      exercise strategy known as HIIT - High Intensity Interval Training, for improving VO2 max and
      muscle mass in young individuals with heightened metabolic disease risk and also demonstrated
      significant improvements in VO2 max comparable to classic aerobic exercise training using
      several different time-efficient HIIT protocols. However, despite the potential benefits of
      HIIT, not least its 70-80% reduction in required time-commitment compared to current WHO
      guidelines, it does have limitations, particularly for an older population where physical
      (mobility/joint) and/or socio-economic (transport/gym access/equipment purchase) barriers may
      render it ineffective and/or unachievable.

      Alternative interventions for prevention or treatment of age-associated vascular dysfunction
      could be provided by isometric handgrip training (IHG) or remote ischaemic pre-conditioning
      (RIPC), both of which have a similar low time-commitment compared to HIIT but are less
      strenuous, have potential as home-based interventions, and require only inexpensive
      equipment. IHG has been demonstrated to improve resting blood pressure in both normotensive
      and medicated hypertensive populations to a similar or greater extent as classic aerobic
      exercise training. However, the effects of IHG on other vascular (e.g. limb, brain and muscle
      microvascular blood flow) or cardio-respiratory parameters (VO2 max, heart rate
      (resting/recovery), exercise tolerance) have not been assessed. Similarly, although RIPC has
      recently been shown to improve maximal athletic cardio-respiratory performance and vascular
      function in young subjects, no work to date has explored the efficacy of chronic RIPC on
      indices of health or vascular function in older individuals.

      Therefore, the aims of this project are to:

      (i) Assess the efficacy of 6 weeks HIT, IHG and RIPC for improving indices of
      cardio-respiratory, vascular and metabolic function in older subjects as a means of improving
      fitness for surgery.

      (ii) Explore the concept of "exercise resistance" in relation to HIT, IHG and RIPC by:

        1. Assessing if the same degree of response heterogeneity exists for the three
           time-efficient training modes employed in this study as has been reported for classic
           resistance and aerobic exercise training

        2. Assessing if a "non-responder" for one index (i.e., resting blood pressure or leg blood
           flow) is a non-responder for all other indices
    
  