
    
      Disorders involving opioid use are a severe problem among jail and prison inmates. Inmates in
      the US, Canada, Australia, and many European and Asian nations have disproportionately higher
      rates of opioid use disorders than their general populations. Scarce resources are provided
      for corrections-based substance use treatment in many nations, and many inmates with OUDs
      remain untreated. The use of long-acting, injectable naltrexone (XR-NTX) may be a promising
      form of treatment for pre-release prisoners. Naltrexone blocks the intoxicating and
      reinforcing effects of opioids, but has no opioid-like effects. This proposed five-year study
      will focus on whether the addition of providing XR-NTX treatment at a patients' place of
      residence will increase adherence and thus efficacy of the medication. Project implementation
      will occur at five pre-release prisons under the jurisdiction of the Maryland Department of
      Public Safety and Correctional Services (MDPSCS): 1) Metropolitan Transition Center (MTC) for
      men; 2) Baltimore Pre-Release Unit (BPRU) for men; 3) Jessup Pre-Release Unit (JPRU) for men;
      4) Baltimore City Correctional Center (BCCC) and 5) Maryland Correctional Institution (MCI)
      for Women. Following initial screening, informed consent, and medical examination,
      pre-release prisoners at each facility will be block randomized (N=240) within gender to
      either: Condition 1. XR-NTX-OTx (n=120): One injection of XR-NTX in prison, followed by six
      monthly injections post-release in the community at an opioid treatment program; or Condition
      2. XR-NTX+MMTx (n=120): One injection of XR-NTX in prison, followed by six monthly injections
      post-release in the community at the patient's place of residence. All participants will be
      confirmed opiate-free by urine test and negative naloxone and oral naltrexone tests, and
      evaluated monthly for seven months and 12 months after release from prison. The proposed
      study has two specific aims: Aim1. To compare the two study conditions in terms of: a) XR-NTX
      treatment adherence; b) opioid use; c) criminal activity; d) re-arrest; e) re-incarceration;
      and f) HIV risk-behaviors (i. needle use; ii. risky sexual behaviors). Aim 2. To determine if
      the number of months of post-release XR-NTX treatment is related to outcome (a-f above), and
      if so, is there a point at which XR-NTX v. Non-XR-NTX equilibrates? This would help determine
      the number of injections, important because of XR-NTX cost. Many individuals in the criminal
      justice system drop out of treatment and therefore increasing ways to improve adherence by
      attempting to: 1) expand capacity; and 2) implement access by providing treatment at their
      place of residence may positively impact outcomes.
    
  