
    
      The protocol will consist of an intervention based on concurrent training, for previously
      sedentary post-menopausal women divided on four groups: 1) control group; 2) 90 minutes of
      physical training per week; 3) 150 minutes of training per week; 4) 210 minutes of training
      per week.

      The control group will be oriented to maintain their normal activity and habits and will not
      receive the intervention. The group of 90 minutes per week will do three sessions of 30
      minutes per week of concurrent training, which consists on 15 minutes of aerobic exercise and
      15 minutes of strength training. The group of 150 minutes will do three sessions of 50
      minutes per week, which consists on 25 minutes of aerobic exercise and 25 minutes of strength
      training. The group pf 210 minutes per week will do three sessions of 70 minutes per week,
      which consists on 35 minutes of aerobic exercise and 35 minutes of strength training.

      The aerobic exercise will be performed on cycle-ergometers and the subjects will exercise
      between the levels 14 and 15 of Borg's scale of perceived exertion. The strength training
      will be performed on weight machines by a linear periodization, which will consist on a week
      of adaptation (series of 10 to 12 submaximal repetitions), next three weeks with series of 12
      to 14 maximal repetitions, weeks five to eight with series of 10 to 12 maximal repetitions,
      weeks nine to twelve with series of eight to 10 maximal repetitions. Al participants will do
      the maximum number of series of strength training that the time permits.

      The blood samples will be collected at the beginning of the study (week zero), at the middle
      (week six) and at the end (week 12). The subjects will fill a 24-hour food recall (to control
      the food intake) and the commuting and leisure sections of the International Physical
      Activity Questionnaire (to control the physical activity practiced out of the intervention).
    
  