
    
      Research that focuses on the mechanisms involved in appetite regulation is topical given the
      emergence of the worldwide obesity epidemic. Understanding the physiological processes
      associated with the onset of obesity is essential for the development of effective
      anti-obesity strategies. There is evidence that people who consume a diet high in non-starch
      polysaccharides (NSPs) have a lower body mass index (BMI) than those that do not.

      A 2009 review of fibre and satiety by Bridget Benelam, 2009 focused on different types of
      fibre and the significant impact they may have on satiety and/or energy intake, through
      fermentation of fibre such as non starch polysaccharides in the colon by gut bacterial groups
      such as Bifidobacterium. non starch polysaccharides and other fibre sources are poorly
      digested by human enzymes in the small intestine but are degraded by large groups of bacteria
      in the large bowel. One of the beneficial outcomes of this fermentation of fibre that gut
      bacteria produce of metabolites called short chain fatty acids (SCFA) thought to affect
      appetite regulation by stimulating production of satiety hormones that can help you feel
      full. Acetate and propionate are two of these metabolites highlighted as potential mediator
      of satiety.

      Some fibres are called prebiotics as they act as selective sources for beneficial gut
      bacteria. However Western populations do not consume natural prebiotics in high quantities in
      their diet and the overall intake of fibre is also low. Therefore, in this study, the
      investigators aim to utilise a mixture of prebiotics in order to increase the growth and/or
      activity of commensal gut bacteria and SCFA production in human volunteers and to assess the
      effects of consumption on satiety.

      Testing the impact of a composite mix of inulin and arabinoxylan in a human study will help
      determine the effect it has on appetite regulation, ad libitum food intake, SCFA production,
      anthropometric measurements, cognitive state (e.g. mood) and composition of the gut
      microbiota.

      The study design is a 12 week randomized, human feeding study, with a crossover design
      testing a composite mix of inulin and arabinoxylan against an equivalent energy matched
      (kcal) maltodextrin control drink in 33 healthy weight (22 to 24.9kg/m2) males aged between
      21-55. Volunteers will be enrolled to treatment or placebo for four weeks, with a four week
      wash out before the crossover. the primary endpoint, satiety following a test meal challenge
      will be measured on four occasions throughout the study. Anthropometry measures, dietary
      intake, body weight and blood pressure will be monitored throughout the study. Faecal and
      urine will be collected at baseline and at the end of each treatment period.
    
  