
    
      Much of the research on acquired brain injury (ABI) has focused on survivors, especially
      functional and neurobehavioral outcomes. In recent years, researchers have begun to develop
      and evaluate interventions designed to improve whole family functioning. Studies have
      demonstrated that intervention can increase survivors' and family members' problem solving
      skills, met needs, emotional adjustment, and perceptions about the quality of rehabilitation
      services.

      Research suggests at least one of every three survivors is in a martial or coupled
      relationship at the time of injury. The literature examining postinjury marital breakdown has
      yielded widely varying results with estimates of breakdown rates ranging from 15%-78%.
      Whereas early studies suggested a majority of marriages ended in divorce, more recent studies
      have indicated that marital breakdown rates for people with brain injury are substantially
      lower than the general population. At the same time, research has generated concern that
      while many people remain together the quality of the relationship is sorely diminished.

      There is little doubt that healthy marriages and intimate relationships are important
      elements of our society. Further, research in other medical disciplines has proven the
      positive impact marital quality has on marital stability, emotional well-being, caregiver
      burden, and family needs. Existing study has similarly established the sustained benefits of
      promoting marital quality through intervention. Given the documented adverse impacts of brain
      injury, there is a clear need for effective interventions to improve and maintain the quality
      of coupled relationships.

      To improve couples' relationship quality after ABI, and to target emotional well-being and
      caregiver burden, VCU researchers developed a curriculum-based program for couples
      (Therapeutic Couples Intervention, TCI). The study addresses issues and challenges commonly
      confronting couples after brain injury. Relationship quality is a primary focus of the study
      with the perceptions of both partners analyzed, allowing an understanding of individual
      viewpoints and those of the couple as a whole. Objectives include:

        1. to evaluate the efficacy of a structured outpatient couples intervention program (TCI)
           on couples' marital quality

        2. to assess the impact of the TCI on the emotional well-being of persons with ABI and
           their partners

        3. to ascertain the impact of the TCI on caregiver burden and unmet needs as reported by
           partners of persons with ABI

        4. to examine the extent to which treatment benefits for survivors and their caregiving
           partners are sustained in the longer-term
    
  