
    
      Acute encephalitis (AE) is a serious condition associated with significant morbidity and
      mortality. Patients require ICU admission in 60 % of cases, mainly because of neurological
      symptoms (coma, seizures) or acute respiratory failure.

      The etiological profile of AE has changed considerably in recent years, with the emergence of
      new pathogens and the description of new immune-mediated causes (acute disseminated
      encephalomyelitis (ADEM), autoimmune limbic encephalitis) that require urgent specific
      therapies. Furthermore, despite extensive investigations, the proportion of cases of unknown
      cause remains high.

      In-ICU care of patients with AE is a difficult task, given the diversity of etiologies and
      clinical presentations. Furthermore, additional studies such as magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI) can be challenging to obtain in this population. Finally, there are no specific
      recommendations on the management and prognostic assessment of patients admitted to the ICU
      with AE.

      Present available data on the prognosis of patients with AE include both adult and pediatric
      cases, and focuses only on AE with identified causes. Prognosis of encephalitis in adult
      patients requiring ICU admission has been previously described only in retrospective single
      centre cohorts. To date, no prospective multicenter study on AE has been conducted in the
      specific population of adult critically ill patients. Furthermore, data on the diagnostic and
      prognostic contributions of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and electroencephalography
      studies in these patients are lacking The development of guidelines for standardized care in
      critically ill AE patients is needed, and will include management of early life support,
      prompt and exhaustive etiologic investigations, early administration of specific treatments
      and assessment of neurological prognosis. This study, which will focus on prognostic
      evaluation of severe AE in adults, appears crucial to support the development of such
      guidelines.

      Patients admitted to ICU for a suspicion of AE (acute encephalopathy and CSF pleocytosis > 5
      cells / microliter) will be eligible for inclusion.

      Patients admitted to ICU for a suspicion of AE (acute encephalopathy and CSF pleocytosis > 5
      cells / microliter) will be eligible for inclusion. Eligible patients will be included if
      they fulfil the IDSA 2013 diagnostic criteria for ""probable"" or ""confirmed"" encephalitis
      (see inclusion criteria). In patients without an obvious etiological diagnosis, an algorithm
      will be suggested to investigators to guide etiological investigations, according to the most
      recent recommendations (IDSA 2013). Aetiology of encephalitis will be described according to
      a priori-defined categories: 1) viral causes, 2) immune-mediated-causes, 3) bacterial or
      fungal meningitis with secondary encephalitic features, 4) undetermined causes. For each
      included patient, CSF and plasma samples will be stored at -80°C. A biobank will be created
      for subsequent analyses (etiological diagnosis, prognostic biomarkers). Outcomes will be
      assessed at 90 days and 365 days by contacting the patient or his relatives. The primary
      outcome is the score on the modified Rankin scale, which will be assessed 90 days after
      inclusion. Independent predictors of functional outcomes will be determined by multivariate
      logistic regression analysis.
    
  