
    
      Children who experience seizures that cannot be stopped by traditional anti-seizure
      medications often suffer profound brain injury and intellectual disability. Indeed, many of
      these children do not survive. In one study, 12% of children who developed an acute onset
      disease called FIRES (febrile infection-related epilepsy syndrome) died during the early
      stages of the disease, and of the children who survived, more than 90% developed cognitive
      impairment and lifelong epilepsy that could not be treated by our standard drugs. The
      discovery of new therapeutic strategies is therefore imperative.

      A role for inflammation and the innate and adaptive immune systems in generating seizures is
      a burgeoning but understudied field in epilepsy research. While data from multiple human and
      animal studies suggests that inflammatory cytokines can drive ictogenesis, the development of
      strategies to modulate inflammation are hindered by insufficient knowledge regarding the
      dynamic range of healthy responses to infection and immunological challenge. On this basis,
      the investigators intend to measure changes in levels of inflammatory cytokines and
      chemokines in the blood induced by the normal healthy response to vaccination. To do so, the
      investigators will collect a small amount of blood from children just before they receive
      their standard vaccinations at 6 months, 12 months, or 4-6 years of age. A follow-up sample
      will then be collected from the same children approximately 10-14 days later. Since it is
      known that about 30% of children develop a fever within this timeframe, it is expected that
      the size of the change in inflammatory factors in each child will reflect a Gaussian
      distribution, with "high responders" and "low responders" centered on a mean response. For
      each sample the investigators will isolate serum and measure the levels of interleukin-1
      beta, interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor alpha, chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 2, chemokine
      (C-C motif) ligand 5, chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 1, chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 2,
      chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 8, chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 9, and chemokine (C-X-C
      motif) ligand 10.

      In addition, based on recent findings showing that some children with acute seizure disorders
      exhibit previously unknown genetic polymorphisms in the interleukin-1 receptor antagonist
      (IL1RA) gene that are associated with altered immunological function, the investigators have
      hypothesized that normal healthy children will exhibit a spectrum of IL1RA function that will
      correlate with the size of their response to vaccination. To test this hypothesis the
      investigators will collect genomic DNA for sequencing of the IL1RA gene (also known as IL1RN)
      and will measure the function of the IL1RA protein in serum. This genetic and functional data
      will be correlated with the inflammatory cytokine and chemokine response measured in serum.

      Several key findings will be made in this study.

        1. Measure the normal range of inflammatory responses that occur in the blood when a person
           is given a vaccine; blood will be collected just before the vaccination and then again
           1-2 weeks later.

        2. Measure protein function in the blood and build up a graph showing the range of such
           function in healthy kids.

        3. Sequence the gene that produces a specific protein in healthy children. All humans have
           minor changes in genes that subtly alter the function of proteins. These are called
           polymorphisms and they are completely normal. The investigators want to build up a
           picture of the type of polymorphisms that occur in children and then compare these
           differences. This information might help to someday develop new ways to help children
           with dysfunctional proteins.

      This study is in no way based on the idea that vaccines "are bad". This study was designed
      because children all respond a little differently to vaccines (for example, some get sore at
      the injection site, some get a low fever, some feel more tired than usual) and this indicates
      that the body is responding to the immunization in ways that can be measured. The
      investigators think that the normal healthy response to vaccination will help define a range
      of responses that can be used to help other children who do not respond normally to
      infections. While this study is focused on a specific protein and on helping children who
      have defects in this factor, these findings will be widely relevant to understanding many
      diseases of the immune system in children.
    
  