
    
      In order to advance PA adoption and maintenance in BrCaS, an innovative health coaching
      intervention which uses mobile, wearable technologies (iMOVE) was developed. This pilot study
      will evaluate iMOVE and inform the design of a larger pragmatic randomized controlled trial
      (RCT).

      Main Hypotheses: 1) The study will be adequately recruit (>40%) and retain (>75%)
      participants, and 2) the intervention will be highly acceptable to participants and result in
      substantial sustained fitness improvements.

      Aims of the Pilot Study Aim 1: To evaluate feasibility of the methods employed as defined by
      a) ability to recruit >40% of those eligible; b) adequate retention, operationalized as
      6-month assessment completion by >75% of participants; c) adequate adherence, operationalized
      as ≥70% of intervention components completed.

      Aim 2: To evaluate acceptability feedback for the final refinement and optimization of the
      intervention.

      Aim 3: To determine preliminary intervention efficacy on fitness (primary) and on
      patient-reported, anthropometric and physical (secondary) outcomes.

      This pilot RCT enrolls inactive BrCa survivors (BrCaS) stratified by age (<55/> 55 yr) and
      adjuvant hormone therapy (AHT) exposure [AHT yes/AHT no]. Recruitment is undertaken at the
      Princess Margaret Cancer Centre (PM) while interventions occur at the Electronic Living
      Library for Cancer Survivorship Research (ELLICSR), the Cancer Survivorship and Wellness
      Centre at the Toronto General Hospital (TGH). Both PM and TGH are members of the University
      Health Network in Toronto, Ontario and research ethics board approval was obtained from the
      University Health Network (13-6157-DE).

      Patients, identified from weekly-generated clinic lists and chart reviews, are approached by
      a member of their clinical team and those interested meet with a research assistant who
      explains the study and screens for eligibility. Participants are also recruited by
      advertisement flyers located in common hospital areas. Eligibility is ascertained
      over-the-phone when possible, with written consent obtained in person prior to randomization.

      After participants complete baseline questionnaires and initial physiological assessments,
      stratification-related data (age, AHT status, eligibility ID) is emailed to a biostatistician
      in the Department of Biostatistics at PM who performs randomization and sends a Study ID with
      experimental or control group allocation.

      Intervention Participants in the experimental and control conditions receive 12-weeks of PA
      training that includes once weekly group sessions with a certified exercise physiologist
      (CEP) and a registered kinesiologist (RKin), and a progressively structured, individualized
      home-based exercise program. The program is based on the American College of Sports Medicine
      (ACSM) guidelines and modeled after a successful, theory-based, mixed-modality program
      developed by Santa Mina et al. The individually-tailored exercise prescription combines
      aerobic-resistance exercise with flexibility training, and progresses under the CEP/RKin's
      guidance towards increases in intensity and improved fitness. Based on ACSM guidelines the
      goal is at least 150 minutes per week of moderate-intensity aerobic activity. Carefully
      calibrated increases in exercise volume over 12 weeks is intended to minimize injury risks
      and potential discouragement over variations in progress. Weekly group sessions of 60 minutes
      duration (including aerobic and resistance training) optimize social reinforcements.
      Participants are provided choices of days/times for the weekly supervised sessions.
      Participants are also asked to complete 3-5 additional home-based sessions of aerobic (e.g.
      brisk walking, cycling), and resistance activities (using elastic bands and body weight lift
      exercises) each week. Initial intensity is based on the performance of the exercises during a
      group session with the CEP/RKin and is self-monitored via the 10-point rating of perceived
      exertion, with a prescribed training zone of 4-7. Participants keep a weekly exercise log and
      review it at each face-to-face meeting with the CEP/RKin. All participants are provided with
      an exercise manual that includes exercise descriptions with instructive photographs, exercise
      safety guidelines, and stretching instructions. After all participants have been recruited
      and enrolled, semi-structured exit interviews will be completed with N = 25 participants at
      week # of the intervention.

      Experimental Group To promote adoption and maintenance of fitness and PA levels, experimental
      group participants are concurrently provided with a smart-phone-based health coaching
      intervention (iMOVE). iMOVE has three components: 1) one-on-one telephone-based counselling;
      2) supportive software on smart-phone devices (the HealthCoach program), 3) use of Fit-bit
      and corresponding software. The iMOVE intervention was designed to enhance sustained behavior
      change re: PA, integrating several elements under the terms smart-phone-based health
      coaching, and is based on multiple behavior-change theories, specifically Motivational
      Interviewing (MI); Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT), TPB, TTM ; Social Learning Theory and
      Relapse Prevention Therapy. Once decisions to regularly exercise are made (TTM), participants
      elicit support from influential individuals (TPB-SLT) and undertake sessions that progress to
      higher fitness levels (SLT-progressive mastery). Participants are additionally supported by
      observations of peer progress and peer-familial social supports when disruptions in
      regularity occur (SLT - social modeling/social support). The careful monitoring of subjective
      states sensitizes subjects to regulatory effects (elevated mood, reduced fatigue), preparing
      them to confront adherence disruptions with a re-decision process (TTM) and re-mobilization
      (RPT-TTM). Instead of reacting with self-blame, temporary setbacks become prolapses such that
      trial-and-error learning builds future success (RPT). Consistently adherent behaviour
      ultimately includes non-adherent lapses and recoveries of effective routines (TTM-RPT). The
      theoretical constructs employed are based on promoting motivation and establishing: a)
      exercise self-efficacy, b) social support for exercise and c) positive exercise-induced
      feelings during the acute intervention (12 weeks) and post-exercise program period (6
      months).

      The telephone-based health coaching portion of iMOVE includes 10 x 30-minute telephone calls
      with a trained health coach scheduled at weeks 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, and 12 (during the
      exercise program) and at weeks 20 and 28 (post-exercise program booster sessions). The calls
      focus on the assessment of motivation, promotion of self-efficacy and collaborative problem
      solving. Telephone based counselling provides several advantages over face-to-face
      counselling, notably the potential for multi-regional population access given the telephone
      is a widely available communication medium that requires no travel by users or providers. The
      focus of is on assessing motivation, promoting self-efficacy and mutual problem solving to
      promote PA maintenance. The selected schedule provides support while building autonomy and
      independent motivation. The primary approach used by the health coaches is MI and CBT. MI is
      a collaborative, person-centered counselling method that elicits and strengthens motivation
      for behaviour-change by resolving ambivalence. MI has demonstrated effectiveness in
      increasing PA in cancer survivors and other chronic conditions and some MI-related effects
      have been shown to endure for two years post-intervention. Whenever self-efficacy appears
      impeded by distorted cognitions, CBT principles are applied, particularly to positively
      affect mood fluctuations. Distorted cognitions prevent enactment of health-behaviors and can
      drive unhealthy behaviors. With CBT, distorted cognitions can be modified, preventing or
      ameliorating associated negative emotional responses. Telephone-based interventions have been
      effective and acceptable to BrCa patients and useful in delivering MI-type/CBT interventions,
      include Diabetes health coaching study. As common with MI and CBT interventions, a handbook
      was created, which includes global objectives per session with relevant clinical tools that
      health coaches use to navigate sessions. An agenda for each session is facilitated by the
      health coach based on patient goals, activity, and motivation as collected by the software
      (between-sessions) and during sessions. Health coaches with a counselling background in MI
      and CBT and experience working with BrCa populations, receive clinical supervision by a
      Registered Psychologist and a Motivational Interviewing Network of Trainers (MINT) certified
      trainer. Fidelity of the intervention is assessed by routine review of implementation
      fidelity.

      In addition to the scheduled telephone-based sessions, participants interact with the
      HealthCoach software via smart-phone. This software, previously successfully tested with
      participants diagnosed with type II diabetes, is tailored for BrCa. It provides participants
      with specific health tips (delivered by video and verbally), and the ability to track PA,
      nutrition, pain and psychological well being (mood, energy); it also supports goal setting
      (with selective automatic daily/hourly reminders). All entries into the software are
      time-stamped, allowing for graph creation over time which combines multiple trackers,
      enabling participants and health coaches to see how health indicators change in relation to
      active health practices. The use of the software's capabilities of initiating contact with
      the health coach via text messaging will be quantified and recorded. When a patient texts
      their health coach via the app the health coach records the number of times contacts takes
      place and text message content. Confirmation of the text message will be provided but will
      direct the patient to discuss the matter further during the next phone session. Any content
      that indicates a medical or emergency need will be dealt with immediately and contact with
      the patient will be made.

      The use of the Fit-bit flex provides another way to help participants remain adherent to PA
      routines. Its real time feedback on activity (lights on device indicate % completion of the
      pre-set 10000 step goal), as well connectivity to the Connected Wellness platform allows the
      participant and the Health Coach to jointly explore how PA achieved by walking is being
      integrated into the participants life. It has a simple display of 5 LED lights which indicate
      the number of steps taken daily, and it vibrates to indicate that pre-set goals of 10000
      steps have been reached. The lights also indicate battery level. The Fit-bit Flex includes a
      specialized universal series bus (USB) charger; with a battery charge that lasts for five to
      seven days, and takes one to two hours to charge. The tracker measures steps taken, and
      combines it with user data to calculate distance walked, calories burned, and activity
      duration-intensity. It also measures sleep quality by tracking periods of restlessness, how
      long it takes the wearer to fall asleep, and how long they are actually asleep. The Fit-bit
      has its own app which the user can use to monitor their own activity.
    
  