
    
      Participants randomized to the intervention arm will complete the computerized working memory
      training program. This computer-based training program is completed in the home and requires
      approximately 30 minutes every weekday for five weeks. The program software guides the child
      through eight rotating exercises each day, with increasing difficulty based on the child's
      level of performance. Exercises train both visuospatial and verbal WM using child-friendly
      activities. A research team member will serve as a coach who monitors weekly progress online
      and offers support through weekly phone calls with the study participants and their
      caregivers. This individual will not complete post-intervention assessments to maintain study
      blind. A home computer with internet connection and speakers is required. A laptop computer
      and/or wireless internet access will be provided to families whose only obstacle to
      participation is lack of computer access or internet connectivity in the home setting.
      Families randomized to the WM intervention will complete a tutorial with study staff that
      provides instruction in using a computer, the internet and the WM training software.

      The objective of this study is to investigate the benefits of this working memory
      intervention in a sample of childhood cancer survivors and look at brain-based changes that
      may occur as the result of working memory intervention. To achieve this goal, we plan to
      study childhood cancer survivors randomly assigned to the working memory intervention or a
      passive waitlist. Both groups will participate in cognitive testing pre-, post-, and six
      months post intervention. Intervention participants will also partake in neuroimaging exams
      before and after the intervention. Findings from this study have direct potential to support
      a nonpharmaceutical cognitive intervention for cancer survivors that is a safe and effective
      alternative to stimulant medications with great promise for improving quality of life.
    
  