
    
      Background Seroma is a common surgical complication created by the inflammatory process that
      follows mastectomy and reconstruction. It is, thus, common practice to insert surgical
      drains, which often often remain in place for long periods and delay recovery. In light of
      the many advantages of holistic treatment, there has been a global trend of integrating them
      with conventional medicine. In this study, the investigators examined the effect of Arnica
      montana and Bellis perennis on seroma prevention after mastectomy and breast reconstruction.

      Study design The investigators conducted a prospective, double-blind, randomized, controlled
      study to asses the effect of homeopathic remedies on seroma in 55 patients (78 breasts), who
      had undergone mastectomy for cancer or risk reduction, followed by immediate implant and
      Acellular Dermal Matrix (ADM)-based breast reconstruction in the Department of Plastic &
      Reconstructive Surgery at Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem, Israel, between January
      2016 and August 2017 (Figure 1). The study protocol was approved by the Institutional Review
      Board and it was registered on the ClinicalTrials.gov register.

      Subjects All subjects were female, aged over 18 years, who underwent mastectomy, either for
      breast cancer or for risk reduction, followed by immediate breast reconstruction. In some
      patients, this was performed in a single procedure - direct to implant (DTI) (n=42); in
      others, it was in two stages tissue expander (TE) (n=36), depending on presurgical
      evaluation, risk factors and clinical assessment of perfusion of the mastectomy skin flaps.
      All subjects signed informed consent forms after receiving a detailed explanation of the
      study from one of its investigators.

      The investigators excluded patients with: (a) conditions which could affect wound-healing;
      (b) coagulation problems (autoimmune and hematological diseases, etc.); (c) taking medication
      which affects the immunological or hematological system (steroids, anticoagulants,
      chemotherapeutic agents, etc.); and (d) with unbalanced background diseases. Active smokers
      were instructed to stop smoking at least three weeks prior to surgery and a month
      postoperatively.

      Study medication and randomization and surgical techniques Experimental medications and
      placebos were prepared and delivered in accordance with the Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia of the
      United States (HPUS). Stem tinctures of Arnica montana, Bellis perennis and 40% alcohol as
      placebo were diluted 1:100 with 40% alcohol, and vigorously shaken. This process was repeated
      30 times for a theoretical final concentration of 10-60 of the stem solutions. Spherical
      saccharose globules, approximately 1 mm in diameter, were wetted with the diluted tinctures
      and dried, resulting in three groups of the experimental medication: Arnica montana C30
      (10-60), Bellis perennis C30 (10-60) and alcohol dilutions as placebo. The medications were
      packed in bottles, each containing 5 grams of the preparation, and consecutively numbered.
      The prefix 'A' indicated Arnica montana, and 'B' Bellis perennis .

      Participants were randomly allocated into groups given either homeopathic medication (Arnica
      montana C30 and Bellis perennis C30) or placebo (alcohol 40% and alcohol 40%) in a 1:1 ratio.
      Age, body mass index, laterality of mastectomy, mastectomy type and number requiring sentinel
      lymph node biopsy and axillary dissection were similar between groups. The randomization
      sequence was created by an independent physician, uninvolved in the study, using
      computer-generated random numbers. The randomization code was held in confidence and the code
      was not broken until the data analysis. The same randomization list was used to blind the
      Arnica montana and the Bellis perennis, creating similar pairs. The placebos and the active
      medication were indistinguishable in appearance, taste and smell. Three globules of each
      medication were regarded as a single dose, to be sucked rather than swallowed.

      Patients were hospitalized the night prior to surgery. On admission, a member of the study
      team again explained the study protocol, and gave the assigned medications to the patients.
      Patients were asked to take the medication according to the following protocol (Figure 2):

        1. One dose of A (3 pills) on the morning of surgery.

        2. One dose of A and one of B, 4 to 6 times a day for the first 24 hours after surgery (as
           soon as patients were stable, conscious and nausea- and vomit-free).

        3. One dose of A and one of B, 3 times a day until 4 days after surgery.

        4. Finally, one dose of B 3 times a day until removal of the surgical drain. All
           mastectomies were performed by experienced breast surgeons at our institution. Amputated
           breast-weight was documented. Sentinel lymph-node biopsy (SLNB) or axillary lymph-node
           dissection (ALND) was carried out according to the oncological status of each patient,
           either through a separate axillary incision or through the mastectomy incision. All
           reconstructions were subpectoral ADM-assisted, performed by plastic surgeons from our
           department. 42 breasts underwent the DTI procedure, and in 36 breasts a two-stage TE
           approach was taken, according to the patient's estimated breast volume, risk factors and
           intraoperative clinical evaluation of flap perfusion. ADM used was an 8*16 cm ADM. A
           10-mm Jackson-Pratt drain was inserted through a subcutaneous tunnel in the lateral
           breast gutter at the level of the inframammary fold (IMF) (in the subcutaneous space).
           When axillary lymph node dissection (ALND) was performed through a separate incision, a
           second drain was placed in the axillary space. Drains were removed when drainage fell
           below 30 mL/24 hours.

      Assessment

      The following data for all patients were retrieved from their medical records:

        -  Baseline characteristics and demographic variables

        -  Medical history and risk factors - comorbidities, obesity, smoking, breast cancer (BRCA)
           mutation status

        -  Variables relating to the procedure - reason for surgery (breast cancer vs. risk
           reduction), breasts operated (unilateral or bilateral), size and type of implant (DTI
           vs. TE and implant volume) and lymph node status (no biopsy taken/sentinel lymph node
           biopsy (SLNB)/ALND)

        -  Postoperative course- time to drain removal, hemoglobin and cortisol levels on
           postoperative days (POD) 3 and 7, postoperative level of pain according to the visual
           analog (VAS) scale and Quality of Recovery. The VAS scale is a scale from 0 to 10, with
           0 being "no pain at all" and 10 being "worst pain imaginable." The staff nurse caring
           for each patient administered the form and elicited the patient response for pain level
           according to the study protocol, and the quantity of narcotics taken. On POD 3 and 7,
           patients were given the Quality Of Recovery (QoR) 40 questionnaire, a validated
           questionnaire to measure postsurgical quality of recovery. Its scores range from 40 for
           very poor recovery to 200 for outstanding quality of recovery [49-51].

        -  Postoperative complications: hematoma, skin-flap necrosis, infection, seroma,
           explantation and need for repeat surgery. Complications were divided into major and
           minor. Major complications included any of those mentioned above which required revision
           surgery in the operating room. Minor complications resolved spontaneously or were
           treated at the bedside.

      Data analysis All data were collected daily by a study coordinator. The investigators
      calculated the mean standard deviation (SD) and range for all quantitative variables, as well
      as their absolute frequencies and percentages. Statistical analyses were conducted using
      statistical software. The criterion for significance was: alpha (α) = .05 (one-sided).
    
  