
    
      Malnutrition is a public health problem that can exert a negative impact on the general and
      oral health of children. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of chronic
      malnutrition on the oral health of children aged one to five years. An observational,
      analytical, cross-sectional study was conducted at the Nutritional Recovery Center and
      involved 82 children between 12 and 71 months of age. Nutritional status was evaluated using
      anthropometric indicators. The children were weighed on a previously calibrated electronic
      scale (capacity: 150 kg; precision: 100 g) barefoot and wearing light clothing in the
      presence of the mother or caregiver. Height was determined using a non-flexible metric tape
      (maximum length: 2 m; precision: 0.1 cm). Each measurement was made twice and the mean was
      used for the calculation height for age, weight for height and weight for age. The guidelines
      of the World Health Organization, were the reference for the evaluation of nutritional
      status. Oral health status was measured using the dmft index. The criteria adopted for the
      determination of prevalence followed by guidelines of the Oral Health Surveys - Basic
      Methods, 4th edition - described in the examiner's manual and annotator's manual produced by
      the coordination team of the Brazil Oral Health Project. Non-stimulated saliva was collected
      and Flow rate and buffering capacity was then measured with the aid of a pH meter. The
      salivary flow volume was calculated and expressed as ml/min. The following categories were
      considered in the analysis of salivary flow: < 0.1 ml/min = xerostomia; 0.1 to 0.6 ml/min =
      very low flow; 0.7 to 0.9 mL/min low flow; 1.0 to 2.0 ml/min = normal flow; and > 2.0 ml/min
      = high flow. The following categories were considered: ≥ 5.5 = very good buffering capacity;
      5.4 to 5.0 = good buffering capacity; 4.9 to 4.5 = medium good buffering capacity; 4.4 to 4.0
      = low buffering capacity; and ≤ 3.9 very low buffering capacity.
    
  