
    
      Rationale/Significance:

      Obesity is a growing epidemic problem around the world. World Health Organization (WHO)
      defines obesity as a body mass index (BMI) over 30 Kg/m2 and it is estimated that 10% of the
      world's population is obese. Associated with obesity are health conditions that carry
      significant morbidity and mortality, including cardiovascular disease, osteoarthritis,
      diabetes, cancer (breast, colon and endometrial) and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD).
      Bariatric surgery has been shown to be the most effective and efficient mean of achieving
      significant and sustainable weight loss in morbidly obese individuals.

      As part of their limited GI workup, candidates for bariatric surgery usually undergo only an
      upper endoscopy prior to surgery. However, no studies are preferred to assess the degree of
      esophageal acid exposure in patients with normal endoscopy who are candidates for LSG. In
      addition, there is no routine assessment of patients post LSG for the development of GERD.

      The effect of laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) on GERD has been equivocal with
      low-quality evidence suggesting both improvement and worsening of reflux after surgery.
      Studies have demonstrated that after LSG, between 5 and 30% of patients suffered from GERD,
      with a small subset of those patients (2.9 %) converting to another bariatric procedure
      (gastric bypass) because of debilitating GERD symptoms.

      As part of their limited GI workup, candidates for bariatric surgery usually undergo only an
      upper endoscopy prior to surgery. Currently there is no routine formal (endoscopic or pH)
      assessment of patients after gastric weight loss surgery for the development of GERD. The
      effect of laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) on GERD has been equivocal with low-quality
      evidence from various studies suggesting both improvement and worsening of reflux after
      surgery.

      The main purpose of this study is to evaluate whether GERD develops after LSG and to examine
      the esophagus after LSG for the possible development of acid reflux both endoscopically
      (visible by camera view) and on a cellular level by obtaining mucosal impedance. Mucosal
      impedance (MI) is a measurement that can evaluate if the structure of the esophageal tissue
      is normal or abnormal. MI is performed using an FDA approved endoscopic tool called "Mucosal
      Integrity Conductivity Test System" (Diversatek). The MI system software uses the collected
      data to determine if there is evidence of GERD.

      Objective:

      The investigators propose this current study to examine mucosal impedance before and after
      sleeve gastrectomy using the novel mucosal impedance procedure, as well as assess quality of
      life and GERD symptoms parameters. In addition, this study will determine if the level of
      mucosal impedance pre-sleeve gastrectomy may predict the development of GERD post-surgery.
      Our Hypothesis is that sleeve gastrectomy is highly associated with the risk of developing
      new onset GERD.

      This is a prospective, comparative cohort study. A total of 15 obese patients (BMI ≥ 35)
      undergoing sleeve gastrectomy by choice will be recruited into the study from our bariatric
      and weight management program. An initial screening upper endoscopy will be performed as part
      of pre-bariatric evaluation, during which mucosal impedance will be performed with the
      consent of the patient. Patients with evidence of erosive esophagitis (LA grade A-D),
      Barrett's esophagus or eosinophilic esophagitis will be excluded from the study. As per
      surgical recommendation, PPI will be used for 6 months in all bariatric patients.

      Six months post-surgery, study patients will be re-evaluated by the GERD symptoms Checklist
      and SF 36. In addition, their new BMI will be documented. PPI will be held for at least 1
      week and a 6 months post-surgical upper endoscopy will be performed to determine the presence
      or absence of erosive esophagitis and Barrett's esophagus. In addition, esophageal mucosal
      impedance will be reassessed.

      Primary aim

      - To determine the development of GERD after sleeve gastrectomy by measuring esophageal
      mucosal impedance pre and post-surgery.

      Secondary aim

        -  To determine the degree of GERD development post sleeve gastrectomy

        -  To determine any effect on quality of life post-sleeve gastrectomy
    
  