
    
      The third stage of labor refers to the period following the completed delivery of the newborn
      until the completed delivery of the placenta. The length of the third stage and its
      complications are affected by the uterine contractility and the duration of placental
      separation. The normal duration of third stage in nulliparous as well as in multiparous women
      is less than 30 minutes. There is strong evidence supporting the routine administration of
      uterotonic agents for the prevention of post-partum hemorrhage (PPH), in order to enhance
      natural uterine contraction in the third stage of labor, thus reducing the occurrence of PPH
      by 40%.

      There is a joint policy statement between the International Confederation of Midwives (ICM),
      the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) and the World Health
      Organization (WHO), all of which recommend active management of the third stage of labor in
      order to prevent PPH. active management led to a reduction in PPH incidence, maternal
      Hemoglobin<9g/dL and need for blood transfusion. (4-7).

      Active management of the third stage of labor involves prophylactic uterotonic treatment,
      early cord clamping and controlled cord traction to deliver the placenta. (2) Oxytocin is the
      first agent of choice for PPH prophylaxis because of its high efficacy and a low incidence of
      associated side effects. (6-9). Cotter et al found that the use of Oxytocin for PPH
      prophylaxis in the third stage of labor decreased the rate of maternal blood loss greater
      than 500 ml by approximately 50%. (10).

      Oxytocin route of administration is either intravenously (IV) or intramuscularly (IM), with
      no significant difference in PPH incidence (9). This is based on a pharmacokinetic research
      from 1972 which found no difference between the absorption rates in both routes of
      administration. Since then no further research targeting this question was preformed.
      (11-12). recent guidelines from WHO, FIGO and ICM all recommended the use of 10 IU Oxytocin
      IM. (4, 7,13).

      Previous studies have investigated the effect of intra-umbilical vein Oxytocin injection in
      reducing blood loss during the third stage of labor. This route of administration directs
      treatment to the placental bed and uterine wall, resulting in earlier uterine contraction and
      placental separation. However, limited published literature is available evaluating the
      effect of umbilical vein oxytocin injection in routine practices for active management of the
      third stage of labor. A prospective, randomized controlled trial of 412 women found that
      intra-umbilical injection of oxytocin alongside active management of the third stage of labor
      significantly reduced postpartum blood loss and the duration of the third stage (14).

      Other uterotonic agents including Syntometrine (IM), Ergometrine (IM or IV) and Misoprostol
      (IM), can be used in active management of the third stage of labor. However, high quality
      evidence regarding their efficacy compared to Oxytocin is scarce. (9-10)
    
  