
    
      Purpose: The purpose of this pilot study is to evaluate the effect of a multi-component
      balance and resistance training [RT] intervention on physical function, balance, and falls in
      older [≥ 65 y/o] community dwelling heart failure [HF] patients. The study aims: 1] Pilot
      test multi-component balance activities and RT intervention on primary outcomes. 2] Explore
      perceptions related to outcomes and the intervention through focus groups. 3] Generate pilot
      data on adherence. 4] Generate pilot data on feasibility of conducting the BASIC Training
      intervention.

      Background/Significance: Falls are the leading cause of injury-related deaths in this age
      group. Fall risks are even greater for those with HF due to decreased exercise capacity, loss
      of skeletal muscle and medication side effects. Though RT is effective for improving skeletal
      muscle, it has only a modest effect on improving balance, which is comprised of peripheral
      sensory input central integration, and motor output. A multi-component intervention focusing
      on balance retraining and strengthening the muscles supporting static/dynamic balance and
      functional mobility is necessary.

      Methods: Design - Randomized, two-group with wait list control, repeated measures
      experimental design. Sample/ Setting - 40-50 participants recruited from a medical center
      heart failure clinic; supervised group sessions conducted in the center's health and wellness
      center. Procedures - Participants will be randomized to the intervention group or the wait
      list control group. Focus groups pre/post intervention. The intervention will be administered
      in 1x per week supervised group sessions and 2x a week home sessions. Instruments - 30 Second
      Sit-to-Stand, Modified Clinical Test of Sensory Interaction on Balance, Activity Specific
      Balance Confidence Scale, Timed Up and Go, Dynamic Gait Index.

      Analysis Plan: Aim 1- independent t-test to compare change scores from baseline to the end of
      the first 12 week period for the intervention group with the wait list control group. A
      second analysis will combine data from the delayed intervention period for the wait list
      control group with that from the first 12 week period for the intervention group to test
      change. Supplemental analysis, involving only data from intervention group, will test whether
      change is sustained at 24 weeks. Aim 2 - thematic analysis conducted with focus group data.
      Aim 3 - adherence assessed by group session attendance and home activities completed. Aim 4 -
      assess and report logistics of conducting the study.

      Nursing Relevance/Implications: This pilot study will initiate the process of developing a
      targeted intervention to induce changes in elderly HF patients to prevent future falls; thus
      reducing costs, physical and emotional burdens related to falls; and effect a major
      difference in the quality of life for this population.
    
  