
    
      Prospective, Randomized Study Bariatric surgery has been widely used in the treatment of
      obesity in recent years. It has been shown to be effective in reaching the ideal weight and
      reducing obesity-induced comorbidities. Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) is defined as
      the first-step bariatric surgery for patients in the high surgical risk group. It has been
      shown that the laparoscopic approach has lower complication rates, shorter hospital stays,
      and earlier mobilization compared to open surgery. However, postoperative pain management is
      very important because it might cause major morbidity, especially pulmonary complications in
      the early postoperative period.

      General recommendations for bariatric surgery include multimodal analgesia without sedatives,
      local analgesic infiltration, and early mobilization. Opioid analgesics are often preferred
      for pain management because of their strong analgesic potentials. However, opioids have
      undesirable adverse effects such as sedation, dizziness, constipation, nausea, vomiting,
      physical dependence and addiction, hyperalgesia, immunologic and hormonal dysfunction, muscle
      rigidity, tolerance, and respiratory depression. The morbidly obese patients treated with
      opioids experience increased risk for adverse effects such as atelectasis, which causes
      postoperative pulmonary complications, and obstructive sleep apnea, which causes hypoxemia,
      postoperative ileus and longer hospital stay due to nausea and vomiting. For this reason, in
      2006, the American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) suggested minimizing or avoiding
      opioids during perioperative and/or postoperative pain management to the bariatric patients.
      Therefore, ASA recommends the use of multimodal analgesia including local anesthesia,
      regional anesthesia and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).

      The ultrasound (US) guided erector spina plane (ESP) block is a novel interfacial plan block
      defined by Forero et al. at 2016. ESP block provides thoracic analgesia at T5 level and
      abdominal analgesia at T7-9 level. The ESP block contains a local anesthetic injection into
      the deep fascia of erector spinae. This area is away from the pleural and neurological
      structures and thus minimizes the risk of complications due to injury. Visualization of
      sonoanatomy with US is easy, and the spread of local anesthesic agents can be easily seen
      under the erector spinae muscle. Thus, analgesia occurs in several dermatomes with
      cephalad-caudad way. Cadaveric studies have shown that the injection spreads to the ventral
      and dorsal roots of the spinal nerves and creates sensory blockade in both posterior and
      anterolateral thorax. In the literature, it has been reported that ESP block provides
      effective analgesia after ventral hernia repair surgery in a randomized controlled study. In
      some case series and case reports it has been reported that ESP block provides effective
      analgesia after abdominal and bariatric surgeries. In the literature, there is not still any
      randomized study evaluating ESP block efficiency for postoperative analgesia management after
      laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy surgery.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of US-guided ESP block for postoperative
      analgesia management following laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy. The primary aim is to compare
      postoperative opioid consumption and the secondary aim is to evaluate postoperative pain
      scores (VAS), adverse effects related with opioids (allergic reaction, nausea, vomiting).
    
  