
    
      Intraparental homicide (IPH), when one parent kills the other, leaves approximately 4,000
      children bereaved each year, adding to a total of 70,000 currently in the United States.
      Although few studies have focused on this phenomenon, available data indicate children of IPH
      suffer short- and long-term mental health consequences, including post-traumatic stress
      disorder (PTSD). Prior research also indicates that guardians, often family members under
      stress themselves, do not know how to help the children. No interventions directed at
      guardians of child survivors of IPH are found in scientific and clinical literature. Use of a
      specialized Web site called an Interactive Healthcare Communication Application (IHCA) has
      been found effective in treating multiple health conditions, including breast cancer in women
      and asthma in children. This study aims to refine an IHCA Web site for use by guardians of
      child survivors of IPH, to determine the safety and effectiveness of this Web site, and to
      determine how it is used by targeted guardians.

      In the first phase of this study researchers will develop the IHCA based on feedback from a
      small focus group of guardians of child survivors of IPH. Then guardians of survivors of IPH
      up to 16 years old will be randomly assigned either to receive access to the IHCA created for
      them or to have access only to generally available Internet information. The IHCA will have
      six components: (1) an Instant Library of articles on topics of interest; (2) a resource
      directory of both national and local support and service organizations; (3) access to a peer
      communication system; (4) a Frequently Asked Questions section, updated with responses to
      user generated questions; (5) an "Ask an Expert" system staffed by researchers; and (6)
      personal stories of others dealing with IPH. Participants with access to the IHCA will
      receive print and phone instructions explaining the Web site and have their usage monitored
      by tracking software. Those in the control group will be directed to a Web site linking to
      publically available, pre-existing support Web sites. After 16 weeks of unlimited access to
      the IHCA or control group Web sites from their home computers, all participants will complete
      four evaluation reviews: the Family Crisis Oriented Personal Evaluation Scales, the Parenting
      Stress Index, the Child Behavior Checklist, and the Child PTSD Inventory - Parent.
    
  