
    
      Approximately 25-30% of the U.S. population will experience anxiety pathology severe enough
      to qualify for an anxiety disorder diagnosis during their lifetime. Critically, the majority
      will not receive treatment, creating a serious need to consider alternative approaches to
      delivering mental health services that can meet needs on a larger scale. Cognitive Bias
      Modification (CBM) interventions for anxiety hold considerable promise as a way to meet these
      needs. These programs alter biased ways of thinking, such as selective assignment of threat
      interpretations, which are known to cause and maintain anxiety. CBM for interpretation bias
      (CBM-I) has established efficacy when administered via computer in the laboratory, and there
      is clear evidence for target engagement (i.e., change in interpretations, the identified
      mechanism). Now, effectiveness needs to be tested in the community, using sufficiently large
      samples to evaluate key moderators of its effects, including delivery method (computer vs.
      mobile phone) and the addition of minimal human contact (for those at risk of attrition).
      Addressing attrition is critical given high rates of drop out for web-based interventions.
      Via the PI's MindTrails web site (established with the lab's prior NIMH R34MH106770 award),
      the lab already has the infrastructure to deliver CBM to the public and recruit large anxious
      samples. Moreover, the PI and Co-I have established infrastructure to do mobile sensing of
      mood and CBM-I delivery via mobile phones. Thus, the project can respond to NIMH's request
      for "Effectiveness trials that can contribute to advancing the personalization of mental
      health care." The current proposal aims to compare effectiveness and target engagement of
      CBM-I delivered via computer vs. mobile phone, and test if adding minimal human contact for
      participants at risk of dropout improves retention and outcomes. Study 1 will provide a pilot
      feasibility and user experience test of the CBM-I program on mobile phones. Study 2 will
      examine the lab's current online, computer-based CBM-I data to help determine empirical
      indicators of attrition. Study 3 will provide the primary test of moderators of
      effectiveness. Namely, in Study 3, high anxious participants will be randomized to one of 2
      conditions: 1) CBM-I training delivered by computer or mobile phone (at existing MindTrails
      site); 2) Alternate intervention group-Psychoeducation only. CBM-I and Psychoeducation
      conditions include 5 weekly training sessions. Based on theoretically- and
      empirically-derived predictors of attrition, participants identified as high-risk for dropout
      in condition 1 will then be randomly assigned to add minimal human contact (using a modified
      TeleCoach protocol) or no change. Using this adaptive intervention, known as Sequential,
      Multiple Assignment, Randomized Trial (SMART), the project can test both the effects of CBM-I
      delivery method and the added value of human contact to improve retention for participants at
      high-risk for dropping out.
    
  