
    
      Promotion of mental health is a major concern worldwide, particularly among young population
      as major psychiatric diseases can have their onset during adolescence and young adulthood.
      During adolescence, there is growing evidence that "at-risk" states for mental disorders, as
      high stress reactivity for example, can be identified prior to clinical symptoms, and that
      early interventions can have a major impact preventing the further development of full-blown
      mental illness.

      In the last two decades, given a growing interest for non-pharmacological approaches to
      improve mental and physical health, mindfulness-based interventions (MBI) have received
      serious attention. After the initial applications on chronic pain, stress reduction and
      prevention of depressive relapses, MBIs are now widely implemented among clinical and
      non-clinical populations.

      Therefore, investigators aim to better understand the modifications of brain circuits
      involved in the emergence of stress related disorders and the impact of a MBI on those
      circuits. Hence, a translational project was designed, integrating neuroimaging, biological
      and clinical outcomes of stress reactivity to evaluate the impact of a MBI on adolescents.

      The Mindfulteen Study is a 3-year longitudinal cohort study with a nested randomized
      controlled trial. The randomized controlled trial part of the study was designed to assess
      the clinical effect of MBI on adolescents, comparing to a control group. Therefore, after
      inclusion participants are electronically randomized between either early intervention group
      or late intervention group (i.e., waiting list or control group). Participants allocated in
      the late intervention group engage in MBI after the waiting period, providing data also for
      the longitudinal cohort part of the study and therefore increasing the data available for
      before and after comparison. The long-term effect of MBI will be assessed after 18 months of
      intervention.

      Before randomization, participants are stratified according to their score on the trait
      questionnaire of the State Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) as low anxiety group (≤ 31) or high
      anxiety group (>31).

      Assessments are performed before intervention, immediately after intervention or waiting
      period and in 18 months. For the late intervention group, an additional assessment is
      performed immediately after the intervention.

      The overall objective of the Mindfulteen Study is to assess the immediate and long-term
      effect of an MBI on reactivity to stress and anxiety, in a non-clinical sample of young
      adolescents from the general population. Underlying psychological and biological changes are
      assessed using a multimodal brain MRI protocol, blood and hair sampling, as well as
      physiological measurements of stress.

      The primary aim is to characterize brain functional modifications in cortico-limbic and
      cortico-striatal-thalamic circuits (functional MRI data) and their underlying neuroanatomical
      changes (analysis of structural, spectroscopy and diffusion MRI data) in adolescents exposed
      to MBI, comparing adolescents with high anxiety and low anxiety levels.

      Secondary aims include the effects of MBI on self-reported levels of anxiety, emotion
      regulation strategies (clinical scores) and physiological markers of
      hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (hair cortisol), as well as biological markers of
      oxidative stress and inflammation (blood sampling).
    
  