
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of patients with
           low risk myeloid disorders or older allogeneic recipients who are treated with high dose
           busulfan and cyclophosphamide and allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT).

        -  Determine the PFS and OS in patients with lymphoid and high risk myeloid disorders who
           are treated with etoposide, total body irradiation, and allogeneic BMT.

        -  Evaluate the toxicities of these 2 regimens when combined with cyclosporine and
           methotrexate as graft versus host disease prophylaxis in these patients.

        -  Evaluate the PFS and OS of allogeneic BMT in patients with multiple myeloma and chronic
           lymphocytic leukemia.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Regimen A: Patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CP1, AP/CP2) and other
           myeloproliferative disorders, myelodysplastic disorders, acute myelogenous leukemia
           (CR1), or multiple myeloma (not eligible to receive total body irradiation due to prior
           radiation) are treated with high dose busulfan and cyclophosphamide followed by
           allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT). Patients receive oral busulfan every 6
           hours on days -7 to -4 and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days -3 and -2. Allogeneic
           bone marrow is infused on day 0.

        -  Regimen B: Patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (at least CR2, relapsed), acute
           lymphoid leukemia (ALL), any acute leukemia with CNS involvement, multiple myeloma, or
           chronic lymphocytic leukemia are treated with total body irradiation and etoposide
           followed by allogeneic BMT. Patients receive total body irradiation (TBI) on days -7 to
           -4 for a total of 11 fractions and etoposide IV over 4 hours on day -3. Male patients
           with ALL receive a testicular boost in 2 fractions on 2 successive days during TBI.
           Allogeneic bone marrow is infused on day 0.

      Patients in both regimens receive cyclosporine and methotrexate as graft versus host disease
      prophylaxis.

      Patients are followed weekly for 3 months and then monthly for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: At least 50 patients with low risk myeloid disease, 50 patients with
      lymphoid malignancies, and 60 patients with high risk myeloid disease will be accrued for
      this study.
    
  