
    
      Individuals with anorexia nervosa (AN) are afraid to eat. Moreover, anxiety is a prominent
      symptom in AN, with anxiety disorders frequently preceding and/or co-occurring with the
      illness, and with an increased prevalence of anxiety disorders in first-degree family
      members. Pre-meal anxiety poses a frequent challenge in treatment settings which require
      adherence to strict meal plans, particularly since it is associated with lower caloric
      intake. While problematic under current treatment settings, this illness characteristic also
      provides a potentially important therapeutic target. Unfortunately, straightforward pre-meal
      treatment with typically effective anxiolytic medicines such as alprazolam are ineffective in
      individuals with AN, nor do they increase caloric intake. By contrast, cognitive behavioral
      therapies for anorexia nervosa utilizing exposure therapy, the most effective psychological
      intervention for anxiety and anxiety disorders, can promote food intake and increase weight
      in AN. However, such treatments are slow and have less than ideal response rates, suggesting
      that they could benefit from further optimization. Exposure therapy involves helping patients
      to voluntarily engage in repeated and sometimes prolonged confrontation with the stimulus
      that disproportionately provokes the individual's fear. The aim of this practice is to
      facilitate the development of tolerance or a reduction of the anxiety/fear response that has
      become conditionally associated with the relevant stimulus, thereby demonstrating to patients
      that they can learn to manage effectively in the face of anxiety. In the case of anorexia
      nervosa, the repeated presentation of food and food cues (mental imagery, pictures, smells)
      elicits distress and facilitates the subsequent development of tolerance of these symptoms.
      Unfortunately, the effect size of this intervention in AN is relatively small. Here, the
      researchers investigate whether the use of an acute pharmacological intervention in the
      context of aversive learning to enhance exposure training can reduce anxiety associated with
      eating in individuals with anorexia nervosa.
    
  