
    
      The goal of this study is to investigate and compare the composition of the intestinal
      microbiome in patients with obesity only to patients with obesity and Non-Alcoholic Fatty
      Liver Disease (NAFLD). In addition, we will investigate the relationship between alterations
      in the intestinal microbiome, immune activation, and the progression of NAFLD to
      Non-Alcoholic Steatohepatitis (NASH). We hypothesize that alterations in the intestinal
      microbiome are associated with increased immune activation and progression of obesity
      associated NAFLD. Based on this hypothesis we propose the following aims:

      Aim 1. Identify and enroll pediatric cohort with obesity or obesity/NAFLD to study the role
      of the intestinal microbiome on the development of NAFLD.

        1. Enroll participants through the NEW Kids program for treatment of pediatric obesity at
           Children's Hospital of Wisconsin (CHW). Identify and classify participants through
           initial clinical evaluation, collect clinical metadata, and obtain and process blood and
           stool samples for analysis. Demonstrate feasibility by showing that participants can be
           recruited and participate in the specific study protocol.

        2. Follow study population through nutritional/exercise intervention, with follow up
           collection of clinical data, stool, and blood samples.

      Aim 2. Characterize the intestinal microbiome through quantitative PCR and high throughput
      sequencing analysis of stool specimens in participants with obesity and obesity/NAFLD.

        1. Demonstrate feasibility by showing that sampling aliquots from patient fecal samples can
           be successfully analyzed by proposed methods and yield consistent results for duplicate
           samples.

        2. Compare sequencing results and metagenomic analysis for study groups with particular
           attention to bacterial composition and metabolic capacity associated with energy
           harvest, lipid and carbohydrate transport, enhancement of epithelial barrier integrity,
           and choline metabolism.

        3. Investigate whether intervention (nutritional/exercise) results in longitudinal
           alterations in the intestinal microbiome.

      Aim 3. Characterize evidence of systemic inflammation by C-reactive protein (CRP), Tumor
      necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha)Transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-beta and LPS Binding
      Protein (LBP) levels, and analyze results in relationship to the intestinal microbiome and
      the presence of NAFLD.

        1. Compare levels of systemic inflammatory markers of participants with obesity vs.
           obesity/NAFLD

        2. Investigate whether intervention (nutritional/exercise) results in longitudinal
           alterations in systemic inflammation.
    
  