
    
      In children, radiofrequency catheter ablation (RFCA) or cryoablation are highly effective
      treatments for supraventricular tachycardia treatment. General anesthesia is often required
      to ensure comfort during the prolonged procedure and to assure immobility in order to
      facilitate accurate mapping and subsequent ablation of the accessory pathway and/or
      arrhythmogenic focus. Successful anesthetic management of this patient population requires
      adequate suppression of sympathetic responses during the procedure while electrophysiological
      parameters remain unaltered for mapping purposes and subsequent ablation. Although
      Sevoflurane (SEVO) and Isoflurane (ISO) are two commonly used and evaluated volatile
      anesthetic agents for ablation procedures, comparison of those agents has not been performed
      previously not in adults, not in children.

      Hypothesis Time required for basic EP intervals, successful induction of SVT and successful
      RFCA or cryoablation in children will not be different between patients undergoing
      Sevoflurane or Isoflurane-based anesthesia.

      Patients The study group will include otherwise 200 lthy patients aged 4 to 18 years, with an
      ASA physical status I or II, who are scheduled for elective radiofrequency ablation or
      cryoablation to interrupt abnormal foci and/or accessory pathways at Schneider Children's
      Medical Center of Israel (SCMCI). Written informed consent will be obtained from the patients
      (from age 12), parent(s) or legal guardian of all participants. Duration of the study- 2
      years.

      Inclusion criteria: healthy patients aged 4 to 18 years, with an ASA physical status I or II,
      who are scheduled for elective radiofrequency ablation or cryoablation to treat SVT.

      Exclusion criteria: patients with accompanying cardiac defects or other diseases, suspected
      Malignant Hyperthermia, contraindication to volatile anesthetics use and patients/ parental
      refusal.

      Anesthesia The investigators will use the standard anesthesia protocol. Routine monitoring
      includes electrocardiography, noninvasive blood pressure measurement, capnography and pulse
      oximetry.

      The patients are randomly divided into two groups according to the last digit of their
      9-digit identification number: patients with an odd number are allocated to Sevoflurane (SEVO
      group) and patients with an even number are allocated to and Isoflurane (ISO group).
      Preanesthetic medication consists of midazolam given either orally (0.5 mg/kg up to a maximum
      of 10 mg) or intravenously (2.0 mg) when intravenous (IV) access is established before
      induction of anesthesia. Anesthesia is induced either via facemask with Sevoflurane (Abbot
      Laboratories Ltd., UK) in 66% nitrous oxide and 33% oxygen or IV with Propofol (Diprivan, B
      Braun, Germany) 2.5 mg/kg. In patients who undergo mask induction intravenous line is
      established after losing the consciousness, Sevoflurane is discontinued and Propofol (2.5
      mg/kg) is administerd IV. Before tracheal intubation the lungs will be preoxigenated with
      100% O2. Pancuronium (0.1 mg/kg) and Fentanyl (2-4 µg/kg) will be used to facilitate tracheal
      intubation. After tracheal intubation, the fresh gas flow will be set to 1 l/min O2 and 1
      l/min room air for the remainder of the procedure. Thereafter, anesthesia will be maintained
      with the assigned study drug (SEVO or ISO) in an oxygen/air 50% mixture. In the ISO group,
      the Isoflurane will be started with an inspiratory fraction of 1MAC and in the SEVO group the
      Sevoflurane will be started with an inspiratory fraction of 1MAC adjusted for age.
      Pancuronium is used as the neuromuscular drug during the intraoperative period, as needed.

      After induction of anesthesia, a standard baseline programmed stimulation
      electrophysiological protocol is performed using transvenous endocardial electrodes that
      allow calculating the following parameters: right atrial refractory period, atrioventricular
      node effective refractory period, accessory pathway effective refractory period, and right
      ventricular effective refractory period. Decremental pacing of the right atrium or ventricle
      allows determining the shortest cycle length during antegrade and retrograde conduction,
      which is also called the "Wenckebach cycle length," with a 1:1 conduction over the normal
      atrioventricular node and accessory pathway. Right atrial or ventricular extrastimulus
      testing involves pacing at a standard drive cycle length of 200, 400 or 600 ms, followed by
      an extrastimulus coupled (steps of 20 ms from 600-300 ms and steps of 10 ms less than 300 ms)
      to every eighth drive beat. Baseline intervals measured during sinus rhythm include
      intraatrial conduction time (PA interval), and atrial-His interval. During induced
      reciprocating tachycardia, conduction times of each component of the reentrant circuit is
      measured and included cycle length and atrial-His, His-ventricular, and ventriculoatrial
      intervals. All electrophysiological measurements is recorded using a standard digitizing
      tablet at a paper speed of 100 mm/s. Programmed stimulation is performed using a Mennen
      stimulator, and data is displayed, recorded, and analyzed using a standard computerized
      multichannel system. If the clinically suspected SVT will not induced during the baseline
      protocol, isoproterenol (0.03-0.07 µg • kg- 1 • min-1) will be infused, and the protocol
      repeated until SVT will be induced. After conclusion of the diagnostic study, ablation of the
      abnormal substrate(s) will be performed using a commercial radiofrequency generator (ATKAR).
      If needed, the muscle relaxation will be reestablished using pancuronium 0.05mg/kg to allow
      the ablation be performed during apnea to avoid respiration-related intrathoracic movement.
      This approach permits application of radiofrequency energy near vital structures, such as the
      atrioventricular node, with reduced concern of potentially dangerous catheter dislodgement.
      The final diagnostic electrophysiological study will be repeated at baseline and with
      isoproterenol (0.03-0.07 µg • kg- 1 • min- 1). Extubation will be performed after the patient
      awake. Post procedural care will be provided in the recovery room, and patients will be
      transferred to a ward when hemodynamically stable, fully conscious and able to protect the
      airway, without pain and severe nausea or active vomiting.

      Time Analyses

      The following time intervals will be analyzed:

      Onset of SVT time - T1 (start of first diagnostic electrophysiological study until induction
      of first SVT); Diagnostic electrophysiological study time - T2 (start of first diagnostic
      electrophysiological study until start of ablation); RFCA/ cryoablation procedure time - T3
      (start of first diagnostic electrophysiological study until end of final diagnostic
      electrophysiological study); Wake-up time - T4 (from end of wound dressing to patient exit
      from the operating room to the post-anesthesia care unit); Total anesthesia time -T5 (from
      patient entry to operating room to exit from operating room).

      If a patient will enter the laboratory in SVT or if SVT will be induced by initial catheter
      placement, the "onset of SVT time" is designated "0 min." Additionally, the investigators
      will compare the antegrade effective refractory period of the accessory pathway (antegrade
      APERP), ventricular effective refractory period (VERP), atrial effective refractory period
      (AERP), AH interval, and cycle length of circus movement tachycardia (CMT-CL).

      In addition, the investigators will compare the incidence of postoperative nausea and
      vomiting (PONV) in both groups of patients after the procedure (globally and between the
      patients, who needed Transesophageal Echocardiography - TEE and not). In the case of PONV,
      Ondansetron (Zofran) will be ordered in the dose of 0.1mg/kg IV. If the PONV continues after
      ondansetron administration, the second dose of this drug will be given at the dose of 0.1
      mg/kg.

      The electrophysiologist, who performs the procedure, the patients and their parents are
      blinded to randomization status. Time points periods will be recorded by the nurse, blinded
      to the randomization status. The incidence of PONV will be recorded by the nurse in the post
      anesthesia care unit (PACU), who is blinded to randomization status.
    
  