
    
      Since the 2008 Olympic Games the elastic tapping has become popularized and used in many
      different professional and amateur practitioners of physical activity. However, the effects
      that their creators claim to have, the improvement of proprioception, muscular activity and
      pain has not yet been proved.

      There is a lack of studies on the literature involving the using of elastic tapping and
      clinical functional tests, evaluating the differences on groups that where and where not
      submitted to the tape. The use of the bandage on healthy population has enhanced force sense
      in grip strength, and may increase the range of motion of the lower trunk. When applied on
      the triceps surae there was no increase on the height size of the jump task.

      The purpose of this study is to analyze if the elastic tapping application on healthy
      practitioners of jiu jitsu can improve their performance on upper limb closed kinetic chain
      test.

      It will be a randomized controlled trial with the CONSORT bases with 64 participants that
      will be divided into two groups:

        -  Control Group that will perform the upper limb closed kinetic chain test without any
           tapping and then tested again after applied a placebo tapping that will be placed
           vertically, against the orientation of the muscles that retrench the scapulas on the
           trunk.

        -  Intervention Group that will perform the upper limb closed kinetic chain test without
           any tapping and then tested again after applied a specific elastic tapping that is
           indicated to increase the activation of the lower and medium trapezius and the
           rhomboids, muscles responsible for retrench the scapula on the trunk.

      The improvement of the test is upon the number of touches performed by the volunteer on a
      stated period of time (15 seconds). The best score of touches of three times trials will be
      taken as the mark of individuals of both groups, before and after utilizing the placebo and
      intervention kinesio tappings.

      The investigators hypotheses is that after applying the tapping that improve the activation
      of the muscles of the scapulas, the practitioner will be able to improve the number of
      touches on the test.

      Results will be expressed as hazard ratios (HR) with their respective confidence intervals at
      95% and adopting α = 0.05. All analyzes will be performed by SPSS version 17.0.
    
  