
    
      This is an Expanded Access (treatment) protocol to allow ongoing treatment of burn patients
      with NexoBrid following completion of the enrollment stage of protocol MW2010-03-02 (DETECT
      study).

      This protocol is also designed to collect and evaluate the safety and clinical performance of
      NexoBrid in patients suffering from DPT and FT thermal burns.

      Following the enrollment of a patient to the protocol, physicians will identify one or more
      target wounds (TWs) per patient according to the TW definition. All patient's DPT and FT
      burns that comply with the specified entrance criteria will be treated with NexoBrid and,
      therefore, must be designated as TWs. This will further allow an evaluation of the patient's
      systemic safety by allowing treatment of the patient's entire deep burns.

      Prior to initiation of eschar removal treatment, patients will be medicated with appropriate
      analgesia and undergo wound cleansing and dressing of all wounds with antibacterial solutions
      according to product instruction for use in order to ensure clean and moist eschar covered
      wound bed for NexoBrid application. Vital signs (Blood Pressure, Heart Rate and temperature)
      measurements and pain assessment will be performed within 24 hrs before start of treatment as
      well as haematology, biochemistry blood tests & PTT/INR. Pressure measurements for
      circumferential extremity wounds will be performed 1 hour before start of treatment and will
      be closely monitored during treatment. Following wound cleansing and soaking treatments,
      patients will undergo the eschar removal process. TWs of up to 15% total body surface area
      (TBSA) will be treated with a single application of NexoBrid for 4 hours. Patients with TWs
      >15% TBSA and up to 30% TBSA will be treated with 2 consecutive applications of 4 hours each.
      NexoBrid should not be applied to more than 15% TBSA in one session. PK samples will be taken
      from sub-set of patients with TWs area >15% TBSA. Pressure measurements for circumferential
      extremity wounds will be performed after the removal of NexoBrid.

      Post eschar removal completion, patients will undergo daily vital signs (Blood Pressure,
      Heart Rate and temperature measurements) and pain assessments for 1 week, starting on the
      morning following start of eschar removal. Blood tests (haematology and biochemistry) will be
      performed 24 ± 6 hrs post eschar removal as well as PTT/INR. Weekly assessments of wound
      healing progress including the dressings used until complete wound closure will be performed.

      Cosmesis (scar quality) evaluation (using MVSS) will be performed at 3 and 12 months post
      wound closure confirmation visit.
    
  