
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Allogeneic blood and marrow transplant patients are highly susceptible to invasive fungal
      infection prior to engraftment, due to neutropenia and mucosal injury. After engraftment, an
      impairment of cell mediated immunity from graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and the use of
      aggressive immunosuppressive therapies, such as corticosteroids, leave patients vulnerable to
      invasive fungal infections. Recipients of alternate donor transplants are especially
      susceptible due to slow reconstitution of cell mediated immunity.

      Fluconazole prophylaxis in prospective randomized trials of both autologous and allogeneic
      transplant recipients has been demonstrated to reduce invasive fungal infections due to
      yeasts prior to engraftment. A prolonged course of fluconazole given during the first 75 days
      (to cover the early post-engraftment period of risk) is highly effective in the prevention of
      early and later yeast infections. This has translated into a survival benefit. A recent
      analysis of long-term outcomes of these individuals demonstrated a continuing benefit beyond
      the course of prophylaxis with a further benefit in survival. In another study of various
      factors associated with survival after matched unrelated donor transplants, fluconazole
      prophylaxis was an independent predictor for overall survival in a multivariate analysis.
      Fluconazole prophylaxis has been found to be effective and safe with few substantive drug
      interactions and has been widely adopted by transplant clinicians.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This is a randomized, double-blind, multicenter, prospective, comparative study of
      fluconazole versus voriconazole for the prevention of fungal infections in allogeneic
      hematopoietic transplant recipients and cord blood recipients in children under the age of
      12. Prior to the start of the pre-transplant conditioning regimen, participants will give
      written informed consent and be screened for eligibility. Participants who meet all entry
      criteria will be assigned randomly to voriconazole or fluconazole within 72 hours of Day 0.
      Participants will begin the study drug on Day 0 (after completion of the conditioning
      regimen). Day 0 is defined as the day infusion of the stem cell product is completed. The
      study drug will be continued until Day 100 following transplant or until one or more criteria
      for early withdrawal are met. Continuation of the study drug beyond Day 100 is permitted for
      participants who meet specific criteria. The development of any fungal infection during
      prophylaxis will be classified according to the definitions listed in the protocol.
    
  