
    
      Specific Aim 1: To ascertain the rate of periodontal disease progression on poorly controlled
      Type 2 diabetic Gullah African American patients as compared to well-controlled Gullah
      African American patients. The host inflammatory response appears to be the critical
      determinant for susceptibility and severity of marginal periodontitis especially in
      systemically compromised individuals13, with diabetic status perhaps increasing host
      susceptibility to periodontal infection due to impaired immune response14. Patients have been
      evaluated 6 months to one year prior to periodontal therapy (this evaluation is connected to
      a previous COBRE project entitled "Epidemiological Study of Periodontal Disease and Diabetes"
      by Dr. J. Fernandes). A reevaluation will be made at the time of periodontal therapy.
      Clinical periodontal parameters and HbA1c levels will be compared.

      Specific Aim 2: To assess the effects of successful periodontal therapy on the level of
      glycemic control in this Gullah African American population. Authors addressing whether the
      treatment of periodontitis or other infections of the oral cavity can improve glycemic
      control in diabetic patients report contradictory results. We will treat periodontal patients
      with mechanical therapy (scaling and root planning) and oral hygiene instruction, with or
      without systemic antibiotic administration (Table 1). The HbA1c, fasting glucose and clinical
      periodontal parameters will be evaluated prior to the periodontal intervention, and at 3 and
      6 months after therapy. We plan to continue to recruit, enroll and assess new patients from
      the Gullah African American community living on the Sea Islands of the South Carolina coast
      for future research projects

      Specific Aim 3: To assess the concentration of the catalytically active form of MMP-8 at
      baseline (prior to periodontal intervention) and at 3 and 6 months later. Polymorphonuclear
      (PMN) leukocyte-derived MMP-8 is predominantly present in periodontitis-affected GCF9,15-16.
      Analysis of GCF for aMMP-8 could provide a novel useful noninvasive technique to assess and
      monitor the pathophysiological status of the periodontium tissue in a site-specific
      manner9-10.
    
  