
    
      BACKGROUND: Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is an infrequent but important complication of treatment
      with antipsychotic medications. Although newer antipsychotics may be less likely to cause TD,
      it still occurs among some mentally ill patients previously treated with typical
      antipsychotics. Although usually mild, TD may be more troublesome in some patients. There is
      no proven curative or suppressive treatment that is effective in all patients. Suppressive
      treatment with cholinergic agents derives from a hypothesized balance between dopaminergic
      and cholinergic neurotransmission in the extrapyramidal system. Although previous trials of
      cholinergic precursors have been unsuccessful in treating TD, their effect on central
      cholinergic neurotransmission remains uncertain in view of evidence of damage to striatal
      cholinergic neurons in patients with TD. In contrast, the recent development of
      cholinesterase inhibitors that are effective in modifying the central cholinergic deficit in
      Alzheimer's disease, prompted us to investigate the therapeutic effect of galantamine in
      patients with TD.

      RESEARCH OBJECTIVES: We propose to complete a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled
      crossover trial in 36 patients to test; (1) whether galantamine is pharmacologically active
      in suppressing TD; (2) whether doses of 8-24 mg/day are sufficient for improvement; (3)
      whether there are any significant side effects in these patients.

      METHODS: Thirty-six patients with abnormal involuntary movements meeting research criteria
      for TD, who are on stable doses of psychotropic medications, will be randomized to receive
      galantamine alternating with placebo in addition to their standard medications. After 2
      baseline measurements, each patient will undergo 12-week treatment periods of galantamine and
      placebo with a 4-week washout period between treatments. Patients will be evaluated every 2
      weeks throughout the study, using standardized rating scales for TD (AIMS) and other
      extrapyramidal side effects (SIMPSON, BARNES. During the active treatment period, patients
      will receive galantamine 4 mg BID for 4 weeks followed by 8 mg BID for 4 weeks, and 12 mg BID
      for an additional 4 weeks. Placebo-galantamine differences will be examined by repeated
      measures analysis of covariance for a two-period crossover design.
    
  