
    
      CMV reactivation after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) is
      associated with significant morbidity and increased overall mortality. Patients are generally
      pre-emptively treated with antiviral medication after elevated levels of CMV copies in
      peripheral blood or plasma have been detected by quantitative PCR. However, these CMV
      reactivations are often subclinical and do not lead to complications or CMV disease. In these
      cases functional CMV- specific effector cells have been shown to mediate protection from
      clinical symptoms. Monitoring of CMV- specific effector cells after allo-HSCT could help to
      prevent severe side effects due to unnecessary antiviral treatment.

      Since the majority of patients develops more than one episode of CMV reactivation,
      determination of functional CMV-reactive effector cells of cell mediated immunity (CMI) could
      also help to predict the likelihood of relapsing CMV reactivations and thereby adjust the
      need for and duration of secondary prophylaxis.

      Currently available techniques to measure CMV-specific effector cells lack either a
      functional read out (multimer stain) or are time consuming and difficult to standardize
      (detection of intracellular interferon gamma (IFN-ᵞ) after in vitro stimulation using flow
      cytometry). The improved T-Track® CMV assay has the advantage of combining a standardized and
      highly sensitive test system with a functional read out (IFN-ᵞ production) considering the
      function of antigen presenting cells (APC) and different populations of clinically relevant
      effector cells (CTL, T helper-, NK-, NKT cells). Based on experiences of the performance of
      this assay system in healthy individuals and hemodialysis patients (the latter as part of a
      performance evaluation - EUDAMED number 00015561) the presented trial aims to validate an
      improved variant of this test (including optimized, LPS-depleted IE-1 protein) with regard to
      its suitability to predict freedom from relapse of CMV-reactivation following treatment of
      CMV reactivation in a cohort of 120-150 patients after allo-HSCT. Moreover, the results will
      be compared to (i) analysis of leukocyte subpopulations and (ii) multimer techniques
      detecting CMV-specific CD8 positive T lymphocytes (CTL) (optional).

      Demonstrating the suitability of the improved T-Track® CMV assay to identify patients at
      reduced risk for recurrent CMV-reactivation, CMV disease or GvHD would highly improve and
      optimize follow-up care after allo-HSCT regarding therapy success as well as reduced public
      health care costs.
    
  