
    
      It has been reported that strength training of unilateral limb causes an increase in
      voluntary strength not only in the trained limb, but also in the contralateral untrained
      limb. This phenomenon is known as "cross-education, cross-training or contralateral strength
      training effect" . Cross-education of muscle strength can occur in both upper and lower limb
      muscles.It is not gender and age specific and can occur with training accomplished by
      voluntary effort, electrical stimulation of muscles or mental practice of unilateral
      contractions. Electrostimulation is one of the most efficient methods to induce
      cross-education.

      Although it is clear that unilateral training has a contralateral effect, the mechanisms
      behind this effect remain unclear. Because of the specific nature of cross education,
      modification in neural function is the more likely mechanism underlying this effect. The
      potential neural mechanisms can be broadly categorized as either ''central" or ''peripheral
      (spinal)" adaptations. Central neural mechanisms involved in the excitation of the relevant
      part of the cortex during voluntary contraction of the trained limb are thought to produce
      contralateral facilitation. The cross-extension reflex is the primary spinal neural mechanism
      for cross-education.

      In the studies performed up today, the contralateral effects of unilateral training were
      evaluated in the contralateral homologous muscles. However it's not reported whether a change
      in the muscle strength have been observed in the antagonists of the contralateral homologous
      muscles. In a study, after one session of unilateral surface electrical stimulation of the
      rectus femoris, an increase in the isometric force and EMG activity of the contralateral
      rectus femoris, but a decrease in the EMG activity of the contralateral biceps femoris was
      reported in adult men. It's proposed that, the EMG activity decrease in the biceps femoris
      may be explained by cross-extension reflex. The effect of long-time exercise or electrical
      muscle stimulation on the antagonists of the contralateral homologous muscles is not clear.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate whether the electrical muscle stimulation on the
      dominant wrist flexors for 6 weeks cause an increase in the muscle strength of the
      contralateral wrist extensors in healthy adult men.
    
  