
    
      Scientific Rationale: To adhere to the WHO plan of identifying 90% and treat 80% of HCV
      infected subjects, in several Countries a number of barriers need to be overcome (1). A
      focused effort from physicians and public administrative authorities is required to increase
      HCV treatment rates using direct acting antivirals (DAAs). Consequently, methods enhancing
      the epidemiological impact of HCV treatment using DAAs are of primary importance in order to
      promote what has been defined as micro-elimination (2). Among populations at high risk of
      transmission, targeted in the context of developing micro-elimination, people who inject
      drugs (PWID) and, in general, subjects with substance use disorders (SUD) are particularly
      important to treat.

      In Italy, individuals with SUD including people who inject drugs and subjects taking
      psychiatric medications or alcoholic excess represent the most important target of HCV
      micro-elimination. Data provided by the Italian National Institute of Health during 2017,
      show a decline in the incidence of acute HCV infection with a peak of 0.3 x 100.000
      inhabitants among subjects of 25-34 years as a consequence of: recent or ongoing use of intra
      venous (i.v.) substances; and/or sexual transmission (3). Moreover, in the National Cohort
      Piter including 9.040 HCV infected subjects, 32% was or is currently using alcohol and about
      20% was or is currently using substances (4). Of interest, while alcohol abuse is usually
      associated with cirrhosis, drug use is associated with any stage of fibrosis. These
      epidemiological data highlight the need to differentiate and personalize the approach to SUD
      people. Finally, it is important to mention that a decline in the rate of screening has
      recently been registered in Italy among subjects followed by Outpatient Services for
      substance use disorders called SERDS (5-6). Current estimates suggest that, in our region,
      about 4500 subject using substances are probably HCV infected (6). Although it seems that no
      more than 10% of regular SERDS patients have not yet been screened for viral infections the
      rate of unscreened people is increasing among young SERDS patients (7). A high rate of
      unscreened SUD partners and families has been reported by SERDS specialists in our
      geographical area (personal communications).

      In our real life experience only 50% of SUD patients testing HCV RNA positive agree to be
      treated due to different reasons including fear of treatment and difficulties in reaching
      DAAs treatment prescribing centers (8). Furthermore, in recent real world study leaded by our
      center and involving 20 out of 31 of the authorized prescribing centers in Puglia, we
      observed a 3% higher rate of treatment discontinuation in this, versus general population
      (8).

      Rapid and cost-effective interventional strategies may favor both diagnosis of unknown cases
      and access to treatment for eligible patients. In general, training and education for
      providers, and an increased awareness of new advanced DAAs therapies among key risk
      populations are activities to strengthen within the Health system. However, in given
      situations, diversifying services and ensuring geographically and culturally appropriate
      services may play a key role in increasing the screening-diagnosis-referral-treatment-follow
      up cascade. It is important to establish upfront, within the heath care physicians, what can
      be done by different figures: the prescriber gastroenterologist is allowed to prescribe DAA
      and able to manage patients with a very advanced disease or patients with multiple
      drug-to-drug interactions; and the specialists working at the SERD are not allowed to
      prescribe DAA but used to monitor SUD patients and to help them to recover from their
      disorders.

      Hypothesis: In Italy, SERDS are spread over the regional areas. According to the geographical
      characteristics of Puglia and Molise, the region bordering Puglia to the north, there are
      peripheral areas either along the cost or in internal mountains not well served by the public
      transportation. This aspect results in the need of relying on a private car to reach the
      specialized center where patients can be screened, diagnosed and treated. Fifteen SERDS are
      present in Northern Puglia and Molise over an area of 7500 Km2 usually served by our
      Hepatology Unit.

      Our hypothesis is that, in addition to the known barriers to care for SUD population, lack of
      direct and efficient public transport represents a limitation preventing SUD individuals not
      only from being screened, diagnosed and treated, but also adequately informed on the most
      recent and highly efficient and safe pan-genotypic regimens with low impact drug to drug
      interactions. Moreover, the chaotic lifestyle and the poor income conditions of these
      patients prevent treatment completion due to transportation issue, for those who start
      treatment.

      Primary Objective: the primary aim of this project is to explore our hypothesis by evaluating
      the impact of intensifying screening, diagnosis, linkage to care and treatment cascade of SUD
      patients through a dedicated cure program including "ad hoc" transportation.

      Secondary aims are: firstly, to increase the awareness on HCV infection and related liver
      disease through a peer-to-peer educational campaign performed at SERDs in combination with
      our Unit. (Risk and liver disease outcomes, diagnostic and staging tools and the new DAAs
      regimens will be explained either to patients or to local healthcare workers and nurses at
      each individual SERD). Secondarily, to reduce treatment discontinuation in the subgroup of
      PWID patients.
    
  