
    
      Prospectively, 50 consecutive patients with pathology-proved colorectal tumor (detected by
      optical colonoscopy) who undergo routine thoraco-abdominal DECT for initial staging in the
      Department of Radiology at our institution from April 2020, will be included. The exclusion
      criteria are as follows: patients with body mass index (BMI) above 30 kg/m2, patients with
      renal insufficiency (estimated glomerular filtration rate < 30 ml/min), allergy to iodinated
      contrast and a known history of previous abdominal radiotherapy.

      All patients will undergo a staging enhanced thoraco-abdominal CT by 256-slices CTs
      (Revolution CT, GE healthcare) at Fribourg hospital. DECTs will be acquired without an enema,
      rectal insufflation or oral contrast to have collapsed colorectal wall for further
      measurements and to simulate routine clinical practice. No additional screening procedures,
      such as a laboratory or diagnostic tests are necessary for the present study.

      Upon acquiring 50 patients, CT quantitative assessments will be performed. Initially, data
      will be transferred to AW Advantage workstations (GE Healthcare). Thereafter, for each
      patient, the iodine map images will be created by post-processing by. All CT quantitative
      measurements will be performed independently by two radiologists. Three regions of interest
      (ROI) will be applied to colorectal tumor and the normal collapsed colorectal wall (confirmed
      previously by colonoscopy) and consequently, the mean of these measurements will be reported.
      These measurements correspond to mean iodine uptake of colorectal tumor and normal collapsed
      wall, respectively. Finally, the iodine uptake of the tumoral lesion and normal collapsed
      wall in each patient will be compared to demonstrate the significant difference in iodine
      uptake. We anticipate that the obtained cut-off value will be a new benchmark in clinical
      practice, to exclude the colorectal tumors on non-prepared collapsed colon wall and eliminate
      the need for a complementary colonoscopy.
    
  