
    
      Introduction: Chagas disease (CD) is an infectious parasitic disease caused by the protozoan
      Trypanosoma cruzi. It is considered by the World Health Organization (WHO) as one of the most
      neglected tropical diseases in the world, having relevance in many Latin America countries.
      In addition, it already affects North America, Europe, Asia and Oceania due to current
      migration patterns. In the chronic phase, about 70% of individuals have no symptoms and
      routine complementary examinations related to the heart and digestive system do not show any
      changes. The other 30% of patients can develop the cardiac and/or digestive form of which
      about 10% may progress to severe heart disease. Chagasic cardiomyopathy is associated with
      major heart failure, sudden death, often due to severe arrhythmias and thromboembolic
      phenomena. This cardiomyopathy has a higher degree of myocardial fibrosis compared with any
      other etiology. Furthermore, some studies suggest that chagasic heart failure has a worse
      prognosis, with up to 50% shorter survival than survival with other etiologies, such as
      ischemic disease and idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. The pharmacological treatment of
      heart failure in Chagas disease comprises neurohormone blockers as is the case for
      angiotensin II converting enzime (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin II (AII) receptor blocker
      (ARBs), beta-blockers and mineralocorticoid antagonists. In 2014 with the publication of the
      PARADIGM-HF study, a new drug class (ARNI: angiotensin receptor-neprilisin inhibitor) was
      proposed showing a 20% reduction in mortality compared with the standard treatment with ACE
      inhibitors. Sacubitril/valsartan is the first molecule of this class. This new molecule acts
      by blocking AII AT1 (angiotensin type 1) receptors, and therefore, attenuating the harmful
      effects of this peptide. It also promotes the blocking of the degradation of natriuretic
      peptides, increasing the protective effects of this family of proteins. In the scenario of
      chagasic cardiomyopathy, a post hoc analysis of PARADGIM-HF was conducted by Ramires and
      colleagues who reported on 113 patients treated with sacubitril/valsartan or enalapril.
      Reduced risk of cardiovascular death or hospitalization for HF was noted in the group treated
      with sacubitril/valsartan. Attention was drawn the study's limitations that included the
      small number of patients and reduced statistical power. Therefore, the benefit of this new
      class remains uncertain in heart failure due to Chagas cardiomyopathy. Knowing that chagasic
      cardiomyopathy is characterized by intense myocardial fibrosis, inflammation and oxidative
      stress, and with sacubitril/valsartan being the molecule that has a protective effect in
      exactly these same mechanisms, our hypothesis is that this drug may improve myocardial
      remodeling, and therefore it may modulate ventricular function, arrhythmias and functional
      capacity.

      Methods: The ANSWER-HF Trial will be a clinical, randomized, single-center, prospective,
      double-blind, controlled study. It will include 200 consecutive participants randomized
      independently. The objective of this study is to evaluate the benefit of sacubitril/valsartan
      compared with enalapril in patients with heart failure due to Chagas cardiomyopathy, with
      reduced ejection fraction. Endpoints: The primary endpoint of the study is the change of left
      ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) determined by transthoracic echocardiography. Secondary
      endpoints include: assessment of ventricular arrhythmias; evaluation of functional class;
      assessment of functional capacity; assessment of ventricular remodeling; and evaluation of
      biomarkers. Security outcomes include systolic blood pressure (SBP) less than 95 mmHg; renal
      function assessed by GFR (glomerular filtration rate) less than 30 mL/min; serum potassium >
      5.2 mmol/L; and angioedema; whereas, exploratory outcomes are hospitalization for heart
      failure and mortality from all causes. Randomization: Randomization will be carried out using
      a RedCap platform blinded randomization being performed 1:1 for each arm of the study.
      Treatment Procedure and Strategies: The selected patients will go through the first visit
      (selection - V0), when the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be evaluated. If these
      criteria are met, the informed consent form (ICF) will then be presented and clarified. After
      all doubts are resolved, the patient or his or her legal representative must sign it. In this
      selection visit, the baseline tests that make up the inclusion/exclusion criteria
      (biochemical profile and echocardiogram) will be requested. Two weeks later, on visit 1
      (randomization - V1), the tests performed will be analyzed and, if the patients' eligibility
      is confirmed, the patients will be randomized for each arm of the study. At this visit,
      baseline exams for the study (Holter, 6-minute walk test and pre-defined biomarkers) will be
      required. After two weeks, on visit 2 (V2) a new clinical evaluation will be carried out, and
      with no clinical exclusion criteria (pre-defined blood pressure levels and creatinine
      clearance), patients will receive the study medication. After two weeks, on visit 3 (V3), a
      new clinical evaluation will be carried out and the medication will be titrated according to
      that clinical evaluation. After 2 weeks, on visit 4 (V4), a new clinical evaluation and
      titration, if possible, will be conducted. After 4 weeks, on visit 5 (V5), a new clinical and
      biochemical assessment will be carried out, in addition to titration of the medication
      according to blood pressure levels. After 8 weeks on visit 6 (V6), clinical evaluation and
      medication titration will be performed according to blood pressure levels. Finally, after
      another 8 weeks, on visit 7 (V7), a new clinical and biochemical evaluation will be
      performed, in addition to a 6-minute walk test, transthoracic echocardiography, Holter and
      biomarker collection. Therefore, the study will be followed up for 6 months. Withdrawal and
      discontinuation: Despite the limited duration of the study, participants have the right to
      withdraw from the clinical investigation at any time and for any reason, without prejudice to
      their care. Doppler Echocardiography: All patients will undergo two-dimensional
      echocardiography with tissue Doppler, at the beginning and at the end of the protocol, under
      the guidelines of the cut and image plans published by the American Society of
      Echocardiography. Based on this guideline, the measurements of the left ventricular (LV)
      systolic and diastolic diameters will be quantified, as well as their respective volumes. The
      thickness of the LV interventricular septum and posterior wall will also be assessed and the
      LV ejection fraction will be quantified by the Simpsons method. The diastolic function will
      be measured using the transmitral Doppler obtaining the E (initial) and A (late) waves, E / A
      ratio and the E wave deceleration time (DT). The investigators will also obtain the tissue
      Doppler traces in the basal region of the septum and in the mitral lateral ring, to analyze
      the velocities of the s', e' and a' waves. 24-hour Holter: All patients in the study will
      undergo a 24-hour Holter monitoring, at the beginning and end of the protocol. The minimum,
      average and maximum heart rates will be analyzed, as well as the number, frequency and
      density of ventricular extrasystoles; episodes, duration and frequency of sustained or not
      sustained ventricular tachycardia; and finally the number and size of breaks. 6-minute walk
      test: The test will be applied according to the 2002 American Thoracic Society Guidelines.
      Before performing the test, patients will have a rest period of at least 10 minutes. During
      this period, data on blood pressure, pulse oximetry, dyspnea level (Borg scale), heart and
      respiratory rate should be evaluated, so that the test can begin. Biochemical and
      hematological exams: The laboratory tests evaluated in the study will be urea, creatinine,
      sodium, potassium, ionized calcium, magnesium, glycemia and C-reactive protein. These exams
      will be collected at V0, V5 and V7. Biomarkers: The NT-proBNP (N terminal-pro brain
      natriuretic peptide) will be evaluated. The concentrations of IL-6 (interleukin-6), TNFα
      (tumor necrosis factor alfa), Galectin-3 present in the patients' serum or plasma will be
      measured at the beginning and at the end of the protocol, through enzymatic immunoassays
      (ELISA) using specific company kits R &amp; D Systems (Minneapolis, MN). For the analysis of
      microRNAs linked to inflammation and fibrosis, in the circulation, the investigators will
      follow the established protocol. The microRNAs selected for the study (mir-19a-3p;
      mir-30;mir-133 and housekeeping) synthesized by Applied Biosystems (Thermo Fisher Scientific
      Inc, USA) and their respective oligonucleotide sequences. Statistical Analysis: For the
      calculation of the sample size a few randomized studies have been conducted specifically in
      patients with Chagas cardiomyopathy. Most studies on heart failure do not distinguish the
      etiology of the disease, and therefore, all estimates assumed here consider that the expected
      effect based on the current literature is reflected in a similar way for chagasic patients.
      The PROVE-HF study (Januzzi et al., 2019) suggests that the improvement in EF in patients who
      receive sacubitril-valsartan is 5.2% with 95% CI (confidence interval) [4.8-5.6] at 6 months,
      which indicates a standard deviation of approximately 5.5% for this difference. The SOLVD
      (Studies of Left Ventricular Dysfunction) study (Kornstam et al., 1993) compared enalapril
      with placebo and showed an average improvement in EF of 3.0% in 1 year for patients in the
      enalapril group, with standard deviations at baseline and in 1 year similar to 5.5% from the
      previous study, which indicates that a standard deviation for the difference of 5.5% is also
      reasonable for the enalapril group. In addition, it is reasonable to assume that the effect
      in 6 months for the enalapril group is about half (1.5% or 2.0%), because PROVE-HF in one
      year had almost twice the effect (average improvement of 9.2%). In view of this, the
      investigators considers sample sizes for different scenarios, considering study powers of 80%
      and 90%, expected average differences between the improvements of the enalapril and
      sacubitril-valsartan groups varying from 2% to 5%, significance level of 5% for two-tailed
      hypotheses for a hypothesis test of comparison of proportions and 1:1 allocation (Chow et
      al., 2008). Because loss of follow-up (including death) is still possible, follow-up of these
      patients is a challenge. Including a 20% loss rate at the end of the estimate is suggested.
      Thus, the investigators could justify the study sample size of 182 (152 + ~ 20%) to identify
      an average difference of 2.5% of the improvement in EF with a standard deviation of 5.5%,
      considering a significance level of 5%, allocation 1:1, loss of follow-up of 20% and power of
      80%. Statistical analysis: The normality of the quantitative variables will be assessed with
      the Shapiro-Wilks test. Parametric variables will be described as mean and standard deviation
      and compared using the Student t test. Nonparametric variables will be described with median
      and interquartile range and compared using the Mann-Whitney test. Categorical variables will
      be assessed using the chi-square test or Fisher exact test or likelihood ratio.Compliance
      Rules and Regulations: The protocol, the informed consent form and other documents related to
      the study was submitted to the Ethics Committee (CEP)/Institutional Review Board (CRI). The
      study will be carried out in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and Good Clinical
      Practice (GCP). Data storage and Quality Assurance and Management: It is expected that all
      data entered in REDCAP will have source documentation available. Data collection will be
      performed through an electronic case report form (eCRF).
    
  