
    
      Millions of patients die around the world every year because of sepsis. 1%-2% of patients
      admitted to hospital and 25% of Intensive Care Units (ICU) patients suffer from sepsis. One
      of the most important principles of sepsis management is early diagnosis and treatment as
      Surviving Sepsis Campaign recommends Hour-1 bundle use.

      Sepsis is defined as life-threatening organ dysfunction caused by a dysregulated host
      response to infection and organ dysfunction can be identified as an acute change in total
      Sepsis related Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score ≥ 2 points consequent to the infection.

      The baseline SOFA score can be zero in patients not known to have pre-existing organ
      dysfunction. A SOFA score 2 reflects an overall mortality risk of approximately 10% in a
      general hospital population with suspected infection. Patients with suspected infection who
      are likely to have a prolonged ICU stay or die in the hospital can be promptly identified at
      the bedside with quick SOFA score (qSOFA) i.e. (HAT ie, Hypotension with systolic blood
      pressure ≤100 mm Hg, Alteration in mental status, or Tachypnea with respiratory rate ≥22/min.

      Septic shock is a subset of sepsis in which underlying circulatory and cellular/metabolic
      abnormalities are profound enough to substantially increase mortality. Patients with septic
      shock can be identified with a clinical construct of sepsis with persisting hypotension
      requiring vasopressors to maintain mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) ≥65 mm Hg and having a
      serum lactate level >2 mmol/L (18 mg/dL) despite adequate volume resuscitation. With these
      criteria, hospital mortality is in excess of 40%.

      As blood culture is needed to confirm diagnosis of sepsis it requires 48-72 hours to be
      performed, and positive rate is low. No single clinical or biological marker indicative of
      sepsis has been approved.

      There is a need for biomarkers with a high sensitivity and specificity for early diagnosis
      and prognosis. They also should be positively correlating with Acute Physiology and Chronic
      Health Evaluation II (APACHE II) and SOFA scores.

      Many known reported old biological markers as Procalcitonin (PCT), Interleukins,
      Pro-Vasopressin and C-Reactive Protein (CRP) have been studied and new markers were detected
      as Presepsin [(soluble CD14 (sCD-14)] and Syndecan-1 from Glycocalyx shedding.

      One of the key molecular causes of gram-negative septicemia is a component of the outer
      membrane of gram-negative bacteria, lipopolysaccharide (LPS). It binds with high affinity to
      LPS-binding glycoproteins and activates Toll-like receptor (TLR)-4 and co-receptor cluster of
      differentiation 14 (CD14) expressed on monocytes/macrophages and endothelial cells to induce
      the secretion of proinflammatory cytokines. This is not the only main pathogenic mechanism of
      lipopolysaccharide (LPS). An alternative intracellular LPS-sensing pathway, bypassing TLR4,
      that activates caspases 4 and 5 in humans resulting in inflammasome(it is an intracellular
      multimeric protein complex that contains (1) a pattern recognition receptor (PRR), (2) an
      adaptor protein and (3) an effector enzyme (caspase), and catalyses a cellular reaction to
      protect against an immediate danger via cytokine secretion and cell death) induced pyroptosis
      has been considered to be the main pathogenic mechanism of sepsis.

      Presepsin is an N-terminal fragments of 13kDa of soluble CD14 (sCD14). subtype (sCD14-ST).
      sCD14 is seen in plasma, and is produced by membrane-bound CD14 (mCD14) fall-off or cell
      secretion. Cluster of Differentiation 14 (CD14) is the receptor of
      lipopolysaccharide-lipopolysaccharide binding protein (LPS-LBP) complexes. CD14 has two
      forms: membrane-bound CD14 (mCD14) and soluble CD14 (sCD14). Presepsin is released after the
      binding of lipopolysaccharides (LPS) to monocytes, causing an enhanced immune response. mCD14
      has a high affinity to LPS, and is mainly expressed on the cell surface of
      monocytes/macrophages or distributed a little bit on the cell surface of neutrophils. Two
      kinds of sCD14 could be detected in the plasma of healthy people at microgram level: 49KD and
      55KD. sCD14 plays an important role in mediating the immune responses to LPS of CD14-negative
      cells such as endothelial cells and epithelial cells. sCD14 is cleaved by Cathepsin D and
      other proteases in plasma.

      Since presepsin is produced immediately after the onset of an infection it can be detected
      early in the development of sepsis.its value as sepsis biomarker was shown in the diagnosis
      and evaluation of sepsis.

      Syndecan-1 is one of components of Glycocalyx layer. This is a layer lining luminal surface
      of the vascular endothelium, which acts as a protective layer to maintain its permeability
      and a key factor in leukocyte migration and preventing intravascular coagulation.This is made
      of glycoproteins, proteoglycans, glycosaminoglycans and other plasma proteins especially
      hyaluronan and syndecans (a proteoglycan) are the principle component for its integrity.

      Early pathophysiologic changes in sepsis concern the endothelium including degradation of the
      glycocalyx through proteinases produced by pathogens that lead to increase permeability to
      plasma proteins and fluids subsequently tissue edema formation and organ failure. The damaged
      glycocalyx layer becomes thinner and releases its components (such as syndecan-1, heparan
      sulfate, hyaluronan, chondroitin sulfates) into the plasma via enzymes including heparanase
      that cleaves the heparan sulfate and matrix metalloproteinase (MMPs) A disintegrin and
      metalloproteases (ADAMs). ADAM17 is inducible, cleaves syndecan-4,while ADAM10 is expressed
      constitutively, sheds syndecan-1 from proteoglycans. which could be used as a sepsis
      biomarker.
    
  