
    
      In recent years, a new gluten- or wheat-related disease has emerged, a condition labelled
      "non-celiac gluten sensitivity" (NCGS) or "non-celiac wheat sensitivity" (NCWS). This is very
      often a self-reported condition, since patients refer to intestinal (mainly irritable bowel
      syndrome (IBS)-like) and/or extra-intestinal symptoms (i.e. fatigue, headache) caused by
      gluten or wheat ingestion, even though they do not have celiac disease (CD) or wheat allergy
      (WA). Given the lack of a diagnostic biomarker, NCGS/NCWS mostly remains a diagnosis of
      exclusion, especially respect to CD and WA, so a confirmatory test is required. The Salerno
      experts suggested the double-blind, placebo-controlled (DBPC), cross-over, gluten/wheat
      challenge as the gold standard test to discriminate true NCGS/NCWS patients.

      However, there are conflicting data about the real mechanisms which induce symptoms in
      NCGS/NCWS patients after wheat ingestion. Some Authors suggested a prevalent role for
      Fermentable Oligosaccharides-Disaccharides-Monosaccharides and Polyols (FODMAPs), rather than
      gluten in determining the symptoms. Other studies underlined the activation of mechanisms of
      both innate and acquired immunity in NCWS patients, after wheat ingestion. In line with the
      evidence of an immunologic activation in NCWS, we showed in a previous study that about one
      quarter of NCWS patients suffered from associated autoimmune diseases (mainly Hashimoto's
      thyroiditis), compared with a smaller proportion of a control group including IBS patients
      (about 3%). Furthermore, we showed that serum samples of NCWS patients tested positive for
      anti-nuclear (ANA) in more than one third of the cases. However, that study included mainly
      patients evaluated in a retrospective manner and no other autoantibodies were evaluated apart
      from ANA.

      In the present study, we included a group of consecutive NCWS patients, diagnosed with DBPC
      wheat challenge, to evaluate a) the frequency of autoimmune diseases, b) the frequency and
      pattern of serum ANA and other non-organ-specific and/or organ-specific autoantibodies, and
      c) the possible correlations between autoimmune diseases and serum autoantibodies presence
      and other NCWS-related disease characteristics, in comparison with age- and sex- matched
      healthy blood donors and IBS patients unrelated to NCWS.
    
  