
    
      Peripheral vestibular system; It forms the part extending from the structures in the inner
      ear to the vestibular nuclei in the brainstem. Peripheral vestibular hypofunction is a
      chronic disease affecting one or both sides of the vestibular system, which occurs when the
      function of the vestibular organs, vestibular nerve, or both is reduced or destroyed. Many
      patients with peripheral vestibular hypofunction develop symptoms such as dizziness, vertigo,
      imbalance, gait disturbance. Many different exercise methods have been tried so far to
      relieve these symptoms and increase the functionality of the patient. In this study, we aimed
      to examine the effect of proprioceptive vestibular rehabilitation on balance, quality of
      life, posture, sensory profile and functional mobility in patients with vertigo due to
      peripheral vestibular hypofunction aged 18-65 years. Patients with vertigo due to peripheral
      vestibular hypofunction between the ages of 18-65 will be included in our study. The
      population of the research will be created by the cluster sampling method and the
      randomization of the patients to be recruited will be determined using the "research
      ramdomizer" computer program; Patients will be divided into 3 groups as experimental and
      control groups. A randomized controlled, single-blind study will be planned. Group I
      (experiment): Glance stabilization exercises, Cawthorne Cooksey Exercises and Proprioceptive
      vestibular rehabilitation exercises, Group II (experiment): Glance stabilization exercises
      and Cawthorne Cooksey Exercises and Group III (control): no exercise will be given, they will
      be asked to continue daily life. Exercises will be applied to each group for 8 weeks, 4 days
      a week, 30 minutes, in the presence of 1 set of physiotherapists and as a home exercise
      program every day of the week. Individuals will be evaluated before and 8 weeks after the
      treatment. Tinetti Balance Test for balance assessment, One leg stand test; timed up and go
      test for functional mobility assessment; Dizziness Disability Inventory for quality of life;
      mobile posture assessment application for posture assessment; Adult / Adolescent Sensory
      profile will be used for sensory assessment. Pre- and post-treatment and intergroup
      evaluations will be compared, and the effectiveness of proprioceptive vestibular
      rehabilitation on balance, functional mobility, posture, sensory profile and quality of life,
      and its superiority over standard exercises will be interpreted.
    
  