
    
      In this study, investigators will understand the clinical relevance of genomic heterogeneity
      of triple-negative breast cancer by determining pathological complete response (pCR) rates
      after NACT, based on genomic profiling of individual tumors. Investigators will identify new
      genomic alterations in patients with residual TNBC as well as in patients who develop
      metastatic disease within 24 months after completion of all appropriate therapies.
      Investigators will demonstrate unique genomic alteration, and we will identify new tumor
      markers in Hispanic/Latino (H/L) women with TNBC.

      Inclusion Criteria:

      This study aims to include all patients with early stage (I-III) TNBC who received NACT and
      subsequently underwent surgical treatment (mastectomy or lumpectomy) or women with
      triple-negative breast cancer who progressed and developed metastatic disease within 24
      months after all appropriate therapies.

        1. Age > 18 or <86 years of age, for Hispanic/Latino women we will use the National
           Advisory Committee on Racial, Ethnic and Other populations NAC definition which is (the
           ethnonyms "Hispanic" and "Latino" to refer collectively to the inhabitants of the United
           States of America who are of Latin American or Spanish origin-that is, Latino or
           Hispanic Americans).

        2. Pre- and Post - menopausal women with histologically confirmed hormonal receptor
           negative (ER and/or PR <1%), Her2-neu - negative (by IHC or/and FISH) invasive breast
           cancer stages I - III or with metastatic triple-negative breast cancer (if develop
           metastatic disease during the chemotherapy or within 24 months after completion of all
           appropriate treatments).

        3. Patients must be eligible for NACT, and surgical lumpectomy or mastectomy.

        4. All patients or their legally authorized representative must be informed of the
           investigational nature of this study and must sign and give written informed consent in
           accordance with Institutional and Federal guidelines.

      Exclusion Criteria:

        1. Women < 18 or >86 years of age

        2. ER/PR- positive, Her-2 neu - positive breast cancer.
    
  