
    
      Introduction and Background

      Min et al. performed a double blind study comparing triamcinolone to ketorolac in a total of
      32 patients with subacromial impingement syndrome and found improved outcomes in University
      of California Los Angeles shoulder rating scale, improved active abduction, forward flexion
      strength and patient satisfaction scores. Shortcomings of this study included short-term
      follow up (4 weeks), lack of control of other forms of treatment of subacromial impingement
      including physical therapy and injection without ultrasound which limits the ability to
      determine the accuracy of injections. Many of the patients also had a lack of an MRI, thus
      being unable to determine if the patients had an undiagnosed rotator cuff tear or other
      pathology that may have influenced outcomes.

      Karthikeyan et al. performed a similar trial analyzing tenoxicam (another non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory medication) to methylprednisolone in 58 patients.Six weeks after injection,
      Constant-Murley shoulder scores, Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand scores were
      significantly improved in the steroid group compared to tenoxicam injection.

      Oztuna et al. randomized thirty patients with grade II to III osteoarthritis with an effusion
      to aspiration and oral tenoxicam for 10 days or aspiration and intra-articular tenoxicam. The
      patients were followed at 2, 4 and 8 weeks and then at 3 month intervals. Patients with
      intra-articular tenoxicam had significantly fewer effusions at 1 year and a more rapid relief
      in joint pain.

      Unlu et al analyzed 69 patients with knee arthritis and compared weekly injections of
      tenoxicam for 3 weeks to PO tenoxicam for three weeks. They compared these two groups to
      patients who received only physical therapy. No significant difference was found between oral
      and intra-articular administration. Both oral and intra-articular tenoxicam had a significant
      improvement on knee pain

      Several studies have noted safe intra-articular injection of ketorolac following knee
      arthroscopy.

      Given the findings of the investigations described above, this study will compare the
      equivalence of intra-articular ketorolac injection to intra-articular betamethasone injection
      for symptomatic treatment of knee osteoarthritis. In all of the studies reviewed above for
      the study, the only complication that was listed was a syncopal episode that occurred with
      corticosteroid administration.

      Research Questions and Hypotheses

      This study will compare the efficacy of intra-articular betamethasone injection to
      intra-articular ketorolac injection for symptomatic treatment of knee osteoarthritis. The
      null hypothesis of this study is that intra-articular ketorolac injection is not equivalent
      to intra-articular corticosteroid in decreasing patient symptoms as measured by Western
      Ontario and McMaster University Index (WOMAC) scores (primary outcome). Secondary outcomes
      include changes in KOOS and KOS-ADL scores and physical exam findings

      If equivalence is proven, this study may provide a safer alternative medication compared to
      betamethasone for intra-articular injections for osteoarthritic pain control.

      Methods and Procedures

      Patients will be recruited from all St. Luke's Orthopaedic Specialists (SLOS) offices where
      knee osteoarthritis is treated in associated with St. Luke's Health and University Network.

      The study will be double-blinded, with two study arms: 1) 4cc of 1% lidocaine, 1cc of 0.9%
      normal saline and 1cc (6 mg) of betamethasone; and 2) 2cc (60 mg) of ketorolac and 4cc of 1%
      lidocaine. The medication will be prepared by a site-specific designee (essential personnel)
      who has the appropriate, up-to-date HIPPA (Healkth insurance portability and Accountability
      Act) and CITI (Collaborative Institutional Training Initiative) training required and
      prepares injections in the routine scope of SLOS practice. The contents of the injection will
      be blinded to the investigators by covering the syringe with a white tape. The medication
      will be generated at the time of patient enrollment at the office where the injection will be
      performed.

      Patients will be randomized by the following procedure. A spreadsheet will be generated with
      study patient identifier numbers in numerical order (1, 2, 3, 4, etc.). This spreadsheet will
      be located on a password-protected database that can be continuously updated across the St.
      Luke's Network by multiple study personnel at the same time. A random number generator
      (http://randomizer.org) will be used to generate a series of binary numbers, either 0 or 1.
      The number 0 will represent betamethasone, while the number 1 will represent ketorolac. This
      number will then be attached to the study patient identifier number.

      When a patient is determined to be eligible for enrollment into the study, their medical
      record number will be entered into the password-protected spreadsheet database as the next
      patient by a site-specific designee. At that point the site-specific designee will provide
      the medication as described earlier to the injector. The injector and patient will remain
      unaware as to the contents of the syringe.

      Prior to injection, patients will receive the following study questionnaires: WOMAC, Knee
      Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score Physical Function Short Form (KOOS-PS), and Knee
      Outcome Survey Activities of Daily Living Scale (KOS-ADL). These study questionnaires were
      created with Google Forms and be stored on the same spreadsheet as described earlier.
      Patients will be instructed to return the completed questionnaires to the office during an
      office visit, by mail or fill them out online prior to study injection as well as 2 weeks, 1
      month, 3 months and 6 months.

      Patients' medical history will be taken and a clinical exam performed before the injection is
      given. Demographic information, including body mass index (BMI), duration of disease, and
      gender, will be obtained. Number and type of prior injections will also be documented if
      known by the patient or documented in the patient's chart. The clinical exam will include
      joint laxity, passive range of motion, presence of contractures, and tenderness on a scale of
      0-3 (0 = no tenderness, 1 = patient winces and 3 = withdrawal). A three-view x-ray will also
      be obtained if there is no recent image on file. Other treatment modalities, including
      physical therapy, knee off-loading brace, acetaminophen, and current oral non-steroidal
      treatment, will be noted. Finally, Kellgren-Lawrence Staging will be performed for the
      medial, lateral and patellofemoral joints. This information will be documented in the
      password-protected Google Spread Sheet.

      A standard superolateral injection site will be used during medication administration. This
      site is considered to be the most accurate, especially among experienced hands. The
      administration site will be cleaned with an ethanol swab and allowed to dry. An 18 gauge
      needle connected to a syringe filled with the study drug will be administered. If there is no
      effusion, a 22 gauge needle with 6cc of the study drug will be injected into the
      administration site. All of the study drug will be administered in an intra-articular
      fashion. The needle will be removed and a bandage applied. It will be documented if patient
      felt relief immediately following injection. If the patient has a history of diabetes, they
      will record morning fasting levels of glucose for 10 days following administration of study
      drug and then documented into the password-protected Google spreadsheet.

      All patients will be provided with the option for a home or outpatient physical therapy
      regimen to follow for treatment of their arthritis. During follow up they will be asked about
      compliance with therapy and will be documented into the password-protected Google
      spreadsheet.

      Clinical follow up will performed at 1, 3 and 6 months after injection. A repeat examination
      and questionnaire will be performed and documented at that time. The investigators will allow
      patients to receive a second corticosteroid administration on or after the three month visit
      as is current standard of care at St Luke's University Health Network.

      If a recent MRI has been obtained within the year prior to or during treatment, this
      information will also be documented.

      In knee osteoarthritis patients, common concerns with corticosteroid injections include skin
      color changes, systemic elevations in blood sugar, and may place the patient at a higher risk
      for infection in immunocompromised individuals. Typically injections of corticosteroids are
      limited and often not given more than once every three months. Ketorolac is a non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory medication that has a more limited mechanism of action and may be a safer
      alternative to corticosteroid injections. Expected adverse effects of ketorolac include
      localized bruising, compensatory effusion, minor localized bleeding, and a flare reaction.
      Both of these medications are currently used by practitioners at St. Luke's University and
      Health Network for osteoarthritis. The goal of this study is to directly compare ketorolac's
      efficacy and safety to betamethasone

      Statistics

      Sample size calculation to assess equivalence was based on research by Unlu et al (2005) that
      compared WOMAC scores in patients with knee osteoarthritis who received intra-articular
      tenoxicam, oral tenoxicam or exercise only. Three was identified as the smallest clinically
      meaningful margin to determine equivalence of intra-articular ketorolac to intra-articular
      betamethasone as the active comparator. At α = 0.5 and β= 0.90, 204 patients per group
      (N=408) are required. To guard against missing or otherwise unusable data, 10% was added to
      that minimum sample size, for a total of 448 patients.

      The primary outcome (change in WOMAC scores) will be analyzed via repeated measures analysis
      of variance (ANOVA), and the secondary outcomes will be analyzed via selected ANOVA and
      nonparametric tests as deemed appropriate. For all analyses, p < .05 will denote statistical
      significance, with no adjustment for the multiple comparisons.

      Plan for the Dissemination of Project Results

      This project will be submitted to the annual residents' and fellows' Research Symposium at
      the Bethlehem campus in the spring of 2016, as well as apply to present at appropriate
      national meetings. This project will also be submitted to orthopaedic and related journals.

      This study will be registered with ClinicalTrials.Gov.

      Personnel Qualifications

      Primary personnel responsible for the compilation and publication of the results would
      include Gregory F Carolan, MD (principle investigator), Paul Morton, MD, Shane McGowan, MD
      and John Anagostakos. Personnel administering the injections and obtaining consent will be
      the physicians or physician assistants (listed in attached) of the St. Luke's Orthopaedic
      Specialists group who, in the scope of their current practice, evaluate and treat patients
      with knee osteoarthritis. All listed personnel will maintain appropriate CITI and HIPPA
      training.
    
  