
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the impact on the 5-year cumulative incidence of late grade >= 2
      genitourinary (GU) physician-scored toxicity, as assessed by the Common Terminology Criteria
      for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03 scale, caused by presenting both the physicians and
      patients with the results of a non-prospectively validated biomarker panel that dichotomizes
      any given patient into having a high versus a low risk of late grade >= 2 GU physician-scored
      toxicity following stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the late grade >= 2 genitourinary (GU) physician-scored toxicity, as assessed
      by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03 scale, in patients
      who test positive for the biomarker.

      II. To determine the late grade >= 2 genitourinary (GU) physician-scored toxicity, as
      assessed by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03 scale, in
      patients who test negative for the biomarker.

      III. To observe the proportions of patients who choose to receive conventionally fractionated
      radiotherapy, moderately hypofractionated radiotherapy, and SBRT, based on being positive or
      negative for the biomarker thought to predict for late grade >= 2 GU toxicity.

      IV. To determine the 5-year cumulative incidence of late grade >= 2 gastrointestinal (GI)
      physician-reported toxicity, as assessed by the CTCAE version 4.03 scale, following the same
      intervention as for the primary objective.

      V. To determine the incidence of acute grade >= 2 GU and GI toxicity as assessed by the CTCAE
      version 4.03 scale, following the same intervention as for the primary objective.

      VI. To quantify the temporal changes in patient-reported quality of life (QOL) outcomes, as
      assessed by the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index-26 (EPIC-26), International Prostate Symptom
      Scores (IPSS), and Sexual Health Inventory for Men (SHIM) QOL indices, following the same
      intervention as for the primary objective.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients planning to undergo SBRT per standard of care undergo collection of cheek swab and
      blood samples for the analysis of germline biomarkers. Afterwards, patients and their
      physicians engage in discussion about which form of radiotherapy to proceed with. Based on
      the decision, patients predicted to be at low risk of toxicity with SBRT continue to receive
      SBRT over 14 days while patients predicted to be at high risk of toxicity with SBRT will be
      counseled to undergo either conventionally fractionated radiotherapy over 63-70 days,
      moderate hypofractionated radiotherapy over 28-35 days, or may opt to still receive SBRT over
      14 days per standard of care.

      After completion of radiotherapy treatment, patients are followed up at 1 ,3, 6, 9, 12, 18,
      and 24 months, and then every 6 months for 4 years.
    
  