
    
      Background: Frame-based stereotaxis and microelectrode recording (MER) with mapping of target
      structures has been the gold standard for deep brain stimulator (DBS) implantation. Though
      supported by historical considerations, no Class I or II evidence exists that MER adds
      significant value to the DBS implant procedure. With the advent of advanced magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomography (CT) imaging, particularly intra-operative
      imaging, the argument for the continued use of MER during DBS implantation has been
      substantially weakened. One rationale for pursuing CT-guided intraoperative imaging is due to
      presumed increase in patient comfort with this method. DBS implantation with MER requires
      that the patient remain awake during the entire procedure. , MER with frame-based stereotaxis
      requires the patient to keep their head in a fixed position for a prolonged period of time
      during which time they remain awake, causing significant patient discomfort. Furthermore,
      Parkinson's disease patients must withhold their PD meds for a minimum of 12 hours prior to
      the procedure adding a sometimes significant degree of discomfort and anxiety to the
      procedure.

      Objective: The goal of this study is to compare the clinical outcomes of DBS electrodes
      placed using intraoperative CT and frameless stereotaxis with those placed using MER and
      frame-based stereotaxis.

      Design: The proposed study will be a prospective non-interventional data collection study.

      Setting and Subjects: Subjects for this study will be idiopathic Parkinson's disease patients
      identified from the Oregon Health & Science University movement disorder clinic as candidates
      for deep brain stimulation therapy. Enrollment will continue until fifty subjects have been
      implanted with electrodes using frameless stereotaxis and intraoperative CT. Data regarding
      quality of life, motor control, and amount of time during the day without levodopa side
      effects will be collected pre-operatively and post-operatively. This data will be compared to
      historical controls who have been implanted with DBS electrodes using MER and frame-based
      stereotaxis. All surgical procedures will involve only Federal Drug Administration (FDA)
      approved stereotactic equipment, used in the manner for which they have been approved. All
      clinic procedures are standard of care for movement disorders patients in the deep brain
      stimulation program.

      Intervention: This study will be a non-interventional data collection study.

      Measurements: Data regarding patient age, diagnosis, intracranial target, complications,
      Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale UPDRS Parts 3 (motor examination) and 4 (drug side
      effects), Parkinson's Disease Quality of life PDQ-39, 3 day motor diary, 3 month falls diary,
      neuropsychiatric evaluation and days in hospital following surgery will be collected.

      Analysis: The patients will be examined prior to DBS placement both on and off dopaminergic
      medications. They will then be examined 3 months and 6 months following DBS placement both on
      and off drug with stimulator on after programming parameters have been optimized. The
      following measures will be performed:

        -  Change in UPDRS Parts 3 and 4

        -  Change in PDQ-39

        -  Change in amount of time patient is experiencing Parkinson's disease symptoms and/or
           side effects of treatment.

        -  Change in number of falls

        -  Change in neuropsychiatric evaluation, including:

        -  Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II)

        -  Mattis Dementia Rating Scale-Second Edition (DRS-2)

        -  Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS)

        -  Symptom Checklist-90-Revised (SCL-90-R)

        -  Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence (WASI) We will also compare the number of
           days spent in hospital following surgery. Adverse events related to the surgery will be
           captured.
    
  