
    
      The proposed study is a randomized clinical trial with a wait-list control. The sample will
      be 60 HIV+ young adults between the ages of 16 to 24 years recruited from the DMC Horizons
      Project and other community based HIV programs. Self referred persons meeting the diagnostic
      criteria of HIV+ will also be accepted. There are no exclusion criteria. Subjects will be
      randomly assigned to one of 2 groups: MET NOW or MET LATER. MET LATER is the wait list
      control group. The only difference between the groups is the timing of the intervention and
      data collection. All subjects will complete 5 research visits and 4 MET therapy sessions.
      Research visits consists of an interview, completion of self-report questionnaires, a 20cc
      blood drawn for complete blood count (CBC), viral load and CD4 count, and adherence rating
      completed by the physician. Established questionnaires are used to measure health behaviors,
      sexual risk behaviors, substance use, self-efficacy, stage of change, social support, health
      beliefs, and mental health status. Research visits take about 1 = hours. Therapy sessions
      consist of MET provided by a trained therapist. Sessions last about 1 hour and focus on
      changing behavior to improve health, increase medical adherence, and/or reduce risk. Subjects
      choose the behaviors they want to change. There are a total of 4 sessions over 3 months. The
      MET NOW group will begin session immediately after the first (baseline) research visit and
      the MET LATER group will begin therapy sessions approximately 9 months after the first
      research visit. All subjects will be paid $25.00 for the first research visit with a $5
      increase for each subsequent research visit, a total of $175.00 for the 5 research visits.
      Subjects will receive $10 gift certificate at each therapy session. Cab vouchers or parking
      fees will be provided for each therapy or research session.
    
  