
    
      Introduction:

      Stroke causes complex adult disability, with 30-50% of survivors experiencing limited
      independence in daily activities. Annually in Scotland there are around 14 000 new stroke
      events and approximately 80,000 survivors living with stroke related disability.This number
      will increase by 2035 as demographic change leads to a 26% increase in people aged over 65
      years and developments in acute stroke care lead to improved stroke survival rates.
      Consequently, the cumulative cost to the UK economy of stroke, currently estimated to be £8.9
      billion, will increase proportionately.

      Poor upper limb (UL) recovery is a major cause of post-stroke disability with fewer than 15%
      of survivors regaining full function by 6 months. Activities found difficult by stroke
      survivors include dressing, bathing and feeding where good UL and hand function is required.
      Limited UL function is characterised by muscle weakness, muscle stiffness or spasticity and
      altered sensation leading to loss of movement co-ordination for functional tasks. UL
      impairment is also an important predictor of quality of life six months after stroke onset.
      It is therefore vital for quality of life and independent functioning after stroke that
      effective strategies to improve arm recovery are found.

      Background:

      Despite the problem of poor UL recovery, few cost-effective rehabilitation interventions are
      available. Intensive repetitive functional task-specific practice is effective at improving
      UL recovery, particularly where the unaffected UL is constrained to force practice with the
      affected UL. However effects depend on six hours per day of intensive physiotherapy to guide
      practice, combined with constraint in a mitt of an additional 8 hours per day. Such intensive
      supervision although effective, is unfeasible in many healthcare settings, and survivors and
      therapists express reluctance to participate in such demanding treatments. It is therefore
      essential to develop effective, resource efficient ways to provide survivors with therapeutic
      correction of movement during task practice, but with less therapy supervision. This is vital
      because rehabilitation therapy available within stroke units in the UK is typically less than
      one hour per day.

      Dynamic lycra orthoses (DLO) may provide an inexpensive (£200 per unit) and potentially
      effective adjunct to UL rehabilitation after stroke. The orthoses correct limb position
      during movement and provide sensory feedback, as therapists would normally do. They are made
      to measure fabric lycra compression garments individually tailored to correct UL movement and
      positioning. They do this by providing correction of finger, wrist and elbow movement whilst
      still allowing functional movement. The orthoses can be worn during therapy and throughout
      the day when practising and performing functional tasks.

      Theoretically, viscoelastic properties of the DLO create biomechanical forces for joint
      stability and functional positioning where muscle weakness is problematic. The DLO may also
      stretch stiff or spastic muscles where they limit functional UL use. Finally, pressure
      exerted by the garment on muscles and skin may stimulate sensory awareness and sensory
      feedback thereby improving neurophysiological control of movement. Because the DLO can be
      worn for long periods of time, it may optimise effects of task practice during formal therapy
      but also during self-directed task practice, without the need for direct therapy supervision.
      Indeed, a growing body of evidence shows that DLO wear reduces spasticity and improves UL
      movement and function in children with neurological impairments.

      Rationale for the Study:

      Although discussions with local stroke rehabilitation therapists suggest some DLO use in
      practice, evidence of effectiveness for UL outcomes following stroke is limited. Literature
      searches conducted by the investigators identified only one single case study showing
      improved dexterity, dressing and writing in a survivor with longstanding stroke after wearing
      the garment for 12 hours daily over 6 weeks. A second crossover trial with survivors (n=16) 3
      to 36 weeks after stroke onset showed better wrist resting posture, passive range of movement
      and reduction of wrist and finger muscle spasticity after only 3 hours wear of the DLO. These
      studies were small and of low quality but suggest that evaluation of potential effectiveness
      of the intervention on UL impairment and activity limitation outcomes as an adjunct to UL
      rehabilitation after stroke is warranted.

      Objectives

        1. To assess the feasibility of conducting an effectiveness trial of the DLO in
           rehabilitation.

        2. To assess the potential effectiveness of the DLO intervention provided as an adjunct to
           rehabilitation on: UL sensory and motor impairments, UL activity limitation, activities
           of daily living and quality of life compared to those receiving usual rehabilitation
           only in order to select a primary outcome measure and establish sample size for a full
           scale effectiveness trial.

      Research Questions

        1. What proportion of stroke survivors agree to participation and randomisation in the DLO
           study?

        2. What proportion of participants who consent to participate in the trial fully complete
           the intervention and outcome and follow-up assessments?

        3. What is the magnitude and direction of difference in upper limb impairment and activity
           in stroke survivors using the UL DLO intervention as an adjunct to rehabilitation,
           compared to those receiving standard rehabilitation?

        4. Is there any evidence that effects of the orthosis are likely to persist at eight week
           follow-up?

        5. Are there indications that responses to the DLO are likely to differ between
           participants depending on initial UL impairment severity and stroke type (lesion
           location, stroke classification and ischaemic or haemorrhagic)?

      Design:

      A randomised controlled feasibility trial to collect data to provide an estimate of the
      direction and magnitude of effects on a range of clinical outcome variables to determine the
      most appropriate primary outcome and sample size for a definitive trial. of particular
      importance is assessing which survivors may benefit most, according to severity of UL
      impairment.

      Procedure:

      51 stroke survivors consecutively admitted to Ninewells Hospital and PRI and their associated
      rehabilitation hospitals. Potentially eligible patients will be initially identified by
      nursing, rehabilitation staff or stroke research nurses between 2 and 4 weeks after admission
      to either of the selected acute stroke units, or when patients are medically stable. The
      nursing and rehabilitation staff will provide invitation letters signed by the care team and
      explain information sheets to patients about the study, with an invitation to participate.
      The study researchers will then approach patients who have indicated an interest in
      participation. Patients who agree after discussion with nurses and therapy staff to be
      considered for and screened for inclusion, will be approached by study researchers 24 hours
      after being given the information. The study will be explained in detail and written informed
      consent obtained before screening for inclusion criteria and for study participation.

      Cognitive ability will be formally assessed using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment,
      communication will be assessed using the NIH Stroke Scale, scales used by this team in
      previous stroke studies. Upper limb activity limitation will be assessed using the Action
      Research Arm Test (the ARAT). The ARAT will determine upper limb severity (mild, moderate,
      severe) for purposive sampling purposes and to ensure equal severity sub-groups at each
      phase. Other screening information (confirmation of stroke type, previous stroke, ability to
      participate in rehabilitation, premorbid arm impairment, shoulder pain and sensitivity to
      lycra and information about comorbidities) will be obtained from medical records, from staff
      and from the patients themselves and recoded in a proforma format in the CRF. Written
      informed consent for medical record review will also be undertaken at time of recruitment.

      Randomisation:

      Investigators will randomly allocate participants within each severity sub-group to a control
      group or an intervention group on a 2:1 basis. This will lead to 33 participants (11 in each
      severity sub-group) receiving the lycra orthosis and 18 (6 in each severity sub-group) acting
      as control participants. After baseline assessment and, given that side of hemiplegia may
      determine participants characteristics, stratification will be undertaken according to side
      of hemiplegia using a secure, concealed web-based computerised randomisation system provided
      by Tayside Clinical Trials Unit.

      Intervention Group:

      Participants will be assessed and measured for the DLO by a study Occupational Therapist (OT)
      trained in DLO fitting. All participants will receive the sleeve orthosis, which encompasses
      fingers, wrist and elbow, tailored to their own requirements as assessed by the OT, who will
      be informed by participant performance on the baseline measures.

      The OT will liaise with manufacturers and will order, fit and arrange for any adjustments to
      the orthosis to ensure fit.

      Participants will be asked to wear the DLO eight hours per day for a maximum of 8 weeks
      during waking hours. The orthosis will be removed for washing and bathing, but otherwise
      participants will wear the DLO for participation in usual therapy as directed by the
      therapists, and daily activities.

      Post Stroke upper limb oedema has been identified as a factor in early recovery. Participants
      in the intervention group, reporting oedema that prevents garment wear as per protocol, will
      be provided with an oedema glove to wear at night and information on oedema management as per
      normal care.

      The study research therapists will review DLO wear after 4 weeks of full wear. In order to
      reflect normal practice, if issues arise at any other time the researchers will advise
      participants and key health professionals to contact them.

      The treatment group will also receive usual care and rehabilitation and a general advice
      leaflet on looking after their arm

      Control Group:

      The control group will receive usual care and rehabilitation and a general advice leaflet on
      looking after their arm.

      Both groups will continue to receive usual occupational and physiotherapy.

      Healthcare Professionals: Regular therapists and nurses will record time for DLO application
      and type and duration of usual therapy using a simple proforma log.

      Outcome assessment will be undertaken by a blinded assessor at baseline, after eight weeks of
      intervention with follow-up eight weeks after that.

      The exploratory RCT will allow an estimation of effect size and variability which will
      facilitate a sample size calculation for a later definitive RCT to test effectiveness. The
      sample size of 51 is accepted as being adequate for a feasibility study of this type.
    
  