
    
      This is a retrospective cohort study of all consecutive patients who underwent colon or
      rectal resection, between the years 2012-2017 at Rabin Medical Center, a tertiary referral
      center in Israel. Data were obtained from patients' electronic medical files. The study was
      approved by the Institutional Review Board (IRB) of Rabin Medical Center (RMC). The study met
      the guidelines outlined in the Declaration of Helsinki. Due to the minimal risk nature of
      this study, the need for informed consent was waived by the IRB.

      Patient population:

      All patients aged 70 years and above who underwent large bowel resection were included in the
      analysis. Inclusion criteria were: age ≥70; all patients undergoing any colonic or rectal
      resection for benign or malignant etiologies in an open or minimally-invasive approach
      Exclusion criteria were: age<70; colon resection without anastomoses; re-operations during
      the same admission .

      Data retrieved included demographic data (age, gender, Charlson comorbidity score, place of
      residency, functional capacity, BMI), surgical data (indication for surgery, elective vs
      urgent surgery, surgical approach, length of surgery, peri-operative morbidity and
      mortality.All surgeries were performed by at least one senior surgeon. The surgical approach
      (laparoscopic or laparotomy) was at the senior surgeon's discretion and deemed most
      appropriate for the patient's problem, physiological status and underlying illnesses. The
      extent of the resection was according to oncological guidelines when relevant.

      Endpoints:

      Primary endpoint was the occurrence of postoperative anastomotic leak. Secondary end-point
      was postoperative mortality Statistical Analysis The statistical analysis for this paper was
      generated using SAS Software. Continuous variables were presented by Mean±Std, Categorical
      variables were presented by (N, %). T-Test was used to compare the value of continuous
      variables between study groups and Fisher's exact test (for two groups) or Chi-square (for
      more than two groups) were used to compare the value of categorical variables between study
      groups. Two-sided p values less than .05 were considered statistically significant
    
  