
    
      In this pilot study, the investigators will prospectively collect relevant clinical data on
      15 TBI patients with an inserted invasive ICP monitor. Each enrolled patient will be
      monitored in parallel to the invasive ICP monitor with the HeadSense's ICP monitor. Subjects
      who meet the study's inclusion and exclusion criteria will be enrolled in the study. Family
      members will be asked for consent. The patient's clinical condition will be recorded in a
      case record form (CRF).

      Once the patient is inclined with his upper body 30 degrees to the bed and the invasive ICP
      monitor displays the pressure values, the clinical procedure can begin. Once the HeadSense's
      monitor is calibrated it is connected to the front end that is placed on the patient's ears.
      Each recording session will be ½-48 hours long, depending on the patient's clinical
      condition. In case the ICP monitor is still inserted to the patient's brain in the following
      day, recording sessions will continue until the ICP monitor is removed.

      After the study, the patient's ears will be examined for internal ear infection or irritation
      that might be caused by the ear buds. Patient adverse events will be documented on the case
      report forms in case they occurred, and the family or advocate of the patient will be
      informed. In case of clinical relevant adverse event, appropriate clinical action will be
      taken.

      As the procedure does not affect the patient management, there is no need to provide any
      specific medical care related to the trial. Patients will receive the relevant clinical care
      related to their clinical management, without any consideration to their participation in the
      trial.

      Once the data collection is done, results will be analyzed by comparing ICP readings from
      both devices. The end point of the study is to collect at least half an hour of ICP
      monitoring for each participant.
    
  