
    
      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a major cause of chronic morbidity and
      mortality throughout the world, being the fourth leading cause of death in the world.

      COPD is a disease that results in varying degrees of dyspnea, or shortness of breath.
      Spirometry is a method of diagnosing COPD with the presence of a post bronchodilator FEV1
      <80% of the predicted value in combination with an FEV1 / FVC <70%. This would confirm that
      there is a presence of airflow limitation that is not fully reversible.

      The presence of airflow limitation has been identified as one of the main causes of dyspnea
      in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (1). Expiratory Flow Limitation (EFL)
      occurs when the airways become compressed which usually results when a pressure outside the
      airway exceeds the pressure inside the airway. As an airflow obstruction worsens, EFL appears
      at much lower flows for a given lung volume and it becomes present at rest or at least
      develops early during exercise (2).

      Early detection of EFL consisted of either invasive balloon catheterization or relatively
      complex plethysmographic techniques. An alternative approach, and one that will be used in
      this study, involves utilizing the Forced Oscillation Technique (FOT).

      Alternatively High Frequency Oscillations (HFO) has shown to effectively lower CO2 levels,
      but traditionally require intubation or a trans tracheal catheter. Treatment with a
      specialized noninvasive ventilator is possible and it is proposed that therapy can be
      augmented by the application of an optimized EPAP to splint open the lower airways in order
      to increase the diffusive capabilities of the high frequency oscillations into lower alveolar
      regions. There are approximately 25 million hypercapnic patients with EFL that could benefit
      from this therapy. High frequency oscillations integrated into a specialized noninvasive
      ventilator has the advantages of lower cost than other solutions and significantly lower
      medical risks. In addition, high frequency oscillation uses lower pressures to achieve
      effective therapy which means less chance of barotrauma and greater patient acceptance.

      This study will enroll subjects at a screening visit. Screening will include a physical exam
      and vital signs, pregnancy test (if applicable), questionnaires, pulse oximetry, measure of
      carbon dioxide levels, determination of EFL by an auto- Expiratory Positive Airway Pressure
      (EPAP) ventilator, and spirometry.

      If the patient is eligible and tolerates the above procedures, they will be asked to complete
      an in home-based sleep study prior to visit 2. Alice Night One/ Alice PDX are portable home
      sleep testing devices that record information about breathing.

      At visit 2 participants will be monitored continuously via a 3 lead EKG, oxygen saturation by
      pulse oximetry (SPO2), Carbon Dioxide concentration(TcCO2) monitor, RespiTrace belt and
      ventilator data.

      During Visit 2, participants will first undergo a repeat optimal EPAP determination and then
      trial 3 different sessions of High Frequency Oscillation (HFO) therapy for 20 minutes with at
      least a 10 minute wash out period between each session to allow the participant's CO2 to
      stabilize or return to baseline. The order of the sessions will be randomized for each
      patient. Participants will be placed in a semi-recumbent position and wear a nasal CPAP mask
      for each session. A TcCO2 monitor patch will be placed on the skin (forehead area) to collect
      carbon dioxide measurements during each session. A RespiTrace belt will placed on the
      participants' chest wall to measure chest wall and diaphragmatic excursion during each
      session. A 3 lead EKG will also be used to monitor cardiac activity during each session.
    
  