
    
      Binge-Eating Disorder (BED) is characterized by recurrent binge eating without extreme
      behaviors to lose weight (e.g., self-induced vomiting, misuse of laxatives) resulting in
      marked distress, feelings of loss of control, and association with overweight or obesity.
      Treatment goals for binge-eating therapies include reducing the urge to binge, weight loss,
      and management of co-existing medical and psychological conditions. Currently, there are no
      approved medication treatments available for BED, however, studies have shown that treatment
      for BED (psychotherapy or the use of medications) may be effective at reducing the number of
      binges, while effects on weight have been variable. Topiramate has been approved for epilepsy
      in adults and children aged 2 years and above, and for the prevention of migraine in adults.
      This is a randomized, double-blind, flexible dose, parallel group study to determine if
      topiramate, a prescription medication approved by the Food & Drug Administration for the
      treatment of epilepsy and the prevention of migraine, administered at a dose of 400 mg per
      day or the subject's maximum tolerated dose, is safe and effective compared with placebo in
      patients with moderate to severe binge-eating disorder associated with obesity. Subjects will
      have an equal chance of receiving topiramate or placebo. The study hypothesis is that
      topiramate will be more effective than placebo in reducing the number of binge days per week
      in patients with moderate to severe binge-eating disorder associated with obesity and is
      generally well tolerated. Patients completing the 16-week double-blind phase of the trial are
      eligible to participate in the 12-week open-label phase of the study.

      Topiramate tablets (25 and/or 100 mg) or placebo in increasing doses starting at 25 mg/day up
      to 400 mg/ day (or MTD) during first 8 wks, achieved dose maintained for additional 8 wks. If
      entering OL reduce DB medication while increasing dose of active topiramate to 400mg/day or
      MTD for addn 12 wks.
    
  