
    
      Study design and its justification:

      This is an exploratory study to compare the effects of vitamin D supplementation against
      placebo (capsules with no active drug) on residual pulmonary inflammation detectable with
      PET-CT scanning. If the study demonstrates that vitamin D supplementation can dampen down
      lung inflammation in patients who still have such inflammation at the end of antibiotic
      treatment, it will provide the basis for bigger and more rigorous studies. Half of the
      participants will be asked to take capsules containing vitamin D (the immediate
      supplementation group) and the other half placebo (the delayed supplementation group) for a
      duration of 8 weeks, once they have completed anti-tuberculosis treatment. There is an equal
      chance (1 in 2) that participants will be given either study medication - this allows the two
      groups to be fairly similar in background characteristics so that any differences in
      inflammation after 8 weeks would be put down to vitamin D supplementation.

      The study will adopt a 'double-blind' approach, meaning that neither participants nor
      researchers will know which study medication each participant is taking for the duration of
      the study. This allows to minimise the influence that knowing the type of study medication
      each participant is taking might have on researchers' or participants' behaviour during the
      study, as these behaviours might affect the results of the study. This is also one of the
      reasons that the investigators have chosen to use placebo in this study, rather than
      comparing participants taking vitamin D to those who are not taking any study medication. In
      addition, the use of placebo may encourage participants to take the study medication. It is
      unlikely that the delay in starting vitamin D replacement for participants in the delayed
      supplementation arm would be harmful, as vitamin D deficiency is very unlikely to be
      associated with any acute medical problem, and the delay in its correction (8 weeks) is very
      short in relation to the likely duration of deficiency preceding the study, which is likely
      to have been longstanding (e.g. over years).

      Study procedures:

        -  Attend up to three visits to hospital after they have completed a course of antibiotics
           for pulmonary tuberculosis. Visit 2 may be conducted via telephone with posting of study
           medication (by registered mail or courier)

        -  Take three capsules of study medication (each is 3,200 IU so a total of 9,600 IU) every
           day, using the dispenser provided by the investigators

        -  Give two blood samples: first =19 ml (~4 tsp), second =25 ml (~5 tsp)

        -  Give two coughing samples

        -  Have two chest PET-CT scans

        -  Receive five telephone calls, each lasting about five minutes

        -  Receive additional telephone calls if any doses are missed

      Potential participants will be given a copy of the Patient Information Sheet (PIS) by a
      member of their usual care team at their scheduled clinic appointment after completing TB
      treatment and ample time (at least 24 hours) to decide whether they want to take part in the
      study. Those taking a PIS will be asked to complete a contact slip providing their contact
      details and authorising the research team to make contact with them once they have had a
      chance to read the information; this contact slip will be forwarded to the research team by
      the participant's usual care team.

      Telephone call 1 - This will feed back results of tests of vitamin D status, calcium and
      renal function performed as part of usual care.

      Potential participants who are found to be vitamin D deficient (serum 25[OH]D <50 nmol/L),
      normocalcaemic (serum corrected calcium <2.65 mmol/L) and to have eGFR >30 ml/min/1.73 m2
      will be invited to attend Visit 1 (-2 weeks) for screening.

      Visit 1 - Potential participants attending Visit 1 will be asked to give written informed
      consent to participate in the study. A PET-CT scan will be performed at the Department of
      Nuclear Medicine, Barts Health NHS Trust (radiation exposure for a PET-CT scan is 4.6 mSv).
      All women of childbearing age will be asked to do a urine pregnancy test before the PET-CT
      scan ; the scan will not proceed unless a negative pregnancy test result is obtained at this
      time. Blood samples (volume of 19 ml) for immunological testing and an induced sputum sample
      will also be taken during this visit. Participants' GPs will be notified by post about their
      involvement in the study at this stage, where consent has been given to do so.

      Telephone call 2 - This will feed back results of tests of the PET-CT scan performed at Visit
      1. Participants who are found to have significant residual PET-hot pulmonary inflammation on
      this scan (SUVmax ≥3 g/ml) will be invited to attend Visit 2 (0 weeks).

      Visit 2 (0 weeks) - At this visit, eligible participants will be allocated to oral vitamin D
      replacement therapy at a daily dose of 9,600 IU of Fultium-D3 (cholecalciferol or vitamin D3)
      for 8 weeks for the immediate supplementation arm (n=20) or oral placebo for 8 weeks for the
      delayed supplementation arm (n=20). Fultium-D3 and placebo will be identical in appearance
      and taste and both will be given at a dose of three capsules once daily (each Fultium-D3
      capsules contains 3,200 IU vitamin D3). Participants may also be given a CE-marked Sensemedic
      dispenser each for real-time adherence monitoring and shown how to use it. Participants will
      be advised of the symptoms of high blood calcium levels (nausea, vomiting, thirst, passing
      excessive amounts of urine or feeling generally unwell) and asked to contact a designated
      member of the study team if they develop these symptoms so that a blood test to check for
      high blood calcium levels can be arranged urgently. Any new symptoms reported between Visit 2
      and Visit 3 will be assessed by a study doctor for potential association with the study
      medication. Arrangements will be made during this visit for telephone follow-up sessions.
      Visit 2 may be conducted via telephone with posting of study medication (by registered mail
      or courier) at an investigator's discretion.

      Follow-up telephone calls (T3-5 and for missed doses) - Follow-up telephone calls will be
      made at 1 week (T3), 3 weeks (T4) and 5 weeks (T5) post-randomisation for all participants. A
      member of the study team will telephone participants at a pre-arranged time to check
      adherence to study medication and if there have been any problems with using the Sensemedic
      dispenser. Telephone calls will also be made to participants when a non-adherence is logged
      on the Sensemedic system. Additional intermediate study face-to-face visits will be arranged
      as necessary if any adherence issues are identified.

      Visit 3 - PET-CT scans and measurement of whole blood (volume of 25 ml) and induced sputum
      inflammatory markers will be repeated at Visit 3 (+8 weeks). All women of childbearing age
      will be asked to do a urine pregnancy test before the PET-CT scan ; the scan will not proceed
      unless a negative pregnancy test result is obtained at this time. All radiological read-outs
      will be assessed by radiologists blinded to allocation, and compared between supplemented vs.
      unsupplemented patients using analysis of covariance to adjust for baseline values. All
      participants will be offered vitamin D supplementation after their 8-week follow-up
      assessment, prior to discharge from the study. Participants'GPs will be informed by post that
      their participation in the study has ended. All participants will be informed by post at the
      end of the study of whether they received vitamin D supplements or placebo between Visit 2
      and Visit 3.

      Discontinuation of study medication:

      Participants whose study medication is discontinued will remain in follow-up as long as they
      consent to do so, and data will continue to be collected for them.
    
  