
    
      Hypothesis 1: The treatment of HD patients with high CAC scores with sodium thiosulfate for 5
      months will decrease the amount of calcium in their coronary arteries.

      Patients who are at high risk for having coronary calcification (history of MI, ischemic
      heart disease, peripheral or carotid artery disease) will be selected to undergo testing. We
      will recruit 60 HD patients receiving treatment in our units to undergo MDCT scanning along
      with non-invasive testing of PWV and CIMT. Assuming that 60% will have a CAC score of ≥50, 36
      patients will be treated with sodium thiosulfate. We will administer 25% sodium thiosulfate
      solution (American Reagent Laboratories, Shirley, NY) at a dose of 12.5-25g/1.73m2 per over
      15-30 minutes after each hemodialysis session for a total of 60 treatments (5 months).
      Assuming a 35% attrition rate, 23 patients will complete the entire protocol and undergo a
      repeat study of the initial battery of tests.

      Rationale for treatment with sodium thiosulfate: Sodium thiosulfate, used as an antidote for
      cyanide poisoning for more than a century, is also an anti-oxidant, and binds with calcium to
      form a highly soluble calcium thiosulfate salt. The solubility of calcium thiosulfate salt is
      250-100,000 fold higher than calcium oxalate or calcium phosphate salt. It has been used to
      treat recurrent calcium kidney stones and tumoral calcinosis (ectopic calcification usually
      around joints). It has also been used successfully in treating calcific uremic arteriopathy,
      a disease of small artery and soft tissue calcification, in several studies of dialysis
      patients and in our own experience of 5 patients. By 2 months there is radiological evidence
      of reduction in soft tissue calcification. Unpublished data also have demonstrated regression
      of established aortic calcification in uremic rats.

      Sodium thiosulfate is a FDA approved medication for the treatment of cyanide poisoning. It is
      classified by the FDA as "generally recognized as safe". There are no known
      contraindications. The only side effects reported during intravenous (IV) administration in
      ESRD patients are nausea, vomiting and hyperosmia during the administration, which can be
      alleviated by pre-administration of anti-emetic medications. Sodium thiosulfate is slowly
      given through the dialysis venous line toward the end of HD treatments. The selected dose for
      this pilot study is the same as that used for the treatment of calcific uremic arteriopathy.

      We will freeze 10 ml of serum obtained prior to and then monthly during treatment for
      subsequent analyses. Included in the analysis will be Fetuin-A levels but other relevant
      markers will be considered. Blood will also be frozen for future genomic studies.
    
  