
    
      Context: There is a steady increase of the incidence of multidrug resistant bacteria,
      including some which have become extremely resistant, causing infections that are more and
      more difficult to treat with antibiotics thus dramatically impairing patient prognosis.

      Several guidelines prompt hospitals to set up antimicrobial stewardship programs, with an
      antibiotic referrer or a dedicated team as a key component. The aim of the study is to
      encourage a better use of antibiotics, and to contain the emergence of resistance.

      However, such programs, when they exist, cover multiple organisations and interventions to
      improve antimicrobial prescribing, and involve actors from different specialties.
      Furthermore, there is little information on how antimicrobial stewardship programs are
      actually implemented in hospitals and the impact of these programs has been difficult to
      measure.

      Many studies, mainly conducted in England and in the United States, have evaluated
      interventions to control antibiotic prescription in hospitals. Two meta-analyses conclude
      that they are efficient but the variety of the interventions and the heterogeneity of the
      obtained results prevent any conclusions on which practices and strategies should be
      prioritized when conducting antimicrobial control programs.

      The studies conducted so far have been mostly monocentric and have evaluated the impact of
      the interventions on a relatively short period of time. Finally, they rarely considered the
      costs and the cost-effectiveness of these programs.

      More qualitative approaches have highlighted contextual and cultural factors that influence
      antibiotic prescribing habits and encourage deliverers to consider these factors when
      designing an intervention to promote appropriate antibiotic use. These studies have also
      emphasized that prescribers' adherence to guidelines and interventions is a fundamental
      factor in the success of any strategy. These aspects have not been explored much in the
      French national context.

      Objective: The main goal is to evaluate the efficacy and the cost-effectiveness of strategies
      to promote appropriate use of antibiotics in hospitals and to identify the most efficient
      ones, on a short-term but also long-term scale.

      The secondary objectives are 1) to map the different antimicrobial stewardship setups in
      French hospitals and determine the strategies to be evaluated by the model; 2) to measure
      prescribers' adherence to the different strategies used to control antibiotic prescription,
      and 3) to identify potential barriers and facilitators to the implementation of effective
      stewardship programs.

      Methods: The project team will use modelling methods and techniques which combine a decision
      tree and a Markov model to estimate the impact of the different strategies, while considering
      the associated costs. To define the different strategies (restrictive, educational or
      structural strategies) and to measure clinicians' adherence to the strategy implemented in
      their setting, the project team will conduct a survey in a sample of 30 French hospitals
      (acute care). During this section, the project team will also collect a certain amount of
      quantitative data (antibiotic consumption per molecule, mean treatment length for selected
      infections…). These data will help us refine the model's parameters. To supply the model,
      other resources will be used : data from the relevant literature, computerized system of
      medical databases Outcome measurements: Main objective: A comparison of the different
      strategies based on the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), which is defined by the
      difference in costs between interventions, divided by the difference in their measured
      impact; secondary objectives: accrue high-value information in the field of antibiotic
      stewardship, namely physicians' adherence to antibiotic counselling and interventions to
      control its use, as well as potential barriers and facilitators for the effective
      implementation of such programs.

      Study population: Our study is based on modelling patients' hospitalisations and
      hospitalisation returns on a hypothetical cohort of patients, over a 10 year period.
    
  