
    
      Mental disorders are a leading cause of global disability, driven by depression and anxiety.
      Most of the disease burden is in Low and Middle Income Countries (LMICs), where 75% of adults
      with mental disorders have no service access. Despite nearly 15 years of efficacy research
      showing that local non-specialists can provide evidence-based care for depression and anxiety
      in LMICs, few studies have advanced to the critical next step: identifying strategies for
      sustainable "real world" non-specialist treatment including integration with existing
      healthcare platforms and response to common clinical dilemmas, such as what treatment to
      start with and how to modify it.

      Given the need to personalize treatment to achieve remission (absence of disease) and the
      scarcity of mental health specialists in LMICs, successful reduction of population-level
      disability caused by depression and anxiety requires (1) evidence-based strategies for
      first-line and second-line (non-remitter) treatment delivered by non-specialists, with (2)
      confirmation of presumed mechanism of action and (3) patient-level moderators of treatment
      outcome to inform personalized, non-specialist treatment algorithms.

      The research team has worked in western Kenya for 6 years with a UCSF-Kenya collaboration
      that supports integrated HIV services at over 70 primary healthcare facilities in Kisumu
      County (Family AIDS Care and Education Services [FACES]). Primary care populations in Kenya
      have high prevalence of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) (26%) and Posttraumatic Stress
      Disorder (PTSD) (35%). Kenyan leaders lack an evidence base for two essential treatments -
      psychotherapy and second generation antidepressants- without which scale-up will fall short
      of its potential. We conducted a randomized, controlled trial in Kisumu County of
      Interpersonal Psychotherapy (IPT) delivered by non-specialists for HIV-positive patients with
      MDD and PTSD. In our study, IPT achieved full remission of MDD and PTSD in the majority of
      participants.

      Given the high prevalence of MDD-PTSD co-morbidity, we will collaborate with the FACES team
      providing services to Kisumu County Hospital (KCH) primary care outpatient clinic (~10,000
      patients/month) to conduct a randomized trial of IPT versus fluoxetine for MDD and/or PTSD.
      Local non-specialists will be trained in mental health care for the SMART and hired through
      the Kenyan Ministry of Health to work at KCH. SMART participants will be randomized to: (1)
      first line treatment with IPT or fluoxetine; (2) second line treatment for non-remitters-
      treatment "switch" (e.g., IPT to fluoxetine) or treatment "combination" (e.g., addition of
      IPT to fluoxetine). Research with mental health specialists in high income countries suggests
      that antidepressants and psychotherapy have equivalent short-term efficacy and that
      psychotherapy yields superior long-term relapse prevention. We will test the role of
      previously identified mechanisms in mediating remission and key moderators of treatment
      effect. Results of moderator and Q learning analyses will produce first and second-line
      non-specialist treatment algorithms.
    
  