
    
      Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a traumatic disorder resulting in a functional deficit that
      usually leads to severe and permanent paralysis. Pharmacological and rehabilitation therapies
      to SCI get limited effect. Another promising therapeutic approaches for SCI is cellular
      transplantation. Cell types used in SCI therapy include Schwann cells, olfactory ensheathing
      cells and adult stem cells, such as neural stem cells, umbilical cord blood derived cells,
      mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) or induced pluripotent stem cells. There are not yet conclusive
      evidences on which types of glial or adult stem cells are most effective in SCI treatment.

      MSC have been shown to promote anatomical and functional recovery in animal models of SCI by
      promoting tissue sparing ,axonal regeneration, and remyelination. Therapeutic effects of MSCs
      are primarily due to the secretion of soluble factors and the provision of extracellular
      matrix that provide protection and support repair. MSC are attractive candidates for
      transplantation into human patients because they can be easily harvested, expanded and
      banked, or derived directly from the patient allowing for autologous transplantation,
      obviating the need for immune suppression.

      The clinical translation of cellular transplantation strategies requires a safe and efficient
      means of cellular delivery. In animal models of SCI, the most common delivery is direct
      injection into the injury site, which allows a defined number of cells to be delivered, but
      risks further injuring the cord. Less invasive methods for cell delivery have been
      investigated, including intravascular delivery (intravenous (IV) and intra-arterial) and
      delivery into the cerebrospinal fluid (intrathecal). These minimally-invasive techniques
      decrease the risk to the patient and allow delivery of multiple cell doses. Maybe intrathecal
      administration is superior to IV delivery, cell engraftment and tissue sparing were
      significantly better after intrathecal delivery, but more researches are needed for get
      conclusion.
    
  