
    
      The investigators are proposing a study that will specifically and innovatively focus on the
      development of a novel positive psychology intervention that is adapted for patients with HF.
      The MGH inpatient units and MGH Heart Center outpatients will serve as the source of subjects
      for the study, with patients who have a diagnosis of HF serving as potential subjects. The
      investigators will enroll 10 HF patients, who will take part in an 10-week PP-based health
      behavior intervention.

      In this project, the investigators hope to do the following:

        1. Test an 10-week, telephone-delivered health behavior intervention utilizing PP exercises
           and systematic goal-setting in a brief, non-randomized, proof-of-concept trial (N=10).

        2. Determine whether this initial intervention is feasible in a small cohort of HF
           patients.

        3. Explore potential benefits of the intervention on outcomes of interest (e.g., optimism,
           positive affect).

      Baseline information about enrolled participants will be obtained from the patients, care
      providers, and the electronic medical record as required for characterization of our
      population. This information will include data regarding medical history (history of prior
      acute coronary syndrome, coronary artery bypass graft, congestive HF, hypertension, diabetes
      mellitus, hyperlipidemia, and current smoking), current medical variables (renal function,
      left ventricular ejection fraction, NYHA class), medications, and sociodemographic data (age,
      gender, race/ethnicity, living alone).

      Participants will under go an initial visit during which they will meet with study staff in
      person (or if preferred over the phone).

      • They will fill out baseline questionnaires, and be provided a treatment manual with weekly
      exercises, along with a copy of Learning to Live with Heart Failure. The PP and goal-setting
      portions of the intervention will be introduced, and the first exercise will be assigned.
      Finally, participants will be provided an ActiGraph accelerometer to wear for 7 days, as well
      as a personal step counter to keep.

      Participants will undergo weekly phone sessions for 10 weeks.

        -  For the positive psychology segment the participant will review the previous week's
           exercise, discuss of the rationale of the next week's exercise, and be assigned the next
           week's exercise.

        -  For the goal-setting segment the participant will review the health goal from the prior
           week, receive education about a health behavior, discuss ways to improve health
           behaviors, and set a goal for the next week.

      Participants will undergo a follow-up phone call at 10 weeks that asks the same questions
      that were answered during the initial visit, as well as questions about their experience
      using the ActiGraph.

      • At Week 10, participants will wear another ActiGraph for 7 days.
    
  