
    
      Oral cancer is the sixth most common cancer in males and the twelfth most common in females.
      Approximately, 94% of all oral malignancies are squamous cell carcinoma. Over the past few
      decades, researchers have explored alternate therapies and remedies to prevent its
      progression but have yielded to low success rates. Targeted therapy of oral cancer is
      promising following identification of anticancer biomolecules. Naturally available extracts
      have been desired after in this regard as an adjunctive therapeutic modality.

      Current research in the head and neck cancer mainly focuses to understand the molecular
      mechanisms of oral cancer development and progression to target the biomarkers and facilitate
      the development of new treatment strategies. Studies with cell lines can serve as an initial
      screen for agents that might regulate drug resistance and to establish whether the
      differences exist in the different drug-resistant sublines.

      Phytochemicals and extracts derived from medicinal plants have been noted as promising
      cancer-preventive agents against several cancers because of their low toxicity and the
      accumulating data supporting their beneficial health effects. Coffee, after water, is the
      leading beverage in the world which highlights the importance of knowledge of its possible
      influence on human health. Coffee beverages contain a variety of antioxidant and antimutagen
      agents including phenolic derivatives such as chlorogenic acid and polyphenol caffeic acid
      and diterpenes such as cafestol and kahweol. Some studies have suggested that these
      constituents could provide some genotoxicity protection thus classifying coffee as
      anti-cancer agent. However, future work in the mechanism is needed because coffee has many
      components, and effects may depend on multiple factors such as the type of coffee bean,
      caffeinated compared with decaffeinated coffee, roasting, and brewing methods.

      Several studies have tried to analyze the contribution of coffee consumption on the risk of
      different cancer types. The effect of coffee on cancer risk is controversial because both
      inhibiting and promoting effects have been suggested. The antioxidative effect of chlorogenic
      acid and the inhibitory effect of DNA methylation are considered to contribute to coffee's
      protective effect.

      A protective effect of coffee has been observed in humans for a variety of cancers. The most
      recent studies have reported that coffee is inversely associated with oral cancer/pharyngeal
      cancer, basal cell carcinoma and endometrial cancer type I. Coffee drinking has been also
      inversely related to colorectal cancer and liver cancer. However, the caffeine in coffee is
      known to modify the apoptotic response and disturb cell checkpoint integrity.

      The type of coffee has a significant impact on their antioxidant potential. Thermal treatment
      of coffee beans (roasting process) also affects the level of antioxidant potential. Roasting
      process transforms the chemical and biological properties of coffee beans and increases its
      antioxidant activity. Roasted coffee beans exhibited higher antioxidant capacity than green
      coffee beans, and intensified coffee roasting resulted in a decrease of its antioxidant
      potential.

      To our knowledge, only one study which reported the effect of different types of coffee
      beverage (caffeinated, decaffeinated and coffee) on oral cancer risk. Besides, the evidence
      of the effect of green coffee and decaffeinated coffee on OSCC was very scarce. The exact
      biological mechanism of potentially healthy role of coffee in head and neck cancer is still
      not available.
    
  