
    
      Ultrasonic impulse elastography is a technique for studying non-invasive tissue rigidity. In
      particular, it is used in hepatology to assess the degree of fibrosis in a simple manner, by
      eliminating, in a number of cases, liver biopsy. The investigation of fibrosis is an
      essential element in the follow-up of patients with hepatic transplant since it is the
      indirect sign of a post-transplant complication or a recurrence of the initial disease.

      Several elastography devices are available on the market, using different technologies to
      measure the rigidity of tissues. Studies have shown that the first hepatic elastography
      devices, Fibroscan速 and Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse (ARFI) can detect significant
      fibrosis on hepatic grafts accurately and reproducibly. However, there are several factors
      related to patients or to the elastography apparatus itself, limiting its use by making the
      collection of measurements impossible or by giving outliers. In addition, first-generation
      devices (Fibroscan速) are not coupled to a conventional ultrasound system and are dedicated to
      the measurement of hepatic rigidity, so patients must undergo systematic ultrasound as part
      of graft follow-up .

      Supersonic速 (SuperSonic Imagine, Aix-en-Provence, France) is part of the latest generation of
      elastography devices and is based on ultrafast shearwave elastography (SWE) technology. This
      device is a conventional ultrasound system for routine ultrasound scanning with an integrated
      module for measuring tissue stiffness, and has the advantage of establishing real-time
      mappings of tissue rigidity over a large area. Several studies have shown that the
      measurements were reliable and reproducible, especially in the assessment of liver stiffness.
      In the literature, only one study addressed the measurement of hepatic rigidity with the
      Supersonic速 ultrasound system in liver transplant patients and was designed to diagnose viral
      hepatitis recurrence or acute cellular rejection. In the secondary results, the authors found
      a significantly higher hepatic rigidity of healthy hepatic grafts compared to healthy native
      livers.

      It is proposed to add to the ultrasound of systematic follow-up of the hepatic grafts carried
      out in clinical routine an elastographic measurement in order to assess the hepatic rigidity
      in these patients in a non-invasive way.
    
  