
    
      Modern cataract surgery has become a relatively short out-patient procedure with small
      incisions and short post-operative recovery time. Surgery can be influenced by surgical
      technique and experience. Prophylactic pharmaceutical regimens are designed to control
      post-operative pain and to reduce the potential for inflammation (i.e. macular edema, CME)
      and infection (i.e. endophthalmitis).

      The most serious potential infection related to cataract surgery is endophthalmitis.
      Endophthalmitis is a result of microorganisms entering the eye, either during the surgical
      procedure or before surgical incisions have healed completely. The risk of infection can be
      reduced in several ways. Pre-operatively, reducing the bacteria on the cornea and ocular
      adnexa can be helpful. During surgery, appropriate technique can reduce the potential for
      ingress. Post-operatively, prophylactic antibiotics can eliminate organisms once they have
      entered the eye. Topical drops, intracameral antibiotics and subconjunctival injections are
      typical options in current use, usually selected on the basis of spectrum of coverage, cost,
      efficacy and/or expected side effects.

      With regard to inflammation, one of the most common post-operative responses is cystoid
      macular edema (CME). Steroids and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) appear
      effective in reducing the incidence of CME, with NSAIDs posing a lower risk for IOP spikes
      and showing greater efficacy some studies.

      While there is documented evidence of the utility of prophylactic post-operative treatment
      for pain and infection, patient compliance remains a significant concern. The regimen is
      often complex, with multiple drops several times per day. Inability to instill the drops,
      forgetfulness and a lack of appreciation for the importance of compliance can all be
      contributing factors.

      There are several new options to try to address the potential issues related to poor patient
      compliance. One is referred to as "dropless" cataract surgery, which involves injection of a
      multi-drug compound into the eye at time of cataract surgery; one such compound includes
      triamcinolone acetonide, moxifloxacin hydrochloride and vancomycin (TriMoxiVanc). Another
      alternative is to reduce the burden of the pharmaceutical regimen using a compounded topical
      medication; this is termed "less drops" cataract surgery. An option in this regard is a
      topical formulation of prednisolone acetate, moxifloxacin hydrochloride and ketorolac
      tromethamine (PredMoxiKetorolac), given for one week post-operatively followed by a topical
      formulation of prednisolone acetate and ketorolac tromethamine (PredKeterolac) given for
      weeks 2 to 4 after surgery.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the differences in performance between the dropless
      and less-drops pharmaceutical regimens after cataract surgery.
    
  