
    
      The Epidemiological Catchment Area Study found that the lifetime prevalence of depression
      ranged from 5-8%. A more recent assessment found that the lifetime prevalence of Major
      Depression is greater than previously estimated, with 12% of men and 21% of women suffering
      from the disorder. The point prevalence for major depression (MDD) is approximately 13% for
      women and 8% for men.

      Despite the growing number of marketed antidepressants, between 19-34% of depressed patients
      still do not respond to acute antidepressant treatment, 29-46% may fail to achieve and
      sustain a full remission, and between 15-50% will have a recurrence of depression despite
      continuous antidepressant treatment. The side effects of antidepressants are common and
      account significantly for premature treatment discontinuation.

      When a first line treatment for depression fails, clinicians often choose to increase the
      dosage, or augment with a second agent, prior to considering switching agents altogether.
      Combination of an SSRI/SNRI with other agents such as tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) or
      lithium are examples of popular strategies. In many instances, augmentation with multiple
      psychotropic agents may not be desirable, because of risk of side effects or drug-drug
      interactions.

      In view of their benign adverse effect profiles, non-pharmacological interventions such as
      psychotherapy and mind-body intervention have been used to augment treatment for treatment
      resistant depressed patients. Preliminary studies have shown that meditation is beneficial
      for the treatment of depression.

      Research has shown that Cognitive Behavioral Therapy(CBT) is effective for both acute and
      maintenance psychotherapies. In addition, CBT has been shown not only to induce acute
      remission, but to provide prophylaxis against relapse and recurrence. CBT may impart skills
      that patients can continue to use after acute treatment ends.

      This is a pilot study to investigate the effectiveness of group therapy combining Relaxation
      Response (RR) training and CBT for depressed Chinese in the community.
    
  