
    
      Due to improved prevention, diagnosis and treatment modalities, life expectancy worldwide has
      risen. The number of adults over 65 years of age who are presenting to emergency services is
      increasing in parallel with the prolongation of the average life expectancy. While geriatric
      presentations to emergency services comprise 40-50% of all emergency service presentations in
      the U.S., it has been reported that 3-23% of all emergency service presentations from various
      regions of the country comprise patients of 65 years of age and older. There are specific
      management practices for patients who are 65 years and older at emergency services due to the
      presence of co-morbidities and the change of physiological responses to acute diseases in
      advanced age.

      Several risk-scoring systems have been developed to define the severity class of the patient
      during their initial evaluation at emergency services and generally named as Early Warning
      Scores. Early Warning Scores (EWS) incorporate physiological measurements, which do predict
      outcome although the addition of other simple clinical parameters might further improve the
      sensitivity and specificity of these scores. On the other hand all these EWS are simple and
      easy to calculate, making their use appropriate in an emergency setting. Of these EWS, the
      Modified Early Warning Score (MEWS), and the Rapid Emergency Medicine Score (REMS) have been
      widely used for many years (8) and The Vital PAC Early Warning Score (VIEWS) score was
      recently developed for the same purpose.

      Only a few studies in the literature have evaluated risk-scoring systems for the geriatric
      patient group. Several studies have reported that risk-scoring systems, such as
      Identification of Seniors at Risk (ISAR) and Triage Risk Screening Tool (TRST), which are
      specifically developed for geriatric patients over 65 years who present to emergency
      services, are not sufficiently effective for evaluating patients in more severe conditions.
      Other studies have reported that the ESI triage classification predicts the prognosis
      correctly in only half of the patients over 65 years of age. In another study that evaluated
      the MEWS for the geriatric patient group, which was calculated during the presentation in
      emergency services, has been stated to have a prognostic value in terms of a poor result.

      Previously the TEDGeS (Turkish Emergency Departments Geriatric Scoring Study) pilot study was
      carried out and published. This study enrolled all geriatric patients (age ≥ 65 years) and
      carried out in 13 centers (University Hospitals, Government Education and Research Hospitals
      and Military Hospital Emergency Departments) from different cities of Turkey.

      Key findings were:

        -  Overall 30 % of hospitalized patients from Emergency Department (ED) are elderly
           patients and 30 % of these hospitalized patients were ICU hospitalizations

        -  In hospital mortality rate is about 6 % which is very high for general hospitalized
           patients

        -  The most common presenting symptoms are related to gastrointestinal systems and about 80
           % of the cases using at least one chronic medication (22.2 % of the cases using more
           than 4 chronic medications

        -  About 45 % of the cases final diagnosis are related to cardiovascular system and
           gastrointestinal system and nearly 85 % of the hospitalized cases are treated in
           non-surgical clinics (cardiology-pulmonology-internal medicine 65 %)

        -  MEWS, VIEWS and REMS scores are significantly high in hospitalized patients compared to
           discharged from ED and also these three scores are high in ICU hospitalized patients
           compared to both ward hospitalized and discharged patients.

        -  MEWS, VIEWS and REMS scores are significantly high in non-survivors compared to
           survivors.

        -  MEWS, VIEWS scores has higher sensitivity and specificity in terms of in-hospital
           mortality

      These results suggest that geriatric patients not only constitute significant proportion of
      ED presentations but also they need more hospitalization. The predictive powers of the MEWS,
      VIEWS and REMS scores for hospitalization and mortality in geriatric patients those presented
      to ED are significantly high and might be concerned in the ED triage of these patients.

      Within the light of these results this multinational, multicentric, prospective, non
      interventional, observational study on geriatric patients presented to ED. The main objective
      is 'To determine Epidemiologic and Age Related Characteristics of Geriatric Patients
      presenting to the ED across Europe' and secondary objectives are 'To evaluate Early Warning
      Scoring systems (REMS, MEWS and VIEWS Scores) and determine most suitable Geriatric Emergency
      Medicine Risk Score regarding hospitalization, ICU admission and in-hospital mortality for
      patients; To determine the most effective triage elements that can be used to predict
      hospitalization of geriatric patients presented to ED; To determine the in hospital mortality
      and short term mortality rates of the patients above 65 years of age presenting to the ED
      across Europe; Sub analysis of ED discharged patients versus admitted patients for
      characteristics, comparison to recommended care and re-ED visit; Comparison of European data
      characteristics, investigation, treatment and outcome to similar data in other part of the
      world.
    
  