
    
      This is a randomized, open label prospective clinical trial in which all patients diagnosed
      with chronic coronary occlusion in the Cardiology Department of Hospital Reina Sofía in
      Cordoba and Hospital Puerta del Mar in Cadiz, who meet inclusion criteria and none of the
      exclusion shall include and express their accordance with trial participation by signing the
      informed consent.

      66 patients who did not improve ventricular function measured by Magnetic resonance at least
      3 months after revascularization of chronic coronary occlusion will be included . The 66
      patients will be randomized in one to one ratio to an intervention group that received bone
      marrow mononuclear cells by intracoronary autologous (0.5 to 1 x 10 9 total cells) and a
      control group who receive only conventional medical treatment. The two groups of patients
      will be followed, in the clinical trial, for 6 months. Once the test is complete, they will
      follow according to standard clinical practice of Cardiology hospital for at least 24 months.

      Patients will be assessed by clinical and Magnetic resonance methods. All patients will be
      medically treated similarly with ACE inhibitors or angiotensine 1 receptor (AT1) receptor
      antagonists of angiotensin II, beta-blockers and diuretics.

      The main objective os the study is to determine the efficacy of intracoronary infusion of
      mononuclear cells from autologous bone marrow in patients with chronic coronary occlusion
      previously revascularized with stents in terms of improved ventricular function determined by
      magnetic resonance.

      Secondary objectives of the study are:

        1. To confirm, in view of the obtained results, the suitability of the proved protocol for
           the treatment of chronic coronary occlusion.

        2. To study changes in functional class (I-IV NYHA) of these patients compared with the
           control group.

        3. To evaluate the safety of treatment, the analysis of possible cardiac events during the
           6-month follow-up in the clinical trial and 24 months of additional clinical follow-up
           (death, myocardial infarction, repeat revascularization) compared with the control
           group.
    
  