
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Define the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of vinflunine and pemetrexed disodium in
           patients with unresectable or metastatic solid tumors.

        -  Define the MTD of vinflunine and erlotinib hydrochloride in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the preliminary safety and efficacy (reported descriptively per patient
           response; tumor specific response rate reported if applicable) of these regimens.

        -  Correlate CYP3A4 activity, as measured by midazolam clearance, with vinflunine plasma
           clearance.

      OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, open-label, dose-escalation study. Patients are assigned to
      1 of 2 treatment groups.

        -  Group 1: Patients receive pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes and vinflunine IV over
           20 minutes on day 1.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of pemetrexed disodium and vinflunine until
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that
      at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Additional patients may
      be treated at the MTD.

        -  Group 2: Patients receive vinflunine IV over 20 minutes on day 1 and oral erlotinib
           hydrochloride once daily on days 2-21 of course 1 and on days 1-21 of all subsequent
           courses.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of erlotinib hydrochloride and vinflunine
      until the MTD is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or
      2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Additional patients may be treated at the
      MTD.

      In both groups, courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood samples are collected on day 1 of course 1 for pharmacodynamic studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 30-40 days.
    
  