
    
      This study focuses on the relationship between prophylaxis antibiotics and frequency of
      urinary tract infection in children diagnosed with antenatal hydronephrosis. Hydronephrosis
      is the most common fetal abnormality occurring in 1-5% of all pregnancies. Currently, with
      the widespread accessibility of antenatal ultrasound across cities in Ontario, the detection
      of hydronephrosis has become even more common. As a result, thousands of infants with
      hydronephrosis have been seen and managed by pediatricians, pediatric nephrologists,
      pediatric urologists, and family physicians. The investigators need to determine if
      antibiotic prophylaxis is effective in reducing the number of urinary tract infections in
      this population.To determine whether CAP reduces the rate of UTI in infants with prenatal HN
      within the first 18 months of life.

      This is superiority, parallel, blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled trial in infants with
      prenatal HN testing the effect of CAP on febrile UTI rates over the first 18 months of life

      For clinical and safety purposes, data will be collected on symptoms and signs of febrile
      laboratory confirmed UTI (urinalysis, urine culture), compliance to treatment, adverse
      effects, and resistance to prophylactic antibiotics in case of positive urine cultures. As
      part of standard medical care, the patient and family are scheduled for renal-bladder
      ultrasounds and outpatient pediatric urology clinic visits at the local recruitment sites
      (i.e. McMaster Children's Hospital, The Hospital for Sick Children or, Children's Hospital of
      Eastern Ontario) during months as mentioned above at baseline, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months . During
      these clinic appointments, the research coordinator will follow up with patient and family
      regarding their progress in the study. The Research Coordinator will ask about any side
      effects from trial medication (nausea, vomiting, gastroenteritis, anaphylactic reactions) and
      ensure their questions or concerns are addressed. Data from patient's ultrasound assessment
      and renal scans will also be collected.

      In addition to clinic follow ups, patients and their families will be contacted monthly
      (excluding the months patient is scheduled for clinical follow up) by the Research
      Coordinator to further monitor patient's study progress. Families will be instructed to call
      the Research Coordinator at the first sign of febrile UTI (fever, loss of appetite, abdominal
      pain) and advised to seek medical assistance (bring their child to the Emergency Department
      at the local study institution). The baby will then have a dipstick taken to test for
      positive nitrites and leukocytes. If positive, patients are to have a urine sample via
      catheter specimen taken and if positive, be taken off study medication and be treated for
      febrile UTI according to standard medical practice. In this case the family and healthcare
      providers will not be unblinded to the participant's treatment allocation as this information
      is not required in order to treat the infant. In the event that parents are unable to bring
      their child to the local study institution, it is advised they obtain a dipstick and a
      catheter specimen from their local walk-in-clinic, Urgent Care Centre or family physician's
      office. If a catheter specimen is not available at these locations, a sterile bag may be used
      to determine outcome of urine sample. To ensure there is consistency between outside
      facilities, parents are given detailed instructions to obtain a dipstick and provide a
      photocopy of the results to the Research Coordinator for our records and potential
      adjudication.

      Letters will be faxed to the doctor that treated the child for the suspected UTI in order to
      obtain the associated reports.
    
  