
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the proportions of participants in the Enhanced Usual Care (EUC) and Virtual
      Tobacco Treatment (VIT) study arms with biochemically-verified 7-day point-prevalence
      abstinence from cigarettes at 6-months post enrollment.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Biochemically-verified 7-day point prevalence abstinence at 3-months follow-up.

      II. Self-reported 7-day point prevalence cigarette abstinence at 3- and 6-months follow-up.

      III. Significant reduction (> 50% reduction in reported number of cigarettes per day) in
      daily smoking from baseline to 3- and baseline to 6-months follow-up.

      IV. Continuous (no self-reported smoking since last survey point) and sustained abstinence at
      6 months (cotinine-verified at 3-months and 6-months).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the potential effect of known and potential moderators on treatment
      effectiveness between the two arms.

      II. To assess the processes of implementation and dissemination (acceptability, adoption,
      appropriateness, treatment fidelity, cost effectiveness, penetration/reach, and
      sustainability) of the investigator's intervention at community oncology sites.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A (Enhanced Usual Care [EUC]): Patients receive an assessment of smoking status and
      provision of quitting advice through the screening and referral process, and are referred to
      the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Smoking Quitline.

      ARM B (Virtual Intervention Treatment [VIT]): Patients receive an initial virtual counseling
      session with a study-designated tobacco treatment coach via MGH TeleHealth over 40 minutes
      and up to 10 more virtual counseling sessions over 15 minutes for approximately 6 months.
      Patients also receive up to 12 weeks of nicotine replacement (NRT) (patch and lozenge
      combined or alone).

      After completion of study, patients may be followed up for 1 year.
    
  