
    
      In psoriasis, the burden of disease extends well beyond physical manifestations and can be
      associated with significant physical, social and psychological impairments. The impact of
      psoriasis on quality of life has been extensively investigated and demonstrates a negative
      affect on activities of daily living including sleep. Sleep abnormalities have also been
      reported in other dermatologic diseases including atopic dermatitis. However, there is
      relatively little data on the impact of psoriasis on sleep quality and what factors are
      likely to cause sleep disturbances. Obtaining this information is important because both
      psoriasis and sleep disorders are associated with cardiovascular disease. A better
      understanding of sleep problems in psoriasis may help to further our knowledge of psoriasis
      co-morbidities.

      Certain factors associated with psoriasis, including pruritus, depression, and
      sleep-disordered breathing (obstructive sleep apnea) can independently affect sleep. It would
      be of particular interest to assess the effect of these factors on sleep quality in psoriasis
      subjects and the control group to determine what type of sleep problems exist among patients
      with psoriasis.

      This study involves the use of six questionnaires to be given to subjects with psoriasis
      covering >10% BSA and 40 subjects without psoriasis matched for age, gender and BMI, as a
      control population. The questionnaires will be given to subjects when they come for their
      scheduled appointments. The surveys will be completed anonymously and will be collected by a
      staff member when they are done. A physician will determine the participants' disease
      severity using the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) and will attach the score to
      their questionnaire.

      The questionnaires will cover sleep quality, depression, pruritis, insomnia, hypersomnia, and
      sleep-disordered breathing. Subjects will be given standard instructions to follow written
      directions on each questionnaire and will be given an unlimited amount of time to complete
      the surveys.
    
  