
    
      The San Francisco Department of Public Health, UCSF, and Project Open Hand (POH), a community
      based organization in San Francisco which provides meals and groceries to chronically ill
      clients in the Bay Area, have partnered to conduct a prospective, randomized, wait-list
      controlled study examining the impact of providing medically appropriate meals and registered
      dietician (RD) support to patients discharged from Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital
      after acute decompensated heart failure. Before discharge, patients will be randomized to
      either the intervention or wait list control arm. The intervention consists of the delivery
      of medically appropriate meals and/or groceries to participants' homes in a tapered manner
      over five months (the equivalent of three meals a day for 60 days, then the equivalent of two
      meals a day for 30 days, then the equivalent of one meal a day for 60 days) and monthly
      nutrition education with a registered dietician (RD). All food and nutritional education are
      administered by POH staff and RDs. Participants randomized into the wait list control arm
      will receive the food intervention five months after discharge. The study's primary aim is to
      examine the impact of nutritional support on the Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire
      scores. In addition, the study aims to examine the impact of nutritional support on
      healthcare utilization (particularly readmission rates and emergency room utilization),
      dietary change, medication adherence, and quality of life. The investigators will assess
      outcomes at baseline while patients are hospitalized, 2 months after discharge, and 5 months
      after discharge using quantitative surveys. The investigators will call participants at 3
      months and 4 months after discharge with a shorter quantitative survey assessing a subset of
      outcome measures. In addition, the investigators will conduct a qualitative interview near
      the conclusion of the intervention in a subset of participants to understand perceived
      impacts of the intervention as well as barriers and facilitators to heart failure care.
    
  