
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To establish safety and determine the maximum tolerated dose of total marrow and lymphoid
      irradiation when given in combination with fludarabine (fludarabine phosphate) and
      pre-post-transplant cyclophosphamide, as conditioning for haploidentical hematopoietic cell
      transplantation (HCT) in patients with high-risk acute lymphocytic or myelogenous leukemia or
      intermediate/high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome.

      II. To evaluate the safety of the regimen at each dose level by assessing adverse events:
      type, frequency, severity, attribution, time course, duration.

      III. To evaluate the safety of the regimen at each dose level by assessing complications:
      including acute/chronic graft-versus-host disease (GvHD), infection and delayed engraftment.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), cumulative incidence
      (CI) of relapse/progression, and non-relapse mortality (NRM) at +100 Days, 1 year and 2
      years.

      II. To characterize minimal residual disease from bone marrow aspirates on Days +30, +100,
      +180 post-transplant and describe in relation to total marrow and lymphoid irradiation (TMLI)
      dose level and patient disease status.

      III. To describe the kinetics of immune cell recovery in the first year post-transplantation.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of TMLI.

      CONDITIONING: Patients undergo TMLI twice daily (BID) on days -7 to -4 or -3 (depending on
      the dose level). Patients also receive fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV) on days -7 to
      -3 and cyclophosphamide IV on days -7, -6, 3, and 4.

      TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cell transplant on day 0.

      GHVD PROPHYLAXIS: Patients receive tacrolimus* IV once daily (QD) or orally (PO) BID on days
      5-180. Patients also receive mycophenolate mofetil PO thrice daily (TID) or IV on days 5-35.
      Treatment with tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil may continue in the presence of active
      GVHD.

      *NOTE: Patients intolerant of tacrolimus may receive cyclosporine.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up twice weekly for 100 days,
      twice monthly until 6 months, monthly until the patient is off immunosuppressive therapy
      without evidence of GVHD, and then at least yearly for a total of 5 years.
    
  