
    
      Failures of self-control during conflicts between long-term goals and immediate desires are a
      key characteristic of many harmful behaviors, including unhealthy eating habits, lack of
      exercise and problematic substance use, which often have adverse personal consequences and
      incur great societal costs. The project aims to elucidate neurocognitive mechanisms mediating
      deficient self-control, both in daily self-control failures and in substance use disorders
      and behavioral addictions, which are characterized by a loss of control despite awareness of
      adverse consequences. A prospective cohort study was launched using a multi-level approach
      that combines (i) a comprehensive clinical assessment, (ii) behavioral task batteries
      assessing cognitive control and decision-making functions, (iii) task-related and resting
      state fMRI, and (iv) smartphone-based ecological momentary assessment of daily self-control
      failures. From a representative community sample, three groups of participants were recruited
      (each n = 100; age 20 - 26) with (a) symptoms of non-substance related and (b)
      substance-related addictive disorders and (c) syndrome-free controls. Participants are
      invited to yearly clinical follow-up assessments and further multi-level assessments 3 and 6
      years after initial recruitment. Results obtained so far (until 06/2020) provide converging
      evidence that task performance as well as brain activity in monitoring, control, and
      valuation networks is reliably associated with the propensity to commit real-life
      self-control failures. Results support a process model, according to which deficient
      performance-monitoring leads to an insufficient recruitment of control networks, which
      attenuates the impact of long-term goals on neural value signals and increases the likelihood
      of self-control failures. In the final funding period (until 06/2024), the clinical follow-up
      period will be extended to 7 years. In addition, stress markers will be assessed as possible
      moderators of self-control. With the cross-lagged panel design it is expected to make a
      substantial contribution to the central unresolved question whether dysfunctions of cognitive
      control are causally involved in the development and trajectories of self-control failures
      and addictive behaviors, as well as to the disputed question of communalities and differences
      between different addictive disorders. Thereby, the project will to contribute to
      mechanism-based models of self-control impairments as a foundation for improved prevention
      and therapy.
    
  