
    
      Chloroquine is one of two therapeutics (in addition to remdesivir) that has demonstrated in
      vitro inhibitory effects on SARS-CoV-2 and the drug is immediately available from national
      pharmacies. No delay is accordingly expected in treatment initiation after study
      commencement. In light of the evidence supporting chloroquine as a promising therapeutic in
      patients with COVID-19, the expected impact of the current proposal is considerable both in
      the short- and long-term. If successful, treatment with chloroquine has the potential to be
      the first evidence based treatment for COVID-19. The drug is affordable and the risk of side
      effects is low, making it an attractive therapeutic in large proportions of the population on
      a global scale.

      In the current proposal aims to investigate the virological and clinical effects of
      chloroquine treatment in patients with established SARS-CoV-2 in need of hospital admission.
      The investigators hypothesize that early treatment with chloroquine in patients with
      established COVID-19 is safe and will significantly improve prognosis and impact clinical
      outcomes. More specifically, the investigators hypothesize that early treatment with
      chloroquine will increase the virological clearance rate of SARS-CoV-2, and lead to more
      rapid resolve of clinical symptoms, decreased proportion of patients with clinical
      deterioration and a decreased admission rate to intensive care units and in-hospital
      mortality. Considering the immediate and worldwide health emergency associated with the
      SARS-CoV-2 outbreak and the current lack of evidence based medical interventions for this
      patient group, studies investigating such possible treatment modalities in COVID-19 are
      direly needed.

      The study is a two-arm, open label, pragmatic randomized controlled trial (RCT) designed to
      assess the virological and clinical effect of chloroquine therapy in patients with
      established COVID-19. Pragmatic clinical trials are characterized by focus on informing
      decision-makers on optimal clinical medicine practice and an intent to streamline procedures
      and data collection in the trial. By utilizing resources already paid for by the hospitals
      (physicians and nurses in daily clinical practice), pragmatic clinical trials can include a
      larger number of patients at a short time duration and at a lower cost. Due to the immediate
      need for study commencement and the time frame of the current proposal, a pragmatic approach
      will enable swift initiation of randomization and treatment. Data will be extracted from the
      data warehouse at Akershus University Hospital for eligible patient identification (i.e.
      electronic surveillance) and for automatic data extraction to the study specific database.
      The study will not be able to procure an acceptable placebo treatment and the study will
      accordingly not be placebo-controlled.

      All patients at Akershus University Hospital with suspicion of acute respiratory tract
      infections are examined with a nasopharyngeal swab, with subsequent microbiological
      examination, including SARS-CoV-2 specific RT-PCR. Participants will be recruited from the
      entirety of the inpatients at the participating hospitals. Electronic real-time surveillance
      of laboratory reports from the Department of Microbiology will be examined regularly, with
      maximum interval 24 hours, for SARS-CoV-2 positive subjects.

      The study aims to include patients by a sequential adaptive approach, where analyses are
      planned after the inclusion of 51 patients, with subsequent analyses after 101, 151 and 202
      completed patients. All patients included in each sequence will be used for the final
      analyses of the entire study. This approach will enable frequent assessment of all outcome
      measures.

      Data will be collected from the hospital electronic record system, including electronic
      patient records, laboratory and medical imaging systems, and prescribing systems. The data
      warehouse at Akershus University Hospital will be utilized for automatic data extraction to
      the study specific database. All clinical variables will be registered in the study eCRF
      system, including clinical endpoints and quantitative virological results from serial
      oropharyngeal specimens.
    
  