
    
      Eligible, consenting subjects will be assessed at baseline and weeks 2, 12, 24, 36, and 48.
      Study medications will be dispensed at all visits except week 2, and all participants will
      commence taking open-label darunavir 800mg in conjunction with the co-formulated tenofovir
      DF/emtricitabine/cobicistat/elvitegravir (Stribild) tablet, both taken together once daily
      with food, following study procedures at baseline.

      Assessments at the study visits will include:

        1. Complete physical exam including height and weight at baseline; symptom-directed
           physical exam and weight at other visits

        2. Adverse clinical events including serious adverse events (hospitalizations etc.) and
           medication changes at every visit.

        3. HIV RNA every 4 weeks.

        4. CD4 and CD8 absolute counts and % at all visits except week 2.

        5. Platelet count, aspartate amino transferase (AST), creatinine, estimated glomerular
           filtration rate (eGFR), phosphorus, urinalysis, and urine albumin to creatinine ratio
           (UACR) at each visit.

        6. Fasting lipids (total, HDL, and LDL cholesterol and triglycerides), apolipoprotein B,
           high-sensitivity C- reactive protein (hsCRP) at baseline, week 24, and week 48.

        7. Pregnancy test for women of child-bearing potential (as defined above) at every visit
           except week 2. In addition, pregnancy tests will be performed monthly for women of
           child-bearing potential; between study visits these may be done at home.

        8. A plasma sample (3 mL) will be collected and stored once at baseline for all subjects,
           and used for measurement of darunavir trough (pre-dose) concentration in subjects
           receiving darunavir in their pre-study regimen.

        9. All subjects will take their study medication under observation in the clinic on Day 14,
           and plasma samples (3mL) for pharmacokinetic testing will be drawn immediately pre-dose
           and at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 8 hours post-dose. Subjects will return the following day
           before taking their Day 15 dose for a 24-hour post-dose sample.

       10. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) will be collected and stored at baseline for
           possible future study-related testing.

       11. The following questionnaires will be completed by participants prior to other study
           procedures at baseline and at weeks 24 and 48: MOS-HIV quality of life questionnaire;
           HIVTSQ; ACTG treatment adherence questionnaire; and the medication adherence self-report
           inventory (MASRI).
    
  