
    
      Dystonia is a heterogeneous group of movement disorders characterized by abnormal muscle
      contractions resulting in abnormal postures and movements. The spectrum of dystonia includes
      focal, segmental, multifocal, and generalized presentations with a broad range of age of
      onset. An example of a focal dystonia is cervical dystonia. The pathophysiology of dystonia
      is unclear, but prior neuroimaging and neuropathological studies have identified a role for
      the basal ganglia. In neuroimaging studies, microstructural changes in the basal ganglia have
      been found in voxel based morphometry (VBM) and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), and abnormal
      basal ganglia metabolism has been seen in imaging with fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission
      tomography (FDG-PET) in various types of dystonia. Basal ganglia pathology has been observed,
      including a case series reporting neuronal loss in the striatum. There is further evidence
      implicating the basal ganglia in dystonia from studies of animal models. In animal models,
      experimental lesions of the basal ganglia induced dystonia. An abnormality in cholinergic
      neurotransmission has been has also been suggested because of a clinical response to
      antimuscarinic medications. The striatum is a site of acetylcholine synthesis, and expresses
      muscarinic receptors. While antimuscarinic medications are useful in the symptomatic
      treatment of dystonia, the role of muscarinic acetylcholine neurotransmission in dystonia is
      unclear.

      Objective

      The objective of this application is to determine the role played by a major basal ganglia
      neurotransmitter, acetylcholine, in the pathophysiology of primary dystonia. The central
      hypothesis is that cholinergic neurotransmission is deficient in the striatum in dystonia.

      Study Population

      We plan to examine one group of patients with a form of primary dystonia (cervical dystonia)
      to be compared with healthy volunteers without history of neurological or major psychiatric
      disorders (stable mild anxiety or stable mild depression are allowed).

      Design

      This is a case-control study. Using a neuroimaging technique, position emission tomography
      (PET), the central hypothesis will be tested by pursuing one specific aim: to map M2
      muscarinic acetylcholine receptor binding in cervical dystonia as measured with PET using
      [18F]FP-TZTP.

      Outcome Measures

      This study will determine cholinergic neurotransmitter receptor binding in patients with
      cervical dystonia compared with healthy controls. This proposed research study is expected to
      advance our understanding of the pathophysiology of dystonia in order to identify possible
      targets for potential pharmacological treatments in dystonia and monitor disease progression.
    
  