
    
      Lipoatrophic diabetes is a syndrome characterized by insulin resistance in association with a
      paucity of adipose tissue. Patients with severe lipoatrophy die prematurely, typically from
      the complications of diabetes or liver disease. Experiments with lipoatrophic mice suggest
      that the insulin resistance is caused by the lack of adipose tissue. Adipose tissue normally
      produces leptin, a hormone that increases insulin action. For the last fourteen years, we
      have been studying the extent to which leptin deficiency causes diabetes in lipoatrophic
      patients. In fact, in our initial study we have seen nearly 60% amelioration of fasting
      glucose, triglycerides and free fatty acid levels and about 2% actual decreases from baseline
      HbA1c levels with 4 months of leptin replacement therapy. This response has continued to be
      sustained, as we continue to follow patients that have now received leptin replacement
      therapy for fourteen years.

      This is an open-labeled study. The study monitors the safety and efficacy of recombinant
      methionyl human leptin (A-100) replacement in children and adults. We are looking at the
      long-term effects of leptin replacement on extended therapy. In this long-term replacement
      protocol, we will monitor metabolic control (e.g. glucose, insulin, and triglyceride levels)
      as primary outcome measures. Ancillary studies will evaluate the effect of Metreleptin on
      other hormonal axes, growth and development and on liver pathology.

      We continue to evaluate the efficacy in a broader leptin deficient population of patients
      with lipodystrophy. Current inclusion criteria in patients greater than or equal to 5 years
      include female patients with leptin levels < 12 ng/mL and male patients with leptin levels <
      8 ng/mL. We continue to seek patients who meet these criteria. In children ages 6 months 5
      years, we will use a cut-off leptin level of 6 ng/mL in both genders.

      Patients who are greater than or equal to age 5 years will be evaluated every 6 months during
      the first year of therapy. If no improvements are seen after 6 months of therapy, then the
      study medication may be increased to 150% of the predicted dose (0.09mg/kg/day for males and
      girls less than 10 years of age/ 0.12mg/kg/day for females 10 years of age and older) from 6
      months to 1 year on therapy. If no improvements are seen after increasing to 150% of the
      predicted dose, then the study medication will be withdrawn. If the patient shows
      improvements in his/her metabolic parameters while on leptin, the patient will be invited to
      continue taking the study medication. The investigators will strive for all patients
      responding to leptin to bring their metabolic parameters into the normal range. The maximum
      dose of leptin that will be given is 0.24 mg/kg/day for females 10 and older, and 0.12
      mg/kg/day for males and females less than 10 years of age. After the first year of treatment,
      the patient will be evaluated every 6 months through the second year of treatment, and then
      the study period will end. After two years of treatment, extending the treatment period on an
      annual basis will be the decision of the patient, principal investigator and Bristol-Myers
      Squibb (BMS)/AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals (AZ). Leptin is supplied by BMS/AZ, and is currently
      only available through research studies. Neither the NIH nor BMS/AZ can guarantee that leptin
      will be available indefinitely and/or after the study ends. However, leptin was recently
      approved by the FDA on February 25, 2014, for use in patients with generalized lipodystrophy.

      All patient referrals for acceptance into the protocol, are initiated by the physician/health
      care provider.
    
  