
    
      The study design was a cross-sectional descriptive study performed from November 2018 to
      February 2019. It was performed at the Eric Williams Medical Sciences Complex, Champ Fleurs,
      Trinidad. The primary objectives of the study were to screen patients for depression in those
      with cardiovascular disease in Trinidad and Tobago and to determine the association between
      patients with depression and other comorbidities.

      Patients were targeted for participation in the study while waiting to see the attached
      physician to the cardiology clinic. Participants were attained at the Eric Williams Medical
      Sciences Complex during the days Monday to Friday where there were ongoing cardiology
      outpatient clinics. Once informed consent was obtained from these patients, a questionnaire
      was administered to these patients in which the primary investigator and/or co-investigator
      was/were present on site. The number of participants in this study was 1203 patients. There
      were no dropped subjects from the study nor were there any incomplete questionnaires by any
      participants. The sample size for this study was calculated to be 1159 patients. Based on a
      study done by Huffman, it was estimated that 40% of patients with cardiovascular disease also
      have depression(2). The Type I error rate 5% (α = 0.05) making the Type II error rate 95% (β
      = 0.95) with a statistical power of 90%. Assuming a 10% patient decline and attrition rate
      and a minimum detectable difference of 10%, the estimated sample size was calculated to be
      1159 patients.

      Data collection was performed by the researchers of the study along with eight specifically
      trained and oriented medical students. All data collectors in the study were supervised by
      primary investigator and co-investigator of the study so that in the event of any adverse
      events such as acute psychosis or any acute cardiology emergencies, patients could have been
      referred directly to the accident and emergency department at Eric Williams Medical Sciences
      Complex where routine medical care could have been executed.

      Additionally, there was an attached consent form which was also approved by the ethical
      committee of the University of the West Indies, St. Augustine. This consent form clearly
      explained to the participants why the research was being conducted, the average duration of
      completing the questionnaire, the benefits and any potential risks associated with
      participation in the study along with the assurance that confidentiality will be maintained
      throughout the entire study and that the patient can stop or not complete the questionnaire
      at any point without any facing repercussions. This information was documented on the consent
      form and also explained by the researchers of the study to each potential participant. All
      additional questions from patients were answered truthfully regardless of if it would have
      affected the patient's decision to participate in the study.

      Patients were asked to participate in the study as long as they were registered patients at
      Eric Williams Medical Sciences Complex in any of the cardiology outpatient clinics. This was
      confirmed by matching patients with their registration numbers on the cardiology outpatient
      clinic appointment listings. These lists are made prior to each cardiology clinic that is
      scheduled every week on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays. The inclusion
      criteria for participation in the study included patients who were 18 years old and over
      along with registered patients of the cardiology outpatient clinics at Eric Williams Sciences
      Complex.

      Of note, no rewards or incentives were offered to encourage participation in the study by
      subjects nor were there any penalization for declining participation in the study.
      Specifically, patients were not offered any monetary payments to encourage their
      participation in the study. Patients were allowed to decide on their own, whether or not they
      wanted to participate in the study. Subjects were able to participate based on the fulfilling
      inclusion criteria and informed consent attained. Of significance, there was no sponsorship
      obtained to conduct this study.

      Confidentiality of patients was kept and ensured as no patient names were recorded and all
      data recorded was de-identified. Patients were uniquely identified using their clinic
      registration numbers of the cardiology outpatient clinic. By using registration numbers to
      identify patients, this assisted in preventing duplicate collection and entry of data.
      Additionally, the database was only accessible to the primary investigator and the
      co-investigator of the study. The data was stored on a device which was password protected
      and again this password was only available to the primary investigator and co-investigator of
      the study. The database was encrypted to ensure the patient's recorded information was safe.

      Of importance, no invasive data was collected from participants in this study. No blood
      samples were drawn and no drugs being tested were administered to any patients enrolled in
      the study. Additionally, any patients deemed as medical emergencies had the opportunity to be
      referred to the accident and emergency department of Eric Williams Medical Sciences Complex
      where the routine medical protocol was followed and appropriate referrals were made. Some
      examples of these emergencies included acute psychosis, acute coronary syndromes, and acute
      heart failure.

      The scores of the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 were verbally communicated to the patients
      in confidentiality by the primary investigator and or co-investigator of the study along with
      the interpretation of the score and what it meant on the depression scale. Patients were
      given the opportunity to decide if they wanted these results communicated to the physician
      seeing them in the cardiology outpatient clinic and if so; the results were given to their
      respective physicians who would have decided on appropriate referrals and routine medical
      care. This would include appropriate referrals to psychiatry.

      The Social Sciences 24 (SPSS, Chicago, Illinois USA) was the software used for the entry of
      data and its analysis. Descriptive analyses were performed which were unadjusted. Statistical
      significance was accepted as p < 0.05.
    
  