
    
      This is an interventional, open-label, non-randomised, multicentre, single-arm phase II
      clinical trial.

      Eligible patients with hepatic oligometastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas will receive
      neoadjuvant NAPOX chemotherapy in cycles of 14 days.

      In patients with progressive disease during or after the first 4 cycles, neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy will be permanently discontinued. Patients with tumour response or stable
      disease after the first 4 cycles according to RECIST v1.1 but a non-resectable primary tumour
      according to the evaluation of an interdisciplinary tumour board will receive 4 more cycles
      of neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Patients with tumour response or stable disease and a resectable
      primary tumour after the first 4 cycles will undergo explorative laparotomy and synchronous
      resection of the tumour and hepatic metastases, if feasible; these patients may receive 4
      more cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy 2-4 weeks after the explorative laparotomy if the
      surgeon rated the primary tumour as non-resectable during the explorative laparotomy.

      All patients who receive a total of 8 cycles and who then have tumour response or stable
      disease according to RECIST v1.1 will undergo exploratory laparotomy surgery and synchronous
      resection of the tumour and hepatic metastases, if feasible according to the surgeon, 2-6
      weeks after the last investigational medicinal product (IMP) treatment.

      The primary endpoint of the clinical trial is overall survival of patients with an R0/R1
      resection after neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

      The IMP treatment will be discontinued if tumour progression or inacceptable toxicity occurs
      or other termination criteria apply.

      Adjuvant treatment will not be part of the trial treatment and may be given at the
      investigator's discretion in accordance with the Onkopedia guideline for pancreatic cancer.

      Tumour, stool and blood samples will be collected before start and during the clinical trial
      for translational research if the patient gives his/her consent to participating in the
      translational research programme.
    
  