
    
      AF is associated with an increased risk of fatal and disabling ischemic stroke. Despite
      widely accessible evidence-based clinical practice guidelines, risk stratification tools
      (CHA2DS2-VASc and HAS-BLED) and five effective oral antithrombotic agents for stroke
      prevention (22), at least 40% of high-risk patients with AF worldwide remain unprotected
      because of failure to prescribe anticoagulation. The failure to prevent stroke in AF has
      become a critical international patient safety crisis. The root causes of underutilization
      include lack of provider and patient education about the importance of stroke prevention in
      AF, inadequate risk stratification, and concerns regarding the bleeding risk with
      anticoagulant therapy. The investigators were surprised to learn that even at BWH,
      underutilization of anticoagulation for stroke prevention in AF continues to be a concern
      (1).

      The failure to prevent stroke in AF is similar to the crisis in VTE prevention among
      hospitalized patients from a decade ago. To address this critical patient safety problem,
      investigators evaluated the impact of alert-based CDS on VTE prevention (18). First,
      investigators designed software linked to our Electronic Health Record (EHR) and provider
      order entry program to identify hospitalized patients at risk for VTE using a weighted risk
      score and for whom prophylaxis was not ordered. Patients were randomized to the intervention
      group, in which the responsible physician received an electronic alert regarding the risk of
      VTE and recommendation regarding prophylaxis, or to the control group, in which no alert was
      issued. Compared with the control group, electronic alerts more than doubled the rate of
      thromboprophylaxis orders (from 14.5% to 33.5%; p<0.0001). The risk of symptomatic VTE was
      reduced by 41% (hazard ratio, 0.59; 95% confidence interval 0.43-0.81; p=0.001) among
      patients for whom an electronic alert was issued. Investigators have also shown that "human"
      (person-to-person) alert-based decision support for the prevention of VTE in at-risk
      hospitalized patients more than doubled the rate of VTE prophylaxis compared with controls
      during hospitalization (21) and after discharge (19).

      The current study will determine the impact of electronic alert-based CDS on prescription of
      anticoagulation in high-risk AF patients in the outpatient setting who are not being
      prescribed anticoagulation for stroke prevention. Because this is a Quality Improvement
      initiative, investigators will not mandate a specific antithrombotic agent, regimen, or
      duration. Investigators will provide options for anticoagulation to prevent stroke in AF and
      allow the provider to make the best choice based on their clinical judgment. If there is a
      contraindication to anticoagulation or if the risks outweigh the benefits of antithrombotic
      therapy, the provider can elect to omit anticoagulation but will need to provide the
      rationale for doing so. The current study will also determine the impact of electronic
      alert-based CDS on the frequency of stroke and systemic embolic events in high-risk AF
      patients in the outpatient setting who are not being prescribed anticoagulation for stroke
      prevention. Data acquired through this study regarding the frequency of stroke and systemic
      embolism will be used to calculate sample size requirements for a future clinical end-point
      driven randomized controlled trial of electronic alerts to prevent stroke in high-risk AF
      patients.
    
  