
    
      Following ethics approval, eligible patients meeting the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be
      consented in pre-assessment unit or day surgery ward at least 2 hours prior to their surgery.
      Patients will then be randomized into two groups:

      Epidural catheter insertion with 14 mL of a solution containing 0.125% bupivacaine and 2
      mcg/ml sufentanil injection (Treatment group) Epidural catheter insertion with 14 mL normal
      saline injection (Sham group) The patient, anesthesia provider, data recorder, OR staff and
      Post Anaesthetic Care Unit (PACU) nurses, will be blinded at the beginning of the case. After
      randomization, each patient will receive a clear 20 mL syringe containing either the
      Treatment or the Sham solution. Prior to induction of general anesthesia, an epidural
      catheter will be inserted by an experienced acute pain physician who has been performing
      epidural blocks for at least 5 years. Catheter placement will be verified by a single test
      dose of 60 mg lidocaine to exclude subarachnoid tip location.

      Induction of general anesthesia will follow a standardized protocol with the intravenous
      administration of fentanyl (2 mcg/kg), propofol (2 mg/kg), and rocuronium (0.6 mg/kg).
      General anesthesia will initially be maintained with sevoflurane at 1.0 age-adjusted Minimal
      Alveolar Concentration (MAC). Subsequently, the age-adjusted MAC will be titrated to achieve
      an intraoperative PSI target of 25-50 (Sedline, Masimo®), and intraoperative heart rate (HR)
      and mean blood pressure (MBP) target of +/-30% baseline values. The anaesthesiologist will
      have the ability to administer IV boluses of analgesic (remifentanil 0.5mcg/kg) at if the PSI
      is <50 and the MBP or HR is above 30% of baseline. Vasopressors such as phenylephrine (100
      mcg IV bolus) and ephedrine (5 mg IV bolus) can be used as last-line therapy to treat
      hypotension that is unresponsive to MAC adjustments. The age-adjusted MAC value will be
      recorded every 5 minutes starting at the time of skin incision until the time of skin
      closure. In addition, intraoperative analgesic and vasopressor usage are recorded. The
      epidural catheter will be run continuously throughout the surgery with 4-6 ml/h with study
      drug number 1 as per randomization - so either treatment or sham. After the conclusion of MAC
      recording and prior to emergence from general anesthesia, the anaesthesiologist will be
      unblinded to the randomized groups, and the patients who received Sham solution will be given
      20 mL of the treatment solution via the interscalene catheter to ensure patients receive
      adequate analgesia postoperatively.

      Postoperatively, patients will be transported to PACU where the distribution of the sensory
      or motor block will then be checked and recorded 30 minutes after arriving in PACU in both
      groups. The NRS for pain will also be recorded in PACU at 0, 15, 30 and 45 minutes.
    
  