
    
      The introduction of combination antiretroviral therapy (ART) has revolutionised the treatment
      of HIV/AIDS. ART has been associated with significant reductions in morbidity and mortality
      mainly in wealthy countries and Brazil. ART which consists of a cocktail of at least three
      different potent anti-HIV drugs, has now been adopted as the standard of care for the
      management of HIV disease in developed countries.

      The major constraint for widespread use of antiretrovirals (ARVs) in developing countries has
      been the high cost of drug acquisition and associated monitoring tests. The drug acquisition
      cost of innovator ARV ranges from €12,000 to €20,000 per patient per year. This compares with
      an annual cost of 558,000 Ugandan shilling or €260 per patient per year for Triomune, the
      most commonly generically manufactured ARV.

      Triomune exists as two formulations, Triomune 40 and Triomune 30, both manufactured by Cipla
      Mumbai, India. Both contain nevirapine 200mg and lamivudine 150mg, however the Triomune 40
      contains stavudine 40mg and Triomune 30 contains stavudine 30mg. This allows for the fact
      that persons weighing >60kg require a dose of stavudine 40mg and those weighing <60kg require
      a dose of stavudine 30mg. Therefore in patients weighing >60kg Tiomune 40 is prescribed, in
      patients <60kg Triomune 30 is prescribed. At the time of study design the majority of
      patients attending the Infectious Diseases Institute, Mulago Hospital and receiving ARV with
      Triomune were >60kg and therefore receiving Triomune 40.

      The available pharmacokinetic data for Triomune is limited to a single dose study in healthy
      Indian volunteers which was performed by the manufacturer of Triomune, Cipla Mumbai and only
      one independent bioequivalence study on the steady state pharmacokinetic parameters of
      Triomune in HIV infected patients in Malawi. Of concern in this study Triomune was found not
      to be bioequivalent to the originator products with significantly higher d4T levels in the
      patients on Triomune when compared to the originator product. In this study the patients also
      reported more side-effects, principally peripheral neuropathy, when taking Triomune and the
      authors postulated that this may have been a result of the higher d4T levels in these
      patients. It was also noted that nevirapine levels were markedly higher in Malawians compared
      to western subjects of same weight, possibly due to genetic metabolic differences. The
      authors concluded that similar evaluation of drug exposure should be performed as these
      medications are introduced to new populations.

      A study in the Cameroon examined the clinical outcome of 60 patients treated with Triomune
      over a 24 week period. This important study by Laurent et al. is the first published study
      addressing the issue of the quality of generic drugs and, as he points out, there are no
      clinical trials assessing the effectiveness, safety and quality of fixed dose combination
      drugs in resource limited environments. The study does however have several limitations. As
      the author himself acknowledges the sample size is small and therefore "not as powerful as a
      controlled trial". There is no comparison group taking branded (proprietary) drugs. The study
      time at 24 weeks is too short to satisfactorily assess the efficacy of these drugs- the
      European medicines Agency (EMEA), the European drug regulatory authority, requires a study
      period of 48 weeks for assessment of efficacy. Some major drug studies comparing different
      drug combinations have seen no significant difference in viral load suppression at 24 weeks
      but marked differences at 48 weeks. Laurent et al. performed in vitro dissolution testing on
      the drugs in their study; however this does not translate into bioequivalence. There are no
      bioequivalence data in this study. The authors did measure plasma trough drug levels at three
      time points as a measure of adherence but these measurements cannot be used to confirm
      bioequivalence.

      Comparison(s) Steady state levels of stavudine, lamvivudine and nevirapine in HIV positive
      patients taking Triomune 40 for one month compared with the steady state levels of these
      agents when the originator products Zerit 40, Epivir and Viramune have been taken for one
      month, with patients acting as their own controls.

      Pharmacogenomics

      Pharmacogenomics is the study of the effect of genetic variation on drug disposition. It is a
      growing area of research and there is emerging data to support genomic differences in
      antiretroviral drug levels and related toxicity. There is increasing evidence that drug
      disposition varies between ethnic groups. In some cases this is due to different expression
      of the genes which encode the various components of the cytochrome system, in others it is
      felt to be linked to the varying expression of the genes encoding drug transporters. There is
      currently extremely limited data in this area relating to Africans. By storing blood samples
      from subjects enrolled in pharmacokinetic studies such as this a large and unique
      pharmacogenomic resource would be build up at Makerere University.
    
  