
    
      Although the precise pathogenesis of AD is unknown, certain pathological features accompany
      the disease. These pathological features include the abnormal accumulation of extracellular
      amyloid, the formation of intraneuronal neurofibrillary tangles, synapse loss, and cellular
      degeneration. Cellular degeneration occurs in several neuronal populations in the central
      nervous system. Among the neuronal populations that degenerate in AD, loss of basal forebrain
      cholinergic neurons is particularly severe. Loss of cholinergic neurons in AD correlates best
      with severity of dementia, the density of amyloid plaques in the brain, and the amount of
      synapse. To date, the only FDA-approved therapies for Alzheimer's Disease focus on augmenting
      the function of degenerating cholinergic neurons.

      The present trial will move beyond compensating for cholinergic neuronal degeneration by
      attempting to 1) protect cholinergic neurons from degeneration, and 2) augment the function
      of remaining cholinergic neurons by directly elevating choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)
      function in neurons. These two therapeutic interventions will be brought about by the
      delivery of human NGF to the brain.

      NGF has been shown to prevent both lesion-induced and spontaneous, age-related degeneration
      of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons. Further, NGF infusions reversed both lesion-induced
      memory loss and spontaneous, age-related memory loss in rodents. Based on these findings, NGF
      administration offers significant potential as a neuroprotective strategy in Alzheimer's
      disease.

      Grafts of primary fibroblasts transduced to express human nerve growth factor have been shown
      to sustain NGF in vivo gene expression for at least eighteen months in the rodent central
      nervous system. In addition, these grafts sustain NGF messenger RNA production for at least
      14 months in vivo. In primate systems, ex vivo NGF gene therapy has been demonstrated to
      sustain NGF protein production in the brain in the rhesus money for at least one year.

      Thus, the available data suggests that ex vivo NGF gene therapy is an effective means of
      preventing loss of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and of augmenting cholinergic function
      in the primate brain. In animals, this procedure is safe and well tolerated. Based on these
      data, clinical trials of ex vivo NGF gene therapy in Alzheimer's disease has begun.

      This is an 18 month, open label, prospective Phase I clinical trial of Ex Vivo Gene Therapy
      for Alzheimer's disease in 8 patients with a mild degree of cognitive impairment. Patients
      will be screened for the diagnosis of Probable Alzheimer's disease of mild severity. After
      obtaining informed consent, three skin biopsies will be obtained to generate cultures of
      primary, autologous fibroblasts. These cells will be cultured, then genetically modified to
      produce and secrete the human nerve growth factor (NGF) molecule. If fibroblasts are deemed
      acceptable based on NGF production rates and standard cell culture sterility tests, then
      patients will receive intracerebral injections of their own primary fibroblasts into the
      region of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in the brain, where neurons are undergoing
      atrophy as a result of Alzheimer's disease.
    
  