
    
      Current estimates indicate that 1 in 110 children are affected with autism. Despite this
      striking statistic, we remain unable to describe the pathophysiology for autism, and we do
      not have adequate treatments for autism. The etiologies in most patients with autism are
      unknown, but emerging evidence supports a causal role of immune activation in autism.
      Multiple studies provide clear evidence of immune activation in peripheral blood of patients
      with autism, as demonstrated by elevations in immune markers (IFN-gamma, IL-1RA, IL-6, and
      TNF-alpha). Studies also demonstrate immune activation in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of
      patients with autism, as evidenced by significant elevations in cytokines and TNF-alpha.
      Finally, three postmortem brain studies report neuroimmune activation in patients with autism
      (ages 4-45). Combined, these three postmortem studies show activation of microglia and
      astroglia through elevations in cytokines, histology and stereology.

      While the growing body of literature supporting neuroimmune activation in autism is
      intriguing, the current results present limitations. First, there are no studies assessing
      the brains of living patients with autism/ASDs. Second, the most convincing evidence for
      neuroimmune activation in postmortem brains is extracted almost exclusively from patients
      with classical autism, where intellectual disability is common. As such, the evidence for
      neuroimmune activation in higher functioning patients with autism and autism spectrum
      disorders (ASDs) is less robust.

      We propose to determine whether neuroimmune activation is present in the living brains of
      patients with autism. Furthermore, given the heterogeneity of the autisms , as they are now
      called, we would like to determine whether neuroimmune activation is detectable in higher
      versus lower functioning patients with autism/ASDs. We propose to measure neuroimmune
      activation in the living brains of patients by utilizing positron emission tomography (PET)
      and the radioligand [(11)C]PBR28. This radioligand binds translocator protein (TSPO), which
      is over-expressed in activated microglia and reactive astrocytes, and has been demonstrated
      as a reliable marker of neuroimmune activation in various neuropsychiatric disorders. Because
      the majority of patients with autism/ASD will require propofol sedation to remain motionless
      for the two hour scan, we will include a control arm with healthy volunteers without then
      with propofol in order to determine the effects of propofol on [(11)C]PBR28 uptake. NIH has
      developed a setup in the clinical center for administering sedation/anesthesia in a safe
      manner, making this important study possible.
    
  