
    
      Design: This is a ten week open-label, fixed dose clinical study of alpha lipoic acid (ALA)
      for the treatment of antipsychotic weight gain in outpatients with schizophrenia or
      schizoaffective disorder.

      Study Endpoints: The primary outcome measure is change in body weight from baseline.
      Secondary outcome measures are fasting serum glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin, insulin, LDL
      cholesterol, triglyceride levels, quality of life (Q-LES-Q), Clinical Global Impression (CGI)
      scores and performance on the The Brief Assessment of Cognition in Schizophrenia
      neurocognitive battery (BACS). (after preliminary analysis, we have changed the cognitive
      assessment to the DSST task only. The investigators are also going to conduct exploratory
      analyses of food craving, food preference and food frequency.

      Subjects: Subjects will be recruited from the Psychosis Program and clinician referrals from
      other teams at the CMHC. Based on our previous weight loss studies the investigators expect
      very high enthusiasm from the subjects.

      Procedure and assessment schedule: Subjects who meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria will
      participate in a multi-step screening process where demographic information will be gathered,
      weight and BMI will be measured and fasting blood will be taken, and if you are a female, a
      urine sample will be tested for pregnancy. If lab results are adequate, the subject will
      continue on to a baseline visit where they will start taking alpha lipoic acid (ALA) at 600mg
      three times a day (1800mg total) for a total of ten weeks. At each visit, weight will be
      obtained, scheduled blood will be drawn and study ratings will be conducted. A short visit
      with the physician every two weeks ensures safety and improves rating fidelity. Medication
      compliance will be ensured with pill counts, feedback and encouragement that is standard for
      clinical trials with schizophrenia patients. Research scales are standard schizophrenia and
      food scales.
    
  