
    
      Several conventional and advanced mapping techniques are frequently utilized to accomplish a
      successful catheter ablation. Many of these mapping techniques (activation mapping,
      entrainment mapping) are hampered by either hemodynamic instability of some tachycardias or
      non-sustainability of others. Pacemapping is a commonly used tool for mapping non-sustained
      or hemodynamically unstable VT, which is based upon the principle that activation of the
      heart from a given site will yield a reproducible body surface electrocardiogram (ECG)
      morphology and that pacing from a site very close to the site at which VT activates the heart
      will result in a matching ECG morphology. This technique, however, is limited by imperfect
      accuracy and spatial resolution, subjectivity of interpretation leading to marked
      inter-observer variability in the perceived quality of a morphologic match, and by the need
      for an intuitive interpretation of the ECG to direct catheter manipulation. We hypothesize
      that one can improve the accuracy with which the origin of VT is localized by applying body
      surface potential mapping (BSPM), using data derived from 120 simultaneously acquired ECGs.

      Objectives:

        1. To quantify the similarity between BSPM waveforms during induced VT and during
           pacemapping or between two different pacing sites using two waveform comparison metrics,
           the correlation coefficient (CORR) and the root mean square error (RMSE) and to test the
           validity of these metrics as markers of proximity of the pacing site to the site of
           earliest ventricular activation.

        2. To compare the accuracy with which the origin of ventricular tachycardia is localized
           via pacemapping by applying (BSPM), which uses data derived from 120 simultaneously
           acquired ECGs, to the accuracy of localization with different ECG subsets e.g. 12-lead
           ECG and X, Y and Z leads.

      Patient and methods:

      We anticipate that our patients will fall in one of the flowing 4 groups:

      Group A:Patients with focal VT in structurally normal heart. Group B:Patients with scar
      related VT in which the exit site can be identified. Group C:Patients with scar related VT in
      which the exit site cannot be identified.Group D:Patients presenting with SVT.

      For all groups, data for body-surface potential mapping (BSPM) will be recorded during
      induced VT (Group A& B), pacing from virtual VT exit sites which are several points selected
      around the scar margin to represent the VT exit site (group C) or index pacing site which is
      a pacing site selected as a reference in the RV of patients presented with SVT (group D) and
      from different pacemapping sites including successful and unsuccessful ablation sites if
      applicable. All data will be imported into customized software.

      The improvement in the arithmetic value of the two comparison metrics will be tested as the
      site of pacing approaches the site of earliest ventricular activation (Groups A&B) or virtual
      VT exit sites in group C or the index pacing site (in group D). The best CORR and RMSE
      between the BSPM obtained during VT (in group A and B)/virtual VT exit sites (in group C) or
      index pacing site (group D) and different pacing sites (including successful and unsuccessful
      ablation sites) will be recorded. A simple linear regression will be used to compare the CORR
      and RMSE difference at each pacing site to distance between this pacing site and the
      successful ablation site as a surrogate of the best pace-match (in group A and B) or the
      corresponding virtual VT exit site (in group C) or index pacing site (group D). P value <0.05
      will be considered significant. The mean sensitivity, specificity, and positive- and
      negative-predictive accuracies of the arithmetic metrics in determining the VT origin/exit
      site will be determined. We will repeat the previous protocol using different ECG subsets
      including 12 lead ECGs and X, Y and Z leads. The predictive accuracies for different subsets
      of electrodes will be measured and compared to those derived from using the whole BSPM
      obtained from the 120 ECG leads.
    
  