
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is caused by airway inflammation (increase
      airway resistance) and destroyed of alveoli (decrease elastic recoil) leading to air trapping
      (GOLD, 2013). Dyspnea is the most symptom of COPD, a consequence of air trapping.
      Furthermore, inflammation of COPD has not only been assessed in the airways and lung
      compartment, but also in the systemic circulation that so called "systemic effects of COPD"
      such as skeletal muscle atrophy and dysfunction and cardiovascular disease (Wouter, 2002).
      The occurrence of dyspnea and systemic effects of COPD result in activity and exercise
      limitation when disease progressive downward.

      Exercise testing is the most common determination of exercise limitation and responsiveness
      of intervention in COPD. It has several exercise protocols including laboratory test and
      field test. Both test aim to investigate exercise capacity but laboratory test have more
      parameter detail than field test. In 2013 Borel et al, classified the exercise protocols into
      three categories by using the workload characteristic (incremental or constant) and the
      self-paced test. Self-paced test was developed to solve the disadvantage of Incremental and
      Constant work rate (laboratory test). Moreover,it reflect functional activity and is easy to
      use. Self-paced test that most famous test such as six minute walk test, step test and
      stepper test Six minute walk test (6-MWT) assesses distance walked as far as possible within
      6 minutes on straight courses. Although the 6-MWT is the most reliable, but it is impractical
      (Kocks et al., 2011) because of environmental constrain (this test should be performed wild
      area).

      Step test was performed in small area such as hospitals and physician's office. However,
      these protocols have a risk of falling. Therefore, it was unsuitable for patients who have
      the imbalance or articular problem.

      In 2010, Borel et al., developed six-minute stepper test (6-MST) to solve problem of 6MWT and
      step test. This study reported that 6-MST used oxygen consumption (VO2) lower than 6MWT. They
      reasoned that during stepper test, subject move upper limb fewer than walking test. Similarly
      with Mayo et al., 2001, they found heart rate and expiratory minute ventilation (VE) response
      of arm performance higher than leg. Therefore, movement of the upper limbs may be increase
      VO2 peak during exercise test of COPD patient.

      Exercise limitation in COPD patient is not only occurs in lower body activity but also occurs
      during upper task due to systemic effect of disease. Upper body activity was used in daily
      activity such as lifting, bathing and washing. The almost protocols of exercise test were
      focused on lower limb test.

      The investigators need to find the exercise tests which have the performance in both of upper
      and lower part movement and are easy to apply in a small setting. In 2013, Premsri et al.
      studied marching exercise on sympathetic activation in sedentary Thais. And in 2013,
      Promsrisuk et al. study effects of brisk marching on anthropometry, functional exercise
      capacity and physical performance among elderly women. Marching exercise have repetitive
      pattern of arm and leg alternated movement by bending hip between 45-90 degree with knee
      flexion (Premsri et al.,2013) and also lifting their shoulder flexion up at 90 degree.

      Therefore, The investigators interested in the pattern of marching exercise that use both
      upper and lower extremity and used for exercise test in COPD patient. The investigators
      expect that marching can increase the performance at maximum level nearby 6-MWT COPD is a
      major disease in Thailand that not only affects the quality of life for the patient but also
      is a burden for their family and society at large in terms of the costs of health care and
      loss of economic activity. Improvements in diagnosis care and treatment can help to minimize
      the problems but the first stage is diagnosis and assessment. Despite the fact that there are
      many different exercise protocols that have been used for this purpose there is still an need
      for a test that is easy to use, especially in the community, and one that involves both arms
      and legs and is more representative of the activity of daily life. This project is concerned
      with developing such a test.

      Therefore, this study to assess the relationship and compare physiological response between
      spot marching exercise test and 6 minute walk test in patient with chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease
    
  