
    
      Anastomotic leakage after pancreaticoduodenectomy is a feared complication with substantial
      mortality and morbidity. Treatment of a postoperative pancreatic fistula can be difficult and
      management may range from a simple observation with or without percutaneous drainage, to the
      urgent need for reoperation and management of abdominal sepsis with organ failure and
      prolonged intensive care. To diagnose a pancreatic fistula may have a delay of several days.
      The risk of death and severe morbidity raises considerable from a biochemical pancreatic
      fistula compared to the most serious form, a grade C. Also, the cost of managing a patient
      with a fistula is 1.3-6 times more than a patient with no complications after PD.

      Microdialysis is a promising tool in patients who undergoes pancreaticoduodenectomy for early
      detection of postoperative pancreatic fistula development. The technique may reveal an
      fistula before severe symptoms occur and before the complication gives the patient serious
      and life-threatening symptoms. Earlier intervention of the postoperative pancreatic fistula
      may lead to better prognosis, less reoperations and interventions and shorter stay at the
      ICU/hospital. By monitoring intraperitoneal metabolites (glycerol, lactate, pyruvate and
      glucose) close to the pancreaticojejunostomy, signs of a leakage may be discovered in few
      hours, thereby make it possible for early intervention and prevent developement of serious
      progression of morbidity. The investigators want to perform a randomized study where half of
      the patients will receive a microdialysis catheter implanted close to the pancreaticoduodenal
      anastomosis before closure of the abdomen. At certain timepoints postoperatively
      microdialysate will be analyzed for glycerol, lactate, pyruvate and glucose and the data will
      be used in the decisionmaking of diagnosing a pancreatic anastomosis leakage in addition to
      standard management. The other half of the patients will not receive a microdialysis catheter
      and the decisionmaking will only be based on standard management (ie. inflammation markers in
      blood samples, amylase in drainage fluid).
    
  