
    
      There have been several published studies using Endoflip™ to assess the pyloric sphincter in
      small number of participants. In the first study, Gourcerol et al showed that pyloric
      compliance is decreased in gastroparesis patients compared to 21 healthy controls and
      associated with the T1/2 of gastric emptying and symptoms of gastroparesis (Gourcerol 2015).
      From this study, pyloric distensibility <10 appeared to be abnormal. In the second study,
      Malik et al found that the pyloric sphincter contour was seen best at distention with 40 cc.
      Symptoms of early satiety and postprandial fullness were inversely correlated with pyloric
      diameter and cross-sectional area of the pyloric sphincter (Malik 2015).

      Pyloric distensibility <9.2 was associated with improvement in symptoms with endoscopic
      pyloromyotomy. A recent study showed similar patterns for improvement in symptoms with
      botulinum toxin injection in the pylorus.

      The pyloric sphincter is at the distal end of the stomach, whereas the lower esophageal
      sphincter (LES) is at the proximal portion of the stomach. How abnormalities of the pyloric
      sphincter relate to abnormalities of the LES is not known, but will be addressed in this
      study. Our prior studies have shown that diffuse transit abnormalities may occur in patients
      with gastroparesis. In addition, patients with gastroparesis can have symptoms of
      gastroesophageal reflux disease. This study will ascertain if there are LES abnormalities in
      patients with gastroparesis as determined by Endoflip™, such as LES distensibility and how
      LES distensibility relates to pyloric distensibility. This study protocol will assess lower
      esophageal and pyloric sphincter diameter, CSA, pressure, distensibility, and compliance in
      patients with symptoms of gastroparesis and delayed gastric emptying, patients with symptoms
      of gastroparesis but with normal gastric emptying, and normal control participants. The
      protocol will also use two additional tests that may assess the pylorus: electrogastrography
      (EGG) with water load satiety testing (WLST), and wireless motility capsule (WMC).
    
  