
    
      Tube shunt implantation is a common type of surgery considered standard of care for treating
      significant potentially-blinding glaucoma where medical and laser treatment, and previous
      surgeries, have failed to control intra-ocular pressure (IOP) sufficiently to stop glaucoma
      progression towards blindness.

      Since a larger plate tube (e.g., Baerveldt 350) is more difficult to implant requiring longer
      surgical time and intraoperative ocular muscle manipulation with possible patient discomfort,
      a smaller plate tube shunt (e.g., Ahmed ClearPath 250) requiring shorter surgical time and no
      ocular muscle manipulation may have an advantage if the long term surgical outcomes were the
      same.

      However, the literature is lacking regarding the effect of the tube plate size on the final
      outcomes of tube shunt implantation. Most published comparisons are between totally different
      types of tube shunts regardless of plate size, often made of different materials, often
      comparing valved vs. non-valved tube shunts,combining different plate sizes in the same study
      groups,5 mixing tubes with or without combined cataract surgery in the same study groups, or
      comparing surgeries performed by several surgeons utilizing different surgical methods.
      Further, all these studies utilize tubes implanted into the anterior chamber (AC) thus
      increasing the risk of corneal failure, with no comparisons at all between tube shunts
      implanted through the ciliary sulcus of the eye designed to reduce the risk of corneal
      failure. Our Principle Investigator (AW) is specializing and well-published in this type of
      tube shunt implantation.

      This prospective randomized trial is designed to resolve all these confusing factors in the
      literature and finally provide the answer of whether tube plate size has an effect on the
      final outcomes of tube shunt implantation by performing a "clean" study that would isolate
      the effect of tube plate size on long term outcomes. To achieve this goal our study will
      utilize two non-valved tube shunts with a different plate size (350 vs. 250 mm2) made of
      identical materials, in eyes that have already had cataract surgery, and all performed by the
      same surgeon (AW) through the ciliary sulcus.
    
  