
    
      In the course of surgical procedures and hospitalization, patients are stressed not only by
      the discomforts and anxieties associated with their illness and treatment but also by the
      sterile, intimidating medical environment, with no access to the natural environment.
      Clinical studies from environmental medicine have suggested that during hospital confinement
      patients benefit from visually pleasing décor. Enhancing the medical milieu can alleviate
      patient anxiety and discomfort as well as improve markers of stress such as blood pressure
      and requirement for analgesics. In addition, research has shown the effectiveness of stress
      reduction approaches such as Relaxation Response, Guided Imagery, and Hypnosis in mediating
      clinical psychophysiology overall. Such studies have also shown the lowering of stress
      levels, inducing faster recovery from surgical anesthesia and perhaps even speeding physical
      healing overall. Use of these techniques has been shown to give people a greater sense of
      self-control as well and reduce stress reactions that affect health.

      The proposed study represents the next step testing clinical efficacy of a behavioral
      medicine intervention with breast cancer patients undergoing mastectomy and reconstruction
      surgery. The current study extends prior research on accelerating healing outcomes through
      the use of non-pharmacological mental interventions. One prior study demonstrated accelerated
      bone fracture healing using hypnosis in otherwise healthy young adults. A second study showed
      enhanced post-surgical wound healing in healthy women undergoing reduction mammoplasty. The
      current study will generate new data about enhancing outcomes for breast cancer patients
      undergoing mastectomy and reconstruction. The goal of the trial is to determine whether these
      ancillary treatments enhance psychological and physical post-surgical recovery as compared to
      usual care only. The study provides an upside potential to enhance patient well being and to
      accelerate post-surgical recovery with minimal risk. Should significant positive findings
      result from this study, it will constitute a pilot test of such modifications of the
      healthcare delivery environment with an eye toward stimulating greater patient well being and
      shorter length of stay.
    
  