
    
      Background: Hysteroscopy represents a minimally invasive procedure that has been increasing
      its adoption in the treatment of many cervical canal and uterine cavity disorders. However,
      difficulties related to the introduction of the equipment through the cervix are frequent.
      Although several studies suggest advantages in the cervical preparation with misoprostol,
      reducing the resistance of the uterine cervix, systematic reviews are unison to indicate the
      need for clarification on the ideal dose.

      Aim: Compare the intra and postoperative results of patients submitted to cervical dilatation
      for surgical hysteroscopy with previous use of misoprostol at doses of 200mcg or 800mcg for
      uterine cervix preparation at Recife school hospitals.

      Methods: Randomized, quadruple-blind clinical trial with patients who underwent cervical
      dilatation prior to surgical hysteroscopy at Recife school hospitals, Pernambuco. Patients
      included will be allocated randomly into two groups. The first group will use misoprostol in
      the dosage of 200mcg and the second, will use the dosage of 800mcg. Administration, via the
      vaginal route, will occur 12 hours before performing the operative hysteroscopy. The
      following variables will be studied: cervical canal width, cervical length, degree of
      difficulty, duration and failure of cervical dilation, side effects, surgical complications
      and patient's satisfaction. For statistical analysis, chi-square tests of association,
      Fisher's exact and Mann-Whitney tests will be used to compare the groups, with an alpha error
      of less than 5% being considered significant.

      Ethical aspects: This study will comply with Resolution 466/12 of the National Health Council
      and was submitted to and approved by the Professor Fernando Figueira Integral Medicine
      Institute Research Ethics Committee, beginning only after this approval. All participants
      will only be included if they voluntarily agree to participate by signing the Free and
      Informed Consent Form.

      There are no conflicts of interest.
    
  