
    
      The prevalence of concussion has been estimated to be between 4,380 and 10,403 concussions
      per day in the United States annually with over an estimated 3 million visits to emergency
      departments each year.1 Symptoms following a concussion last up to 10 days for 90% of cases2;
      however, the reduction of symptoms in this time frame does not indicate full neurometabolic
      recovery.

      Following concussion, a neurometabolic cascade of events immediately occurs following initial
      impact with return to normative values around 30 days post-injury. In an attempt to maintain
      homeostasis in the brain following impact, glucose and oxygen demand increases temporarily
      and are coupled with periods of increased hyperperfusion and decreased cerebral blood flow
      (CBF). Although the neurometabolic timeline immediately following impact is only generally
      understood, there is consensus upon acute increases in CBF and metabolic activity followed by
      decreased CBF until return to normative values.

      Cryotherapy has been studied extensively for its' effects throughout the musculoskeletal
      system. Cryotherapy in the musculoskeletal system has been shown to decrease tissue
      temperature and blood flow, as well as decrease oxygen and energy demands.12-19 Cryotherapy
      has also been applied in cases of moderate or severe traumatic brain injury and has
      demonstrated to decrease intracranial metabolic processes and oxygenation consumption.
      Although the potential benefits of cryotherapy have been established in cases of moderate to
      severe traumatic brain injury (TBI), there is no current research examining cryotherapy in
      the treatment of concussion.

      A convenience sample of 34 healthy, recreationally active individuals between the ages of
      18-25 years will be recruited for participation in this study. The independent variable in
      this study will be group (cryotherapy, control). The primary outcome measures of interest are
      cognitive functioning measured using the Stroop Test and cerebral blood hemodynamics and
      hemoglobin saturation measured using near infrared spectroscopy. The pain visual analog scale
      (VAS) will be used to quantify tolerance to the intervention.

      The following study will address the following objectives and related hypotheses:

      Objective 1: To determine if the application of cryotherapy influences intracranial
      hemodynamics within healthy recreationally active young adults.

      Hypothesis 1: Cryotherapy will cause a decrease in intracranial hemodynamics; specifically,
      the CO2 saturation and deoxygenated hemoglobin causing a decrease in intracranial metabolic
      activity.

      Objective 2: To determine if the application of cryotherapy decreases cerebral blood flow
      within healthy recreationally active individuals.

      Hypothesis 2: The application of cryotherapy will not cause a change in cerebral blood flow
      due to the highly regulated central nervous system.
    
  