
    
      Purpose: To evaluate if there is a difference in long-term outcome of sacral neuromodulation
      (SNM) between patients screened with the percutaneous nerve evaluation (PNE) and first stage
      tined lead procedure (TLP). Furthermore, we wanted to evaluate the outcome in patients who
      only responded to screening with TLP after failure of initial PNE.

      Materials and methods: We evaluated all patients screened for eligibility to receive SNM
      treatment since the introduction of the tined lead technique in our centre in 2002. In May
      2009, all implanted patients were asked to keep a voiding diary to record the effect of SNM
      on urinary symptoms. Success was defined as more than 50% improvement in at least one of the
      relevant voiding diary parameters compared to baseline. Chi square analysis was used to
      evaluate differences in long-term outcome for the separate screening methods.

      Results: In total, 92 patients were screened for SNM. Of the 76 patients who were screened
      with PNE, 35 (46%) met the criteria for permanent implantation, whereas 11 of the 16 patients
      (69%) who underwent direct screening with TLP had permanent stimulators placed. Of the 41
      patients who failed PNE and subsequently underwent screening with TLP, 18 (44%) were
      implanted with an INS after showing a successful response. The mean follow-up was 53 months
      (range 35-77 months) at the time of voiding diary analysis. Statistical analysis showed no
      difference between type of screening and long-term success (p=0.94).

      Conclusion: Although first stage TLP is a more reliable screening tool than PNE, the
      long-term success rate does not seem to be dependent on the screening method. Furthermore,
      patients who initially failed PNE but responded to prolonged screening with TLP, appear to be
      at least as successful in the long-term as patients who directly responded to PNE or TLP.
    
  