
    
      The SUNRISE study is a prospective, multi-center, double-blind, randomized,
      placebo-controlled trial in subjects aged 12.0 to <41.0 years diagnosed with T1D, as defined
      by American Diabetes Association (ADA) criteria, and within 5 years of diagnosis. Time of
      diagnosis is defined as the first day of insulin administration. Subjects will be stratified
      by duration (zero up to 1 year and 1 year up to five years) to ensure balance of disease
      duration across treatment and placebo groups in each strata. For analytical purposes, all
      subjects12-<41 will be considered cohort A, subjects aged 12-<18 will considered cohort B and
      subjects aged 18-<41 will be considered cohort C. For subjects aged 12-<18 (Cohort B), dosing
      will be staggered with an initial 6 subjects aged 14-<18 being enrolled with the last subject
      a having a minimum of 2 injections with at least 1 week follow-up after the 2nd injection.
      Safety data from this cohort will be evaluated before opening the study to subjects 12 and
      older. Subjects should be randomized no sooner than 6 weeks after diagnosis, unless glycemic
      range is adequately controlled as confirmed by time in glycemic range (70-180 mg/dL) >55% by
      CGM recording over 3 or more consecutive or non-consecutive days. Screening assessments will
      include a physical examination, a fundoscopic photograph, chemistry and hematology safety
      labs, urinalysis, 24-hour urine protein and creatinine, HbA1c, presence of T1D antibodies,
      and a 4-hour MMTT. Approximately 99 qualified subjects who meet all selection criteria will
      be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to treatment with TOL-3021 or placebo and treated for 52 weeks.
      Study drug treatments will be administered via an IM injection into a large muscle every week
      for 52 weeks. Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) will be initiated within 5 days prior to
      the screening MMTT visit and continued through Week 52. Subjects will agree to diabetes
      management during the study with the goal of maintaining HbA1c levels of approximately 7.0%
      without frequent episodes of hypoglycemia.
    
  