
    
      The study will consist of the development and delivery of a nurse led clinical intervention
      to provide allergy care in the community within the NHS Lothian primary care setting. The
      clinical intervention will see the allergy nurse provide clinical care to patients with a
      specified range of allergic conditions and provide diagnosis and immediate management where
      appropriate.

      The clinical component of the research project will consist of a pilot nurse led allergy
      clinic, provided by one specialist nurse twice a week across two different GP surgeries
      within NHS Lothian, GPs from across 12 practices will be encouraged to refer into the pilot
      allergy clinic.

      The referring health care professional will advise participants and their carers that the
      nurse led allergy clinic has been set up as part of a research project and participants will
      be asked if they wish to consent to take part in the research study. Feedback on the pilot
      clinic will be gathered to find out if the pilot clinic is acceptable to participants
      (satisfaction questionnaire), to find out if the clinic has made any improvement to quality
      of life (condition specific quality of life questionnaire) and if there is any cost impact
      (cost questionnaire).

      Participants The initial consultation - explanation of research project and written informed
      consent obtained.

      The nurse practitioner will:

        -  Take a thorough allergy clinical history including examination of the participant as
           necessary and identify what clinical care is required,

        -  Carry out any investigations that are required eg Skin prick testing to common food and
           aeroallergens.

        -  Give advice both written and verbal to support the management of allergies, including
           demonstration of medical devices e.g. adrenaline auto injectors, inhalers etc.

        -  Prescribe any necessary medication

        -  Provide a written summary of the consultation and any prescribed medication.

      Participants will complete a series of three questionnaires, satisfaction, condition specific
      quality of life and cost questionnaires.

      Follow up appointments where deemed appropriate will be conducted by telephone using a
      specified protocol. Where this is not appropriate face to face reviews will be arranged
      during clinic time. While short term follow-ups will be provided, there are no facilities to
      offer long term follow up for participants attending the allergy clinic under this pilot and
      all participants will return to their health care professional for follow up and long term
      management. If the participant has complex allergies or requires specialist intervention the
      participant will be advised that they will require referral into secondary care.

      As part of the research project an email support service will be set up to support the health
      care professionals involved in the project.

      The study will utilize a combination of qualitative and quantitative methods to evaluate the
      clinical intervention at baseline and at six weeks to determine the feasibility of the clinic
      and patient outcomes with this clinical intervention.

      The tools available to the researcher include a series of validated surveys including patient
      and clinician satisfaction surveys, condition specific quality of life and economic cost to
      patient.

      Interviews In addition face to face interviews will be offered to a subset of participants to
      enable further understanding of their perspective and experiences of the nurse-led allergy
      clinic. This will be to see if this intervention is feasible and improves patient care.

      The views of health care professionals and practice managers referring into this clinic will
      also be sought using a satisfaction questionnaire and qualitative interviews at 12 weeks
      after the start of the clinic and 10-12 months from the end of the project.

      Data on allergy will be requested from GP practices and NHS Information services Division
      (ISD) for quantitative analysis at baseline and at the end of the study.
    
  