
    
      Hemodialysis Patients present chronic inflammation caused by multiple inflammatory stimuli.
      Chronic inflammation is linked to clinical signs and symptoms and cardiovascular mortality in
      these patients. Inflamed dialysis patients show impaired response to
      erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESA) mainly related to a reduced iron utilization
      (functional iron deficiency) with a greater need for ESA to meet hemoglobin targets. If
      absolute iron deficiency can been excluded, EPO resistance is likely related to 'inflammatory
      block'.

      The high molecular permeability of the Theranova Medium cut-off membrane allows for
      significant clearance of medium molecular toxins and we know that a number of uremic solutes
      have been identified as pro-inflammatory, including several with a molecular weight in the
      size range of 20-45 kDa (cytokines, kappa/lambda free light chains and hepcidine). The EPO
      index has been previously used in clinical trials to measure EPO responsiveness [2,3] and is
      associated with mortality of ESRD patients [4-7].

      All AE, SAE and other safety issues will be collected and described. The even review
      committee could be consulted in case of Safety event, and give recommendations.

      Data entry to be carried out into an electronic CRF hosted database. This database allows the
      follow-up of any modifications made during data entry and monitoring. Data consistency will
      be checked on line according to the procedure described in the Data Management Plan (DMP), as
      part of the Study Master File. Each eCRF follows the study schedule structure. It is divided
      in sections for each visits or specific forms.

      Eligible patients will be consecutively randomized in a 1:1 fashion to the standard dialysis
      or to dialysis with MCO dialyzer. The random sequence will be centrally generated in the CRF
      tool. The randomization procedure will be stratified per centre. Size of block is only known
      by the statistician to keep the investigator blinded regarding group allocation for the next
      patient.

      Each patient must be identified on the CRF with his initials and identification number.
      Investigators must keep the list of all the patients, including identification numbers, full
      names and last known addresses.

      Patients must be informed that the results obtained will be computer-stored and analyzed,
      that local laws must be applied, that patient's confidentiality must be preserved, and that
      they are entitled to obtain any information concerning the data stored and analyzed by a
      computerized system.

      The investigator must give the Study Monitor direct access to relevant hospital or clinical
      records to confirm their consistency with the CRF entries. No information in these records
      about the identity of the subjects will leave the study site. Standards requirement is full
      verification for the presence of informed consent, adherence to the inclusion/exclusion
      criteria, documentation of SAEs and the recording of primary efficacy and safety variables.
      Additional checks of the consistency of the source data with the CRFs are performed according
      to the study-specific monitoring plan.

      The final statistical analysis will be described in the Statistical Analysis Plan (SAP),
      which will be prepared and signed prior to clean file. The SAP will include detailed
      information regarding the analysis of safety and efficacy. Per protocol dataset will be
      defined by Endpoint Review Board.

      Considering these assumptions, it is estimated that 55 patients per group will be required
      for a mean follow- up period of 48 weeks. A total number of 110 patients is required.

      Continuous variables will be analyzed by ANOVA for repeated measurements. Data will be
      expressed as mean standard deviation if normally distributed or as percentile of the
      distribution elsewhere for continuous variables and as proportion for dichotomous variables.

      The investigators must keep essential study documents (including all original raw data
      together with the patients' identification list and signed informed consents) minimum 5 years
      after product commercialization is stopped and should be retained for a longer period however
      if required by the applicable regulatory requirements or by an agreement with the sponsor.

      Patient medical files have to be kept as much as possible at each investigation site.

      Investigators will be informed by Sponsor when documents related to the study could be
      deleted. Prior to destroying study-related documentation, the investigator shall make sure
      with the Sponsor, which it does not need to be kept any longer.

      Results of this clinical study will be submitted to a respected international peer-reviewed
      journal. They may also be submitted as abstracts to a scientific congress for oral or poster
      communication.
    
  