
    
      This study will utilize a prospective randomized cohort of adolescent patients that present
      to the orthopedic sports center (age restriction greater than 12 years old) with adolescent
      anterior knee pain. This knee pain includes: Osgood-Schlatter disease,
      Sindig-Larsen-Johanssen syndrome, patellofemoral syndrome, symptomatic medial plicae, and
      Hoffa fat pad syndrome/impingement. Although these diagnoses affect slightly different sites
      at the anterior knee, the underlying pathology is essentially the same: muscle inflexibility
      and core strength weakness. These are clinical diagnoses, and plain radiographs are expected
      to be normal with no significant osseous abnormalities other than possible apophyseal
      fragmentation. Skeletal maturity will not be an exclusion criteria; but, previous surgery,
      history of hemarthrosis, previous physical therapy due to lack of control within the cohorts,
      and/or diagnosis of ligament, meniscal, cartilage, or tendon injury will be criteria for
      exclusion.

      Randomization by computer generated order of consent packets will be utilized once the family
      and patient agrees to undergo treatment via the proposed trial. Two cohorts of patients will
      be created: Cohort #1 and #2. Cohort #1 will consist of patients that begin with the PT
      portion of the study (2 sessions per week for 6 weeks per standard of care) and cross-over in
      the ARP Wave protocol (20 sessions over 4 weeks). Cohort #2 will consist of patients that
      begin with the ARP Wave protocol and then cross-over in the standard PT protocol.

      Both cohorts will undergo physical therapy utilizing a standard of care uniform PT protocol
      for a traumatic knee pain that focuses on flexibility and development of hip core strength
      over a 6 week period, visiting the therapist twice per week and encouraged to maintain a home
      exercise program (HEP). They will all receive a handout with basic exercises to use at home
      to ensure that progress with their HEP is maximized (Appendix I). Basic stretches for the
      hamstring and quadriceps muscles will also be provided with line drawings. During this
      treatment period the patients will complete a daily diary of time spent on the HEP with
      attestation from their parents or guardians, in order to improve compliance.

      Both cohorts will undergo the same ARP Wave protocol, as well. There are 20 sessions that are
      used to take a single individual through to completion of treatment over a period of 30 days.
      During that time frame the athletes are not allowed to undergo PT, HEP or their normal
      athletic endeavors since it may interfere with the neuromuscular training particular to this
      therapeutic modality. Treatments will be performed at an outside vendor that has agreed to
      perform the treatments at reduced cost for the sake of this study.

      Both cohorts of patients will be evaluated every two weeks, for 10 weeks, by an independent
      team of observers who will be blinded to the actual cohort that the patient is randomized.
      These individuals will perform a Return to Sports (RTS) assessment and measurement of thigh
      circumference of the patients at these biweekly assessments. Although the RTS will not
      provide an objective measure of absolute core muscle strength, it does provide an objective
      measure of dynamic muscle function - which is the ultimate objective of these treatment
      modalities, not absolute strength of any given muscle such as the quadriceps. Moreover, the
      RTS makes an objective assessment of both strength and endurance of the core lower extremity
      muscle groups. These independent observers will also administer patient-derived outcome
      scores.

      An interim analysis for each patient will be performed once they complete their first arm of
      the study. Both the research staff and the orthopedic surgeon principal investigator (PI)
      will examine the outcome variables at this time in insure safety in treatment. If the
      patients are scoring in the 95% percentile on all outcome measures, they will be considered
      as reaching the study endpoint and will not cross-over into the next phase of treatment. For
      patients who do not reach this 95% percentile of healing at the end of the first arm,
      crossover into the next arm of the study will occur immediately. At the end of 10 weeks and
      successful completion of both arms of the study, the patient will be seen by the orthopedic
      surgeon to make a final assessment regarding treatment progress, knee pain, and whether or
      not further treatment will be required (in the standard of care for these patients,
      regardless of study cohort).
    
  