
    
      This study is a multi-center, non-randomized, non-controlled post-approval study designed to
      follow a total of 1000 consecutive qualified and consenting subjects treated with ArteFill®
      in the course of clinical practice at approximately twenty-five centers. All potential
      qualifying subjects at a given site should be given the opportunity to participate in the
      study. Inclusion and exclusion criteria will be limited to those in the approved labeling for
      ArteFill® and treatment will be according to the approved product labeling. Subjects must
      have a previously documented negative skin test prior to treatment. Follow-up for
      subject-reported potential adverse events and satisfaction data will be by mail or telephone
      questionnaire survey every six months for the first two years after the final treatment
      session and then every year for a total of five years of follow-up. The subject will be
      contacted by his or her investigator if a problem is identified in the questionnaire response
      as reviewed by the Sponsor or their designee. Potential adverse events reported in the
      follow-up questionnaires will be investigated further by means of office visits, as
      necessary, or via telephone.

      Adverse events will be confirmed and reported by the investigators. If an adverse event is
      determined by the investigator to possibly be a granuloma, it will be investigated via
      histology. If a subject for whom an adverse event is reported has received additional
      aesthetic or non-aesthetic treatment to the affected area, available information on such
      treatment will be collected and the subject will be continued to be followed per protocol.
      Such subjects will not be excluded from the analysis, but will be evaluated separately.
      Effectiveness data will be collected during the study and will consist of the subject's
      assessment of satisfaction with treatment.
    
  