
    
      This is a double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group design study with 4 treatment
      groups; levetiracetam, zonisamide, topiramate, and placebo control. This study evaluated the
      effects of zonisamide (400 mg per day) on alcohol consumption and its neurotoxic effects in
      subjects with AUDS. A double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trial was conducted using two
      comparator anticonvulsant drugs, topiramate (300 mg daily) and levetiracetam (2000 mg/day),
      which does not impair cognition. Topiramate was used as an active control in this study.

      Study medications were administered for 14 weeks, including a 2-week taper period. Target
      maintenance doses of study medications were administered to subjects during study weeks 8-12.
      Dosage reductions were made if needed to allow subjects to tolerate their study medication.
      During the medication taper phase of the study (Weeks 13-14) the Principal Investigator is
      allowed flexibility in the titration schedule in instances when the subject is experiencing
      events consistent with withdrawal, for example anxiety. Neurotoxicity of study drugs was
      assessed using neuropsychological tests and the AB-Neurotoxicity scale.

      An adaptive randomization procedures with sex and heavy drinking history being factors in the
      assignment of subjects to the treatment groups. will be done using sex and very heavy
      drinking. Very heavy drinking is defined as male subjects consuming more then 10 standard
      drinks per day and female subjects consuming more then 8 standard drinks per day for more
      then 40 percent of the days in the screening TLFB.

      Medication adherence was facilitated using Brief Behavioral Compliance Enhancement Treatment.
      It is a brief, standardized therapy that emphasizes medication adherence as being crucial to
      the improvement of drinking behavior.

      Subject assessments included, but were not limited to the following:

      1) TLFB, 2) Adverse Events (AEs) assessment ,3) A-B Neurotoxicity Scale (weeks
      1,4,8,12,15),and 4) Neuropsychological battery Assessments- including the Controlled Word
      Association Test (COWAT) and Digit and Spatial Span portions of the Wechsler Memory Scale-
      3rd (weeks 1,12).
    
  