
    
      Pressure injuries are a serious health concern for individuals who use wheelchairs.
      Wheelchair users are at an increased risk of developing pressure injuries on the parts of the
      body that are in constant contact with the wheelchair. The development of pressure injuries
      can cause negative consequences on their lives. Pressure injuries often lead to reduced
      mobility, reduced activity and participation, greater unemployment, increased risk for future
      pressure injury development, and premature death. Some risk factors associated with
      developing pressure injuries include continual pressure, nutrition, shear forces, and
      moisture. Individuals whose use wheelchairs can reduce the risk of pressure injury formation
      by changing positions, weight-shifting, and using skin protection cushions, but many people
      still struggle with pressure injuries.

      This study will assess the clinical effectiveness and usability of WiSAT (Wheelchair in-Seat
      Activity Tracker). WiSAT provides real-time feedback on in-seat movement, including
      volitional pressure reliefs and weight-shift activity. The study's aim is to assess whether
      monitoring and feedback of in-seat movement can change the behavior of wheelchair users by
      increasing movement activities.

      Study Protocol: The study will prospectively collect in-seat movement activity during
      everyday life for wheelchair users at risk for pressure ulcers. Seventy-six individuals who
      are full-time users of wheelchairs and have a self-reported risk for pressure ulcers on the
      buttocks (sacrum/coccyx, ischial tuberosity, trochanter) will be recruited for the study.

      Each person will have two appointments with investigators to educate, set them up with the
      WiSAT system and finally to remove the sensor system from the cushion.

      The first visit will take approximately 1.5 to 2 hours, in which participants will provide
      written informed consent. During this visit, demographic and clinical information will be
      collected via self-report. All participants will then receive education about skin health
      including information about pressure ulcers, prevention strategies such as pressure relieving
      techniques in both bed and wheelchair, and the importance of checking skin regularly for
      signs of pressure issues. The WiSAT hardware will be placed within the cover and beneath
      their current wheelchair cushion to measure and transmit baseline seat movement activity;
      with no mobile application and visual feedback initiated at this time. Subjects' baseline
      behavior will be monitored for two weeks to serve as the comparator for the enabled WiSAT
      system.

      After 14 days of baseline monitoring, the app will automatically switch to feedback mode.
      Participants will be informed that they can now monitor their movement activity. Each subject
      will be given the ability to set his or her own goals using the app settings. The movement
      activity feedback will be provided passively for four weeks, requiring them to view the
      application on their smartphone to see daily movement activity data.

      After the four weeks of app use, recorded movement activity will be used to categorize
      participants as meeting or not meeting the movement threshold. Subjects who do not attain
      their movement threshold will be provided with active feedback using audible and/or haptic
      reminders. Those who have reached their threshold will continue to access the app to review
      their activity (passive feedback).

      All participants will be followed for a total of 5 months: 2 weeks baseline, four weeks
      passive visual feedback only, and 3.5 months of passive and/or active feedback. Once the
      participants have completed their 5 months of using WiSAT, they will return to clinic for
      their second visit. The second visit will last for approximately one hour. During this visit,
      the WiSAT system will be to removed and the study team will collect feedback on usability and
      acceptability of the activity tracker.
    
  