
    
      The development of high throughput sequencing technologies has opened-up new possibilities to
      sequence the human genome and identify all genetic variants in individual genome. In each
      genome, more than four million differences from the reference sequence, i.e. variants, are
      found and the real challenge is to find "the needles in stacks of needles". A majority of
      these variants are neutral with no impact on individual phenotype but some of them could
      impair individual health and lead to disease. Guidelines have been proposed for implicating
      sequence variants in diseases and limiting false positive reports. In these guidelines,
      emphasis is put on the requirement to compare the distributions of variants between patients
      and large control datasets matched as closely as possible to the patients in terms of
      ancestry.

      Several large reference datasets such as those from the 1000 Genomes Project Consortium, the
      Exome Sequencing Project (ESP) or the Exome Aggregation Consortium (ExAC) are publicly
      available and give information on the variants found in the exomes or whole genomes of
      individuals with ancestries in different populations and their respective frequencies.
      Europeans are well represented in this database. However, there is no information on the
      geographic region in Europe where individuals are originating from, except for the Finns that
      are considered separately from the rest of Europe. Previous studies using SNP-chips have
      shown however that there exist some differences in allele frequencies between continental
      European populations and that these differences could lead to false positive results in
      association studies. These allele frequency differences at common variants are also
      detectable between regions within a country as found by several studies on different European
      populations, including France. It is very important to describe these geographic fine-scale
      stratification patterns to allow an efficient matching of cases and controls in association
      studies. This is especially true when the interest is on rare variants as these variants are,
      for the majority, young variants that have recently appeared in local populations and not
      spread over large geographic regions.

      Having access to DNA sequences from individuals that share common ancestry with patients is
      also of interest when analysing individual genomes for diagnoses. Information regarding
      allele frequency distribution in the same geographic areas where patients have ancestry will
      therefore be necessary to help select the variants that are the most likely involved in
      disease and should hence be tested in functional assays.

      A first project focusing on the western part of France is ongoing at Institut du Thorax in
      Nantes. Preliminary results have shown that using this panel of individuals improve variant
      filtering in the genomes of patients with similar ancestries. Efforts should therefore be
      made to cover other geographic regions of France.

      To provide such a general population panel for France, the POPGEN project will select 10,000
      individuals from CONSTANCES cohort with ancestry in different regions of France outside
      western part. These participants will have their DNA extracted from salivary kits and
      genotyped using SNP-chip. Among these 10,000 individuals, 4,000 individuals will have their
      whole genome sequenced. This study is one of the four pilot projects of the France Genomic
      Medicine plan (FMG 2025). The FMG2025 plan aims at introducing genome sequencing in the
      routine clinical practice to accelerate and improve diagnoses. The POPGEN project will
      provide the required references from the general French population to help filter out common
      variants from the genomes of patients.
    
  