
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare progression-free survival between patients receiving melphalan, prednisone, and
      thalidomide versus melphalan, prednisone, and lenalidomide in newly diagnosed multiple
      myeloma patients who are not candidates for high-dose therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare overall survival between the arms. II. To compare response rates and depth of
      response. III. To compare the incidence of toxicities. IV. To validate the translocation
      classification (TC) of myeloma as a prognostic tool using gene expression profiling at
      diagnosis.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare quality-of-life (QOL) change between arms based on the Functional Assessment of
      Cancer Therapy/Gynecologic Oncology Group-Neurotoxicity (FACT-Ntx) Trial Outcome Index (TOI)
      from registration (prior to initiation of treatment) to the end of cycle 24 (maintenance
      therapy).

      II. To examine the impact of differential treatment response (PFS), if observed, on QOL based
      on the FACT-Ntx TOI up to cycle 38 (maintenance therapy).

      III. To obtain prospective data on myeloma specific QOL attributes.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I:

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive melphalan orally (PO) and prednisone PO once daily (QD)
      on days 1-4, and thalidomide PO QD on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive thalidomide PO QD and continue in the absence of
      disease progression.

      ARM II:

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive melphalan PO and prednisone PO QD on days 1-4, and
      lenalidomide PO on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-21. Courses repeat every
      28 days in the absence of disease progression.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 10 years.
    
  