
    
      Background:

        -  Gliosarcoma and primary CNS sarcomas are malignant brain tumors uniformly associated
           with poor outcome.

        -  There are no known effective medical therapies for these cancers.

        -  Sunitinib is an orally administered small molecule that inhibits signaling of multiple
           receptor tyrosine kinases including those known to be activated in CNS sarcomas.

      Objectives:

      To determine the anti-tumor effect of sunitinib in recurrent gliosarcomas and primary CNS
      sarcomas as assessed by objective response rate (ORR).

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients with histologically proven gliosarcoma and primary CNS sarcoma at disease
           relapse after failing standard therapy (surgery and irradiation).

        -  Tumor tissue blocks or 15 unstained slides should be available

        -  Subjects must be greater than or equal to 18 years old.

        -  Karnofsky performance status of greater than or equal to 60

        -  Patients must have adequate organ function.

        -  Patients must not have received tyrosine kinase inhibitor(s) in the past.

      Design:

        -  This is a prospective, single institution, single arm, multi-cohort phase II study of
           sunitinib in subjects with recurrent gliosarcoma and primary CNS sarcoma that have
           failed prior surgery and irradiation (unless radiation therapy was contraindicated).

        -  Subjects will be classified into three cohorts: 1) Primary gliosarcoma; 2) Secondary
           gliosarcoma; 3) Primary CNS sarcoma. Cohort expansion will be carried out at indication
           of promising response.

        -  Sunitinib will be administered orally using a continuous schedule at 50 mg per day (with
           dose adjustments allowed for toxicity) for 2 weeks with 1 week off to constitute a
           3-week cycle until disease progression or development of intolerable side-effects.

        -  Toxicity will be assessed every cycle by CTCAE version 5.0.
    
  