
    
      This is an observational feasibility project evaluating the impact of universal screening and
      enhanced access to care for patients with opioid use disorder via development and
      implementation of web-based software program that provides clinical decision support to
      primary care providers for the diagnosis and treatment of opioid use disorder (OUD) with
      buprenorphine. The key facets of measurement based care (MBC) for OUD will be supported by
      the software: (1) screening instrument used for all patients, (2) diagnostic instrument for
      patients who screen positive, and (3) buprenorphine treatment algorithm for those with
      diagnosed OUD. The MBC for OUD software will be offered to clinics in the University of Texas
      Southwestern Medical Center (UTSW) North Texas Community Based Primary Care Network. Clinics
      in the Network currently utilize VitalSign6, a software program that implements universal
      screening for depressive symptoms and provides electronic clinical decision support for
      measurement based care (MBC) for major depression. The VitalSign6 team provides training on
      how to clinically diagnose and manage major depression, training on the software, and expert
      clinical support during implementation.

      Clinics in the Network will be offered the opportunity to utilize the newly developed VS6 OUD
      diagnosis and treatment module. Network clinics that take part in this project will be
      provided training in the diagnosis and management of OUD and federally-mandated training in
      the use of buprenorphine for OUD. The primary outcome will be the number of primary care
      providers trained to prescribe buprenorphine for OUD (i.e., complete waiver training). The
      providers and staff at clinics who choose to utilize the newly developed VS6 OUD module
      (i.e., MBC4OUD) will be invited to participate in a research project assessing acceptability
      of the diagnosis and treatment of OUD in primary care.. Focus groups will be utilized to
      assess stakeholder barriers to implementation of buprenorphine treatment for OUD and
      strategies for overcoming these barriers. Providers at clinics taking part in the project
      will be surveyed regarding their beliefs and comfort level with OUD diagnosis and treatment
      at 3 time-points: pre-training, post-training (i.e., prior to software dissemination to the
      clinic when the observation period begins), and at the end of the observation period. All
      data from providers will be collected anonymously. De-identified patient level data will be
      analyzed for the purpose of program evaluation.
    
  