
    
      Endurance exercise is frequently recommended as a means to reduce the risk of cardiometabolic
      diseases and to reduce the risk of osteoporotic fracture. However, bone does not always adapt
      in the way that would be expected, and there is evidence that endurance exercise may lead to
      bone loss under certain conditions. It is the investigators contention that disruptions in
      calcium homeostasis during exercise, resulting in decreases in serum ionized calcium (iCa)
      and increases in parathyroid hormone (PTH) and c-telopeptide of type I collagen (CTX; a
      marker of bone resorption) at the onset of exercise, may be responsible for the lack of
      improvements in bone mineral density that are anticipated. Acute studies in this area have
      predominantly focused on young, healthy adults, primarily men, during stationary cycling
      exercise. Few studies have been conducted in older adults, but those studies have found that
      older adults experience similar disruptions in calcium homeostasis in response to an acute
      bout of endurance exercise. Preliminary comparisons of the investigators studies, as well as
      research from other labs, also suggests that that mode of exercise conducted during these
      acute exercise bouts may be an important determining factor in the catabolic bone response to
      exercise. It appears that weight-bearing exercise (i.e., treadmill) results in smaller
      increases in PTH and CTX compared to weight-supported exercise (i.e., stationary cycling).
      This has never been tested using a within-subjects design, so it is unclear if these observed
      differences are due to the mode of exercise, lab-to-lab differences, or other underlying
      factors. To address this gap in knowledge, 30 Veterans (15 men, 15 women), aged 60+ years,
      will complete two 1-hour acute exercise bouts: 1) brisk treadmill walking at 70-80% of
      maximal heart rate; 2) vigorous stationary cycling at 70-80% maximal heart rate. Blood
      samples will be collected to measure iCa, PTH, CTX and procollagen type I n-terminal
      propeptide (P1NP) before, during, and after each exercise bout. The order of the exercise
      bouts will be randomized and counter-balanced. The primary aim is to determine if mode of
      exercise results in a differential bone biomarker response in older Veterans. This
      information is essential for understanding how future exercise interventions should be
      designed to benefit both cardiometabolic health and bone health. This is especially relevant
      to Veteran health due to the high burden of both cardiometabolic diseases (e.g., diabetes,
      heart disease) in the population, as well as evidence of increased osteoporotic fracture
      risk. The proposed research is significant because it is addressing a knowledge gap that has
      prevented the ability to design exercise and lifestyle interventions aimed at preserving
      multiple components of Veteran health, which could have a lasting impact on Veteran quality
      of life and functional independence. The proposed research is innovative because it is
      testing a novel hypothesis, the mode of exercise on disruptions in calcium homeostasis, in a
      population that could greatly benefit from the knowledge to be gained. While the proposed
      research is an acute study, the results generated will be used to design future clinical
      interventions for Veteran health. Long-term, information gained from this research will help
      to define the optimal exercise prescription to improve cardiometabolic without compromising
      bone health aging Veterans.
    
  