
    
      Atrial fibrillation is characterized by disorganized, rapid, and irregular contraction of the
      atria. Its effects on hemodynamic and thromboembolic events result in significant morbidity,
      mortality, impaired quality of life, hospitalizations, and health-cost.

      It is the most common sustained cardiac arrhythmia. Over six million Europeans suffer from
      this arrhythmia. The prevalence is estimated to at least double in the next 50 years and is
      probably underestimated due to asymptomatic atrial fibrillation. The prevalence increases
      with age and affects men more often.

      Atrial fibrillation is treated medically with varying results and there are no definitive
      long term curative treatments. The main goal aims at reducing symptoms and preventing
      disabling complications. Treatment normally includes antithrombotic, rhythm, and/or rate
      management, New non-pharmacological interventions have evolved over the last decades in order
      to prevent paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and/or reduce symptoms. The main focus of
      non-pharmacological intervention has been on percutaneous radiofrequency catheter ablation
      and surgical maze ablation. Both approaches aim at minimizing the impact of "triggers" from
      the pulmonary veins by electrical isolation of the veins.

      Studies comparing antiarrhythmic drug and radiofrequency ablation indicate that
      radiofrequency ablation has a higher efficacy rate, a lower rate of complications, and in
      selected patients radiofrequency ablation reduced the risk of atrial fibrillation recurrence
      after one year by 65 % compared with antiarrhythmic drug. In a recently published paper the
      success rate after a mean of 1.3 radiofrequency ablation procedures per patient varied from
      57.7% to 75.4% with higher success rates in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation as
      compared to persistent/permanent atrial fibrillation.

      European Society of Cardiology recommends that radiofrequency ablation is reserved for
      patients who remain symptomatic despite optimal therapy and failed at least one
      antiarrhythmic drug.

      Dr. James Cox introduced the Cox-maze surgical operation for atrial fibrillation in 1987,
      later modified to Cox-maze III also known as the "cut and sew" maze. It is highly successful
      in restoring sinus rhythm, with 90-96 % being free from atrial fibrillation at a mean
      follow-up of 5.4 years. Due to its complexity and technical difficulty the procedure has not
      been widely adopted. Mini invasive procedures for pulmonary vein isolation have been
      developed and can now be performed either through mini thoracotomies or using totally
      thoracoscopic approach. These procedures also hold the advantage of left atrial appendage
      excision or exclusion. The thoracoscopic maze ablation has shown promising results in small
      studies in patients with recurrence of atrial fibrillation after earlier catheter based
      radiofrequency ablation, after a mean follow-up of 11 months 84 % of the patients remain in
      sinus rhythm. However long-term results are still unknown. The procedure still needs to be
      compared head to head with catheter based radiofrequency ablation before it should be offered
      as a standard treatment of atrial fibrillation.

      The rationale for eliminating atrial fibrillation with radiofrequency ablation include a
      potential improvement in quality of life, decreased stroke risk, decreased heart failure risk
      and improved survival.
    
  