
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether ZD1839 (gefitinib) at 250 mg orally every day administered
      concomitantly with radiotherapy after induction treatment consisting of paclitaxel,
      carboplatin, and ZD1839 among patients with inoperable stage III non-small cell lung cancer
      and Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) performance status 2 or poor risk performance status
      0-1 is tolerable.

      II. To determine whether ZD1839 at 250 mg orally every day administered concomitantly with
      paclitaxel, carboplatin, and radiation after induction treatment consisting of paclitaxel,
      carboplatin, and ZD1839 among patients with inoperable stage III non-small cell lung cancer
      and CTC performance status 0-1 is tolerable.

      III. To determine the overall response rate, failure-free survival, and survival after
      treatment with induction chemotherapy with daily ZD1839, concomitant radiotherapy and daily
      ZD1839, and post-radiotherapy single agent daily ZD1839 among patients with CTC performance
      status 2 or poor risk performance status 0-1 and inoperable stage III non-small cell lung
      cancer.

      IV. To determine the overall response rate, failure-free survival, and survival after
      treatment with induction chemotherapy and daily ZD1839, concomitant chemoradiotherapy and
      daily ZD1839, and post-radiotherapy single agent daily ZD1839 among patients with CTC
      performance status 0-1 and inoperable stage III non-small cell lung cancer.

      V. To determine if elevated circulating epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) levels prior
      to treatment, as determined by either quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or direct
      enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) measurement, may predict for response to therapy
      with EGFR inhibitors.

      OUTLINE:

      All patients receive induction therapy comprising paclitaxel IV over 3 hours followed by
      carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 courses.
      Patients then receive therapy based on their assigned stratum.

      STRATUM I: Patients receive gefitinib orally (PO) daily for 7 weeks. Patients also undergo
      concurrent radiotherapy once daily 5 days a week for 7 weeks.

      STRATUM II: Patients receive gefitinib and radiotherapy as in stratum I concurrently with
      paclitaxel IV over 1 hour followed by carboplatin over 30 minutes once weekly for 7 weeks.

      Patients then receive gefitinib PO daily in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year and
      then every 6 months for 2 years.
    
  