
    
      The partial opioid agonist, buprenorphine, was recently approved by the FDA for the treatment
      of opioid-dependence and will be available via physician prescription, enabling a greatly
      needed expansion of access to opioid treatment services. However, physicians, because of
      considerable demands on their time, will likely be unable to provide or coordinate referral
      for opioid-dependent patients to receive supplemental educational interventions that are
      critical to the success of their treatment. To address this challenge, we are developing an
      interactive, web-based patient education system for opioid-dependent individuals in
      office-based buprenorphine treatment. In this system, we plan to provide patients with
      educational interventions of demonstrated efficacy (e.g., information about buprenorphine,
      HIV/AIDS education, relapse prevention skills training). In Phase I, we demonstrated the
      scientific, technical and commercial merit and feasibility of this web-based patient
      education system by developing several modules of the program as well as the appropriate
      technology for the program to be delivered in an office-based setting. We subsequently
      assessed these modules in the context of feedback sessions conducted with opioid-dependent
      individuals in a lab designed to mimic the technical constraints of a physician's office.
      Results demonstrated that this system represents a viable approach to patient education in
      office-based buprenorphine treatment. During Phase II, we plan to complete our research and
      development efforts on this project. We will complete all educational modules of the system.
      We will also develop a "customization program" that patients can use to help them identify
      the optimal order in which they may access the program modules while in treatment.
      Additionally, we will establish an electronic reporting system that will provide physicians
      prescribing buprenorphine with patient activity reports, enabling them to track and document
      patient progress through the system and ensure that patients are compliant with ancillary
      educational interventions. Additionally, we plan to conduct a randomized, controlled trial to
      evaluate the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of this patient education system delivered via
      the Internet compared to the delivery of patient educational services by community-based
      treatment facilities outside of the office-based setting. This system will provide patients,
      physicians and the larger community with assurance that patients in office-based
      buprenorphine treatment are receiving ancillary services along with their medication, thereby
      improving their likelihood for a successful treatment outcome.
    
  