
    
      The HIV Vaccine Trials Network (HVTN) is doing a study to test a new HIV vaccine combination.
      HIV is the virus that causes AIDS. The investigators are doing this study to answer several
      questions:

        -  Are the study vaccines safe to give to people?

        -  Are people able to take the study vaccines without becoming too uncomfortable?

        -  How do people's immune systems respond to the study vaccines? (Your immune system
           protects you from disease.)

      The study uses 2 different vaccines: ALVAC-HIV (vCP2438) and bivalent gp120/MF59. These are
      experimental HIV vaccines -- the investigators do not know whether the vaccines will be safe
      to use in people, or whether they will work to prevent HIV infection. These vaccines are used
      only in research studies.

      The ALVAC vaccine is made out of canarypox virus, which infects birds but cannot grow in
      human cells. This virus has small bits of man-made DNA inserted into it. DNA is a natural
      substance found in all living things, including people and some viruses. The canarypox virus
      helps get the DNA into the body's cells. The DNA then tells those cells to make small amounts
      of proteins that look like some of the ones found in HIV.

      A study in South Africa, HVTN 097, gave a similar ALVAC vaccine to about 80 participants. So
      far, no one has had serious health problems.

      The Protein vaccine has man-made pieces of a protein found on the outside of HIV. These
      protein pieces are mixed with an adjuvant called MF59. An adjuvant is something added to the
      vaccine to help the immune system respond better. MF59 has been included with other vaccines
      that have been given to over 50,000 people in clinical trials without causing any serious
      health problems.

      This combination of study vaccines has not been given to people before. However, similar
      ALVAC and protein vaccines have been given to more than 10,000 people in clinical trials
      without causing any serious health problems. Also, over 300 people have received a similar
      combination of ALVAC and protein vaccines with the MF59 adjuvant in clinical trials without
      having any serious health problems.

      The study is in 2 parts, Part A and Part B. Part B continues the study in order to learn how
      well boosting the study vaccines improves immune responses. 252 people took part in Part A of
      this study at multiple sites. Those who continue to meet eligibility requirements are invited
      to continue in Part B.

      The US National Institutes of Health (NIH) is paying for the study. For people who continue
      to Part B, the study requires about 23 clinic visits in 4 years.
    
  