
    
      Oxaliplatin causes death of cancer cells and other actively dividing cells by interfering
      with DNA function. Capecitabine causes death of cancer cells by interfering with certain
      molecules that are important in cell division.

      After the screening portion of the study, if you are eligible to continue, you will begin
      treatment with oxaliplatin and capecitabine. Once treatment begins, you will come to M. D.
      Anderson at least every three weeks (21 days) for treatment. Each 21-day period of treatment
      is called a "cycle" of therapy. You will receive at least 3 cycles of therapy unless side
      effects are severe or the cancer grows very quickly.

      You will need to have a small tube (central venous line) inserted into a large vein under the
      skin of the chest or through a vein in the arm to receive oxaliplatin. The central venous
      line will remain in place the entire time you are taking part in this study. Oxaliplatin must
      be given at M. D. Anderson. On Day 1 of each cycle, you will receive oxaliplatin injected
      into a vein over 2 hours.

      You will take capecitabine tablets by mouth 2 times a day for the first 2 weeks (Days 1-14)
      of each 3-week cycle. No treatment will be given for the last 7 days of each cycle (except if
      your first dose of capecitabine for a new cycle is taken in the evening, your last dose will
      be taken in the morning of Day 15.) You must take capecitabine within 30 minutes after
      breakfast and dinner. The morning and evening doses should be about 12 hours apart. You
      should take capecitabine with water, and not with fruit juices. At the first treatment visit
      and every 3 weeks, you will receive enough capecitabine to last until the next visit. At each
      visit, you must return any capecitabine you have not used as well as all empty bottles.

      Before each new cycle of therapy, you will have a complete physical exam and blood (about 2 ½
      teaspoons) will be collected for routine tests. You will be asked to tell the study doctor
      about all medications you have taken since you started taking the study drugs and any health
      problems that you may have experienced. During the first cycle, you will have a blood (about
      2 teaspoons) sample collected each week for routine tests. You will also have either CT scans
      or a MRI of the tumor(s) every 9 weeks and at the end of the study. Additional tests may be
      done during the study if your doctor feels it is necessary for your care.

      If you experience severe side effects, treatment may be delayed, stopped, or you may receive
      smaller doses of the treatment. You may continue to receive treatment on this study until the
      disease gets worse or you experience any intolerable side effects. If this happens, you will
      be taken off the study and your doctor will discuss other treatment options with you.

      When you stop taking part in the study, you will have blood (about 3 teaspoons) collected for
      routine tests. You will have a physical exam and either a CT scan or a MRI to check on the
      status of the disease. You will be contacted by phone every three months for the rest of your
      life to check on the status of the disease and on any symptoms you may be experiencing.

      All tests before each new cycle of treatment and when treatment stops must be done at M. D.
      Anderson.

      This is an investigational study. The drugs oxaliplatin and capecitabine are FDA approved for
      treatment of advanced cancer of the colon or rectum. However, the drugs are not approved for
      gallbladder or biliary tract cancer. Up to 50 participants will take part in this study. All
      will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  