
    
      This study is a prospective matched cohort design with follow up. The treatment group will
      consist of women who attend once to a one off 3 hour brief cognitive behavioural therapy
      treatment (CBT) session. Outcome measures will be completed at 3 time points, baseline, 2
      weeks post intervention and 2 weeks' post partum (follow up).

      A previously published dataset collected locally will be used as a control group. This
      dataset includes 120 sets of data who have completed the Hospital Anxiety and Depression
      Scale (HADS) which will be the primary outcome measure for this study. Furthermore, the
      dataset includes data on several key variables including age, current pregnancy information,
      past pregnancy information, family and partner support available, medical support/input,
      income, education, living circumstances and future plan. These will be matched at key
      variables which are predictors of anxiety during pregnancy and might otherwise be expected to
      influence scores on outcome variables and utilised as covariates. The outcome measures will
      be completed at the same time points follow up, 2 months' post partum.

      As part of a preexisting maternity care system, women are routinely offered a stress
      reduction session by their community midwives. Those who wish to attend are routinely placed
      on a database. For the purpose of this research, everyone who has been put forward for the
      group will be sent a covering letter, personal Information sheet (PIS) and screening HADS by
      the lead clinician (Mo Tabib - midwife). Participants who express an interest will be invited
      to have a telephone consultation with the chief Investigator. During this telephone call,
      eligibility will be discussed ad if appropriate telephone consent will be sought. Following
      this, those who do not meet eligibility criteria will be invited to attend the session as
      planned at Aberdeen Maternity Hospital and continue with their maternity care as usual.
      Eligible participants will be sent a pack of baseline measures as well as a consent form.
      Participants will have the option of returning these in a pre paid envelope or deposit in a
      confidential box at the session. Consent will also be sought for access to online medical
      records and consent to contact participants following the group by phone/text/email as
      reminder. Participants will be emailed two weeks following the session as a reminder to
      complete second set of measures. Participants will identify three areas which they will
      commit to practice following the session. The chief investigator will track their delivery
      date using using an online care system; 2 months' post-partum they will receive a further
      reminder text to complete final questionnaire set.

      The chief researcher will seek informed, telephone consent initially, which can be withdrawn
      at any time. Consent will be discussed with potential participants during a telephone
      consultation following being sent the PIS and screening tool. If potential participants are
      interested and eligible the chief researcher will send out a consent form by means of written
      consent where participants will be offered choice of returning in post or deposit in a
      confidential box at the session. It will be highlighted that participants can withdraw from
      the study at any point.
    
  