
    
      1. To establish a platform to increase the efficiency and purity for isolation and
           enumeration of circulating tumor cells from patients with head and neck cancer.

        2. Compare the differences and determine the most efficient method or combination of
           negative, positive selection, optoelectronic dielectrophoresis (ODEP) and flow cytometry
           sorting technology.

             1. Negative Selection

             2. Positive Selection

             3. ODEP devices

             4. Flow Cytometry and Sorting System

        3. Use the upgraded platform and test among different groups for efficiency test. (Planned
           subjects: healthy donor: n=30; early-stage (stage I=II) patients=9; locally-advanced=9
           and metastatic, n=9; total n=60)

           - Clinical Enrollment for Device/Method Validation

        4. To confirm programmed death-1(PD-1) expression could be successfully detected and
           up-regulated on cytotoxic T cells using cell lines natural killer cell (NK-92).

             1. Cell Culture of NK-92, OECM-1, SCC-4 and K562

             2. Immunostaining methods for PD-1 expression

             3. Flow cytometry for ratio of PD-1 expression

        5. To observe the functional changes of the cytotoxic T cells with PD-1 expression using
           cell lines and immunomagnetic bead-based isolation method.

             1. Positive Isolation for PD-1 Expressing Cells

             2. CD107a cytotoxicity assay

             3. Cell-mediated cytotoxicity assays

        6. Confirm these findings in whole blood sample from healthy donors (n=15) and HNSCC
           patients (n=15).

           - Clinical Enrollment Patients for PD-1 expression in PBMCs, a stage of validation
           previous findings

        7. Using the platform established on first-year project, to isolate and check the CTC
           number from locally advanced or metastatic HNSCC patients for validation.

        8. To check the ratio of circulating CD56+ cells with PD-1 expression from locally advanced
           or metastatic HNSCC patients for validation.

        9. To correlate the clinical relevance of circulating PD-1+CD56 cells and CTCs in locally
           advanced or metastatic HNSCC patients (N=60 in this year). Another Healthy donors (n=15)
           will be needed for reference.

             1. CTC enumeration and sorting technique-Negative Selection Strategy

             2. Positive Selection

             3. ODEP devices

             4. Flow Cytometry and Sorting System

             5. Clinical Enrollment HNSCC Patients for CTCs and PD-1 ratio
    
  