
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) has emerged as an increasingly important cause of morbidity and
      mortality among people living with HIV (PLWHIV). Now that HIV is considered a manageable
      chronic disease, the identification and treatment of comorbid medical conditions including
      CVD are increasingly the focus of research and clinical attention. What is missing, however,
      is yet another critical component of care for PLWHIV: integrated care for histories of
      trauma. Experiences of trauma increase the likelihood of HIV infection as well as CVD risk,
      yet health care for PLWHIV is rarely coordinated to address these three intersecting issues
      of HIV, CVD, and trauma, particularly among those disproportionately affected by HIV, i.e.,
      ethnic minority patients. Histories of trauma among PLWHIV are associated with inconsistent
      treatment adherence and non-adherence, and trauma history alone is associated with poor CVD
      outcomes. Failure to address trauma poses significant barriers to the adoption of CVD risk
      strategies among PLWHIV. Health systems that coordinate and integrate care across HIV and
      chronic conditions such as CVD may provide the infrastructure needed to address the complex
      interplay of these conditions and their therapies. The investigators have designed a novel
      blended, culturally-congruent, evidence-informed care model, "Healing our Minds and Bodies"
      (HHMB), to address patients' trauma histories and barriers to care, and to prepare patients
      to engage in CVD risk reduction. Recognizing the need to ensure that PLWHIV receive CVD
      guideline-concordant care, the investigators have also identified implementation strategies
      to prepare providers and clinics for addressing CVD risk among their HIV-positive patients.
      Therefore, using a hybrid type II effectiveness/implementation study design, the goal of this
      study is to increase both patient and organizational readiness to address trauma and CVD risk
      among PLWHIV. The Specific Aims are: (1) to assess and enhance organizational readiness for
      addressing trauma and CVD risk among ethnic minority PLWHIV; specifically, a phased approach
      will drive the use of implementation strategies designed to educate, monitor, and support
      providers and staff in adhering to CVD care guidelines; (2) using mixed methods, to (a)
      evaluate the use and effectiveness of implementation strategies over time, and (b) identify
      barriers and facilitators to organizational adoption of guidelines, provider adherence to
      guidelines, feasibility, and sustainability; and (3) To evaluate the effect of HHMB on
      cognitive-behavioral, emotional, and clinical outcomes among 260 African American and Latino
      PLWHIV. The investigators will use the Replicating Effective Programs (REP) framework to
      guide the use of implementation strategies and the tailoring of the HHMB intervention within
      our participating implementation settings, and the Consolidated Framework for Implementation
      Research to guide the evaluation analyses.
    
  