
    
      More than 3 million Europeans suffer from inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), where Crohn's
      Disease (CD) and Ulcerative Colitis (UC) are the most common forms. They are chronic,
      relapsing and remitting diseases resulting in uncontrolled inflammation of the
      gastrointestinal (GI) tract with symptoms of diarrhoea, abdominal pain, weight loss and blood
      in the stools. The treatment aims to relieve and prevent GI tract inflammation and consists
      of anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive drugs or surgical removal of the colon as a final
      option. The main treatment option for mild to moderate UC is Aminosalicylate. Mesalazine
      (5-aminosalicylic acid), both orally and topically, has been proven to be an effective
      treatment option for inducing as well as maintaining remission in patients with UC.

      Pentasa Sachet are Mesalazine micro granules coated in ethyl cellulose with high (95%)
      5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) load. The coating provides a prolonged release of Mesalazine,
      allowing a continuous action from small bowel to rectum. Approximately 75% of the micro
      granules are released in the colon. This reduces the number of applications needed per day
      and is therefore considered to be a more desirable option by the patients. Once daily
      administrated 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) has been shown to be as effective as conventional
      dosing.

      Fecal Calprotectin (FC) is an accurate biomarker of GI tract inflammation. FC correlates well
      with endoscopic disease activity and consequently serves as a substitute marker for mucosal
      healing as well as a clinical tool for disease monitoring. A home testing kit with a smart
      phone application, which only takes 18 min to carry out, has been developed. Thereby,
      facilitating the opportunity of telemonitoring of the disease course and stimulating patient
      engagement, empowerment and adherence to treatment.

      Medication adherence is essential for maintaining remission, since non-adherence is one of
      the main causes of disease activity. A combined therapy of oral and topical 5-ASA is
      recommended by current guidelines for the treatment of active mild to moderate UC. However,
      patient adherence to oral 5-ASA is poor (approximately 60%), and even poorer to topical
      therapy (approximately 32%). A previous eHealth trial on individualized oral 5-ASA therapy
      reported higher adherence rates than previous studies on standard care. In addition, 90% of
      the study patients responded with remission on monotherapy and only 10% needed a combined
      therapy with topical treatment.

      Web-based treating solutions (eHealth) have shown to optimize treatment effect in chronic
      diseases such as asthma, type 1 diabetes, and coagulation diseases. A web-based treatment
      solution for IBD patients, Constant-care, was in 1997 launched by Dr. Pia Munkholm. The
      web-program has since been proven to be an effective clinical tool, resulting in enhanced
      compliance, empowerment, improved quality of life and decreased relapse duration in IBD
      patients. Constant-Care consists of an education package and a disease-monitoring package.
      The disease monitoring part of the program is built upon an algorithm of two variables; FC
      and a validated disease activity questionnaire, Simple Clinical Colitis Activity Index
      (SCCAI) for UC patients. The FC values are acquired by the patients through a home testing
      kit and the disease activity questionnaire is filled out by the patients in the web- program.
      The eHealth system cumulates the data immediately, and subsequently presenting the result, a
      Total inflammatory Burden Score (TIBS), to the patients as a visual "traffic light" indicator
      of disease activity. Patients receive treatment advices by the program depending on the
      severity of the disease: green- remission, yellow- moderate activity, red-severe activity.

      The disease monitoring part also consists of Patient-Related Outcome (PRO) questionnaires
      regarding quality of life, disability, fatigue, disease course type and compliance. The
      International Organization for the study of Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IOIBD) has since 2015
      recommended the use of PRO's as a fundamental part of measuring treatment outcome in both UC
      and CD.

      The primary aim of the study is to investigate the effect of individualized monotherapy with
      Mesalazine (Pentasa Sachet ®) on time to remission (clinical and Paraclinical (green TIBS))
      in patients with mild to moderate UC in an eHealth setting. The investigators hypothesize
      that the web based therapy program will reduce the time to remission compared to standard
      care.
    
  