
    
      We have performed experimental studies demonstrating the anti-cancer efficacy of an old
      alcoholism treatment drug, disulfiram, combined with supplementation with certain metal ions.
      Together, disulfiram and metal ions induce S-glutathionylation of critical cancer cell
      proteins, inhibiting their activity, reducing tumor growth and inducing tumor cell apoptosis.
      The most active metal ion that can be paired with disulfiram appears to be the divalent metal
      ion copper. The purpose of this study is to determine the safety of co-administrating the
      thiocarbamate molecule disulfiram together with copper gluconate to patients with stage IV
      cancer metastatic to the liver.

      Other investigators have studied the effect of disulfiram alone administered to patients with
      metastatic melanoma, and have observed no clinical benefit when disulfiram is administered
      without metal ion supplements (Dr. Patrick J. Farmer, University of California Irvine,
      personal communication).

      We therefore propose that the optimum approach to using disulfiram as an antineoplastic agent
      is to co-administer it with metal ion supplements. While a number of metal ions can enhance
      the antineoplastic activity of disulfiram, including Zn2+, we have found Cu2+ to be the most
      active. This observation has been confirmed by others, who have shown that Cu2+
      supplementation of growth media increases the pro-apoptotic (Cen 2004) and
      proteosomal-inhibitory (Chen 2006) activities of disulfiram. Compared to surrounding normal
      tissue, many cancer cells contain highly elevated levels of copper (Habib 1980; Rizk 1984;
      Turecky 1984; Diez 1989; Huang 1999; Kuo 2002; Nayak 2003). However, typical Western diets
      provide only 1 mg of copper daily, less than even the lower limit of 1.5 to 3.0 mg estimated
      safe and adequate daily dietary intake (ESADDI) of copper (Kelvay 1998; Failla 1999; Ma 2000;
      Pang 2001; Davis 2003). Therefore, dietary copper supplementation is likely necessary for
      disulfiram to be maximally effective as an antineoplastic drug. We project that the optimal
      dose of copper supplementation to pair with disulfiram is 8 mg elemental copper a day, the
      upper level of recommended daily copper (Institute for Medicine 2002), administered as copper
      gluconate, a substance generally regarded as safe (GRAS) (Code of Federal Regulation 2004).
      This amount would provide an eight-fold higher intake of copper than most American adults
      consume daily. Large amounts of ingested copper could result in hepatic failure and hemolysis
      similar to that seen with Wilson's disease, the rare genetic syndrome from hyperabsorption of
      copper. However, 8 mg of elemental copper has been previously administered to humans with few
      untoward effects (Pratt 1985; Olivares 1996; Rosado 2003; Mendez 2004; Araya 2005), and in
      one study even 20 mg of daily copper supplementation was well-tolerated (Araya 2004).
      Although copper intake is homeostatically regulated, with reduced gastrointestinal absorption
      at high intakes (Turnland 2005), chronic ingestion of as much as 60 mg elemental copper daily
      is likely toxic to normal individuals (O'Donohue 1993). In combining copper gluconate with
      disulfiram as an antineoplastic strategy, we would propose to administer the two in a fashion
      similar to that used for treatment of our patient with metastatic ocular melanoma, who
      experienced no diarrhea from zinc gluconate and disulfiram given at different times of the
      day (Figure 6.10). Copper gluconate containing up to 8 mg elemental copper would be given in
      the morning a half hour before breakfast, and disulfiram would be consumed with the evening
      meal. The rationale for separating administration of the two agents in time is to avoid
      producing gastrointestinal toxicity such as mucositis from complexation of copper by
      disulfiram in the gut.

      Administered separately, we believe that disulfiram and Cu2+ will complex in vivo, forming a
      bis(diethyldi-thiocarbamato)-copper(II) complex (Johansson 1992) that will provide enhanced
      antineoplastic activity. It is also possible that metabolites of disulfiram have important
      activities (Loo 2004) that might also be enhanced by supplementation with copper.
      Administered orally, both disulfiram and Cu2+ will likely achieve high hepatic concentrations
      before distribution to other body tissues. This might suggest a utility of disulfiram and
      Cu2+ in treating primary hepatic tumors such as hepatomas, or secondary hepatic metastases
      from common malignancies such as colonic adenocarcinoma. The possibility of selective hepatic
      antineoplastic activity is supported by our experience with the patient suffering from
      metastatic ocular melanoma (Figure 6.10).

      Subjects in this study will include those with advanced cancers metastatic to the liver who
      are not currently receiving or are eligible for other therapeutic approaches. When prescribed
      clinically for alcohol aversion, disulfiram is indicated in doses ranging from 125 mg to 500
      mg orally each day. For safety reasons, we will initiate disulfiram use at a fixed dose of
      250 mg per day, given with the evening meal. We will begin dosing with copper gluconate (2 mg
      elemental copper) given daily with the morning breakfast meal. These dose times are chosen to
      separate in time the administration of copper gluconate and disulfiram so that they will not
      be within the gastrointestinal lumen simultaneously, thereby preventing development of
      diarrhea and other side effects of mucositis from intraluminal formation of
      metal-thiocarbamate complexes. Copper gluconate doses will be increased in cohorts of 3 to 6
      patients as detailed below as long as dose limiting toxicity is not observed. The maximum
      dose of copper gluconate to be administered will be the equivalent of 8 mg of elemental
      copper for the reasons outlined above. Subjects will be maintained on this regimen and
      followed for the duration of the protocol as long as they are not showing toxicity or disease
      progression, with periodic measurement of end-points outlined later. Major emphasis will be
      placed on following ALT and AST as indices of safety and serial abdominal imaging to
      determine the anatomic burden of hepatic metastases. During the protocol and for four weeks
      thereafter, subjects will be warned against the ingestion of ethanol and against exposure to
      alcohol-containing medications or consumer products.

      We propose the gradually escalated dosing scheme above in anticipation of the most likely
      toxicity of the combined ingestion of disulfiram and copper supplements: hepatotoxicity.
      After gastrointestinal absorption, both agents are likely to be concentrated first in the
      liver. Therefore, the greatest risk will likely be an increase in hepatic transaminases. From
      experience with the combined administration of disulfiram and zinc supplements to a patient
      (Brar 2004) we believe that separating the times at which copper gluconate (morning breakfast
      meal) and disulfiram (evening meal) are ingested will prevent bothersome diarrhea or other
      symptoms of mucositis resulting from metal-thiocarbamate complexation within the bowel lumen.
      We anticipate that careful warning against the ingestion of ethanol-containing beverages or
      exposure to alcohol-containing consumer products will avert the risk of an inadvertent
      disulfiram ethanol reaction.
    
  