
    
      In patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) dynamic hyperinflation (DH) and
      the concurrent mechanical constraints on tidal volume expansion during exercise increase work
      of breathing and perceived respiratory discomfort, limiting endurance. An additional
      consequence of DH and the concomitant high mean intrathoracic pressure swings, cardiac
      performance and, hence, supply of oxygenated blood to the malfunctioning peripheral muscles
      is further compromised. This contributes to perceived leg discomfort and exercise
      intolerance.

      Bronchodilator therapy is associated with a reduction in operating lung volumes, leading to
      improvements in perceived breathlessness and exercise tolerance. Heliox (helium and oxygen)
      is less dense and generates less airway resistance than air. Heliox breathing has been shown
      to improve exercise tolerance in COPD. A recent study demonstrated that compared to room air,
      breathing heliox during constant-load exercise (CLE) (continuous) increased inspiratory
      capacity (IC), and lessened DH, breathlessness and leg discomfort at isotime and at the point
      of exercise limitation. In addition, heliox breathing increased stroke volume, cardiac output
      and hence locomotor muscle oxygen delivery. However, the main drawback of heliox
      supplementation is the high cost, especially when it is used for long periods of time.
      Previous studies using inspiratory pressure support have shown improvements in dyspnoea and
      exercise capacity by reducing the work of breathing, as well as improved central hemodynamic
      responses and peripheral muscle oxygenation.

      In comparison to traditional noninvasive ventilators, the Vitabreath device, which provides
      positive inspiratory pressure, is compact, light and inexpensive. Ease of operation,
      portability and battery life support use to aid relief of breathlessness, including away from
      the patient's home. This should facilitate maintenance of, and improvement in, activity.
      Vitabreath may also prove to be a useful tool to increasing exercise tolerance and the
      intensity of training, and hence the magnitude of physiological adaptations by mitigating DH
      during rehabilitative exercise training.
    
  