
    
      Sleep disruption in the intensive care unit (ICU) is a common comorbidity. In addition to
      being a source of emotional distress for many patients, sleep disturbance may be associated
      with ICU delirium, prolonged need for respiratory support, and immune and neurocognitive
      dysfunction. Since sleep is a potentially modifiable risk factor for ICU outcomes, there has
      been increased interest in sleep study and promotion in critically ill patients, as evidenced
      by the inclusion of sleep disruption in the 2018 Society of Critical Care Medicine Clinical
      Practice Guidelines. Although these Guidelines make soft recommendations for
      non-pharmacologic strategies to improve sleep in this patient population, these strategies
      are often lacking in efficacy and/or evidence. There are no recommended pharmacologic
      interventions for sleep promotion, and many pharmacologic solutions may actually increase the
      risk of adverse outcomes rather than impart benefits.

      Gabapentin, an anticonvulsant with applications in neuropathic pain, has been investigated
      for sleep promotion in various populations of outpatients. In non-ICU patients, gabapentin is
      an effective therapy for insomnia in patients with restless leg syndrome or chronic
      neuropathy. Even in patients without these comorbidities, gabapentin has shown efficacy
      compared with placebo in improving sleep duration and depth. Gabapentin has several
      advantages compared to common sedatives used in the ICU, including no increased day
      drowsiness, no QTc prolongation, and some studies suggesting no association with delirium,
      particularly when used in a daily dose < 600 mg. Although caution must be used in dosing this
      drug in patients with renal dysfunction, a dose of up to 300 mg daily may be used if CrCl <
      15 ml/m, and doses of up to 300 mg after hemodialysis (HD) have been used safely in patients
      with end stage renal disease (ESRD). Additionally, its generic status and broad therapeutic
      index make it a cost-effective and attractive agent for further study and use.

      Here investigators propose a pilot study of gabapentin as a therapy for sleep disruption in
      the ICU. To date, there have been no studies of gabapentin use for sleep in the ICU; this
      study would represent the first of its kind. Given the magnitude of the problem represented
      by sleep disruption in the ICU, the ability of gabapentin to mitigate insomnia in
      outpatients, and the low side effect profile and wide therapeutic window of gabapentin,
      studying the effects of gabapentin on sleep disruption in the ICU is a logical and
      potentially practice changing step.
    
  