
    
      Status - CLOSED TO PATIENT ENROLLMENT (CNPE)

      Investigators will take a maximum of approximately 79 teaspoons of blood from patients on one
      to three occasions over a two-month period. Under certain conditions related to the patient's
      health, blood may be collected using a process called apheresis. Apheresis is the process
      where blood is passed through a machine that separates out the components of blood that we
      need. The remainder of the patient's blood will then be returned to his/her body.

      Investigators will use this blood to grow T cells. Investigators will first grow a special
      type of cells called dendritic cells which will activate T cells. Once these are made,
      investigators will load them with small pieces of protein called peptides taken from the TAAs
      that we want to target. This helps train the T cells to kill cancer cells which express TAAs
      on their surface. Then the TAA-specific CTLs are expanded.

      The cells will be infused by intravenous infusion (IV) into the patient over 1-10 minutes.
      The patient may be pre-treated with acetaminophen (Tylenol) and diphenhydramine (Benadryl).
      Acetaminophen (Tylenol) and diphenhydramine (Benadryl) are given to prevent a possible
      allergic reaction to the TAA-CTL administration. Initially, two doses of TAA-CTLs will be
      given four weeks apart. The patient's cancer will be assessed pre-infusion, and then 6 weeks
      after the second infusion. If after the second infusion there is a reduction in the size of
      the patient's tumor on Computed Tomography (CT), Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), or
      Positron Emission Tomography (PET) as assessed by a radiologist, the patient can receive up
      to six (6) additional doses of the TAA-CTLs if they wish. At least one month should pass
      before each additional dose. All of the treatments will be given by the Center for Cell and
      Gene Therapy at Houston Methodist Hospital.

      In between the first and second TAA-CTL infusions, and for 6 weeks after the 2nd infusion,
      the patient should not receive any other anti-cancer treatments such as radiation therapy or
      chemotherapy. If the patient does receive any other therapies in-between the first and second
      infusion of TAA-CTLs, they will be taken off treatment and will not be able to receive the
      second infusion.

      MEDICAL TESTS BEFORE TREATMENT:

      Before being treated, patients will receive a series of standard medical tests:

        -  Physical exam.

        -  Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function.

        -  Measurements of the patient's tumor by routine imaging studies.

        -  Pregnancy test if the patient is a female who can have children.

      MEDICAL TESTS DURING TREATMENT:

      Patients will receive standard medical tests on the day of their second and subsequent
      infusions:

        -  Physical exam

        -  Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function.

      MEDICAL TESTS AFTER TREATMENT

      - Imaging study 6 weeks after the 2nd TAA-CTL infusion.

      To learn more about the way the TAA-CTLs are working in the patient's body, an extra 20-40 mL
      (4-8 teaspoons) of blood will be taken before each infusion, at Weeks 1, 2, and 4 after the
      first cell dose and at Weeks 1, 2, 4 and 6 after the second cell dose. Afterwards, blood will
      be collected at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months after the 2nd infusion. Investigators will use this
      blood to see how long the TAA-CTLs last, and to look at the patient's immune system response
      to the cancer. The immune system is part of the body that helps protect against disease.

      Study Duration: The patient's active participation in this study will last for approximately
      one (1) year. If the patient receives additional doses of the TAA-CTLs as described above,
      his/her active participation will last until one (1) year after the last dose. Investigators
      will then contact the patient once a year for up to 4 additional years (total of 5 years
      follow-up) in order to evaluate the patient's disease response long-term.
    
  