
    
      Subjects eligible for trial enrollment will be identified by the Thomas Jefferson University
      Urology group from their patient population of subjects under active surveillance for
      recurrence of a previously cryoablated RCC. A research coordinator will explain the study to
      the patient. The patient will be given time to consider the risks and benefits of the study
      and ask questions about participation. The coordinator will review the consent form with the
      patient and then the patient will be given the form to review. The patient, coordinator, and
      a study investigator will all sign the consent form. The patient will be given a copy of the
      signed consent form for their records.

      Screening assessments will be performed prior to CEUS imaging. Trial participants will have
      the presence of inclusion criteria and absence of exclusion criteria verified by providing a
      medical history. A full demographic profile, known drug allergies or intolerances, and a
      review of the subject's medical/surgical history will be recorded. If the subject is a woman
      of childbearing age, she will have a urine pregnancy test (the results of which will be made
      available to the subject prior to study initiation).

      All contrast injections will be supervised by a board certified physician. Resuscitation
      equipment and trained personnel will be in immediate proximity to the patient during each
      CEUS exam. The ultrasound examinations will be performed by a qualified sonographer.
      Ultrasound exams will take place the morning prior to the patient's 8, 12, 18, 24, or 36
      month CT/MRI follow up (scheduled as part of their clinical care) or during their
      consultation in Jefferson's Urology clinic (for patients who have imaging performed outside
      Jefferson). Procedures and equipment for this trial will be used in accordance with typical
      clinical procedures. All trial procedures will be conducted in accordance with Good Clinical
      Practice. For the ultrasound examination, the patient will be asked to lie in the supine
      position and a catheter will be placed in a superficial vein (preferably an antecubital
      vein). Acoustic coupling gel will be applied to the area of interest. A state of the art
      ultrasound scanner with 2D and 3D curvilinear probes will be used.

      A baseline ultrasound grayscale scan will be used to identify the tumor and to evaluate the
      following criteria: size, shape, and orientation of the lesion; echogenicity compared to
      surrounding tissue. Standard power Doppler of the lesion will also be performed. When
      possible, previous MR/CT data will be uploaded onto the scanner in order to perform image
      fusion for ultrasound guidance during imaging. The distribution of color signals and the
      overall color content of the tumor will be evaluated by comparing the pattern and amount of
      color to the normal surrounding tissue. Following baseline scanning, patients will receive a
      1 ml intravenous injection of Optison (GE Healthcare, Princeton, NJ) in a peripheral vein
      followed by renal mass imaging in 2D CHI (a nonlinear contrast imaging package). Ten minutes
      after the 2D CEUS exam, patients will receive a second bolus injection of Optison followed by
      3D CHI (using a curvilinear 3D array). All contrast injections will be supervised by a board
      certified physician. Resuscitation equipment and trained personnel will be immediate
      proximity to the patient during each contrast-enhanced ultrasound exam. Digital clips of the
      exams will be recorded through the contrast agent wash-in and wash-out phases for at least
      two minutes and stored for later use. The subject will then be monitored for adverse
      reactions for 30 minutes. If the patient wishes to continue participating in the study, they
      will be eligible for CEUS exams during their future clinically scheduled follow up exams as
      long as these take place within the study timeframe.

      Patients will be monitored for AEs during and 30 minutes after contrast administration. All
      other procedures will be performed according to standard of care. No further patient
      monitoring is required as side effects of Optison are acute in nature and no renal toxicity
      has been reported.
    
  