
    
      1. INTRODUCTION AND SCOPE During the last decade treatment guidelines for the
           administration of adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with breast cancer have changed,
           today advising chemotherapy in the majority of patients having a >1cm invasive cancer.
           Prognostic factors used to determine the need for adjuvant chemotherapy are axillary
           lymph node status, tumour size and grade, patients' age, and HER2 over expression. In
           addition, HER2 status and ER/PR are also predictive of the effect of particular adjuvant
           systemic therapies.

           Besides predictive models based on histopathologic factors, gene expression arrays have
           recognized four different molecular subtypes of breast cancer (Luminal A, Luminal B HER2
           +, Luminal B HER2 - and Triple negative). In addition, a number of gene expression
           profiles have been designed and validated in its capacity to predict the risk of
           dissemination. One of the gene expression profiles is the 70-gene MammaPrint® signature.
           The 70-gene MammaPrint® has been validated in different retrospective studies, and in a
           prospective community-based feasibility study (RASTER). A considerable discrepancy in
           risk estimations among different clinicopathologic guidelines and MammaPrint was
           observed. In the RASTER study, addition of MammaPrint to standard clinic-pathological
           factors led to a change in adjuvant systemic treatment advice in 19% of patients. The
           5-year metastases free survival rates for MammaPrint Low Risk (n=219) and High Risk
           (n=208) patients were 97,0% and 91,7%.

           The recent Dutch CBO guideline (2012) for breast cancer suggests using validated gene
           expression profiles in individual cases in patients with an invasive ductal carcinoma
           with positive hormonal receptor when there is doubt about the indication for adjuvant
           chemotherapy based on the traditional prognostic factors.

        2. OBJECTIVES Primary objectives Assess the impact of MammaPrint® on clinical decision
           making regarding the administration of adjuvant chemotherapy in the CBO 2012 guideline
           defined group of hormone receptor positive invasive ductal carcinoma patients when there
           is doubt about the indication for adjuvant chemotherapy based on traditional prognostic
           factors.

           Secondary objectives

             -  To document the influence of primary tumour characteristics (size, Bloom and
                malignancy grade and Her-2 status) and N-status (N0 vs N1mi) with respect to the
                (Mammaprint-dependent) decision to give adjuvant chemotherapy in predefined
                subgroups

             -  To address doctor and patient influence on the eventual decision to give adjuvant
                chemotherapy.

           Hypothesis In the group of patients where contemporary national guidelines advocate
           using systemic therapy but doctors are ambivalent in treating patients with adjuvant
           chemotherapy, it is hypothesized that using MammaPrint® as an additional test will
           change the indication for adjuvant therapy in a substantial proportion of patients
           resulting in at least 10% less patients who receive adjuvant chemotherapy. Thus, in the
           study group at least 10% less patients will receive chemotherapy when compared to a
           contemporary group of patients with similar clinicopathological characteristics but
           without using MammaPrint®

        3. STUDY POPULATION

           Population (base) The study population is the CBO 2012 guideline defined group of
           hormone receptor positive, invasive ductal breast cancer patients when there is doubt
           about the indication for adjuvant chemotherapy based on traditional prognostic factors.

           Doubt about the indication for adjuvant chemotherapy based on traditional prognostic
           factors is an ill-defined criterion. Potential differences in the individual judgement
           of medical oncologists deciding on adjuvant systemic therapy are conceivable, which will
           translate in differences in the tendency to use MammaPrint®. Based on the CBO-guideline
           2012, we expect that the tendency to use MammaPrint® in small, low-grade tumours as well
           as in patients with lymph node macrometastases will be relatively low.

           Based on the aforementioned assumptions the expected proportional composition of the
           study group 'of hormone receptor positive, invasive ductal breast cancer patients when
           there is doubt about the indication for adjuvant chemotherapy based on traditional
           prognostic factors' is as follows:

           N0, BR 1, > 2 cm : 10-15% (60-90 patients) N0, BR 2, > 1 cm : 50-60% (300-350 patients)
           N1mi, grade 1,2 : 15-20% (90-120 patients)

           Her+, N0, <2c, grade I: <5% (<30 patients) NI: <5% (<30 patients) N0, BR 1, 1-2 cm: <5%
           (<30 patients)

           Control group

           For comparison, data regarding adjuvant chemotherapy in patients in whom no MammaPrint®
           was used will be obtained from a national registry Netherlands Cancer Registry (NKR) and
           matched with the MammaPrint® group to date of diagnosis and clinicopathological
           characteristics. The control group will enable analysis of the impact of Mammaprint on
           the proportion of patients receiving adjuvant chemotherapy.

        4. STUDY DESIGN

      This is a prospective multicentre impact study of MammaPrint® on clinical decision making in
      a predefined group of patients where doctors and patients are ambivalent about adjuvant
      chemotherapy. MammaPrint® is offered in addition to standard histopathology tests for
      decision-making regarding adjuvant systemic therapy. The advised adjuvant systemic therapy
      will be recorded before and after disclosure of the MammaPrint® result.

      Logistical planning:

      Post-surgery:

        1. Every patient is discussed in a multidisciplinary team meeting for further treatment
           advice. After definitive pathological assessment of tumour size, Bloom and Richardson
           grade, confirmation of ER/PR- and HER2 status, potential inclusion of a patient is
           assessed.

        2. In the surgical outpatient clinic, patients are seen postoperatively and the
           histopathological results are discussed. The surgeon informs the patient about the
           conclusion of the multidisciplinary team and the patient is informed about existing
           uncertainty of adjuvant treatment and the added value of the MammaPrint. Study
           information is supplied including an Informed Consent form.

        3. The pathologist sends the MammaPrint kit to Agendia for analyses. The attending surgeon
           and/or research nurse register patients by completing electronic Case Report Form (CRF)
           1.

        4. MammaPrint® result is emailed to the surgeon, medical oncologist and mammacare nurse
           within 10 working days.

        5. Within two weeks the patient is seen in the outpatient clinic by the oncologist to
           discuss the result of the MammaPrint®. A final decision concerning adjuvant chemotherapy
           is made with the patient. CRF 2 is completed by the oncologist.

      The study is expected to enrol 600 patients in approximately 25 hospitals in two and a half
      years. The follow up regarding the advice of adjuvant treatment is estimated to be two
      months, just after the start of the adjuvant chemotherapy.

      5. TISSUE COLLECTION AND 'CLASSIC' HISTOPATHOLOGICAL EXAMINATION

      After patients' approval and signed consent forms, samples can be sent to Agendia for
      MammaPrint® analysis. The tissue specimen for MammaPrint® analysis consists of a tumour block
      or 10 unstained slides with 5µm section on each slide. The tissue can be shipped as formalin
      fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) tissue.

      6. STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

      Descriptive statistics The primary endpoint is defined as the group of patients who receive
      adjuvant systemic therapy and will be compared to the proportion of patients who were advised
      to receive chemotherapy before knowledge of the MammaPrint® result. In addition, using
      NKR/NBCA data as controls, the absolute difference in the proportion of patients receiving
      adjuvant chemotherapy is evaluated. This absolute difference is evaluated for the whole group
      as well as for the three expectedly largest subgroups.

      Statistical analysis Baseline characteristics will be summarized by an incidence table. The
      frequency of chemotherapy + endocrine versus endocrine alone decisions will be addressed
      before and after receiving the MammaPrint result in the study group. A McNemars test will be
      performed for the comparison of the two proportions treated (before and after), both
      expressed as a percentage. When the p- value for this McNemars test is less than 0.05, the
      conclusion will be that the two proportions indeed differ significantly.

      Chi-square tests (binary variables), non-parametric Mann-Whitney test (for continuous
      variables - 2 groups) and non-parametric Kruskall-Wallis tests (continuous variables - more
      groups) will be used for the comparison of population characteristics in different subgroups.
      When the p- values are less than 0.05, the conclusion will be that there is a significant
      difference between the subgroups for these variables.

      The percentage treatment change will be calculated for the whole study group and for the
      three predefined subgroups. The distribution of MammaPrint test results will be summarized in
      a frequency table. With a predefined sample size for the whole group (n=600), and a control
      group consisting of at least 1800 patients the minimal detectable difference in the
      proportion of patients receiving chemotherapy is 6.6% for the whole group and 9.3% for a
      subgroup of 300 patients (2-sided alpha 0.05, Power 80). After inclusion of the first 150
      patients, additional sample size calculation will be conducted based on the actual
      proportions of the subgroups.

      7. ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS

      Regulation statement This study is conducted according to the principles of the Declaration
      of Helsinki (version 6, February 2008) and in accordance with the Medical Research Involving
      Human Subjects Act (WMO) and other legal and regulatory frameworks.
    
  