
    
      Specific Procedures: If participant agrees to take part in this study, the procedures and
      visits include the following:

      Screening Visit: (approximately 3.0 hours):Prior to any procedures being conducted, the
      Informed Consent Form will be reviewed with participant in detail and participant will have
      the opportunity to decide if s/he wish to participate in the study or not. If participant
      meets all the requirements and all of participants questions have been answered, participant
      will be asked to sign the consent form. A clinical assessment will take place, where
      participant will be asked questions about participants medical and psychiatric history
      including family psychiatric history and prior treatments. Participants medical records may
      be reviewed to confirm diagnosis and treatment history. The study doctor will complete rating
      scales to determine the current status of participants mood. Participant may choose not to
      answer any questions that participant is uncomfortable with. Neurocognitive tests (i.e.,
      paper and pencil tests of memory, problem solving etc. as well as a computer component) will
      be conducted to determine if cognitive impairment exists. If there is no cognitive impairment
      no further procedures will be conducted. The information that is collected from the
      participant will not be used for any purpose other than stating how many people were screened
      for study participation. If cognitive impairment does exist, participant will be scheduled to
      return to the clinic within 4 weeks and a baseline visit will be completed. In addition to
      the above procedures, participant will also have a physical examination, which includes
      measurement of participants height, weight and blood pressure. To ensure safety of
      participation in the study, participant will be asked to have routine clinical blood work,
      including a pregnancy test for female participants of childbearing age, and a urine test for
      a drug screen. If participant has a personal or family history of significant cardiac
      problems or show cardiac abnormalities on the physical exam an EKG will be performed.

      Baseline Visit (approximately 3-3.5 hours): At baseline, rating scales and clinical
      assessment will be completed to determine the current status of participants mood.
      Information about participants current medications and any side effects will be obtained. If
      participant is not eligible, participants will not be randomized into the study and no
      further procedures will be conducted.

      If participant is eligible, participant will be randomized to receive either cariprazine or
      placebo in addition to participants current medications, and instructed on dosing.
      Participant will complete more neurocognitive testings. The use of benzodiazepines (Ativan,
      Lorazepam etc.) within 4 hours or caffeine intake 2 hours prior to neurocognitive testing is
      not allowed. Participant will be asked to complete questionnaires about participants
      functioning and quality of life. Vital signs and weight measurements will be obtained. Study
      medication will be dispensed to last until the next clinic visit. Participant must bring the
      remaining unused medication to the next appointment. Participant is asked to give 1.5
      tablespoons (20 ml) of blood to analyze markers which may be predictive of bipolar disorder
      (biomarkers). Biomarkers are substances (like proteins, protein particles, or chemicals that
      make body function) that may be altered in those with bipolar disorder or may provide
      information about treatment response. These samples will be labelled with a unique study
      number and will not contain any identifying information. The samples will be stored at the
      study site until they are sent for analysis at the end of the study.

      Weeks 1, 2 and 4: (approximately 15 minutes each): Participant will be contacted by telephone
      to review any changes to participants medications and any side effects that may be
      experienced.

      Week 3 Clinic appointment: (approximately 1 hour) : A clinical assessment will take place,
      where participant is asked questions about their mood. Information about participants current
      medications and any side effects will be obtained. Vital signs and weight measurements will
      be obtained. Bottle-1 of the study medication will be collected and bottle-2 of study
      medication will be dispensed. Participant will be asked to bring the remaining unused study
      medication from bottle-2 to the next clinic appointment. Participant will be asked to give a
      tablespoon (15 ml) of blood to test for levels of study medication. The samples will be
      labelled with a unique study number and will not contain any identifying information. The
      samples will be stored at study site until they are sent for analysis at the end of the
      study.

      Week 6/ Early Termination Visit: (approximately 3 hours): A clinical assessment will take
      place where participant will be asked questions about their mood. Neurocognitive testing will
      be administered to all participants who have had a minimum of 3 weeks of double- blind
      treatment. Participant is asked to complete some questionnaires about participants
      functioning and quality of life. Information about participants current medications and any
      side effects will be obtained. Vital signs and weight measurements will be obtained.
      Participant will have a physical examination and will be asked to complete routine laboratory
      tests including a pregnancy test for female participants of childbearing age, and a urine
      drug screen. In addition, participant is asked to give 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of blood to
      measure levels of study medication, and biomarkers. These samples will be labelled with a
      unique study number and will not contain any identifying information. The samples will be
      stored at study site until they are sent for analysis at the end of the study.

      Follow-up Telephone Assessment (2 weeks after study completion; approximately 15 minutes):
      Participant will be contacted by telephone to assess any side effects or issues post
      treatment.
    
  