
    
      Central venous catheter placement is a common procedure in the intensive care unit and is a
      required skill for all residents working in the critical care setting. Central venous
      catheters (CVC) are placed for a variety of reasons including administration of caustic
      medications, administration of fluids or blood products for rapid resuscitation, access for
      hemodynamic monitoring or transvenous pacing, temporary vascular access for dialysis, or
      inability to obtain peripheral IV access.

      The 2011 CDC Guidelines for Prevention of Intravascular Catheter-Related Infections
      recommends placement of a CVC in the subclavian vein rather than the internal jugular vein to
      minimize infection risk. However, due to lack of experience with placement in the subclavian
      vein, in the Vanderbilt MICU, it is most common for residents to place catheters in the
      internal jugular vein. Placement of the CVC under ultrasound guidance has become standard of
      care and is also recommended by the aforementioned CDC guidelines (CDC guidelines).

      Ultrasound guidance for CVC placement has improved patient safety by reducing the rate of
      complications, improving success rates, and decreasing number of attempts and time for
      successful insertion (Brass). The benefit of ultrasound guidance in reducing complications is
      especially important when less experienced operators such as residents are placing a CVC
      (Rando, Airapetian, Dodge). The addition of an ultrasound machine to an otherwise sterile
      procedure does not increase the rate of catheter associated blood stream infections
      (Cartier).

      Placement of the IJ CVC on the right instead of the left is commonly preferred due to the
      more direct path to the superior vena cava. However, placement in the left IJ may be
      necessary for a variety of reasons. Depending on head position, the degree of overlap between
      the right IJ and the right carotid artery may make right sided placement precarious due to
      risk of arterial puncture (Ozbek, Maecken). Previously undetected IJ thrombus on the right
      may also prevent CVC placement, requiring a switch to the contralateral side (Goel).
      Ultrasound guidance could also reveal a unilateral vascular anatomic anomaly that would
      otherwise complicate CVC insertion (Benter, Rossi).

      For these reasons, the investigators intend to compare the standard practice of residents
      placing IJ CVC in the medical ICU against mandatory screening of the right and left IJ prior
      to selection of the CVC placement site.

      The benefits of ultrasound guidance for IJ CVC placement are well established. However, the
      benefits of ultrasound guidance may be extended by more fully evaluating both the left and
      right IJ prior to choosing a side for placement. As mentioned previously, several factors
      could make placement of the CVC on a particular side either more successful or precarious.
      These factors include possible asymmetric diameter of the IJ vein, unfavorable relationship
      of the IJ to the carotid artery, pre-existing IJ thrombus, or other aberrant vascular
      anatomy.

      This study will begin with a 4 month period of data collection on the standard practice of IJ
      CVC placement by residents in the medical intensive care unit. Data will be collected on the
      success rate of CVC insertion as measured by "first stick" placement of the catheter. The
      study will also record how often placement of the CVC must be aborted in favor of an attempt
      on the contralateral side. Any incidental detection of pre-existing conditions that could
      complicate CVC placement, including IJ thrombus or aberrant anatomy, will also be recorded.
      Finally, the investigators will record rates of immediate complication of CVC placement,
      including pneumothorax, hemothorax, and arterial placement or puncture of the CVC catheter.

      In the medical ICU of the institution where this study will occur, nurse practitioners
      perform similar duties to residents on a separate but similarly operating ICU team. Data on
      central line placement by nurse practitioners will also be collected.

      The specific aims will be threefold:

      Specific Aim 1: To assess the first pass and overall success rates when both IJ veins are
      evaluated by ultrasound compared to standard IJ CVC placement by ultrasound.

      Specific Aim 2: To assess the rate of aborted procedures between the two study periods, as
      defined by failure of catheter placement at the side of first needle puncture site or failure
      of catheter placement overall.

      Specific Aim 3: To assess the rate of complications when IJ central venous catheters are
      placed after evaluation of bilateral IJ sites compared to current practice of placing IJ
      catheters under ultrasound guidance.
    
  