
    
      Sampling from the inferior petrosal sinuses for ACTH levels differentiates Cushing disease
      from the ectopic ACTH syndrome in nearly all patients. Patients with corticotroph tumors have
      a petrosal-to-peripheral ACTH gradient of 2 or more, while patients with other causes of
      Cushing syndrome have lower gradients. Bilateral petrosal sinus sampling also often provides
      useful information on lateralization of the adenoma for the neurosurgeon. The widespread
      application of inferior petrosal sinus sampling has been limited by concerns about potential
      complications and by technical failures in the hands of less experienced radiologists. In
      this protocol, we compare ACTH levels in the internal jugular veins before and after CRH
      stimulation with those obtained by conventional inferior petrosal sinus sampling from
      patients with Cushing's syndrome. Obtaining blood from the jugular veins is a simple,
      practically risk-free procedure that could be accomplished easily in community hospitals on
      an outpatient basis. We hypothesize that corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) stimulation
      will increase ACTH production from corticotroph adenomas so that the diagnostic information
      from jugular venous sampling would be equivalent to that obtained by catheterization of the
      petrosal sinuses.

      Currently fewer than ten centers in the United States have sufficient technical expertise
      with inferior petrosal sinus sampling (IPSS) to ensure reliable results. This proposal to
      develop jugular venous sampling (JVS) with CRH stimulation as a test for the differential
      diagnosis of Cushing syndrome would potentially contribute greatly to the medical care of
      patients with Cushing syndrome, as a less costly, safer and more widely available alternative
      to inferior petrosal sinus sampling. Initial data from 35 patients undergoing both JVS and
      IPSS revealed no technical problems with either procedure. IPSS correctly identified 28/31
      patients with Cushing disease, while JVS correctly identified 23 of these patients using
      conventional criteria (petrosal:peripheral greater than 2 before or 3 after CRH
      administration). Thus, JVS may be a useful initial procedure at institutions where IPSS is
      not available. However, since it is likely that jugular:peripheral ratios will be lower in
      patients with ectopic ACTH secretion (so far, 1.2 - 2.04), the protocol evaluates also the
      performance of JVS in patients with ectopic ACTH secretion to determine whether the criteria
      for interpretation of JVS should be different than those used for IPSS.
    
  