
    
      Human cardiac Troponin I (cTnI) is an composition of Troponin which is found in heart muscle
      cells. Molecular weight of cTnI is 23,875 Dalton consisting of 209 amino acids. [1,2] The
      cTnI have been used in the diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction(AMI). [3,4,5] According
      to ESC / ACCF / AHA / WHF, diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction rely on the data from
      clinical symptoms, Electrocardiogram (EKG) changes in the specific pattern, such as
      ST-segment elevation / depression, new left bundle branch block, and cardiac biomarker level
      rise over the 99th percentile upper reference limit, which makes the cTnI level was used to
      help in making diagnosis for patient coming with symptoms of angina in emergency room.

      The current cTnI detecting test has developed more and more high sensitive(called
      "high-sensitive troponin-I; hsTnI") which can detected in the range 10-50,000 pg / ml (ng /
      L) [6], and it can detected cTnI level even in normal people unlike cTnI, which only reported
      positive or negative or lower than the limit of detection. Due to ARCHITECT stat High
      sensitive Troponin-I (Abbott diagnostic) capabilities, hsTnI level can be detected in normal
      people up to 96 percent.[7] The reference range of hsTnI which has been researched by Apple
      FS, et al.(2012) studying the 19 types of cardiac troponin I and T measurement was
      established. The 99th percentile values for general healthy population without hypertension,
      diabetes, kidney disease and myocardial infarction, aged 18-64 years was 36 ng / L in men (N
      = 272), 15 ng / L in women (N = 252) [7].

      However, research to find the reference of hsTnI in some groups , especially in patients with
      kidney disease is still limited and the diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction also use the
      99th percentile as the reference source which was researched in healthy population[7] which
      makes it difficult to interpret. Sometimes doctors may concluded that patients with rising
      hsTnI because of kidney disease. According to the research in the next section, there are
      both support and against in this idea. Therefore, the researchers aim to study hsTnI in
      patients with end-stage renal disease received hemodialysis compare with normal population.
    
  