
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the rate of molecular response 4.5 (MR4.5) after 12 months of combination
      therapy with ruxolitinib phosphate (ruxolitinib) plus a tyrosine-kinase inhibitor (TKI)
      (bosutinib, dasatinib, or nilotinib) versus a TKI alone, based on local polymerase chain
      reaction (PCR) testing to measure BCR-ABL transcripts in chronic phase chronic myelogenous
      leukemia (CML) patients with molecular evidence of disease.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the frequency and severity of toxicities of each regimen in this patient
      population.

      II. To estimate progression free survival and overall survival of each regimen in this
      patient population.

      ADDITIONAL OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe patterns of MR4.5 and molecular response 4.0 (MR4.0) attainment and failure
      over the 3, 6, 9, and 12-month time points of each regimen in this patient population.

      II. To evaluate drug compliance based on patient reported drug intake calendars in this
      patient population.

      III. To describe the kinetics of response in this patient population (as measured by
      quantitative BCR-ABL/BCR ratio) in both arms over the 3, 6, 9, and 12-month time points.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive bosutinib orally (PO) daily or dasatinib PO daily or nilotinib PO
      twice daily (BID) on days 1-90. Treatment repeats every 90 days for up to 4 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive ruxolitinib phosphate PO BID on days 1-90, and bosutinib PO daily or
      dasatinib PO daily or nilotinib PO BID on days 1-90. Treatment repeats every 90 days for up
      to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years, and
      then annually up to 5 years.
    
  