
    
      In 2012, African Americans (AA) were 1.4 times more likely to be overweight and obese than
      non-Hispanic Whites. The Office of Minority Health reports the prevalence of overweight and
      obesity (BMI>25) among AA men age 20 and older is 70%. AA men suffer disproportionately from
      obesity-related consequences. Modest weight loss (WL) of 10% or less improves cardiovascular
      disease risk factors and reduces the risk of type 2 diabetes. However, the majority of
      participants in lifestyle weight loss (LWL) interventions are most commonly Caucasian women.
      While men are unrepresented in weight loss programs; even fewer studies examine WL in AA men.
      Only 4.5% of AA men participate in research studies, according to the National Institute of
      Health (NIH). When AA men have participated in LWL interventions, they have loss less weight
      compared to Caucasian men. Consequently, the evidence on the appropriateness of the current
      WL strategies and recommendations for AA men is limited.

      There is limited literature on the appropriate strategies for WL in AA men because of their
      lack of participation. Social support is a predictor of weight loss and support from family
      is important in AA culture. Spousal support results, defined as spouse or significant other,
      are inconsistent and are largely conducted in Caucasian populations. The use of individual
      based theoretical frameworks may explain these inconsistencies. Using a dyad based framework
      like the Interdependence Theory may produce different results. The use of a dyad based
      theoretical framework and testing the effects of spousal support adds to the literature of WL
      among AA men.

      This study seeks to determine the best strategies to attract overweight and obese AA men to
      participate and examine the efficacy of a 3 month spousal support enhanced behavioral weight
      loss intervention focused on behavior modification, nutrition and physical activity compared
      to a traditional intervention in achieving clinical significant weight loss in AA men. Using
      2 arms randomized controlled trial (RCT) 26 AA men and their partners will be recruited to
      participate in each arm in Orange, Durham and Wake County, North Carolina. The investigator
      hypothesizes the proposed TEAM (Together Eating & Activity Matters) program, a spousal
      support enhanced WL intervention, will result in clinical weight loss among AA men.
    
  