
    
      Abdominal sacrocolpopexy (ASC) is the gold standard operation to treat pelvic organ prolapse.
      The open approach has been associated with prolonged hospital stay and higher peri-operative
      morbidity, leading many providers to prefer a robotic approach. Even though robotic ASC
      overcomes many of the technical hurdles associated with laparoscopy, it is expensive, and it
      achieves cost effectiveness compared to open only because of large discrepancies in length of
      stay. Preliminary data at our institution suggests that with the introduction of ERAS,
      decreases in hospital stay after abdominal surgery have driven down the discrepancy in length
      of stay between open (1.8 days) and robotic (1.4 days) ASC. Previous analysis accounted for
      differences in OR time as well as postoperative stay. However, this cost data is obtained
      from data on billed charges rather than a summation of actual costs sustained; data on
      specific incurred costs is scant in the literature. Robotic surgery requires equipment and
      resources which also increase the price of the procedure. Specifically, Da Vinci robots are
      priced at $1.4 million, require $120,000 in annual maintenance contracts, and the cost of
      disposable instruments can reach $2000 per case. Instruments and disposable materials, while
      contracted at Mayo, do have published prices that may be used to better quantify
      intraoperative procedural costs.

      In addition to questions about the cost effectiveness of robotic versus abdominal
      sacrocolpopexy, data on patient satisfaction comparing the two procedures is minimal. While
      abdominal and robotic approaches have similar efficacy, patient perceived equivalence has
      been largely assumed. Additionally, the literature frequently lists improved cosmesis as a
      benefit to robotic surgery, yet the studies on scar satisfaction between the two approaches
      are lacking.

      Hypothesis: Intraoperative costs of abdominal sacrocolpopexy are significantly less than
      those in the robotic approach. However, patients who undergo robotic sacrocolpopexy have
      improved scar satisfaction and equivalent perceived surgical satisfaction.

      This is a prospective cohort study of intraoperative time and materials in open versus
      robotic ASC.
    
  