
    
      Von Willebrand Factor (vWF) is a key protein mediating platelet adhesion on the surface of
      damaged endothelia, initiating platelet-platelet aggregation and supporting platelet
      activation. It plays also an important role in protecting FVIII from early activation and
      clearance . The product's included coagulation factor VIII acts in in the activated form like
      the regular factor VIIIa. It takes part in the coagulation amplification by activating factor
      X to Xa together with factor IVa. Activation of factor X results in generating thrombin out
      of prothrombin. Wilate® is approved in Switzerland for prophylaxis and treatment of bleeding
      in patients suffering from von Willebrand disease and Haemophilia A.

      VWF is produced by the endothelial cells as a heterogeneous mixture of low and high molecular
      weight units. VWF is a ligand for receptors on the platelet surface and endothelial cells
      (GP1b-V-IX, αIIbβ3, αvβ3) mediating adhesion of platelets to each other or to the
      endothelium. Initial platelet adhesion is a crucial step in haemostatic functioning. Loss of
      platelets, vWF or blocking of these integrins due to the wide use of platelet aggregation
      inhibitors can cause bleeding. In case of severe blood loss, these conditions often result in
      mass transfusion.

      There is suggestive evidence from an in-vitro flow chamber model and from treatment of
      patients with severe vWF deficiency that increasing the concentration of vWF onto normal or
      high normal levels can enhance platelet adhesion independent from platelet count. This might
      translate into a better haemostatic effect of administered platelet concentrates in the
      bleeding patient and less need for transfusion of blood products (platelet concentrates),
      especially in clinical conditions with a high probability of low platelet count and low vWF
      activities (e.g., heart surgery with extracorporeal circulation, ECMO).

      To the best of our knowledge, no trial exists that investigated the effect of platelet
      transfusion in combination with the administration of balanced vWF in severe blood loss. The
      investigators hypothesize that simultaneous transfusion of platelets and balanced (1:1 vWF
      and FVIII) vWF compared to placebo reduces the overall need of transfusion of blood products.
    
  