
    
      The study is a randomized control studies which aims to contribute data to a previous study
      on the effects of ankyloglossia (tongue-tie) on breastfeeding, and to also provide new
      information on the effects of maxillary lip-tie on breastfeeding. Participants who are
      determined eligible for the study (classified to have ankyloglossia via the HATLFF and either
      a Class III or IV maxillary labial frenum) will be randomly assigned to one of two groups:
      Group A or Group B. Group A will receive a sham procedure for intervention #1 and a lingual
      frenotomy procedure for intervention #2. Group B will receive a lingual frenotomy procedure
      for intervention #1 and a sham procedure for intervention #2. Newborns that continue to have
      difficulty with breastfeeding after both interventions will undergo intervention #3, a labial
      frenotomy, and breastfeeding will be monitored afterwards. These results will be analyzed to
      determine when lingual frenotomies, labial frenotomies, or both are necessary to improve
      breastfeeding pain and LATCH scores.

      The study aims to prove that the simple and low risk frenotomy procedure should be considered
      as treatment for both ankyloglossia and maxillary lip-tie, preventing breastfeeding
      complications as well as many other future problems such as with speech and self esteem. It
      is hypothesized that the use of frenotomies as treatment for ankyloglossia and maxillary
      lip-tie will improve breastfeeding success for breastfeeding couplets with newborns with both
      ankyloglossia and maxillary lip-tie. It is expected to see an increase in LATCH score to >7
      for breastfeeding sessions and a significant decrease in scoring on the pain scale after
      frenotomy intervention, while it is expected to see little change in LATCH and pain scale
      assessment scores after sham procedures. Overall data is not expected to vary significantly
      between Group A and Group B. It is also hypothesized that a lingual frenotomy alone will be
      sufficient to improve breastfeeding success without the need to also conduct a labial
      frenotomy.
    
  