
    
      After completing the initial screening by phone, participants will be informed of the study
      procedures and invited to the lab to complete three WP smoking sessions. Participants will
      perform exhaled carbon monoxide testing (eCO< 10ppm) and confirm that they have not used any
      nicotine/tobacco/marijuana products over the last 12 hours. Pregnancy exclusion will also be
      confirmed with a urine test, and pregnancy tests will be completed at each visit throughout
      the study. Participants will be randomized and complete study procedures in self-selected
      dyads. The sessions will be counterbalanced and include: 1) smoking preferred
      flavored-sweetened WP tobacco, 2) smoking unflavored-sweetened WP tobacco, and 3) smoking
      unflavored-very low sweetened WP tobacco. Participants will complete all three study visits
      in the laboratory. Pre-session abstinence from tobacco for at least 12 hours will be
      mandatory for all participants. Abstinence will be confirmed via participant self-report and
      an exhaled carbon monoxide monitor (< 20 ppm) for tobacco use. Participant dyads will smoke
      hookah ad libitum for up to 1 hour. This procedure will be completed for all visits.
      Participants will also complete a minimum 48-hour washout period between sessions.

      Participants will not be allowed to eat, drink or use their phone during the session.
      Initially, one piece of charcoal will be lit and placed on top of the foil. Our preliminary
      studies, as well as other WP laboratory trials, indicate that one piece of charcoal will not
      be sufficient for one WP session; thus, participants will be provided additional pre-weighed
      pieces to use as they wish. Use of additional charcoal will be recorded. Participants will
      smoke ad libitum and a WP puff topography device will discretely record smoking behavior
      throughout the session, including puff duration, number of puffs, puff volume, puff flow
      rate, and time between puffs. Blood samples (15mL per sample) and eCO will be collected
      immediately pre- and post-waterpipe session. Self-report measures will be administered.
    
  