
    
      All women experience menopause and a significant number suffer from ongoing, severe
      depression beginning with the major hormone fluctuations in this middle stage of life. The
      number of women experiencing menopause related major depression and the impact of this
      depression on the woman's life, work and her family are grossly underestimated. We propose to
      conduct a clinical trial of a new hormone treatment for women with severe depression related
      to menopause, compared with standard antidepressant medication.

      Longitudinal epidemiological studies have shown that many women experience significant
      physical and psychological changes as they approach menopause and for a long time following.
      Vasomotor symptoms (such as hot flushes, night sweats), sleep disturbances and changes in
      libido are common, and impact significantly on the quality of life, social and personal
      well-being. However, the major reason that many women seek help from menopause clinics or
      their doctors, is for depression and anxiety symptoms.

      Many perimenopausal women experience severe mood symptoms for the first time in their life,
      with no past psychiatric history. The importance of clearly identifying and treating a
      disorder that is increasingly referred to as "perimenopausal depression" is highlighted by
      the wide-reaching impact this can have on the lives of women suffering from it. This is not a
      minor or short term mood disturbance; it is a severe depressive illness, needing effective
      and early treatment. Relationships, employment, participation in social roles and individual
      well-being can all be disrupted by the combination of the mood, hormonal and physical changes
      associated with the transition to menopause. The term "perimenopausal depression" denotes the
      onset of depression coinciding with the onset of reproductive hormone changes.

      Many women with this type of depression experience serious and long term debilitating
      symptoms. Treatment commonly draws on traditional approaches for the management of major
      depression including the use of antidepressants such as selective serotonin reuptake
      inhibitors (SSRIs) as the first line response. However, standard treatment of perimenopausal
      depression using antidepressants has only shown small improvements at best and at worst, is
      associated with severe side effects. Some SSRIs have been shown to be less effective in
      postmenopausal women compared to child bearing age women. Hormone treatments directly
      targeting the fluctuating reproductive hormone systems (in particular estrogen) through the
      administration of compounds such as tibolone, have significant potential as a better overall
      treatment.

      To date, there is still a lack of clear clinical evidence about the best approach for the
      biological treatment of women with perimenopausal depression. The project we now propose to
      conduct is a 12-week randomised controlled trial (RCT) of 2.5 mg/day tibolone compared to
      10mg/day of escitalopram (an SSRI that has targeted serotonin action) compared to placebo to
      discover the best treatment approach for a hitherto understudied depression that affects a
      large proportion of women in their late forties and fifties.
    
  