
    
      Calciﬁc tendinitis of the rotator cuff is one of the most common causes of shoulder pain. It
      is characterized by calcium phosphate crystal deposition in the rotator cuff. Its
      pathogenesis and etiology remains unclear and the mechanisms leading to this pathological
      mineralization are still largely unknown. This disorder can lead to a chronic pain during
      daily or professional activities and to a restriction of range of motion. During the disease,
      spontaneous resorption can occur with migration of apatite crystals into the subacromial
      bursa causing severe pain and restriction of movement. Factors associated with the
      development of symptoms are still unclear although the size and presence of a bursitis on
      imaging have been shown to be associated with pain.

      Ultrasound guided percutaneous lavage (UGPL or barbotage or irrigation) of calcific
      tendinopathy is indicated when conservative treatments (physiotherapy, nonsteroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs) have failed. At this stage, extracorporeal shock wave therapy (ESWT)
      or subacromial corticosteroid injection can also be discussed. However, a recent network
      meta-analysis has shown that UGPL could be the treatment of choice compared to the other
      nonsurgical options such as ESWT or SAI. Arthroscopic removal of the calcific deposit is
      considered as a second line therapy after failure of UGPL or EWST.

      Efficacy of UGPL depends on the type of calcification. Calcific deposits can be
      differentiated in hard calcifications, usually dense on X-Ray with an acoustic shadow on US,
      and soft calcifications, with more heterogeneous or faint contours without acoustic
      shadowing. Some studies observed failure only in patients presenting with a dense and
      homogeneous calcification type A according to the Molé Classification and also showed that
      outcome after needling and/or ESWT will be worse in case of dense calcifications, with only
      30% of success compared to 61% in patients with soft calcification. These failures are most
      of the time explained by the persistence of the calcific deposit. In line with this, was
      found a positive correlation between the decrease of the size of the calcification and the
      pain score over time; as the calcification became smaller, the pain became less intense.

      Several approaches are currently used to facilitate the extraction of the calcification. It
      has been shown that lavage with warm saline heated at 42°C reduced the procedure duration and
      improved calcification dissolution. Another randomized controlled study recently reported
      that lavage with a 2 needle approach also shortened the procedure in hard calcification.
      However, none of these studies showed an impact on the rate of calcification elimination.
      Other strategies are therefore needed to treat hard calcification of the rotator cuff.

      Sodium thiosulfate (STS) (Na2S2O3) is primarily used to prevent and treat cyanide poisoning.
      Intravenous STS is also used off-label to treat calciphylaxis leading to a significant
      decrease of soft-tissue and vascular calcifications. However, its systemic use may be limited
      by adverse effects, such as gastrointestinal upset, metabolic acidosis, and sodium overload.
      Thus, alternative local approaches have been developed. Recent reports have shown the
      interest of topical STS in the treatment of calciphylaxis, tumoral calcinosis associated with
      connective tissue disease, pseudohypoparathyroidism or hyperphosphatemic familial tumoral
      calcinosis. For instance, a daily application of topical STS on the calcific lesions of
      patients with hyperphosphatemic familial tumoral calcinosis led to their decrease after 5
      months of treatment. Topical application of STS has also showed an anti-inflammatory effect
      in patients with calcinosis cutis secondary to connective tissue disease and radiodermatitis.
      Because deeper calcific deposits are unlikely to be reached by topical therapeutic agents,
      some authors performed intralesional STS injections in patients with localized cutaneous
      calciphylaxis. They observed a complete healing of ulcers and remission of disease with only
      transient localized discomfort during injection. Despite these promising results, the exact
      mechanisms by which STS is able to dissolve ectopic calcifications remain still unclear.

      Recently one study showed that STS was well tolerated with no side effect occurring during
      ultrasound-guided percutaneous lavage of calcific tendinopathy.

      These preliminary results prompted us to study the interest of STS in the treatment of
      calcific tendinitis. As dense calcifications are associated with higher risk of failure of
      UGPL, the investigators will select patients to perform a lavage followed by an intralesional
      injection of STS. The objective of our study is to evaluate the efficacy of sodium
      thiosulfate lavage in the treatment of shoulder pain in calcific tendinitis. the
      investigators will also assess its effect on clinical symptoms and radiographic evolution of
      the calcific deposit and hypothesize that sodium thiosulfate would be well-tolerated and
      fastened the elimination of the calcific deposit in patients with dense calcifications.

      METHODS The current study is a prospective, monocentric, phase II, single group, open label
      study.

      Study population The investigators will include patients referred to the rheumatology
      department for the treatment of a shoulder pain calcific tendinitis. Inclusion criteria are
      the following: age over 18 years old; pain for more than 3 months; worsening of symptoms with
      activities above shoulder level; minimum one the 3 following impingement positive clinical
      tests (Yocum, Hawkins, Neer); calcification > 5 mm in size on the standard anteroposterior
      (AP) radiographs. Only type A calcification according the Molé Classification will be
      included. The exclusion criteria will be: allergy to sodium metabisulfite, asthma, chronic
      renal disease (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min), Type B or C calcification according the Molé
      Classification, other shoulder disease (glenohumeral or acromioclavicular osteoarthritis,
      rotator cuff tear, rheumatoid arthritis); previous percutaneous irrigation of the same
      calcification.

      Baseline clinical, radiological and ultrasonographic evaluation The investigators will
      recorde the main demographic characteristics: medical history, occupation, dominant hand,
      presence of nocturnal pain, and day off-work because of the shoulder pain. VAS pain at rest
      and during activities, shoulder range of motion, DASH score, and EQ5D quality of life VAS
      score will also be recorded. X-Ray of the affected shoulder will be performed
      (anteroposterior view in neutral, internal and external rotation and lateral scapula view).
      Calcifications types will be classified according to Molé at al (A: dense, well defined and
      circumscribed; B: dense, well-defined and segmented; C: transparent and nonhomogeneous).
      Surface of the calcification will be measured on the view where the calcification appears the
      largest. The same view will be used for all measurements during follow-up. Density of the
      deposit will be evaluated on the same view. All the measurements will be made by an
      experienced rheumatologist (with 35 years' experience in clinical radiologic evaluation)
      blinded from the clinical status (ABV).

      US evaluation of the affected shoulder will be performed using a GE LogiS8 using a 6-15 MHz
      linear probe. The investigators will be recorded the maximum size of the calcic deposit in
      axial and longitudinal view. Calcific shoulder plaques will be classified into 4 types based
      on their morphology, as previously described. Arc-shaped (an echogenic arc .with clear
      shadowing); 2. Fragmented or punctate (at least 2 separated echogenic spots or plaques) with
      shadowing); 3. Fragmented or punctate without shadowing; 4. Nodular (an echogenic nodule
      without shadowing). Presence of a bursitis (>2 mm thickening of the SAB) and power Doppler
      signal in and around the calcification will be recorded. For power Doppler imaging, the pulse
      repetition frequency will be set at 2.4 cm/s and the color gain at the most sensitive level
      before the appearance of noise. The color flow signal intensity will be graded on a scale of
      0 to 3, where 0 represents no signal, 1 = mild (weak, spot-like color flow signal), 2 =
      moderate (a few rod-like color flow signals), and 3 = severe (multiple rod-like or linear
      color flow signals).

      Intervention All patients will be undergoing a baseline clinical, X-Ray and US evaluation by
      rheumatologists with 11 years and 5 years' experience in US and US-guided interventions.
      Patients will be with a US-guided single needle technic. After sterile preparation, local
      anesthesia will be performed under US guidance. A total of 10 mL of lidocaine 1% will be
      injected in the subcutaneous tissues, the subacromial bursa and over the surface of the
      calcific deposit. A 21 G pediatric spinal needle will be used for the procedure to prevent
      needle clogging by calcific debris. Indeed, introduction of the needle with the stylet
      prevents the needle to be clogged. Once the needle tip will be inside the calcification, the
      stylet will be removed, and the lavage could start. When backflow of calcific material could
      be identified in the syringe, lavage of the deposit will be performed using sodium
      thiosulfate 25 %: a volume of 1 mL of sodium thiosulfate will be prepared in a syringe and
      successive propulsion and aspiration will be performed. The procedure will be repeated until
      the backflow becomes clear. At the end of the procedure 1 mL (250 mg) of thiosulfate will be
      injected inside the calcific deposit. Finally, 1.5 mL of methylprednisolone will be injected
      in the SAB.

      X-Ray of the shoulder will be performed just after the procedure. Patients will be treated
      with diclofenac (75 mg LP twice daily) and paracetamol (1000 mg, 4 times a day) for 48 hours
      then only if needed. Routine use of the shoulder will be allowed without restrictions and all
      patients had one week off-work.

      Follow-up All patients will have follow-up visits at 1 week, 1 month and 3 months after
      intervention. At each time point, VAS pain at rest and during activities, shoulder range of
      motion, and DASH score will be recorded. EQ5D quality of life VAS score will be also
      recorded. X-Ray of the affected shoulder will be performed at each time point and evaluated
      as previously described. Care will be taken to use the exact same settings (mAs;kV) to allow
      a proper comparison of the calcific deposit between each evaluation. The evolution of the
      calcific deposit will be evaluated using a semi-quantitative score as followed: 0: no change
      or minimal changes; 1: decrease size of the calcification less than 50%; 2: decrease of the
      calcification between 50 and 90%; 3: more than 90% decrease size or disappearance of the
      calcification. Surface of the calcification will be measured on the same view than at
      baseline. US of the affected shoulder will be performed as previously described.
    
  