
    
      This is a one arm study of 100 patients with one or more lung nodules based on standard
      imaging (chest CT) at UNC Hospitals that consent to undergo an experimental s-DCT to
      characterize the number and extent of lung nodules. Most patients will also have undergone a
      standard of care (SOC) chest radiograph (CR). The sensitivity of the CR and of the
      experimental s-DCT will be estimated separately, using the CT as the gold-standard. The
      sensitivities of the CR and the s-DCT will then be compared. In the event that CRs are not
      included in the SOC imaging or are unusable (outside of acceptable window (i.e. do not
      accommodate s-DCT within 2 weeks) or poor quality), the scout image acquired by CT will be
      used in place of a CR. The scout image is a preliminary radiograph that is taken prior to
      performing a definitive CT.

      Working in collaboration with the University of North Carolina (UNC) Multi-Disciplinary
      Thoracic Oncology (MTOP) group, the investigators plan to inform patients that they may be
      contacted to participate in this study to evaluate the sensitivity of the s-DCT system, using
      the SOC CR and chest CT for comparison. CRs are included to provide a basis for comparing
      system sensitivity, representing a minimum standard.

      Once a patient has been referred, or the investigators have collaborated with the treating
      clinic regarding the eligibility of a subject, the patient will be approached by a
      coordinator from Radiology to assess interest in participation. The coordinator will either
      go to the treating clinic, or will call the patient at home, after he/she have been apprised
      of the study by his/her treating physician/nurse.

      If the patient is interested in participation, he/she will be consented either then (in their
      treatment clinic) or when he/she arrives to have his/her s-DCT, but prior to any study
      procedures. Review of the consent will take place in the privacy of an exam room, or when
      possible, a sample consent form will be sent to the patient via email prior to arriving for
      the scan to allow for ample review. Once the patient has consented, women of child bearing
      potential (WCBP) will be given a urine pregnancy test in order to ensure that they are not
      pregnant. If a urine pregnancy test shows a result positive for pregnancy, the patient will
      be excluded from the study per the exclusion criteria because the investigators cannot, in
      good conscience, expose a fetus to unnecessary radiation exposure. If the urine pregnancy
      test shows that the patient is not pregnant, she may participate in the study.

      The study scan, s-DCT, will be performed within two weeks of his/her clinical evaluations by
      chest CT and CR. There cannot be any intervening therapies or procedures (i.e. biopsy or
      excision of lesions) done in between the SOC imaging and the s-DCT. In the event that CRs are
      not included in the SOC imaging or are unusable (outside of acceptable window or poor
      quality), the scout image acquired by CT will be used in place of a CR.

      Images will be acquired by a trained radiologist technologist. The technologist will
      comfortably position the patient in the supine position on the imaging table. Then, all
      patients will have a breath held s-DCT scan in an anterior-posterior direction. Images will
      be reconstructed off-line and transferred for review on conventional picture archival and
      storage (PACS) workstations. Images will be reviewed by radiologists.

      A secondary objective of this study is to determine the specificity of the s-DCT system in
      determining malignancy. In order to assess this objective each patient will be followed for
      up to 1 year following study imaging. If a known nodule is biopsied, the malignancy will be
      determined as indicated by the pathology report. If the nodule is followed but not biopsied
      within 1 year, the nodule will be considered to be not malignant for the purposes of this
      research study. However, some instances may occur in which nodules are not biopsied and are
      considered malignant. In these instances, subsequent CTs and clinical reports will be used to
      determine malignancy during this 1 year follow-up period.

      A reader study will be performed after all patients have been accrued. Each of the 3 scans
      per patient will be de-identified. As reading of all tests will take place after the patient
      has undergone clinical decision making (treatment versus following), the results of this
      study will not affect patient care. A total of 5 radiologist readers, with at least two years
      of CT experience will serve as readers. Each reader will separately interpret the CR and
      s-DCT study for all patients. For each lesion, readers will measure a cranial caudal (CC)
      diameter, to evaluate the system's ability to reproduce CT size measurements. Lesion
      identification and averaged measurement of the CC diameter by Thoracic Radiology
      subspecialists measured on conventional CT with clinical interpretation will serve as
      reference standard for the study.

      Each reader will separately interpret CR and s-DCT images in random order at two different
      reading sessions with a one month wash-out period in between reads. The radiologists will
      identify lesions, measure the CC size of the lesion and rate their confidence in deciding a
      lesion is present based on radiographic features evaluation, specifically the identification
      of lesions.
    
  