
    
      Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) describes the process whereby cells shed their
      epithelial properties and adopt a more mesenchymal and invasive phenotype. A continuous
      molecular cross talk between epithelial and mesenchymal cells is required during embryonic
      development (epithelial mesenchymal transition) and probably plays an important role in
      pathologic process like wound healing and tumour progression. The development of carcinomas
      is due to the genetic changes within the target epithelium. As there is conversion of normal
      epithelium to potentially malignant and to squamous cell carcinoma, the stroma also changes
      from normal to activated or tumor associated called as the stromal reaction. 10 EMT can
      generate mesenchymal cells that express α-smooth muscle actin (αSMA), as seen in
      myofibroblasts. It is, however, unclear whether functional myofibroblasts seen in fibrosis or
      cancer derived from epithelial or endothelial cells

      Hence EMT markers in OSMF were assessed in this study. the following markers chosen as:

        1. miRNA-21 regulates cell proliferation, apoptosis and the epithelial to mesenchymal
           transition during neoplastic progression and is up regulated in a variety of cancers.An
           increased expression of miRNA-21 is seen in myofibroblasts.12 Since we know the role of
           myofibroblasts in OSMF, salivary expression of mi RNA- 21 was included as marker.

        2. Type IV collagen has the unique feature of self-associating through intramolecular
           covalent bonds, providing barrier and mechanical strength properties to basement
           membranes.The increased collagen deposition in OSMF involves numerous fibroblasts that
           are converted to myofibroblasts found in histologic sections of tissue specimens. an
           altered micro environment or stroma such as persistent myofibroblasts has been shown to
           result in tumorigenesis and tumor progression

        3. Cadherins are a class of type-1 trans-membrane proteins known for its calcium-dependent
           cell-cell adhesion property. E-cadherins are members of this protein family found in
           epithelial cells which serve important roles in cell adhesion by ensuring that cells
           within tissues are bound together. The loss of E-cadherin function or expression has
           been implicated in cancer progression and metastasis.E-cadherin expression in the head
           and neck epithelium is essential for the morphogenesis and homeostasis of epithelial
           tissues. The cadherin-mediated cell-cell contacts are required for the
           anchorage-dependent growth of epithelial cells.

           Hence lower expression of E- cadherin is a sign of loss of epithelial integrity

        4. The intermediate filament protein vimentin is involved in the regulation of cell
           behavior, morphology, and mechanical properties. Vimentin is a EMT marker expressed in
           connective tissue. Expression of vimentin in epithelium is a positive signature of EMT,
           and its evaluation in OSMF can unveil the importance of EMT signature in oral fibrosis.
    
  