
    
      With the ongoing opioid epidemic in the United States, there has been a shift toward the use
      of non-opioid alternatives for pain control in the post-operative period. The development of
      a multimodal approach to pain management has seen a rise in the use of local anesthesia,
      whether as a peripheral nerve block or as an peri/intra-articular injection. These techniques
      have shown to be very effective in the adult population for improving pain and reducing the
      need for opioid consumption post-operatively. However, these techniques have yet to be
      studied in the pediatric population. The purpose of this study is to examine the efficacy of
      a local anesthetic injection post-operatively in pediatric patients with cerebral palsy
      undergoing major surgery as part of a multi-modal pain control protocol. The investigators
      hypothesize that peri-articular injection of a pain cocktail containing a mix of local
      anesthetic, anti-inflammatory medication, and epinephrine at the end of surgery will result
      in decreased opioid use in the immediate peri-operative period in pediatric patients with
      cerebral palsy undergoing proximal femoral osteotomy when compared to an injection of normal
      saline. The investigators also hypothesize that the pain injection will result in decreased
      mean pain scores post-operatively, shorter hospital stays and improved parent satisfaction
      when compared to normal saline injection. With this study, the investigators hope to provide
      evidence to support the use of a minimally invasive, safe-to-use pain injection that will
      reduce the need for opioids in pediatric patients undergoing orthopaedic procedures.

      Study Design:

      This study is a prospective, randomized controlled trial with 2 parallel arms. Patients will
      be randomly assigned to the 2 treatment groups: surgical-site injection with ropivacaine,
      ketorolac, and epinephrine, or surgical-site injection with normal saline. Randomization will
      be performed via random number generator and will be carried out by a research associate who
      will not participate in study recruitment or outcomes assessment. Allocations will be
      concealed on a password-protected database accessible only to the research associate.
      Patients, surgeons, and nursing staff who perform post-operative assessments will be blinded
      to treatment allocation.

      Surgical Procedure:

      Patients undergoing unilateral or bilateral hip proximal femoral osteotomies will be included
      in the study. All patients will be treated with standard-of-care techniques chosen by the
      treating surgeon. The addition of pelvic osteotomies and/or soft tissue procedures will be at
      the discretion of the treating surgeon and will not exclude the patient from the study.
      Written consent will be obtained for all patients prior to the surgical procedure. Parental
      consent will be obtained, in addition to patient assent for all patients of appropriate age
      and intellectual capability. All patients will have a general anesthetic with a lumbar
      epidural. No preemptive scheduled analgesic regimen will be employed. All medications
      administered during induction and maintenance of anesthesia will be managed by the
      anesthesiologist and titrated at their discretion.

      The local anesthetic group will be injected with a cocktail totaling 40 milliliters (mL)
      (20mL on each side) that will be composed of ropivicaine 2mg/mL (3mg/kg), epinephrine 1mg/mL
      (0.5mg), ketorolac 30mg/mL (0.5mg/kg). The control group will receive 40mL of 0.9% sodium
      chloride solution. The injection will be performed while the patient is still under general
      anesthesia, following wound closure, and will be injected evenly between the deep and
      superficial tissues in an extra-articular pattern (no injection of the synovium or capsule).
      All injections will be performed using a 20-gauge needle. All medications will be obtained
      from the hospital pharmacy. All injections will be prepared by an operating room nurse under
      the supervision of a research assistant, and placed in an unlabeled syringe to allow for
      blinding of the surgeon administering the injection.

      Post-Operative Protocol:

      The epidural anesthesia will be started at the discretion of the attending anesthesiologist
      either before or on-arrival to the post-anesthesia care unit. Any additional medications
      administered during the immediate post-operative period in the post-anesthesia care unit will
      be prescribed by the attending anesthesiologist and will not be standardized. Beginning when
      the patient leaves the post-anesthesia care unit, all patients will be given the following
      pain regimen: acetaminophen (15mg/kg PO or per g-tube every 6 hours around the clock),
      ketorolac (0.5mg/kg IV every 8 hours for 3 doses) followed by ibuprofen (10mg/kg PO or per
      g-tube every 8 hours as needed for mild pain (pain score 1-3)), diazepam (0.1mg/kg PO or per
      g-tube every 6 hours around the clock for 36 hours followed by every 6 hours as needed for
      muscle spasms), and oxycodone (0.1mg/kg PO or per g-tube every 6 hours as needed for severe
      pain (pain score 7-10)). Nurses will be instructed to offer this as-needed medication to
      patients at standardized intervals every 4 hours when performing pain assessments. Additional
      medication for pain may be administered if the protocol does not result in adequate pain
      relief, at the discretion of the treating physician. The epidural will be titrated by the
      acute pain anesthesiology team for inadequate pain control, and all epidurals will be
      discontinued the morning of post-operative day two. All patients will be discharged on a
      standardized medication regimen as follows: diazepam (0.1mg/kg PO or per g-tube every 6 hours
      for 14 days), oxycodone (0.5mg/kg PO or per g-tube every 6 hours as needed for severe pain,
      20 doses), acetaminophen (15mg/kg PO or per g-tube every 6 hours for 14 days), and ibuprofen
      (10mg/kg PO or per g-tube every 8 hours for 14 days). Inpatient and outpatient narcotic
      consumption will be recorded as morphine equivalents per kilogram, to allow adjustment for
      the weight-based dosing used in pediatric patients.

      All other aspects of post-operative care, including (but not limited to) physical therapy,
      weight bearing status, mobilization, and bracing will be decided on a case-by-case basis by
      the treating surgeon.

      Data Collection and Protection:

      Data will be collected by approved research personnel via access to the medical record.
      Personal identifying information collected will include name, date of birth, medical record
      number, and telephone number. All data will be labeled with a code that can be linked to this
      personal identifying information. Data will be collected only from the hospitalization
      following the surgical procedure and from the first post-operative visit. This data will
      include: narcotic consumption, pain scores, complications or adverse events, and re-admission
      in the immediate post-operative period (first two weeks post-operatively). All data will be
      stored on a secure, encrypted data storage device or password protected and encrypted
      internet-based storage device.
    
  