
    
      Cystic Fibrosis is the most common genetic, inherited, deadly disease in caucasians. The
      disease is characterized by recurrent airway-infections caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa,
      ultimately leading to chronic airway-infection, which is the main cause of the increased
      morbidity and mortality seen in this disease.

      P. aeruginosa has the ability to change to mucoid phenotype - producing alginate and growing
      in biofilm, which protects the microorganisms from antibiotics and leukocytes. The change in
      phenotype is seen as chronic infection is established and eradication becomes impossible.
      Treatment with long-term, low-dose azithromycin in chronically infected CF-patients can
      improve the clinical condition of the patients. The exact mechanism for this is not known,
      but is possibly a combination of anti-inflammatory effects and the ability of azithromycin to
      inhibit alginate-production. Inhibition of biofilm-formation leaves the bacteria more
      susceptible to the actions of antibiotics and leukocytes.

      Prior to establishment of chronic infection, recurrent, intermittent colonization of the
      airways with non-mucoid P. aeruginosa is seen. Intermittent infections can be treated using a
      combination of antibiotics, thereby postponing the next episode of airway-infection with P.
      aeruginosa.

      The purpose of this study is to clarify wether supplementary azithromycin in the treatment of
      intermittent pseudomonas-infection in CF-patients can lead to further postponement of next
      pseudomonas-colonization and maybe prevent development of chronic infection. This is done in
      a randomised, double-blinded, placebo-controlled multicentre study.

      2 treatments will be compared:

        1. Inhaled colistin and oral ciprofloxacin in combination with oral azithromycin

        2. Inhaled colistin and oral ciprofloxacin in combination with oral placebo.

      The treatment will be given for 3 weeks, and the primary end-point is the time until next
      colonization with P. aeruginosa in the airways of the patients, comparing the 2
      treatment-groups.
    
  