
    
      The purpose of this study is to test whether Cognitive Processing Therapy (CPT-C) is more
      effective than Individual Drug Counseling (IDC), which is standard counseling, for the
      treatment of PTSD among Veterans with PTSD and comorbid opioid use disorder who are also
      maintained on buprenorphine. The investigators propose to conduct a randomized, controlled
      trial and Veterans (n=160) diagnosed with PTSD and comorbid OUD will be randomized to one of
      2 groups: (a) buprenorphine and CPT-C or (b) buprenorphine and IDC (treatment as usual).

      Primary Aim 1:.To test whether CPT-C is more effective than IDC in treating symptoms of PTSD
      among Veterans with OUD maintained on buprenorphine. PTSD symptoms will be measured using the
      PTSD Checklist - Military version (PCL-5), and confirmed by the Clinician Administered PTSD
      Scale using the DSM-5 criteria (CAPS-5).

      Secondary Aim 1: To test whether CPT-C is more effective than IDC in reducing opioid use
      among Veterans with PTSD and comorbid OUD maintained on buprenorphine. Opioid use will be
      measured using the Timeline Follow-back (TLFB) and confirmed by urine toxicology results.

      Exploratory Aims: To examine if treatment groups differ in 1) retention, measured by days in
      treatment, 2) psychosocial functioning, measured by the Veterans RAND 12-Item Short Form
      Health Survey (VR-12), 3) sleep as measured by the Insomnia Severity Index (ISI), since sleep
      disturbance is a hallmark of PTSD and during early abstinence from opioids, and 4) Because of
      the high comorbidity between PTSD and chronic pain the investigators will explore this
      relationship and will measure pain intensity (measured by the Numeric Rating Scale (NRS), and
      functional impairment using the PROMIS-29 (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information
      System) longitudinally over the course of treatment. Follow up will be conducted 1 and 3
      months after completion of the study to evaluate durability of effect on PTSD symptoms
      (measured as changes in PTSD symptoms), opioid use and treatment utilization.

      This study will be a randomized, open-label clinical trial. The study has three phases. In
      Phase I: induction to buprenorphine/naloxone (BUP/NLX) maintenance. Phase II: treatment.
      During this phase participants will be randomly assigned to CPT-C or IDC for 12 weeks. They
      will be seen weekly for psychotherapy and also regularly (weekly, then biweekly, then
      monthly) for buprenorphine management, symptom evaluation, and medication refill. After
      completing treatment participants will be referred to a buprenorphine clinic for ongoing
      care. Phase III: follow-up.

      Approximately 160 male and female Veterans (18-65 years old) with PTSD and comorbid opiate
      use disorder (OUD) will be enrolled in this study. Recruitment will be through VA clinics,
      word-of-mouth, referrals from area programs and by advertisement. Veterans who are interested
      will complete a brief pre-screening and detailed in-person screening (including: consent, lab
      work, interview with clinician including the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-5 (SCID-5)
      and Clinician Administered PTSD Scale for DSM-5 (CAPS-5), medical and psychiatric history).
      After completing the screening process, all eligible participants will be started on
      buprenorphine maintenance and once withdrawal symptoms are stabilized, participants will be
      randomly assigned to 1 of 2 conditions (CPT-C or IDC) for 12 weeks. Veterans who are already
      on BUP/NLX will be allowed to participate and will start at Phase II of the study, after
      completing the screening. The investigators will use mixed effects models to assess changes
      in PTSD symptoms and opiate use over time. Treatments will be used as between-subject factors
      and time (in weeks) will be used as a within-subject factor. The primary outcome variables
      will be PTSD symptoms as measured by the PCL-5 and CAPS scales. The secondary outcome
      variables will be frequency of opiate use generated from the TLFB and confirmed with urine
      toxicology results at each medication visit (weeks 1-4, 6,8, 12) and follow-up.

      Potential benefits of participation in this study may include a reduction in PTSD symptoms.
      However, there is no guarantee or promise that participants will receive any benefit from
      participation in this study.

      Since 11 September 2001, more than 1.5 million Service Members have deployed more than 2
      million times in support of combat operations in Afghanistan and Iraq. One of the signature
      injuries from these operations is PTSD. Various reports of the post-deployment health-related
      needs estimated that 20% of Veterans returning from deployment will have symptoms of PTSD or
      related behavioral health conditions. In addition, the prescription opioid epidemic has
      seriously affected Veterans, and Veterans with PTSD are more likely to abuse opioids and to
      have high-risk behaviors. Nevertheless, treating comorbid PTSD and OUD has not been
      systematically tested. This study proposes to test an evidence based psychotherapy for PTSD
      vs. individual drug counseling in Veterans given opioid maintenance treatment who have both
      PTSD and OUD.
    
  