
    
      Prehabilitation in Liver Surgery

      Introduction Thirty per cent of patients with colorectal cancer have metastatic disease at
      time of presentation, and a further 20% will develop liver metastases after the primary
      colorectal malignancy has been resected. Liver resection offers the prospect of cure for a
      proportion of these patients and, with the increasing use of effective neo-adjuvant
      chemotherapy, this proportion is increasing. However, liver surgery is associated with
      significant morbidity and mortality and this may be higher in patients with comorbidity, poor
      cardiorespiratory fitness and in those who have received neo-adjuvant chemotherapy.

      Cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) is a non-invasive assessment of cardiovascular and
      pulmonary function, which can be quantified by measures such as anaerobic threshold (AT) and
      VO2peak. The anaerobic threshold is a measure of sustainable exercise, where the VO2peak is a
      measure of maximal exercise capacity. The AT has been assessed in different surgical groups
      and has been shown as a useful predictor of postoperative complications and survival. Early
      work has demonstrated that short periods of preoperative exercise intervention can improve AT
      and VO2peak. However, no work has to date been undertaken in patients prior to liver surgery.

      Hepatic glucose metabolism provides much of the energy requirements of the postoperative
      period. Work has demonstrated that exercise training increases hepatic glucose production,
      and that its inhibition has a marked effect on endurance capability. This may be particularly
      relevant when surgical resections can involve resection of up to 80% of hepatic tissue.
      However, a link between hepatic gluconeogenic capacity and fitness as assessed by
      cardiopulmonary exercise testing has not been established.

      A demonstrable link between gluconeogenic capacity and cardiopulmonary fitness and an
      explanation of its underpinning physiology would help explain some of the systemic effects of
      drug hepatotoxicity. It would also allow development of strategies to improve gluconeogenic
      capacity that may reduce complications and improve tolerance of many hepatoxic agents such as
      chemotherapy.

      Hypothesis

        1. A short exercise program can significantly improve the CPET defined anaerobic threshold
           prior to liver surgery in a cancer population and this will be associated with reduced
           post-operative morbidity and mortality.

        2. Hepatic gluconeogenic capacity will be associated with cardiopulmonary fitness.

        3. Gluconeogenic capacity will be associated with mitochondrial number and quantity of
           enzymes which are integral to gluconeogenesis such as PEPCK

      Methods Patients with colorectal liver metastases suitable for hepatic resection will undergo
      a baseline CPET and then be randomised to either preoperative exercise intervention or
      standard care. Patients within the intervention arm will undergo a 4 week exercise program
      consisting of 3 interval sessions per week on a stationary bike. This will be individually
      tailored according to their initial exercise test. In the week prior to surgery all patients
      will then undergo a further CPET. At surgery liver tissue will be taken to determine hepatic
      gluconeogenic capacity. CPET tests will then be performed where possible in patients at 6
      weeks and 3 months following surgery. Post-operative complications (Clavien classification
      and Postoperative morbidity score (POMS)) and 30 and 90-day mortality will be recorded.
      Quality of life assessments (EORTC/SF-36) will be taken at recruitment, the week prior to
      surgery, 6 weeks after surgery and 3 months following surgery.

      Laboratory Analysis Hepatic gluconeogenic capacity will be assessed by direct analysis of
      fresh slices of hepatic tissue taken at the time of surgery. Slices will be taken using the
      Krumdiek MD6000 tissue slicer. These will be weighed an incubated in a buffer containing
      lactate. Glucose will be measured using the Glucose Oxidase assay, and calculated per mg wet
      weight of hepatic tissue. Further analysis of mitochondrial number and ATP production, and
      enzymatic levels will be conducted following initial results.

      Statistical considerations This is a study of a continuous response variable from matched
      pairs of study subjects and will need 38 patients to detect a true difference 1.5ml/min/kg,
      with a probability 0.8 and Type I error 0.05). Anticipated recruitment period is 10 months
      assuming a dropout rate of 20%. Randomisation is by computerised block randomisation, and
      patients will be stratified by receipt of neo-adjuvant chemotherapy.
    
  