
    
      30 patients presenting for elective surgical procedures with an expected duration greater
      than 60 minutes will be enrolled in this study. ASA I to III patients requiring neuromuscular
      blockade in the operating room will be eligible for enrollment. All neuromuscular management
      will be conducted as recommended by the Good Clinical Research Practice (GCRP) in
      pharmacodynamic studies of neuromuscular blocking agents guidelines

      Monitoring will consist of standard ASA monitors, which include manual blood pressure
      measurements, continuous EKG monitoring, pulse oximetry, capnography, and infrared gas
      analysis. The placement of the TOFscan to the dominant or non-dominant hand will be
      determined using a computer-generated randomization table. The TOF-Watch-SX will be placed on
      the other hand.

      Anesthetic induction will be as per usual routine clinical care, consisting of propofol
      2.0-2.5 mg/kg and fentanyl 100 μg; rocuronium 0.6 mg/kg will be given over 5 seconds through
      a fast-running IV after baseline neuromuscular data are collected. General anesthesia will be
      maintained with sevoflurane 1.0-3.0%, with the concentration of inhalational agent adjusted
      to maintain blood pressure within 20% of baseline values. The depth of anesthesia will also
      be adjusted to maintain Bispectral Index (BIS monitor) values between 40-60, as per usual
      clinical practice. Core temperature will be maintained > 35°C and hand temperature > 32°C
      using an upper extremity warming blanket. Additional doses of rocuronium can be administered
      (5-10 mg) if required for surgical relaxation (a TOF count of 2-3 during TOF stimulation). No
      NMBAs will be administered during the last 20 minutes of the procedure. At the completion of
      surgery, neuromuscular blockade will be reversed with neostigmine 50 µg/kg plus
      glycopyrrolate, per usual standard of care.

      Upon arrival to the operating room, neuromuscular monitoring surface electrodes will be
      applied. All monitoring will be conducted while the patient is under general anesthesia for
      the surgical procedure. Surface electrodes (non-invasive EKG electrodes) will be placed on
      the cleansed skin over the ulnar nerve of both arms near the wrist. The electrodes will be
      connected by leads to the nerve stimulator component of the TOF-Watch-SX on one arm and the
      TOFscan on the other arm. The transducer (AMG sensor which measures acceleration) of the
      TOF-Watch-SX will be placed on the thumb of the corresponding hand. A 75-150g preload (via
      the Hand adapter) will be applied as per standard recommendations. On the other hand, the
      transducer (three-dimensional AMG sensor) of the TOFscan will be placed on the thumb using
      the integrated hand adapter. During the surgical procedure, both devices will be activated
      simultaneously, and the responses to nerve stimulation recorded.

      After induction of anesthesia, but before administration of rocuronium, calibration and
      stable baseline signals will be achieved for the TOF-Watch-SX and the TOFscan as suggested by
      the Good Clinical Research Guidelines. After the baseline data are collected, the
      neuromuscular blocking agent (rocuronium) will be administered. Data relating to onset (a TOF
      ratio decreases from 1.0 to 0.3 or less on the TOF-Watch-SX display), maintenance (the TOF
      ratio is less than 0.3 and constant on the TOF-Watch-SX display), and reversal (an increase
      in the TOF ratio from 0.2 to 0.9 or above) will be recorded. At these same times, data from
      the TOFscan will be recorded. Monitoring will continue until full recovery of neuromuscular
      function is noted (a TOF ratio of at least 0.9 or greater on the TOF-Watch-SX device
      display). At this time, the anesthesia agents will be turned off and the patient awakened and
      extubated. After surgery, data recorded simultaneously from the TOF-Watch-SX and the TOFscan
      will be compared.
    
  