
    
      The aim of this study is to provide policymakers with updated efficacy and safety data of
      artesunate + amodiaquine in combination with a single low dose of primaquine (0.25 mg/kg) and
      data on genetic markers of tolerance/resistance to artemisinin based combination therapies
      (ACTs), proposed as an early warning system for development and spread of antimalarial drug
      resistance, in Zanzibar. The study protocol is based on the new WHO guidelines for
      surveillance of antimalarial drug efficacy (WHO 2014).

      This surveillance study was designed as a one-arm prospective evaluation of the clinical and
      parasitological responses to directly observed treatment for uncomplicated malaria.
      Participants were recruited from febrile patients, i.e. documented axillary temperature ≥37.5
      °C or history of fever during the past 48 hours, of 3 months and older, presenting at primary
      health care facilities in Zanzibar, with microscopy confirmed uncomplicated P. falciparum
      infection. Enrolled patients received directly observed treatment with artesunate +
      amodiaquine once daily for 3 consecutive days according to the national malaria treatment
      guidelines. A single low dose of primaquine (0.25 mg/kg) was administered together with the
      first artesunate + amodiaquine dose. Clinical and parasitological as well as safety
      parameters were monitored over a 28-day follow-up period. The follow-up consisted of a fixed
      schedule of check-up visits and corresponding clinical and laboratory examinations. On the
      basis of the results of these assessments, the patients were classified as having therapeutic
      failure (early or late) or an adequate response. Blood samples from patients experiencing
      therapeutic failure during the follow-up period were used to estimate the efficacy of the
      study drugs based on PCR analysis to distinguish between recrudescence (treatment failures)
      and reinfection (new infections).

      A standard physical examination was performed at baseline (day 0 before drug administration)
      and on days 1, 2, 3, 7, 14, 21, and 28 ,or any other day if the patient returned
      spontaneously and parasitological reassessment was required. This examination included
      measuring axillary temperature, with a thermometer that has a precision of 0.1 °C, as well as
      conducting a thick film for asexual and gametocyte counts and species identification.
      Haemoglobin was assessed systematically on all participants on days 0, 3, 7, 14 and 28 using
      Hemocue, and at any time in case of clinical suspicion of anaemia, i.e. pallor, according to
      standard case management of malaria in Zanzibar.

      In order to differentiate a recrudescence (treatment failure/same parasite strain) from a
      newly acquired infection (reinfection/different parasite strain) among recurrent parasitemias
      found during follow-up, a genotype analysis was to be conducted. This analysis was based on
      the extensive diversity in the following P. falciparum genes: the merozoite surface protein 1
      (msp1) and 2 (msp2), and the glutamine-rich protein (glurp) (WHO 2008). The genotypic
      profiles of pre- and post-parasite strains were to be compared in a stepwise manner to
      distinguish recrudescence from reinfection. In order to minimize discomfort to the patient
      due to repeated finger pricks, two to three drops of blood will be collected on a 3MM
      (Whatman) filter paper during screening or enrollment and each time blood smears are required
      according to the protocol from day 7.

      The results of this study will be used to assist the Zanzibar Ministry of Health in assessing
      the current national treatment guidelines for uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria.
    
  