
    
      Postoperative analgesia in breast surgery is important in reducing morbidity and mortality.
      Intravenous or oral analgesics may be used for this purpose. Ultrasound-guided fascia plane
      blocks are used to provide effective analgesia in mastectomy operations. Effectiveness of
      erector spinae plane block for analgesia in breast surgery was documented in previous
      studies.

      Rhomboid intercostal block may be beneficial for analgesia in breast surgery. Both blocks
      have the advantage of unilateral application in unilateral mastectomy operations. When
      administered pre-operatively, it also provides per-operative analgesia and may reduce
      per-operative opioid consumption. These blocks are applied under ultrasound-guidance with
      single injection. Since the site of injection is relatively superficial (between the back
      muscles and ribs) and applied under ultrasound-guidance, mechanical complications is expected
      to occur less. These low-cost blocks also may reduce the usage of high-cost and high-risk
      opioids after surgery. These blocks unilaterally anesthetize the nerves innervating the
      thoracic region and the axilla, thus providing effective per-operative and post-operative
      analgesia in mastectomy operations.

      The aim of our study is to compare the rhomboid intercostal block with erector spina plane
      block in mastectomy in terms of intraoperative and postoperative analgesia in mastectomy
      operation. Our hypothesis is rhomboid intercostal block may reduce peri-operative pain as
      effective as or more effectively than erector spina plane block. Secondary hypothesis is
      rhomboid intercostal block may reduce peri-operative opioid consumption as effective as or
      more effectively than erector spina plane block. Thus, the study is defined as block
      technique comparison.

      Eighty patients aged between 29-79 years who are planned mastectomy under general anesthesia
      will be included in the study. Patients with severe cardiac and respiratory disease, severe
      coagulation disorder, body mass index greater than 35, refusal of regional block and patients
      having local infection in block application area, contraindication of the standardized drugs
      in the study and patients with insufficient postoperative analgesia requiring more potent
      opioids will be excluded from the study.

      The patients who meet the study criteria will be assigned into two groups by using
      computerized randomization. Patients who do not give consent will also be excluded from the
      study. All patients will be sedated with midazolam and fentanyl prior to block application.
      First group (RIB-Group) of patients will receive ultrasound-guided rhomboid intercostal block
      prior to the operation under sedation. Patients in the second group (ESP-Group) will receive
      ultrasound-guided erector spina plane block under sedation. Since both procedures will be
      performed from the same site, the study was considered as a single blind.

      All patients will be intubated after induction of general anesthesia with Propofol 2 mg / kg,
      Rocuronium 0.6 mg / kg and Fentanyl 1.5 µg / kg. Mixture of Desflurane 6% concentration in
      50% air and 50% oxygen will be used for the maintenance of general anesthesia. Patients in
      both groups will receive 1 µg / kg of fentanyl when pain occurs during surgery. Pre-operative
      and post-operative blood pressure, heart rate, oxygen saturation, end-tidal carbon dioxide
      values of patients in both groups will be measured and recorded at determined time intervals.

      Patients will be followed for 48 hours after the operation. In the postoperative period,
      acetaminophen 1 g three times a day will be administered routinely in context of multimodal
      analgesia. Intravenous tramadol 1 mg/kg will also be administered depending on patient need
      up to 4 times a day. Total amount of perioperative opioids will be recorded. Per-operative
      and post-operative opioid consumption will be calculated separately. Pain assessment will be
      evaluated by using a verbal analog scale (asking patients to give a pain score between 0 and
      10. Score of 0 means worse pain ever and score of 10 means no pain). Complications related to
      the block procedure will be also recorded. If there is pain that requires more potent opioids
      such as morphine, the block will be considered as unsuccessful.
    
  