
    
      Neonates and infants aged less than 6 months who pass the screen of in- and exclusion
      criteria, who have been treated for at least five days with heparin and /or vitamin K
      antagonist (VKA) for confirmed symptomatic or asymptomatic arterial or venous thrombosis are
      eligible for the study. Study treatment consists of a 7-day treatment with an age- and body
      weight-adjusted three times daily, approximately 8 hours apart oral rivaroxaban dosing to
      achieve a similar exposure as that observed in adults treated for venous thromboembolism
      (VTE) with 20 mg rivaroxaban once daily. Rivaroxaban will be provided as granules for
      preparation of an oral suspension (1 mg/mL after re-suspension) using a t.i.d. regimen with
      8-hour intervals. An ultrasound will be performed before starting rivaroxaban at treatment
      day 1 and after the end of rivaroxaban treatment at day 8. The last dose of rivaroxaban
      treatment will be followed by a 30-day post study treatment period, regardless of the
      duration of study drug administration. After cessation of rivaroxaban, it is at the
      investigator's discretion to continue with anticoagulants. The principal safety outcome is
      the combination of major and clinically relevant non-major bleeding. The efficacy outcome is
      the composite of all symptomatic recurrent thromboembolism and asymptomatic deterioration in
      thrombotic burden on repeat imaging. All suspected recurrent thromboembolism, asymptomatic
      deterioration in thrombotic burden on repeat imaging, deaths, as well as all episodes of
      bleeding will be evaluated by a central independent adjudication committee (CIAC).
      Adjudication results will be the basis for the final analyses.

      For all children, visits are scheduled at regular time points (see Table 1). Enrolled
      children who are not treated or those with premature discontinuation of rivaroxaban will at
      least be seen at the end of the study treatment period. During all contacts, the treatment
      and clinical course of the child will be evaluated. Children with suspected efficacy or
      safety outcomes will undergo confirmatory testing as per standard of care. Blood samples for
      pharmacokinetic (PK)/pharmacodynamics (PD) will be taken at defined time points (see Table
      2).

      An Independent Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) will monitor the children's safety during the
      study and give recommendations to the steering committee.
    
  