
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the rate of acute (within six months of high-dose rate [HDR] completion) grade
      >= 2 genitourinary (GU) toxicity following high-dose-rate (HDR) brachytherapy (BT) as
      monotherapy for newly diagnosed prostate cancer using the National Cancer Institute's Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 3 (CTCAE v3.0).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the proportion of men with a prostate-specific antigen (PSA) nadir by one year
      (nPSA12) of < 2 ng/mL.

      II. To estimate the rate of freedom from biochemical failure at 5 years (FFBF). III. To
      evaluate patient-reported quality of life via the 32-item Expanded Prostate Cancer Index
      Composite (EPIC).

      IV. To assess the cost-effectiveness of HDR BT as monotherapy for prostate cancer using the
      6-item European Quality of Life 5-Dimensions (EQ-5D).

      V. To explore pre-treatment clinical risk factors to optimize patient selection for HDR BT as
      monotherapy for prostate cancer.

      VI. To compare acute and late (> 6 months after HDR completion) GU and gastrointestinal (GI)
      grade >= 2 toxicity using CTCAE v3.0 and v4.0.

      VII. To explore dosimetric predictors of toxicity.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo high-dose-rate brachytherapy over 2 fractions. Patients may receive androgen
      deprivation therapy (ADT) comprising bicalutamide orally (PO) once daily (QD). Patients may
      also receive luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) agonist therapy comprising
      leuprolide acetate intramuscularly (IM) or subcutaneously (SC), goserelin acetate SC,
      triptorelin pamoate IM, or degarelix SC for 4-6 months (intermediate-risk patients receiving
      ADT) or 6-36 months (high-risk patients) at the discretion of the treating physician.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months, and
      then yearly for up to 5 years.
    
  