
    
      The purpose of this pilot study is to develop and test an intervention for slow processing of
      sensory input that not only increases the speed of processing but also produces improvement
      in how much and how well adults with this type of cognitive impairment carry out everyday
      tasks that rely on cognitive function. The intervention will combine Speed of Processing
      Training (SOPT) with a modified form of the Transfer Package from Constraint-Induced Movement
      therapy (CI therapy). SOPT has been shown to increase speed of processing in a variety of
      patient populations. The Transfer Package has been shown to produce transfer of gains from
      the treatment setting to everyday life when combined with training of arm use in the
      treatment in adults after stroke. The length of each treatment session will vary from 2 to
      3.5 hours per day, the number of treatment days per week will range from 2 to 5, and the
      number of weeks of treatment will range from 2 to 10. Accordingly, the interval between
      testing occasions may change depending on the findings from initial pilot work. Total hours
      of treatment will not exceed 35. Ranges are given rather than precise values because part of
      the purpose of this pilot work is to decide, on a preliminary basis, what is the best
      schedule of delivery. In addition, four follow-up telephone calls will be conducted each week
      for the first month after the end of treatment. Then, a follow-up telephone call will be
      placed once a month for up to 11 months. These telephone calls will permit elements of the
      Transfer Package to be delivered remotely, helping the patient to transition from taking part
      in treatment to living their daily lives. Each telephone call will last 30 to 60 minutes. The
      outcomes that will be assessed are: speed of processing, performance of instrumental
      activities of daily living (IADL) that place demands on cognitive activity in the laboratory
      setting, and performance of IADL that place demands on cognitive activity outside the
      laboratory setting. There will be two baseline testing sessions, followed by post-treatment
      testing, and testing six months and 12 months after treatment. The two baseline testing
      sessions will be separated by a week, and will permit any changes observed after treatment to
      be compared to what takes place when no treatment is provided. In other words, the baseline
      testing sessions will provide a source of within-subject control. If a caregiver is
      available, the caregiver will be asked to complete CTAL interviews about the participant (see
      below) and will be invited to support the participant in following the Transfer Package
      elements of the treatment (see below). Repeated measures analysis of variance models will be
      used to evaluate if statistically significant improvements take place as a result of
      treatment.
    
  