
    
      In this observational follow-up study of a randomised clinical trial a maximum of 29 study
      participants may be included. These study participants were previously enrolled in the
      EndoBarrier device study at the MUMC or the Atrium Medical Centre Heerlen. The focus of this
      study lays on the long-term outcomes measured by EWL, postoperative blood sampling and
      questionnaires. These measurements, samples and questionnaires will be taken to assess the
      long-term effectiveness of the EndoBarrier device in the treatment of morbid obesity.
      Participants who were previously enrolled in the EndoBarrier device study at the MUMC or at
      the Atrium Medical Centre in Heerlen and who have agreed to participate in this study will be
      requested to arrive at the outpatient clinic of the MUMC after an overnight fast. Blood
      sample will be taken for total cholesterol, HDL, LDL, triglycerides, Hb, Ht, iron, HbA1c,
      insulin levels, glucose, amylase, lipase, C-peptide, Creatinine, vitamin D, Calcium, ALAT,
      ASAT, AF, gamma GT, albumin, CK-18, L-FABP, FGF19, Total bile salts and bile salt
      composition. These parameters are associated with risk factors in morbid obesity namely:
      Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver disease, hypertension, diabetes mellitus type II (DMII), coronary
      heart disease and osteoarthritis. After the blood sampling, physical health will be assessed
      by means of standard physical examination (weight, waist size, length, blood pressure, heart
      rate, breathing frequency). Then, the participant will be requested to fill in a validated
      questionnaire. In this study the SF-36 quality of life questionnaire will be used. This is a
      validated questionnaire assessing non-specific symptoms and quality of life after Bariatric
      surgery.

      Three years of follow-up after the EndoBarrier device is now available. The investigators
      hope to give new insights in the postoperative status and postoperative symptoms experienced
      by participants using standardised questionnaires and evaluating blood samples. The goal of
      the investigators is to study the long-term effect of the EndoBarrier procedure and to
      possibly provide insight in the relation between success/failure and objective parameters.
    
  