
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare the incidence of acute graft versus host disease (GVHD) grades II-IV
      and extensive chronic GVHD in chronic myeloid leukemia patients treated with purged donor
      lymphocyte infusion (DLI) processed with CD8 high density microparticles (HDM) vs unpurged
      DLI following nonmyeloablative, HLA identical sibling peripheral blood stem cell
      transplantation. II. Compare the rates of complete cytogenetic, clinical, and hematologic
      remission and mortality and GVHD in patients treated with these regimens. III. Determine the
      efficacy of CD8 HDM in depleting greater than 95% of CD8+ cells in donor lymphocytes. IV.
      Compare the safety and toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double blind, multicenter study. Patients are stratified by
      age (under 60 vs 60 and over) and center. Allogeneic peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are
      harvested and selected for CD34+ cells on days 5-8. Nonmyeloablative conditioning: Patients
      receive fludarabine IV over 30 minutes and cytarabine IV over 4 hours (beginning 4 hours
      after the start of fludarabine infusion) on days -6 to -3 and idarubicin IV over 1-5 minutes
      on days -6 to -4. Filgrastim (G-CSF) is administered subcutaneously daily beginning on day -2
      and continues until blood counts recover. Graft versus host disease prevention: Beginning on
      day -2, patients receive tacrolimus IV continuously until oral dosing is tolerated. Patients
      receive tacrolimus in combination with methotrexate on days 1, 3, and 6 after completion of
      transplantation. Beginning 12 weeks after completion of transplantation, oral tacrolimus is
      tapered and stopped over 4 weeks. Transplantation: Allogeneic PBSC are infused on day 0. At 4
      months posttransplantation, patients with residual Ph+ cells by cytogenetics or FISH OR
      hematologic or clinical evidence of chronic myeloid leukemia AND without symptomatic chronic
      graft versus host disease requiring immunosuppressive therapy are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms: Arm I: Lymphocytes harvested from the original PBSC donor are processed with
      the CD8 high density microparticle device to remove all or most CD8+ cells. Patients receive
      CD8+ cell depleted donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) IV over 15-30 minutes on the same day of
      collection. Arm II: Lymphocytes are harvested from the original PBSC donor. Patients receive
      undepleted DLI IV over 15-30 minutes on the same day of collection. Patients are followed at
      days 30, 60, 100, and 180, and then periodically through year 5.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 110 patients (55 per arm) will be accrued for this study
      within 1 year.
    
  