
    
      Background: Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder of the basal ganglia in which
      the production of dopamine is reduced, leading to the motor and non-motor impairment and the
      loss of automaticity. Recently, the results across studies have indicated that
      motor-cognitive dual-task deficits in individuals with neurologic disorders appear to be
      amenable to training. Improvement of dual-task ability in individuals with neurologic
      disorders holds potential for improving gait, balance, and cognition. The most recent
      European guideline provides a more graded view, stating that in Hoehn and Yahr stages 2 and 3
      dual-task training may be safe and effective. An overview of current ongoing randomized
      controlled trials focusing on dual-task rehabilitation, gait training or treadmill training
      was the major motor-task. However, cycling augmented by cognitive training has not been
      evaluated. In addition, antioxidant capacity is unclear for Parkinson's disease patients with
      long-term, regular cycling training.

      Study purpose: The purpose of the study will investigate the safety and effectiveness with
      eight-week cycling-cognitive dual-task training for early Parkinson's disease. The
      antioxidant capacity will be assessed as well.

      Methods: Parkinson's disease patients will be assigned to cycling training, cycling-cognitive
      dual task training, and following 8 weeks. All of the subjects will complete 3 assessments at
      pre-training, post-4 weeks, and post-8 weeks. The outcome measures are clinical severity and
      disability, performance of gait-cognitive and cycling-cognitive, cognitive-task performance,
      peripheral-blood oxidative stress, adverse events, etc.

      Significance: In this study, evidence-based practice as the foundation, and perspective to
      design a safe and effective cycling-cognitive dual-task training for early Parkinson's
      disease. It can be verified in the clinical application of these experiments feasibility
      (practice-based evidence).
    
  