
    
      Aim of the protocol is to evaluate the effect of LDL-apheresis in combination with
      traditional therapy, on the recovery of diabetic ulcers in patients suffering from diabetic
      ischemic foot and peripheral vasculopathy that cannot be revascularized.

      Patients who qualify for the study will be randomized to the traditional treatment combined
      to apheresis (Experimental Arm) or to the standard treatment only (control Arm).

      The randomization stratified according to the lesion gravity level (class TEXAS I vs II vs
      III),allocation 1:1. The randomization list will be generated by the statistic software
      "Stata 11". The lists of randomization (one list for each class TEXAS ) will be generated and
      will be stored by the coordinator centre. When a patient satisfies the study inclusion
      criteria, will be contacted the coordinator centre (by phone/mail) for group allocation.

      132 patients will be enrolled (66 patients in experimental arm, 66 patients in control arm).

      Traditional Therapy (TT) includes standard medication of ulcers, antiaggregant therapy and
      statins.

      LDL-apheresis (intervention Arm) will be performed with HELP system, for 10 session in 9
      weeks.

      Blood samples will be collected (at basal, and after 3-6-9-12 months) in order to determine
      the following parameters: glycaemia, insulin, glycated haemoglobin,
      microalbuminuria/creatinuria,CBC, fibrinogen, total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol,
      LDL-cholesterol, Triglycerides, Lp(a), C-reactive protein (CRP), pentraxin3 (PTX3).

      Furthermore, in patients of experimental arm, blood samples will be collected at basal and at
      the end of LDL-apheresis sessions no. 2 and 10 in order to determine CBC, fibrinogen, total
      cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, Triglycerides, Lp(a), CRP, PTX3 (time
      schedule, after 1 and 9 weeks).

      The value of the lab tests obtained at the end of apheresis will be normalized due to a
      possible hemodilution, according to the following formula:

      F dil= (1 - Htc pre-apheresis) / ( 1 - Htc post-apheresis). Xcorrect = Xmeasured * Fdil.

      Ulcer evaluation: staging according to Texas Wound classification System and ulcer surface
      evaluation (diameter, mapping of the lesions by means of drawing their profiles on Opsite
      film; digital picture): at basal, at 9th week and after a 3-6-9-12 month follow-up.

      The ulcers evolution will be "in blind" monitored by an evaluator who will check ulcer-map
      and digital picture without knowing to which randomization arm they belong.

      Transcutaneous oximetry: basal, at 4th week (i.e. after the 5th apheretic session). at 9th
      week (at the end of the 10 apheresis sessions) and after the next 3-6-9-12 month follow-up.

      Questionnaire on quality of life (SF36): basal, at 9th week (at the end of the 10 apheresis
      sessions) and after the next 6-12 month follow-up.

      Pain intensity rate (verbal numeric range) basal, at 9th week (at the end of the 10 apheresis
      sessions) and after the next 3-6-9-12 month follow-up.

      Doppler flowmeter : basal, at 9th week (at the end of the 10 apheresis sessions) and in the
      subsequent follow-up at 6 and 12 months.
    
  