
    
      Depressive symptoms are prevalent among pregnant women, and they are consistently linked with
      adverse outcomes for both women and infants, including higher rates of spontaneous abortion,
      preeclampsia, operative delivery, and postpartum depression. Additional risks to offspring
      include pre-term delivery, neonatal growth retardation, low birth weight, and delayed
      developmental milestones. In spite of these risks, the vast majority of affected women do not
      pursue any type of mental health treatment. Many women are reluctant to use antidepressants -
      or anything that could potentially harm the baby - prenatally. Because pregnant women have
      unique concerns regarding treatment acceptability, a critical need exists to develop
      interventions that are not only efficacious in reducing depressive symptoms, but are also
      viewed as acceptable by pregnant women.

      Increased physical activity has numerous advantages as a strategy for improving mood during
      pregnancy, and prior research has shown that physical activity interventions can be effective
      in treating depressive symptoms in the general population. Physical activity interventions
      are also inexpensive, safe, and associated with a variety of positive health outcomes.

      In spite of its potential as an acceptable and efficacious strategy for improving prenatal
      mood, few studies have evaluated physical activity as an intervention for pregnant women with
      depressive symptoms. Existing exercise programs that have been tested for reducing depressive
      symptoms in the general population are not likely to be appropriate or feasible for pregnant
      women. In light of this important gap, the investigators interdisciplinary team developed a
      gentle, 10-week, pedometer walking intervention tailored for pregnant women, the Prenatal
      Walking Program (PWP) and preliminarily evaluated PWP in an open trial, finding the
      intervention to be safe, feasible, and acceptable.

      The current RCT will now evaluate PWP in comparison to a health education control comparison
      group tailored for perinatal women, called the Postpartum Prep Program (PPP). In addition to
      assessing changes in depressive symptoms, the investigators will examine other key maternal
      outcomes (maternal functioning, pain, anxiety, stress, fatigue), as well as infant outcomes
      including birth record data and in-person assessment of infant neurobiological functioning.
      Further, the investigators will examine evidence for potential behavioral, psychological, and
      biological mechanisms of action that mediate a possible treatment effect. Up to 152 pregnant
      women reporting elevated depressive symptoms during the current pregnancy will be enrolled
      and randomized into one of two groups, PWP or PPP, and will participate in blinded follow-up
      evaluations at multiple time-points throughout pregnancy and postpartum.
    
  