
    
      Overall Objectives:

      To evaluate the physiological differences between quinine-saline irrigations vs.
      saline-placebo irrigations for acute exacerbation of uncomplicated chronic rhinosinusitis
      following endoscopic sinus surgery. A secondary objective is to determine if the use of
      quinine is efficacious as an alternative therapy to treat bacterial rhinosinusitis.

      Background:

      Sinusitis is a common disorder accounting for an estimated 13 million physician office visits
      in the United States each year. The aggregated cost of sinusitis is approximately $8 billion
      annually, affecting an estimated 16% of the population in the United States. Despite multiple
      attempted treatments, including an estimated 550,000 surgeries per year, the disease
      continues to be a major health problem, both in expenditures and poor quality of life. Recent
      analysis of data from the National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey and the National Hospital
      Ambulatory Medical Care Survey from 2006 to 2010 showed that rhinosinusitis accounted for
      more outpatient antibiotic prescriptions in adults than any other diagnosis.

      Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) represents a considerable subset of this population and accounts
      for a significant portion of expenditures and the vast majority of surgeries. It is defined
      as signs and symptoms of sinusitis lasting more than 12 weeks. Unlike the organisms
      responsible for acute rhinosinusitis, difficult to treat bacteria such as Pseudomonas
      aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus and Stenotrophomonas multiformia are often offending
      pathogens in CRS. Their prevalence increases in those patients who have already had sinus
      surgery and continue to get recurring sinus infections. Staph aureus and gram-negative
      organisms have been shown to account for roughly 60% of infections in those patients who have
      previously undergone endoscopic sinus surgery. Due to increasing drug resistance as well as
      the potential for biofilm formation, there has been an increasing pressure from both patients
      and clinicians alike to develop alternative treatments to systemic antibiotics. One commonly
      used alternative in patients who have had previous sinus surgery is topical saline irrigation
      with and without other topical preparations. Topical irrigations have much greater paranasal
      sinus penetration in post surgical patients. Commonly used topical preparations include:
      saline alone or saline mixed with mupirocin, gentamicin, tobramycin, ceftazadine, betadine,
      manuka honey, baby shampoo, budesonide or mometasone.

      The investigators have recently identified a novel arm of upper airway innate immunity
      mediated by bitter taste receptors. When a subset of airway bitter taste receptors are
      activated they stimulate the respiratory epithelium to generate nitric oxide, an important
      component of sinus innate immunity that increases mucociliary clearance as well as diffuses
      into the mucus where it is bactericidal. A topical therapy to activate these taste receptors
      may help the sinuses clear infections through this natural innate defense mechanism. While
      the investigators have identified multiple bitter compounds that stimulate this response,
      quinine piqued our interest as it activates multiple bitter taste receptors and has already
      been used in the human nose.
    
  