
    
      Breast cancer survivors are at risk of complications of breast cancer-related lymphedema
      (BCRL) after surgical treatments, which may negatively effect on the quality of life of
      breast cancer survivors. Lymphedema has been clinically diagnosed by determining that a limb
      is in fact swollen, and has arbitrarily been diagnosed in other etiologies. Limb
      circumference differences of 2 cm, a 200 mL or more in limb, or a 5% volume change are some
      of the objective ways that clinicians use to diagnose lymphedema. Although the arm
      circumference measurement method is a simple and frequently used clinical method, there is a
      disadvantage that the standardized reference point does not exist, the extracellular space
      can not be measured, and the sensitivity is also low. The lack of evidence-based diagnostic
      criteria to define lymphedema has presented tremendous difficulty in diagnosing lymphedema.
      It is important to define such criteria for early detection and treatment of lymphedema.
      Because of these limitations, many researchers are studying various methods for diagnosing
      lymphadenopathy and methods of bioelectrical impedance have been studied, recently.

      Bioelectrical Impedance predicts body composition using the difference of electric
      conductivity by flowing a minute current to human body.This principle is used to diagnose the
      occurrence of lymphatic edema. In several studies, the single-frequency bioimpedance analysis
      (SFBIA) of the two arms obtained from bioelectrical impedance measurements was expressed as
      the ratio of the values of the operated and non-operated arms. However, it has not yet been
      clarified as a diagnostic method. Therefore, more studies are needed to establish a diagnosis
      method and a prediction method of lymphatic edema.

      Various risk factors of lymphedema such as axillary lymph node dissection (ALND) and obesity
      have been studied for early prevention. However, there are no studies on the relationship
      between breast cancer related lymphedema, and dietary factors in breast cancer patients. The
      purpose of this study was to compare the diagnosis of lymphedema with the measurement of the
      arm circumference and the diagnosis of lymphedema through bioelectrical impedance values in
      order to clarify the clinical role of bioelectrical impedance method as a diagnostic method
      of lymphedema. To investigate the relationship between dietary factors, which are considered
      to be related to the occurrence of lymphedema, the investigators examined the frequency of
      dietary intake and analyzed the relationship between dietary factors and lymphatic edema.
    
  