
    
      The aim of this study is to determine the effects of omega 3 fatty acid, curcumin and their
      combination or placebo for 2 months on the gene expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2),
      inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), Tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-1β
      (IL-1β), interleukin-6 (IL-6), vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) and intercellular
      adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) in the peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) and serum levels
      of COX-2, iNOS, TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, VCAM-1, ICAM-1 and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein
      (hsCRP) of migraine patients.

      In this randomized, double-blind clinical trial, placebo-controlled study, 80 women and men
      with migraine are enrolled from the Iranian Center of Neurological Research. At the start of
      study, all participants will sign informed consent and complete a general information form.
      24-hour food recall for 3 days will be taken from the patients at the beginning and the end
      of the study. Selected samples by using stratified randomization method based on sex, gender
      and body mass index (BMI) are classified into 4 groups: 1) receiving omega 3 fatty acid
      supplement and curcumin supplement 2) receiving omega 3 fatty acid supplement and curcumin
      placebo 3) receiving curcumin supplement and omega 3 fatty acid placebo 4) receiving omega 3
      fatty acid placebo and curcumin placebo.

      The omega 3 fatty acid supplement group will receive 1200 mg Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and
      600 mg Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) totally 1800 mg daily for 2 months. The curcumin supplement
      group will receive 1000 mg curcumin daily for 2 months. The omega 3 fatty acid placebo group
      will also receive placebo containing 1800 mg edible paraffin oil and curcumin placebo group
      will receive 1000 mg starch powder both similar in terms of color, shape and size.
      participants are advised to maintain their diet, level of physical activity and medication
      dose during the study. Blood samples will be collected after anthropometric parameter
      measuring then target biochemical parameters, gene expression and serum levels and physical
      activity will be measured before and after the trial.
    
  