
    
      Study Objectives:

        -  To create a treatment, follow up and rehabilitation protocol for patients who suffered
           from a hip fracture, in order to prevent a secondary fracture.

        -  To demonstrate that a combined treatment from the Hip Fractures Clinic as well as the
           regular standard treatment and rehabilitation suggested by the Bone Health Clinic (both
           in addition to standard medication prescribed for osteoporosis) will result in a
           significant reduction of second and subsequent fractures.

      Study Protocol:

        1. The study protocol will begin after the patients, who have been admitted with a primary
           hip fracture (of osteoporotic nature), were surgically treated (as customary standard of
           care).

        2. According to hospitalization standard protocol, the patients will be treated with
           vitamin D and calcium. For the first month the patient will be given a loading dose of
           70,000 units. For the next months the patients will receive 50,000-80,000 units per
           month.

           In addition, the patient will be treated with Calcium Pills (Caltrate TAB 600mg, once a
           day)

        3. In addition to the clinical customary monitoring tests performed during the
           hospitalization, Biomarkers and safety assessment will be taken:

             1. Vitamin D

             2. Bone Markers - Bone markers will be taken three days after the patient was
                admitted, and one more time six months later (as part of follow up visit).

        4. Follow up visits after hospitalization due to surgery for primary hip fracture.

             1. Follow up visits at the Hip Fracture Clinic will occur in intervals of: six weeks,
                3 months, 6 months and a year, since the patient had been released from
                hospitalization. At follow up visit, the patient will be assessed for physical
                examination, hip X-ray and the rehabilitation progression Questionnaire (HHS).

             2. Follow up visits at the Bone Health Clinic will occur between 6 weeks to 3 months
                since the patient had been released from hospitalization (as part of regular
                standard of care).

             3. A 3cc Serum sample will be taken with the purpose to serve on future studies and
                examine new markers such as bone markers SCLEROSTIN. There will be no further use
                of these samples. The samples will remain in deep freeze temperature (C˚70-).
    
  