
    
      Traditional technique vs CompuFlo use: Using the traditional technique (loss-of-resistance
      technique), the epidural needle is advanced through the subcutaneous tissues with the needle
      stylet in place until the needle tip is positioned in the interspinous ligament-this is noted
      by the proceduralist by an increase in tissue resistance (attempted injection into
      ligamentous tissue is met with high resistance). The stylet or introducer is removed, and a
      ground-glass syringe filled with 2-3 mL of saline with an air bubble is attached to the hub
      of the epidural needle. If the tip of the needle is within the ligament, gentle attempts at
      injection are met with resistance, and injection of the saline is not possible. The needle is
      then slowly advanced, millimeter by millimeter, with either continuous or rapidly repeating
      attempts at injection. As the tip of the needle enters the posterior epidural space, a sudden
      loss of resistance is noted, and the saline injects easily. Once the needle tip is in the
      epidural space, the epidural catheter is threaded through the needle and the needle is
      removed, leaving the catheter sited in the epidural space.

      The CompuFlo technique complements this basic technique. Similar to the traditional
      technique, the needle is advanced through the subcutaneous tissues with the stylet in place
      until the interspinous ligament is entered, as noted by an increase in tissue resistance.
      After removing the stylet, flexible tubing from the CompuFlo disposable tubing-syringe set is
      attached to the hub of the needle instead of the traditional ground-glass syringe. The
      fluid-filled syringe is placed in the CompuFlo device. The needle is then advanced
      continuously with the device electronically sensing pressure in real time, providing a
      numerical value (100 to 150 mm Hg) on the read-out screen. As the tip of the needle enters
      the posterior epidural space, a sudden loss of resistance (associated with a significant loss
      of pressure to less than 50 mm Hg or 50% of the starting pressure) is noted. The pressure
      drop needs to be sustained for at least 5 seconds. An audio signal also signals the acute
      change in pressure.
    
  