
    
      The central aim of this phase 2a study is to identify a regimen of paramedic initiated
      glyceryl trinitrate antihypertensive therapy in acute stroke patients that is safe, is
      technically effective in modestly lowering blood pressure, and is optimal to advance to a
      pivotal trial. The study design is an open-label dose escalation study with three dose
      tiers,. It is anticipated that the trial will identify the most promising prehospital GTN
      regimen to advance to a pivotal, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial.

      Primary Hypothesis: Prehospital glyceryl trinitrate treatment reduces severely hypertensive
      blood pressure elevation by ED arrival.

      The primary study endpoint to test this hypothesis will be the mean change in SBP from
      pre-treatment to ED arrival.

      Secondary Hypotheses:

        1. Prehospital glyceryl trinitrate treatment reduces severely hypertensive blood pressure
           elevation at early post-arrival timepoints and increases the proportion of patients with
           target blood pressure at ED arrival and early post-arrival timepoints.

           The secondary study endpoints analyzed to test these hypotheses will be: 1) mean change
           in SBP from pre-treatment to 30 minutes after ED arrival and 60 minutes after ED
           arrival; and 2) the proportion of patients with SBP < 180 mm Hg at ED arrival, 30, and
           60 minutes after arrival.

        2. Prehospital initiation of glyceryl trinitrate in the first 2 hours for severely
           hypertensive patients with stroke is feasible and safe.

      Safety of GTN in the first 2 hours for severely hypertensive stroke patients will be assessed
      by analysis of serious adverse events, neurologic change, and mortality. We hypothesize that
      initiation of treatment of the patients in the field will be associated with a favorable side
      effect profile and without severe blood pressure lowering to les than 120 mm Hg systolic.

      Successful completion of the study will demonstrate feasibility to recruit hypertensive
      stroke participants and initiate GTN therapy in the field by paramedics.
    
  