
    
      Methods:

      Vocational inpatients after orthopaedic trauma (n=280), aged between 18-60 years. Three
      different vocational pathways can be selected: Simple (for patients with low "non-return to
      work" risk, 5 weeks stay), Coaching (intermediate risk, 5 weeks), Evaluation (high risk, 3
      weeks). Design: randomized-controlled trial. In the intervention group, the probability not
      to return to work estimated with the WORRK model will be offered to the clinician team before
      the allocation decisions. In the control group, the probability will also be estimated but
      not known by the clinician team. The primary outcome is the proportion of patients allocated
      to the Evaluation Pathway. Secondary outcomes: the patients' satisfaction is not worse in the
      intervention group; the decisions makers' satisfaction with the information available for the
      decision process is better in the intervention group; the proportion of patients changing the
      treatment pathway during the vocational stay is not higher in the intervention group; and the
      calibration of the WORRK model remains satisfactory; the non-return to work rate is not
      higher in the intervention group than in the control group (follow-up at 3, 12, and 24
      months);

      Relevance and impact:

      The investigators expect that the WORRK model will improve the efficiency of vocational
      rehabilitation after orthopedic trauma. This will due to better allocation to the vocational
      pathways according to the patients' risk profile. If this is the case, an increase of the
      shorter vocational program is expected without jeopardizing the chance of returning to work
      and the patient satisfaction with quality of care. The ability of the WORRK model to detect
      patients with similar risk profiles could also strengthen the interest for this
      decision-supportive tool in clinical practice and trials.
    
  