
    
      HRV biofeedback is a technique that combines slow paced breathing with the use of accurate,
      moment-to-moment physiological monitoring. The goal is to make internal cardiac information
      available to people in order to help them learn how to increase the beat-to-beat variability
      in their heart's activity and thereby increase parasympathetic activity of the autonomic
      nervous system. Apart from active interventions such as exercise training that reliably
      increase HRV but that may be inappropriate for many cardiac patients, HRV biofeedback is an
      easy-to-implement technique which allows people to monitor and then ultimately alter their
      parasympathetic activity.

      Research is needed to determine whether HRV biofeedback training has beneficial consequences
      for mental and cardiovascular health in patients who have experienced serious,
      life-threatening cardiac events. The investigator believes that cardiac arrest survivors, in
      particular, may stand to benefit from such an intervention because many of them experience
      clinically significant psychological distress after their medical event.

      Distressed cardiac patients may be especially motivated to learn to influence their own heart
      activity in order to improve their own HRV, reduce their cardiovascular risk, and lessen
      their symptoms of psychological distress. Therefore, it may be wise to harness this
      motivation in the service of helping these patients deliberately learn to alter their own
      autonomic activity rather than simply breathing at a rate that automatically improves HRV
      without any learning process. By providing patients with an external (e.g., visual) form of
      feedback about their otherwise largely inaccessible autonomic physiology (i.e., vagus nerve
      activity), the investigator will conduct a feasibility study of HRV biofeedback training with
      the goal of increasing HRV and reducing anxiety symptoms.

      The purpose of this pilot study is to examine the feasibility of enrolling 10 participants
      and assessing the feasibility, acceptability, appropriateness, and usability of the at-home,
      multi-week HRV biofeedback training as well as participants' compliance with the
      intervention. Additionally, the purpose of the study is to assess whether participants
      generally show a decrease in cardiac-related interoceptive fear, a decrease in trait anxiety,
      a decrease in negative affect, and an increase in HRV during the course of the study. The
      data collected from participants as part of this feasibility pilot will influence the
      decision to continue with a larger randomized clinical trial using the methods in this pilot
      together with a control group. Progress will be monitored with Polar H10 heart rate monitor -
      a supremely precise heart rate sensor that comes with the Polar Pro chest strap. It will be
      used with a smartphone app Elite HRV - which is non-experimental.
    
  