
    
      This phase II clinical study will include ten to fifteen healthy light skinned adult
      volunteers who will be recruited through Institutional Review Board (IRB)-approved
      advertising. At screening subjects will be given a sunburn test. This procedure involves
      exposing eight 1 square cm areas of skin over increasing doses of simulated solar radiation
      (SSR), while the rest of the body is draped. SSR is delivered by a 1,000-Watt xenon arc lamp,
      which emits ultraviolet wavelengths from 290-400 nm, closely resembling natural sunlight. The
      Minimal Erythema Dose (MED) will be determined approximately 24 hours after initial exposure
      by using a chromometer that records the values of redness associated with each 1 square cm
      area exposed to the SSR the previous day. Once the MED is calculated by linear regression,
      the actual UV exposure of test sites will be conducted. A test site consists of a one inch
      square area on the buttock or lower back. Sites 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 will be irradiated with 2 MED
      of SSR while the rest of the body is draped. Site 1 will not receive any ST266 treatment at
      all. Sites 2 and 3 will be treated by investigators with ST266 immediately after irradiation.
      8-12 hours later or at bedtime, subject will treat Sites 2,3,4,5 with ST266 at home. ST266
      application will also be done by subject on Sites 2,3,4,5 the next morning approximately 24
      hours after SSR. Between 24-36 hours after SSR, subject returns to the Skin Study Center for
      Minolta chromometer assessment of erythema at all test sites, as well as for high resolution
      digital photography (Canfield). These assessments will be repeated at 48 hours and 72 hours
      post SSR and data will be graphed to quantify rate of erythema resolution. Punch biopsies
      will be obtained at Site 1 (control) and Site 2 (SSR + immediate ST266 Rx). If a difference
      in erythema is observed between Site 1 and Site 4 (i.e. if even the delayed treatment seems
      to effectively decrease inflammation), a biopsy will also be obtained from Site 4 (SSR +
      delayed ST266 Rx). These biopsy samples will be tested using RT-PCR and/or
      immunohistochemistry for markers of UV inflammation such as IL-6, TNF-alpha, etc. The test
      sites that have been biopsied will no longer undergo chromometer assessment post biopsy
      because the inflammation from the biopsy itself may confound the erythema readings.
      Meanwhile, subject will continue to apply the ST266 twice daily on Sites 3 and 5 until study
      visit 5. An additional normal control skin biopsy may be performed in a subset of volunteers
      (4-5) to serve as reference control for the tissue analysis. This will not be required of all
      volunteers.
    
  