
    
      Subjects will first be asked to complete a questionnaire. This questionnaire will collect
      demographic data (age, sex, years of education, native language and other languages spoken)
      and other pertinent data (vision correction, concussion history, ocular/visual injury and
      disorder history, learning disability diagnoses). The questionnaire will take approximately 3
      minutes to complete.

      Based on the concussion history provided in the questionnaire, the subject will be assigned
      to either Group NoHx (no concussion history) or Group HxMC (history of multiple concussions.)
      Then the subject will be randomized into one of two KDT formats: L-R KDT (natural reading
      direction) or R-L KDT (reverse reading direction) via a coin flip. The researcher will
      explain the KDT procedure by saying, "This test evaluates your saccadic eye movements, or
      rapid eye movements from one fixation point to the next. This test is comprised of three test
      cards. Each test card has eight lines of several digits (numbers). Please read the digits
      aloud as quickly but as accurately as possible from [L-R condition: 'left to right and top to
      bottom'; R-L condition: 'right to left and top to bottom']. If participants make a mistake,
      correct it if participants can and continue on. This is a timed test--tapping the tablet
      screen starts and stops the stopwatch. Participants will have a brief break in between cards
      to catch participants' breath. Each test card will get progressively harder. The horizontal
      lines guiding participants from digit to digit on each line on Test Card 1 disappear on Test
      Card 2. The lines of digits on Test Card 3 are closer together than they were on Test Card 2.
      Do you have any questions?"

      The researcher will start the app and pull up the demonstration card for the L-R condition.
      For the R-L condition, the researcher will open a picture of the adapted demonstration card
      with the diagonal lines switched to indicate that subjects follow from the left-most digit to
      the right-most digit on the subsequent line. Subjects will complete the demonstration card
      twice according their condition instructions. Subjects will be reminded to "read the digits
      as quickly but accurately as possible" and in the direction according to their assigned test
      condition before starting the test. The researcher will silently count any errors while the
      subject completes each test card one at a time, taking a brief (1-2s) pause after tapping the
      screen to stop the timer and tapping again to start the timer and bringing up the next test
      card. At the conclusion of the test, the researcher will record the total time and number of
      errors on the subject data collection sheet. The subject will complete the test a second
      time, following the same instructions. The total time and number of errors for the second
      attempt will also be recorded. The investigators anticipate this portion of the data
      collection to take approximately 6 minutes. The total duration of the data collection will be
      approximately 10 minutes.
    
  