
    
      The experiments as follows:

      Experiment 1. Observe the dynamic changes of DSS level in acute ischemic cardiovascular and
      cerebrovascular diseases of different severity.

        1. Research object Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) group: 500 patients with AMI; Acute
           ischemic stroke group: 300 patients with acute ischemic stroke; Acute lower limb
           ischemia group: 300 subjects with acute lower limb ischemia; Control group: 200 healthy
           volunteers were included as controls. All the subjects were from the first and second
           affiliated hospitals of the Xi'an Jiaotong University and the Shaanxi Provincial
           People's Hospital;

        2. Collecting indicators Peripheral blood and morning urine were collected from the
           patients and the volunteers after admission on the first, second, third and seventh days
           for DSS detection. The investigators collected several demographics, clinical and
           analytical parameters. Age, gender, height and weight were recorded, and body mass index
           (kg/m2) was calculated. Blood pressure (BP) was measured three times or more by a nurse
           while patients were seated after 5 min of rest. Several parameters, including myocardial
           enzyme, serum uric acid, total cholesterol, total triglycerides low density
           lipoprotein-cholesterol, high density lipoprotein-cholesterol, estimated glomerular
           filtration rate and high sensitivity C-reactive protein were measured. The patient was
           included in all the clinical data after admission and as the admission diagnosis,
           including: medical history (including risk factors), physical examination, laboratory
           examination, imaging examination, nursing report, records of interventional operation
           and all the indicators of in-hospital examination.

        3. Analyze the regularity curve of DSS level in disease DSS levels of blood and urine were
           detected by gas chromatography -mass spectrometry (GC-MS). In the disease progression of
           patients with AMI, acute ischemic stroke and acute lower limb ischemia, the difference
           of DSS production was analyzed, and the regular curve of the dynamic change process of
           ischemic cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases was plotted based on the normal
           control group.

      Experiment 2. To establish an assessment system of "circulatory integration" for acute
      ischemic cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases with DSS as the core.

        1. The Clinical outcomes on follow up Adverse events (survival outcome) were observed and
           recorded in the hospital and at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after discharge. Major adverse
           events mainly include disease recurrence, cardiac death and all-cause death. The time of
           recurrence, complication or death, type of complication and cause of death were recorded
           in detail.

        2. Establish a diagnosis and treatment evaluation system Blood and urine DSS levels were
           measured by GC-MS. COX regression model analysis, including DSS level, basic
           information, risk factors, symptoms, physical examination, laboratory tests, image
           examination and electrocardiogram, assess the influence of various factors on major
           adverse events in patients with acute ischemic cardiovascular and cerebrovascular
           diseases and the prognosis of three diseases. Moreover, these indicators were used to
           build a scoring system, and analyze its correlation with prognosis.

      Experiment 3. To verify the "circulatory integration" diagnosis and treatment evaluation
      system of acute ischemic cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases with DSS as the core

        1. Research Object AMI group: 200 patients with AMI; Acute ischemic stroke group: 200
           patients with acute ischemic stroke; Acute lower limb ischemia group: 200 subjects with
           acute lower limb ischemia; All these subjects were from the first and second affiliated
           hospitals of the Xi'an Jiaotong University and the Shaanxi Provincial People's Hospital;

        2. Collecting Indicators Peripheral blood and morning urine were collected and measured.

        3. Follow up and record the outcome The major adverse events were observed and recorded in
           the same way as in the above-mentioned experiment.

        4. Verify the diagnosis and treatment evaluation system The newly established "circulatory
           integration" diagnosis and treatment evaluation system of acute ischemic cardiovascular
           and cerebrovascular diseases with DSS as the core was used to predict the prognosis of
           the newly included 600 patients with acute ischemic cardiovascular and cerebrovascular
           diseases. This paper analyzes the specificity and sensitivity of the newly built
           "circular integration" diagnosis and treatment evaluation system through its disease
           evaluation and actual adverse events.
    
  