
    
      Phase I

      Primary Objective

      • To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of LBH589 in combination with bevacizumab
      given at 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks in patients with recurrent glioblastoma (GBM), gliosarcoma,
      anaplastic astrocytoma, anaplastic oligodendroglioma or mixed anaplastic oligoastrocytoma.

      Secondary Objective

      • To define safety.

      Phase II

      Primary Objective

      • To determine the efficacy of LBH589 in combination with bevacizumab in patients with
      recurrent GBM or gliosarcoma as measured by 6-month progression-free survival (PFS6).

      Secondary Objectives

        -  To measure overall survival, time-to-tumor progression and objective tumor response.

        -  To further evaluate safety.

      Exploratory Objectives

        -  To provide preliminary data on the efficacy in patients with recurrent anaplastic
           astrocytoma, anaplastic oligodendroglioma or mixed anaplastic oligoastrocytoma.

        -  To explore the relationship of the molecular phenotype of the tumor with survival.

        -  To investigate correlation of treatment response with laboratory correlates including,
           plasma angiogenic proteins and perfusion MRI.

      Statistical Design

      The Phase I study follows a standard 3+3 dose escalation design. Three potential dose levels
      of oral LBH589 3x per week days 1, 3 and 5 are under evaluation including a starting dose 0
      on a weekly schedule as well as dose level 2 and a de-escalation dose level 1 on a weekly
      schedule. [Note: The study was amended to revise the starting dose due to concerns for
      thrombocytopenia with the weekly dosing regimen.] The DLT observation period is the first 30
      days of treatment. For the Phase II study, based on prior research of bevacizumab
      monotherapy, a PFS6 rate of 35% does not justify further utilization of LBH589 in combination
      with bevacizumab while a PFS6 rate of 55% is worthy of further study. With 41 GBM eligible
      participants in the Phase II study, the treatment would be deemed promising if at least 20
      GBM participants achieve 6-month progression-free survival. This design has at least 85%
      power and a 0.07 significance level to predict the difference between the null hypothesis of
      35% PFS6 rate and the alternative hypothesis of 55% PFS6 rate. The protocol specifies a
      planned interim analysis after the first 21 participants have been accrued. If 12 or more of
      those participants have died or experienced disease progression/ relapse within 6 months of
      initiating treatment, accrual will be suspended and the data carefully reviewed before
      proceeding with additional patient accrual. Participants who are removed from active
      treatment for toxicity prior to reaching 6 months on treatment are not included in this
      interim analysis. Participants with recurrent GBM enrolled in the phase I study at the
      maximum tolerated dose (ie, the phase II dose) are eligible for inclusion in the interim
      analysis.
    
  