
    
      In this randomized clinical trial, the investigators will use a standard 3-day differential
      fear conditioning paradigm to compare the effects of appropriately timed intravenous (IV)
      administration of allopregnanolone (Allo) vs. placebo on extinction retention (Expt. 1) and
      reconsolidation blockade (Expt. 2).

      Allo is a metabolite of progesterone that positively modulates gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)
      effects at GABAA receptors; sulfated metabolites of Allo antagonize NMDA receptors. Men and
      women with PTSD are at high risk for Allo deficiency, and low resting Allo has been
      associated with poor extinction retention. In contrast, administration of an Allo analog
      after brief reactivation of conditioned fear in Allo-deficient rodents appears to block
      reconsolidation and prevent the spontaneous recovery of conditioned fear after completion of
      a series of extinction training trials.

      For both Expts. 1 and 2, stratified randomization will be employed to created the following
      subgroups: men (n=44; 22 per treatment group), women in the early follicular phase (eFP)
      (n=42, 21 per treatment group), and women in the mid luteal phase (mLP) (n=42, 21 per
      treatment group).

      In Expts. 1 and 2, all participants will undergo differential fear conditioning (Day 1). On
      Day 2 of Expt. 1, IV Allo vs. placebo will be infused after extinction training to raise
      plasma Allo to resting levels associated with optimum extinction retention; extinction
      retention will be tested on Day 3. On Day 2 of Expt. 2, high dose IV Allo vs. placebo will be
      administered immediately after fear memory reactivation by a single CS+; reconsolidation
      blockade will be tested on Day 3.

      Expt. 1 testing effects of IV Allo on extinction retention will take place first over two
      years beginning after the 6-month study start-up activities. Expt. 2 testing the capacity of
      IV Allo to induce reconsolidation blockade will be conducted over the following two years.

      If this study is successful, Allo could potentially be administered to augment trauma-focused
      therapy in treatment refractory PTSD patients.
    
  