
    
      Despite receiving conventional, standard CPR (S-CPR), most patients who experience
      out-of-hospital cardiac arrest die prior to arriving at a hospital. At the present time, the
      hospital discharge rate following out-of-hospital, nontraumatic cardiac arrest in adults in
      the United States is estimated to be less than 5%. Many factors contribute to the current
      poor survival statistics, including the inefficiency of the technique itself. CPR provides
      only 10% to 20% of normal myocardial perfusion, and only 20% to 30% of physiologically normal
      cerebral perfusion.

      A new method of CPR that combines ACD and an ITD (ACD-CPR+ITD) has been shown in animal
      models and in clinical trials conducted in Europe to provide significantly more blood flow to
      the vital organs and to improve survival rates when compared to S-CPR or ACD-CPR alone.

      ACD-CPR+ITD works by decreasing intrathoracic pressure during the chest wall recoil (or
      decompression) phase of CPR, creating a vacuum within the thorax relative to the rest of the
      body. When compared with controls, use of ACD-CPR+ITD (a) enhances blood return to the thorax
      during the chest wall recoil phase, (b) enhances blood flow to the heart and brain, (c)
      provides real-time feedback to rescuers to maintain high-quality CPR, (d) improves overall
      CPR efficiency and, as a result of the forgoing, (e) improves short-term survival rates.

      The sponsor and others recently evaluated the effectiveness of the combination of
      conventional, manual standard CPR±ITD in animals and humans. The ITD increased short-term
      survival rates in these studies as well. Two clinical trials were performed in Milwaukee,
      Wisconsin, under IDE (#G980125). Both compared S-CPR with either a sham (nonfunctional or
      placebo) or active (functional) ITD. The results from the hemodynamic study demonstrated that
      systolic blood pressure, the primary end point, increased from approximately 45 mmHg with the
      sham ITD to approximately 85 mmHg with the active ITD (P less than 0.05). Intensive care unit
      admission rate was the primary end point of the clinical outcome study.

      Comparisons: The objective of this two-arm, multisite, randomized, pivotal IDE clinical trial
      is to compare survival to hospital discharge with neurologic recovery rates in subjects
      receiving S-CPR compared to ACD-CPR+ITD following out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in
      well-established American emergency medical services systems.
    
  