
    
      Immunotherapy is one of the most promising and effective methods to cure tumor besides
      operation, chemotherapy and radiotherapy. T cell therapy, which belongs to immunotherapy,
      mainly includes CAR-T (Chimeric Antigen Receptor, CAR) and TCR-T (T cell Receptor-T). The
      existing CAR-T treatment can only kill blood tumor cells, the effect on solid tumor treatment
      was not well. Therefore, people need a better method than CAR-T, which can kill tumor cell
      internal antigen and has better curative effect on solid tumor treatment, and has less side
      effect. This is the TCR-T cell treatment developed by the applicant now.

      In view of the cross reaction between tumor antigen and normal cell antigen, which is easy to
      cause adverse reactions, this mainly focuses on a kind of antigen that is not expressed in
      normal cells, but expressed in testis, and is defined as cancer testis antigen. The applicant
      preferred NY-ESO-1 antigen, which was first found in esophageal cancer, then 10-50% in
      melanoma, non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), liver cancer, breast cancer, prostate cancer,
      bladder cancer, thyroid cancer and ovarian cancer, 60% in multiple myeloma, 70-80% in
      synovial cell sarcoma and 22.5% in osteosarcoma.

      In 2015, the University of Pennsylvania, the University of Maryland and Adaptimmune in the
      United Kingdom reported the breakthrough progress of TCR-T cells in the world-class Journal
      of natural medicine. This clinical trial showed that high affinity anti-NYESO-1 and LAGE-1
      specific TCR-T were effective in 16 (80%) of 20 patients with multiple myeloma, with an
      average progression free survival of 19.1 months, and the side effects were mild, without
      serious side effects of CAR-T.

      Another clinical trial of NY-ESO-1-specific TCR-T in the treatment of synovial cell sarcoma
      (synovial cell sarcoma) and melanoma by a team of Dr. Rosenberg from the National Cancer
      Research Institute of the United States showed that 61% of synovial cell sarcomas and 55% of
      melanoma had clinical effects. Due to the good clinical results of anti-NY-ESO-1-specific
      TCR-T of adaptimmune company in the treatment of synovial sarcoma, the US FDA approved this
      TCR-T cell treatment of synovial sarcoma to enter the breakthrough treatment

      These clinical data indicate that TCR-T cell therapy can be applied to a variety of tumors,
      including soft tissue sarcoma.
    
  