
    
      The goal of this proposal is to explore the potential efficacy of varenicline for reducing
      alcohol consumption among alcohol-dependent cigarette smokers. The hypothesis for the current
      study is that 24 weeks of varenicline will increase alcohol abstinence rates among smokers
      and decrease alcohol consumption among patients receiving inpatient addiction treatment for
      alcoholism. The investigators will also explore whether varenicline has a beneficial effect
      on tobacco abstinence rates in this population of tobacco users.

      The investigators will conduct an open-label pilot study to determine clinical efficacy and
      employ neuroimaging techniques to evaluate how glutamate and other brain metabolites
      correlate to measures of alcohol craving severity and/or subsequent varenicline treatment
      response. The investigators will enroll 20 subjects receiving treatment in the Mayo Clinic
      Inpatient Addictions Program (IAP) and compare outcomes with patients participating in a
      similar 6-month open-label study of acamprosate.

      The Primary aims of this study are:

        1. To obtain preliminary evidence of efficacy of varenicline (0.5 mg once daily for 3 days,
           0.5 mg twice daily for days 4-7, 1 mg twice a day for remaining 23 weeks) for increasing
           continuous alcohol abstinence rates at 3 and 6 months among patients with alcohol and
           tobacco dependence who have completed treatment at the Mayo Clinic IAP.

        2. To obtain preliminary evidence of efficacy of varenicline (0.5 mg once daily for 3 days,
           0.5 mg twice daily for days 4-7, 1 mg twice a day for remaining 23 weeks) for decreasing
           the number of heavy drinking days (> 5 drinks/day for men and > 4 drink/day for women)
           at 3 and 6 months among patients with alcohol and tobacco dependence who have completed
           treatment at the Mayo Clinic IAP.

        3. To obtain preliminary data on baseline and baseline to endpoint change in CSF volume
           corrected concentrations of the dorsal striatal glutamate, glutamate + glutamine, and
           NAA measures through MR spectroscopy before and after 30 days of varenicline treatment
           among patients with alcohol and tobacco dependence who have completed treatment at the
           Mayo Clinic IAP.

      Secondary aims:

        1. To obtain preliminary evidence of efficacy of varenicline (0.5 mg once daily for 3 days,
           0.5 mg twice daily for days 4-7, 1 mg twice a day for remaining 23 weeks) for increasing
           the 7-day point prevalence smoking abstinence rates and prolonged smoking abstinence at
           3 and 6 months among patients with alcohol and tobacco dependence who have completed
           treatment at the Mayo Clinic IAP.

        2. To assess the tolerability of varenicline (0.5 mg once daily for 3 days, 0.5 mg twice
           daily for days 4-7, 1 mg twice a day for remaining 23 weeks).
    
  