
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Despite extensive research over many years, noninvasive methods for detection of the presence
      and severity of coronary artery disease remain imperfect, in part due to the fact that
      different, partially interrelated, facets of coronary atherosclerosis may predispose to
      different manifestations (e.g., luminal diameter narrowing to myocardial ischemia and wall
      plaque burden to a higher risk or acute thrombosis). One noninvasive index of the degree of
      coronary atherosclerosis, the extent of coronary artery calcification, has become more
      accessible to non-invasive evaluation due to the development of fast electron-beam computed
      tomography (EBCT). Initial studies have shown that EBCT coronary calcification is related to
      a variety of coronary risk factors and is also predictive to a variable extent in different
      populations of incident coronary heart disease events, but few data are available concerning
      the evolution of EBCT-detected coronary calcification and its relation to coronary risk
      factors or to prevalent or incident coronary heart disease.

      The study draws on the success of the Los Angeles South Bay Heart Watch (SBHW) in recruiting
      an ethnically-diverse sample of individuals at high risk of coronary heart disease events who
      have undergone serial evaluation by both assessment of conventional coronary heart disease
      risk factors and by evaluation of coronary arterial calcification by fluoroscopy and by EBCT
      on sequential evaluations. The study group has been able to maintain contact with the
      participants and achieve outstanding rates of both contact for follow-up and repeat
      participation in sequential components of the study.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study follows up 1,000 asymptomatic high-risk survivors from the South Bay Heart Watch
      population recruited in 1990-1992 (n = 1,461) and studied with EBCT in 1992-1993 (n = 1,309).
      The primary objective is to examine the effects of baseline risk factors and measures of
      calcium metabolism on changes in the amount of coronary calcium in this asymptomatic
      high-risk adult cohort. This observational study has the following specific aims, as follow:
      1) relating demographic factors and traditional risk factors to progression in coronary
      artery calcification (CAC) score over time; 2) relating serum markers of calcium metabolism
      to changes in CAC score; and 3) relating baseline CAC score and changes in CAC score to left
      ventricular dysfunction and intervening coronary events.

      The SBHW cohort and NHLBI reading center as well as Dr. Azen's data coordinating center are
      used to examine whether baseline risk factors, ethnic group and indices of calcium metabolism
      are associated with change in coronary calcium quantity over four to five years. EBCT scans
      are performed in 1,000 surviving members of the cohort as are repeat measurements of left
      ventricular hypertrophy, plasma lipids, blood pressure, homocysteine, fibrinogen,
      para-thyroid hormone and vitamin D levels. The independent relationships between risk factors
      are examined from the 1994 baseline evaluation and the change in coronary calcium score as
      determined by EBCT. Logistic regression, which is not dependent on normality of the
      independent variables, will be used to examine the relation of annualized change in coronary
      calcium with the incidence of events. The study continues through August, 2008.
    
  