
    
      The use of hypnotic medications for the treatment of insomnia has increased as has the
      incidence of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and its complications. Nocturnal acid
      reflux is associated with severe injuries such as narrowing of the esophagus, inflammation
      and cancer of the esophagus.

      A Gallup survey conducted in 2000, on behalf of the American Gastroenterological Association,
      found that 79% of respondents reported heartburn at night and 75% reported that symptoms
      affected their sleep. The impact that hypnotic medications (sleep medications) have on
      nocturnal reflux has not been well established. Orr et al. demonstrated that sleep arousal is
      critical in clearing acid from the esophagus and that decreased wakefulness results in
      prolonged esophageal acid exposure. Singh et al. showed that use of the hypnotic alprazolam,
      increases esophageal acid exposure time, possibly by blunting arousal and thereby interfering
      with acid clearance mechanisms. No study has examined sleep architecture and pattern (i.e.
      polysomnography) with and without hypnotic medication use and correlated this with how long
      the esophagus is exposed to acid.

      Esophageal motility, gravity and salivation are three primary mechanisms by which acid is
      removed from the esophagus. Blunting nocturnal arousal with hypnotic medications may
      exacerbate gastroesophageal reflux or trigger it in otherwise healthy subjects, independent
      of any effects the medication may have on lower esophageal sphincter pressure. By depressing
      consciousness with pharmacologic agents (i.e. hypnotics, anxiolytics, antipsychotics) the
      body's defense against esophageal acid clearance may be impaired. Primary peristalsis,
      salivation and the warning symptoms of GERD are lost, thereby exposing the esophagus to a
      greater number and duration of GERD events.

      The potential deleterious effects that hypnotic medications may have on nocturnal GERD has
      important implications on understanding the impact that hypnotic medications have on GERD.

      The aim of this pilot study is to evaluate the effect that zolpidem (Ambien) has on sleep
      pattern, nocturnal GERD and symptoms.
    
  