
    
      The restoration of masticatory function and aesthetics is an important aim in dentistry
      mainly when patients present with extensive tooth loss. The loss of tooth in elderly patients
      not only impairs the stomatognathic system but also their psychological status and quality of
      life.so an important criteria's for the success of dentures are patient's expectations and
      the ability of the denture to replace the lost masticatory efficiency.

      The acrylic resin was first used in 1936; it was in that time the best alternative for
      vulcanized rubber. Where it is characterized by superior characteristics and became the most
      popular material used since then. Nonetheless, it has some problems such as polymerization
      shrinkage, weak flexural, lower impact strength, and low fatigue resistance. These often lead
      to denture failure during chewing or when fall out of the patient's hand. In order to enhance
      some properties of PMMA, various efforts have been taken including addition of metal wires or
      plates, fibers, metal inserts, and modification of chemical structure. In recent years, nylon
      polymer has attracted attention as a denture base material.

      Thermoplastic nylon like materials or polyamides were introduced and first used in dentistry
      in 1950. The polyamide are uniquely characterized by high esthetics especially in removable
      partial dentures, where retentive components are recommended anteriorly by this material
      which provide high elasticity we can make the retentive components using the same material
      and eliminate the metallic clasps.

      Polyamides are characterized by low weight and flexibility make it more patient satisfactory
      and fortunately it has no monomer remnants that may affect patient health and causes allergy.
      Thermoplastic polyamides have almost no porosity which eliminates water sorption. The
      technique used for its fabrication is injection molding technique which is more dimension
      accurate than packing mold technique.

      Valplast was initially used just over 50 years ago and has been used in modern dentistry
      since the mid-fifties. A variation of nylon, which is far more flexible and stronger than
      poly methyl methacrylate resin, is used in many alternative partial dentures. Valplast
      flexible dentures are used for full sets of dentures especially in cases of acrylic allergy
      which represent 20% of the population.

      Comparative Evaluation of Impact and Flexural Strength is done to four types of Four
      Commercially Available Flexible Denture Base Materials. Valplast had the maximum impact
      strength, so these materials should be used in less undercut areas for long-term interim
      removable partial dentures.

      A study done by investigators who evaluated the surface roughness of four thermoplastic
      (polyamide: Valplast, Lucitone FRS, polyethylene terephthalate: EstheShot, and polyester:
      EstheShot Bright) and two conventional acrylic (Heat-polymerizing: Urban, and Pour type
      auto-polymerizing: Pro-Cast DSP) denture bases by using scratch test. The results showed that
      the surface of thermoplastic denture base resins was easily damaged compared with polymethyl
      methacrylate which can cause discomfort to patients and also discoloration.

      Complete Dentures Made with High Impact and Flexible Resins were evaluated. There was
      statistically significant difference for masticatory performance in wet and dry weight values
      of hard food, but there was no statistically significant difference for masticatory
      performance in wet and dry weight values of soft food between the conventional and flexible
      dentures. Though masticatory efficiency and performance were found to be better for patient's
      dentures made with Polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA), a statistically significant number of
      patients reported that the flexible dentures were more satisfying than the conventional
      dentures.

      Another study was done to evaluate the patients inflamatory response. patients received
      acrylic complete denture were associated with significant high levels of proinflammatory
      salivary cytokines (TNF-α and IL-6) in comparison to their corresponding levels in the
      thermoplastic polyamide complete denture patients. The high levels of pro-inflammatory
      salivary cytokines (TNF-α and IL-6) that were found in saliva of control group patients may
      be linked to their protective effect against tissue inflammation caused by release of
      residual monomer.

      Adherence of Candida albicans to Flexible Denture Base Material was studied and concluded C.
      albicans has lesser opportunities to adhere on flexible denture than on acrylic resin denture
      base materials.
    
  