
    
      INTRODUCTION Dapagliflozin is a highly potent, selective, and reversible inhibitor of
      sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT2), the major transporter responsible for renal glucose
      reabsorption.1 Dapagliflozin lowers plasma glucose by inhibiting the renal reabsorption of
      glucose and by promoting its urinary excretion in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus
      (T2DM).

      Gliclazide MR is a highly potent and selective sulphonylurea considered by specialists a
      reference in this class, because of its low risk of hypoglycemia and no increasing in
      cardiovascular mortality. Gliclazide MR increases the physiological mechanism of insulin
      secretion, thus reducing the postprandial and fasting glucose levels in patients with type 2
      diabetes.

      There is an increasing large amount of evidences showing that rapid fluctuations in blood
      glucose and high glycemic variability may have an important role in the development of
      diabetes complications. Cardiovascular disease, endothelial dysfunction and oxidative stress
      are common complications among patients with type 2 diabetes and glycemic variability may be
      an important factor in their development. Previous studies have shown that vildagliptin, a
      dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitor (DPP-4 inhibitor), could improve not only the mean blood
      glucose but also the 24-hour glucose fluctuation by restoring the physiological pattern of
      insulin and glucagon secretion. SGLT-2 inhibitors are novel anti-diabetic drugs and currently
      there are not published studies that evaluated their effects on glycemic variability
      calculated by the widely used methods like mean amplitude of glycemic excursion (MAGE),
      standard deviation of the mean glycemia (SD), coefficient of variation (CV) and interquartile
      range (IQR).

      The aim of the current study is to compare the effect of gliclazide MR with dapagliflozin on
      the glycemic variability using a continuous glucose monitoring system (CGMS) to determine
      MAGE, SD, CV and IQR.

      2. METHODOLOGY 2.1 Study Population (Target population of Clinical Trial Subjects) A total of
      120 patients with documented Type 2 Diabetes will be enrolled, considering an expected
      screening failure rate of 30% (n=22) and an expected dropout rate of 8% (n=10), based in
      previous studies conducted in our center using similar populations and period. We estimate
      that 88 (44 in each group) subjects will complete all protocol procedures. Per-protocol
      analysis will be restricted to the participants who fulfill the protocol in terms of the
      eligibility, interventions and outcome assessment. To be as close to a real life scenario as
      possible, this clinical trial will include subjects patients who were treated with metformin
      only and had inadequate glycemic control at the time of enrollment as well as treatment naïve
      or non-medically treated (e.g., diet) patients.

      2.2 Investigational Product, Posology and Method of Administration The active treatment will
      include a 10 mg dose of dapagliflozin orally once a day.

      2.3 Comparator, Posology and Method of Administration As comparator, gliclazide MR will be
      administered at a dose of 120 mg orally once a day.

      2.4 Study Duration The study will have an expected total duration of 15 months (12 months for
      recruitment and 12 weeks of active treatment).

      2.5 Methods and Assessments Patients will be randomized after revision of inclusion and
      exclusion criteria. Randomization will occur in a 1:1 manner using a validated computerized
      system until completion of 88 randomized patients.

      Patients from group 1 (n~44) will receive the study medication (dapagliflozin) and the ones
      from Group 2 (n~44) will receive the comparator gliclazide MR on top of usual treatment for
      type 2 diabetes. Treatments with the study medication or comparator will last 12+/-1 weeks.
      All patients for both groups will receive the same guidelines about the diet (caloric and
      macronutrient contents) and physical activity by the same dietitian from the study site at
      the beginning of study. A "blinded to the patient" Continuous Glucose Monitoring System
      (CGMS, iPro2 (TM) with Enlite-Sensor (TM); Medtronic Mini-Med Inc., Northridge, California,
      USA) will be inserted subcutaneously. The sensor is a glucose oxidase-based platinum
      electrode that is inserted through a needle into the subcutaneous tissue of the anterior
      abdominal wall and allows up to 288 glucose readings per day. The CGMS will be placed for 72
      hours at beginning (in the last three days of run-in phase) before starting the study
      medications and again at the end of the study in the last three days of the study treatment.
      The validated softwares Glyculator (TM) or EasyGV (TM) will calculate the glycemic
      variability parameters MAGE, SD and CV IQR will be calculated by the software Captür-AGP
      (TM). Biochemical markers of glycemic control (HbA1c, fasting glucose and postprandial
      glucose) will be determined at beginning and at the end of the treatment period. Each patient
      will maintain regular visits to his assistant doctor. At the end, the two groups will be
      compared according to the following parameters calculated based on results obtained on both
      CGMS tests, blood samples and patient Clinical Research Form (CRF)

        -  Glycemic variability parameters: MAGE, SD, CV and IQR

        -  Glycemic controls parameters: HbA1c, fasting glucose and postprandial glucose

        -  Exploratory variables: incidence of urinary tract Infection and genital infection and
           incidence of volume depletion.

      2.6 Sample size and Statistical methods To determine the sample size and obtain a clinical
      and statistical significant result in the primary variable (difference >14.5mg/dL on glycemic
      variability), it was used MAGE (mean amplitude of glycemic excursion). As MAGE is glycemic
      amplitude measured in mg/dL, it was arbitrarily set a difference of ≥ 14.5, which may be
      clinically important for the patient as judged by the study center team and its expert
      consultants. There is not a good study of T2DM patients that establishes which MAGE
      difference or improvement could be significant to prevent diabetes complications.

      Sample size was calculated based on the provided parameter: significance level (adjusted for
      sidedness) = 0.025, standard deviation for MAGE = 24mg/dL, power = 0.8, and a between-group
      difference in mean MAGE equal to 14.5 mg/dL. The variable calculated was the total number of
      patients. A total of 44 patients in each group (dapagliflozin 10 mg or gliclazide MR 120 mg)
      must complete this two-treatment parallel-design study. Considering an expected screening
      failure rate of 30% (n=11 per group) and an expected dropout rate of 8% (n=5 per group),
      based in previous studies in our center using similar populations and period, a total of 60
      patients per group (120 total) will be enrolled.

      Demographic and baseline characteristics will be represented by distributions of frequency
      and summarized statistics based on the dataset, both for each treatment group and all
      clinical trial subjects combined. The main baseline characteristics will be presented. ANCOVA
      will be used with adjustment for baseline values. For primary and secondary variables, all
      quantitative, it will be used Student's t-test or Mann-Whitney test for the statistical
      evaluation and comparison between groups. In all tests, it will be used the significance
      level of 5% or p<0.05.

      2.7 Study Design and Rationale

      This is a single-center, Prospective, Randomized, Open-label, Comparative, Phase IV Study to
      compare the effects of gliclazide MR and dapagliflozin on Glycemic Variability in patients
      with Type 2 Diabetes.
    
  