
    
      Plasmodium vivax represents 50-80% of all malarial cases in Latin America and South East
      Asia. It is able to establish a dormant liver stage called the hypnozoite. Hypnozoite
      activation after initial infection can cause a relapse. Currently the only widely available
      drug is primaquine which requires administration over 14 days, resulting in poor compliance
      and treatment failure. Tafenoquine (an 8-aminoquinoline anti-malarial drug) has been shown to
      possess activity against all stages of the plasmodium life cycle, including the dormant stage
      in the liver. This is a multi-centre, double dummy, double blind, parallel group, randomized,
      active control study which is conducted in two parts. For both parts, subjects are treated
      with Chloroquine on days 1 to 3 (600mg, 600mg, and 300mg) to treat the blood stage vivax
      malaria. Part 1 will include at least 324 subjects and part 2 at least 600 subjects. Part 1
      has 6 treatment arms, arms 1 to 4 contain different doses of Tafenoquine (50mg, 100mg, 300mg,
      and 600mg) dosed on day 1 or 2, arm 5 contains primaquine (15mg) dosing over 14 days (days
      2-15 (15mg)) and arm 6 contains chloroquine only. The aim of this is to find a dose of
      Tafenoquine which meets the defined dose criteria. Based on Part 1 efficacy and safety, a
      single Tafenoquine dose (300 mg) will be studied in the pivotal Part 2. Part 2 contains 3
      treatment arms one with the selected Tafenoquine dose (300 mg), the second arm will be 15mg
      Primaquine which will again be dosed over 14 days and the final arm contains chloroquine only
      dosed days 1-3 (600mg, 600mg, 300mg). Therefore as with Part 1, in Part 2 all subjects will
      receive Chloroquine. The aim of Part 2 is to investigate the safety and efficacy of the
      selected Tafenoquine/Chloroquine dose in the treatment and radical cure of Plasmodium vivax
      malaria. In addition to the Primary and Secondary endpoints stated below we will also be
      collecting; other efficacy endpoints (gametocyte clearance time, Recrudescence defined as any
      Plasmodium vivax parasitemia occurring on or before Day 29 (blood stage treatment failure),
      Incidence of Plasmodium falciparum malaria and Incidence of recrudescence and new Plasmodium
      vivax infection, determined by Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR), safety endpoints (clinically
      relevant haemolysis leading to drops in haemoglobin / haematocrit or complications thereof
      (required transfusions, acute renal failure), changes in methaemoglobin, gastrointestinal
      (GI) tolerability - incidence of abdominal pain, heartburn, diarrhoea, constipation, nausea
      and vomiting and ophthalmic safety - incidence of corneal deposits, retinal and visual field
      abnormalities. Data collected at up to four centres . Additionally, the incidence and
      severity of adverse events and abnormal laboratory observations will be
      presented).Pharmacokinetic endpoints (Population pharmacokinetic parameters for tafenoquine
      including but not limited to oral clearance (CL/F) and volume of distribution (V/F)and
      Pharmacokinetic/Pharmacodynamic endpoints (e.g. tafenoquine plasma concentrations) and
      selected Pharmacodynamic endpoints (e.g. relapse efficacy, change in methaemoglobin) if
      appropriate, will be explored.
    
  