
    
      Rationale and background: COVID-19 vaccines will be used in pregnant populations. Scientific
      evidence regarding their safety for pregnant women and the developing fetus is lacking.

      Objective: The objective of the COVID-19 Vaccines International Pregnancy Exposure Registry
      (C-VIPER) is to estimate the relative risk of obstetric outcomes (abortion, antenatal
      bleeding, dysfunctional labor, gestational diabetes, hypertensive disorders of pregnancy,
      intrauterine growth retardation, maternal death, non-reassuring fetal status, pathways to
      premature birth, postpartum hemorrhage, and COVID-19), neonatal outcomes (congenital
      anomalies, failure to thrive, low birth weight, neonatal death, neonatal encephalopathy,
      neonatal infections, preterm birth, respiratory distress in the newborn, small for
      gestational age, stillbirth, and COVID-19), and infant outcomes (height, weight, health
      conditions, developmental milestones until one year of age, and COVID-19) among pregnant
      women exposed to a COVID-19 vaccine from 30 days prior to the first day of the last menstrual
      period (LMP) to end of pregnancy and their offspring compared to an unexposed reference
      group.

      Study design: The C-VIPER is an international, noninterventional, post-marketing cohort study
      designed to collect prospective safety data among women vaccinated during pregnancy to
      prevent COVID-19.

      Population: The study population includes 2 cohorts of pregnant women 18 years of age and
      older matched by country and gestational age (+/- 1 week):

        -  Cohort 1: pregnant women exposed from 30 days prior to the first day of the LMP to end
           of pregnancy to at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine. These participants are enrolled
           as part of the C-VIPER.

        -  Cohort 2: pregnant women unexposed to a COVID-19 vaccine before enrollment and had a
           negative screening test for the severe acute respiratory syndrome-coronavirus-2
           (SARS-CoV-2) during pregnancy. These participants are enrolled through the International
           Coronavirus Exposure in Pregnancy (IRCEP) with the same methods as those in Cohort 1.

      Registration and participation via website or mobile app especially developed for the C-VIPER
      are voluntary. Eligible women can enroll at any time during pregnancy.

      Data collection: Pregnancy data are collected at enrollment, monthly, and at the end of
      pregnancy. Liveborn infants are followed-up to one year of age and data are collected at
      birth and then every three months until 12 months of age. Information is obtained directly
      from the participant. The C-VIPER collects data on potential confounding factors (such as
      maternal sociodemographic characteristics, behaviors, reproductive history, chronic
      conditions, results of SARS-CoV-2 tests before and during this pregnancy, new COVID-19
      vaccinations, use of medications, and measures of healthcare utilization), and information
      related to obstetric, neonatal, and infant outcomes. Given the international nature of the
      C-VIPER, the questionnaires are available in the languages spoken where it is conducted.
      Participant confidentiality and anonymity are strictly upheld.

      Analysis: Exposure to the vaccine during specific etiologically relevant periods is
      considered when estimating the risk for each outcome (e.g., first trimester for miscarriages
      and malformations). Relative risks are presented unadjusted and adjusted using propensity
      scores (PS) to account for imbalances in characteristics between the exposed and the
      reference groups.

      Sample size: At least 200 pregnancies exposed to each branded COVID-19 vaccine during the
      first trimester and 300 exposed thereafter during pregnancy are projected. For each exposed
      pregnancy, 2 unexposed pregnancies enrolled in the IRCEP will be matched by country and
      gestational age at enrollment (+/- 1 week).

      Study Milestones: The total duration of the study will be 5 years. Obstetric, neonatal, and
      infant outcomes will be assessed on an ongoing basis as data become available. The first two
      years will include, primarily, enrollment of pregnancies; the third and fourth years will
      involve follow-up of pregnancies and newborns; and, the final year, will be for data analyses
      and publications. Annual interim reports will be submitted to the Scientific Advisory
      Committee (SAC) for their review and feedback as well as abbreviated semiannual progress
      reports summarizing cumulative results on key outcomes. A final report will be prepared at
      the end of the study.

      Governance: The C-VIPER is conducted by Pregistry and includes an internal Safety Management
      Team (SMT) of experienced pharmacovigilance professionals and a dysmorphologist that meet
      regularly to review individual cases and safety signals. Additionally, the C-VIPER is in
      consultation with experts from relevant fields, such as maternal-fetal medicine, infectious
      diseases, epidemiology, and biostatistics from academic institutions, private practice,
      and/or government agencies. These individuals constitute the SAC and will provide an
      independent review of the C-VIPER data.

      Sponsors: Pharmaceutical companies that hold marketing authorization of COVID-19 vaccines are
      invited to sponsor the C-VIPER. The C-VIPER will make an effort to enable Sponsors to meet
      regulatory requirements related to pregnancy exposure to COVID-19 vaccines.
    
  