
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the progression free survival (PFS) of the time limited administration of the
      three-drug combination ibrutinib-obinutuzumab-venetoclax (IOV) to ibrutinib-obinutuzumab (IO)
      in untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients younger than 70 years of age.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate overall survival (OS) of patients based on treatment arm. II. Monitor and assess
      toxicity of treatment based on treatment arm. III. Compare minimal residual disease (MRD)
      status as assessed by flow cytometry at baseline and then sequentially during treatment of
      the two treatment arms.

      IV. Collect baseline and response evaluation (after cycle 19) bone marrow and paired blood
      specimens for evaluation of MRD.

      QUALITY OF LIFE (QOL) OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare quality of life (QOL) in CLL patients during the first 19 cycles of treatment
      among patients on each treatment arm.

      II. To compare QOL over the long-term in CLL patients receiving continuous therapy using
      ibrutinib to that of CLL patients who completed time limited therapy.

      III. Evaluate adherence to therapy for the two arms (one of which requires more intense, but
      shorter duration treatment, and one of which requires less intense, but indefinite duration
      therapy) and explore how adherence in each arm relates to progression-free survival (PFS).

      EXPLORATORY TOBACCO USE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the effects of tobacco, operationalized as combustible tobacco (1a), other
      forms of tobacco (1b), and environmental tobacco exposure (ETS) (1c) on provider-reported
      cancer-treatment toxicity (adverse events [both clinical and hematologic]) and dose
      modifications.

      II. To determine the effects of tobacco on patient-reported physical symptoms and
      psychological symptoms.

      III. To examine quitting behaviors and behavioral counseling/support and cessation medication
      utilization.

      IV. To explore the effect of tobacco use and exposure on treatment duration, relative dose
      intensity, and therapeutic benefit.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive ibrutinib orally (PO) daily on days 1-28 and obinutuzumab
      intravenously (IV) over 4 hours on days 1, 2, 8, and 15 of cycle 1 and on day 1 of cycles
      2-6. Patients also receive venetoclax PO once daily (QD) on days 1-28 of cycles 3-14.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 19 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive ibrutinib PO and obinutuzumab as in arm A. Cycles repeat every 28
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      All patients, including those who discontinue therapy early, are followed for response until
      disease progression, even if non-protocol therapy is initiated. Patients are then followed
      every 3 months for first 2 years, every 6 months for years 3-5, and then every 12 months for
      years 6-10. All patients must also be followed through completion of all protocol therapy.
    
  