
    
      If you agree to take part in this study you will be asked to undergo some screening tests or
      procedures to find out if you can be in the research study. Many of these tests and
      procedures are likely to be part of regular cancer care and may be done even if it turns out
      that you do not take part in the research study. If you have had some of these tests or
      procedures recently, they may or may not need to be repeated. These tests and procedures
      include: a medical history, physical exam, performance status, urine test, Electrocardiogram,
      Echocardiogram, blood tests and a bone marrow aspirate/biopsy. If these tests show that you
      are eligible to participate in the research study, you will begin the study treatment. If you
      do not meet the eligibility criteria, you will not be able to participate in this research
      study.

      You will begin treatment with idarubicin, and cytarabine followed by alisertib several days
      later (on day 8). Not everyone who participates in this research study will receive the same
      dose of the study drug. The dose you get will depend on the number of participants who have
      been enrolled in the study before you and how well they have tolerated their doses. The
      following assessments will be completed while on trial: physical exam, performance status,
      urine test, blood tests, bone marrow aspirate/biopsy.

      The first part of the study procedure is called "induction". During induction you will be
      admitted to the hospital on an in-patient basis. You will receive cytarabine and idarubicin
      by IV (intravenously or through a vein). Cytarabine will be given by continuous IV infusion
      for seven days, beginning on Day 1. Idarubicin will be given once each day as an IV injection
      for a total of three days, beginning on the same day as cytarabine. If idarubicin is not
      available, you may receive a very similar chemotherapy in its place called daunorubicin.
      Alisertib will be given orally (by mouth) twice a day for one week. It will start on the
      second week of treatment.

      A bone marrow biopsy will be performed at approximately 14 days after the start of
      chemotherapy. If the results of this biopsy detect residual leukemia in the bone marrow, your
      physicians may give you another round of induction therapy. However, this time, cytarabine
      will be given by continuous IV infusion for only five days, and idarubicin will be given once
      each day as an IV injection for a total of 2 days, again beginning on the same day as
      cytarabine.

      If at the end of the first cycle of induction (whether you've received one round or two
      rounds of induction) the number of leukemia cells have not decreased as much as expected or
      desired, you will be removed from the study and given alternative options.

      The second part of study procedure is called "consolidation". If you have achieved a
      remission after your induction phase, you are not a candidate for a bone marrow transplant,
      and you tolerated study drug well during induction, you may receive consolidation treatment.
      Soem participants may not receive consolidation therapy on this trial, based on the advice of
      their treating physician.

      For consolidation, you will receive a higher dose of cytarabine than you did during
      induction. You will be hospitalized and cytarabine will be given daily as an IV infusion for
      five days. Alisertib will also be given during the consolidation phase of therapy. It will
      start at the end of the cytarabine administration and be given for a total of seven days. You
      may receive up to four cycles of consolidation treatment, depending on your disease and the
      discretion of your treating physician.

      The third part of study procedures is called "maintenance". After the induction course of
      therapy, your physician may begin consolidation therapy. If this is the case, you will start
      maintenance therapy after finishing consolidation therapy. If consolidation is not done, the
      maintenance phase will start after induction.

      During maintenance, you will take alisertib twice daily for a period of seven days, followed
      by a two week break without treatment. This one week of therapy, followed by two weeks off
      therapy, will be a 21-day cycle. It will be repeated until 12 months have passed from the
      start of the maintenance therapy phase. During this phase, participants will not receive
      other chemotherapies and will not be hospitalized for treatment. They will take alisertib at
      home and will be followed in clinic for monitoring. During the maintenance phase, we will
      continue to collect approximately 2 to 3 teaspoons of blood for research purposes
      intermittently on your visits to clinic.

      After the final dose of the study drug we would like to keep track of your medical condition
      and overall health following the 12 months of alisertib. We may ask you questions about your
      general health, current medications, and disease status. We will also check on any new
      anticancer therapy you may have started.
    
  