
    
      Patients who are diagnosed with cataracts and for whom surgery is indicated shall be
      evaluated (as much as possible based on their ability to cooperate with the assessment) in
      terms of their visual acuity and refractive error via biomicroscopy, automated keratometry
      (Auto Kerato Refractometer KR 8000® Alcon), Goldmann applanation tonometry, fundoscopy, and
      biometric assessment (Ocuscan RxP® Alcon or Lenstar LS900® Haag-Streit International).

      Patients who choose to sign (or whose guardians choose to sign) the informed consent form
      after being informed of all of the aspects of the surgery and this trial shall be randomly
      divided into one of two groups that shall be approximately equal in size and stratified by
      age.

        -  Up to 6 months of age

        -  From 6 to 12 months of age

        -  From 1 to 3 years of age

        -  From 3 to 6 years of age

        -  Older than 6 years Patients in Group A will have their surgical incisions sutured with
           polyglactin 10-0 material (Vicryl®, composed of polyglactin 910, 10-0 diameter,
           absorbable, a 0.62 cm, 3/8 circle needle) at the end of cataract surgery followed by the
           use of 0.5% moxifloxacin and 0.1% dexamethasone eye drops before the bandage is applied.
           Patients in Group B will have their surgical incisions sutured with nylon 10-0 material
           (Vicryl®, composed of nylon monofilament, 10-0 diameter, absorbable, a 0.55 cm, 1/2
           circle needle) at the end of cataract surgery followed by the use of 0.5% moxifloxacin
           and 0.1% dexamethasone eye drops before the bandage is applied.

      Cataract surgery will be performed using the standardized protocol in the Ophthalmology
      department of UNICAMP by fourth-year ophthalmology residents with experience in pediatric
      cataract surgery. Preoperative pupil dilation shall be performed through the use of 2.5%
      phenylephrine and 1% tropicamide 3 times in five-minute increments. General anesthesia shall
      be performed. Skin sterilization shall be performed using an aqueous solution of 10%
      povidone-iodine. After the sterile surgical field is established and the eyelashes are
      isolated, 4 eye drops containing 5% povidone-iodine shall be administered in the conjunctival
      sac with subsequent irrigation using a 10% balanced salt solution. In cases of allergy to
      povidone-iodine, an aqueous solution of 0.05% chlorhexidine shall be used. The main incision
      (either a clear corneal incision or a scleral tunnel) will be 2.2 mm to 3.0 mm, and
      aspiration will be applied using the Infiniti® or Laureate® phacoemulsifier (Alcon) with a
      foldable AcrySof® intraocular lens (Alcon) and a posterior capsulotomy with an automated
      vitrectomy only in cases in which it is indicated.

      Neither patients nor surgeons will be masked to the study treatment. The postoperative
      consultations will be held on the first, seventh, thirtieth, ninetieth, one hundred and
      twentieth, and one hundred and eightieth postoperative days and will include visual acuity
      assessments, refractive error assessments, keratometry , biomicroscopy, applanation
      tonometry, and fundoscopy, depending on the patient's age and ability to cooperate. If a
      necessary exam is not possible in a clinical setting, it will be performed under sedation in
      the surgical center.

      Primary outcome: frequency of complications associated with sutures in each group.

      Secondary outcome: need for suture removal under sedation in each group. The following will
      be defined as suture-related complications: corneal neovascularization close to the suture,
      loosening of the suture, accumulation of mucus on the suture, early rupture (within 2 weeks
      or less) of the suture, aqueous humor leakage through the incision (as determined by the
      Seidel test), prolapse of the iris through the incision site, infectious or traumatic
      keratitis, endophthalmitis and giant papillary conjunctivitis as observed in a biomicroscopy
      exam using a slit lamp.

      Based on the frequency of suture-related complications described in the literature and using
      a two-tailed 95% confidence interval, 80% power, an exposed/unexposed radius of 1, and a null
      frequency of complications in the polyglactin suture group, approximately 40 subjects are
      needed for each group. UNICAMP performs an average of 75 pediatric cataract surgeries per
      year. Thus, there is a perspective for patient inclusion and study completion of just over
      one year.
    
  