
    
      First, the investigators wish to widen the scope of the CAS so that it can reliably and
      validly measure perceived coercion. The content domain will be expanded to included pressures
      experienced by a range of individuals involved in the criminal justice system. Second, the
      investigators will finalize the CAS by ensuring that the instrument is appropriate for use
      with substance abusing offenders. A final goal of the study examines the psychometric
      properties of the instrument. This evaluation will include an examination of test-retest
      reliability, internal consistency and factor structure, and convergent and discriminant
      validity.

      This study will be carried out in three distinct phases to satisfy the goals detailed above.
      The purpose of Phase 1 is to add to the already existing content of the CAS. In this phase,
      focus groups will be conducted with clients (i.e., substance abusing offenders) and
      professionals (i.e., treatment and criminal justice staff and stakeholders) in several
      different criminal justice. The goal of these groups will be to identify additional sources
      of coercion that substance abusing offenders may experience related to participation in
      research. The purpose of Phase 2 is to finalize and ensure the appropriateness of the
      instrument. In this phase, the investigators will conduct a protocol analysis with 30 drug
      court clients. The interviewer will read each item aloud to participants, and participants
      will provide their response. After completing each item, they will be interviewed about how
      they arrived at their decision. The purpose of Phase 3 is to evaluate the psychometric
      properties of the CAS. A total of 200 substance abusing offenders participating in an ongoing
      NIDA-funded study (i.e., the "host study") will receive TRI's manualized written informed
      consent procedure as part of their participation in the host study. Following consent,
      research staff will administer study assessments to all consented participants. Additionally,
      a random sample of 50 clients will be selected to complete a retest interview, scheduled
      three to five days following the initial interview to assess the extent to which responses
      vary between the two administrations.
    
  