
    
      Two groups of subjects will be recruited:

        1. Individuals meeting the definition for Multiple Sclerosis by the International Panel
           Criteria19, with an Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) less than 6.5

        2. Age- and sex-matched healthy controls

      The goal sample size is 12 subjects including 4 healthy controls and 8 subjects with Multiple
      Sclerosis (MS).

      Subjects will be recruited by the PI, one of the other co-investigators, or a staff member
      listed on the protocol at the Partners MS Center and the Behavioral Neurology Clinic of
      Brigham and Women's Hospital.

      Side Effects Monitoring:

      No side effects from the radiopharmaceutical are expected nor have they been reported with
      C-11 MRB. As this study is conducted under MGH (Massachusetts General Hospital) RDRC
      (Radioactive Drug Research Committee) oversight, the administered dose of C-11 MRB is well
      below the known level to cause any pharmacologic effect. Subjects will also be exposed to a
      small amount of radiation.

      Subject Safety:

      Subject monitoring during MRI and PET scans will be performed using a 2-way intercom system
      between the scanner operator and subject and by visual monitoring of the subject through the
      window into the scan room (the subject is visible to the operator at all times).

      Subjects will need to lie still in the PET camera for period of 120 min, and subjects may
      find it uncomfortable to remain still over this time. Therefore, as mentioned above, subjects
      will be given the opportunity to take a break for up to 20 minutes after 70 minutes of PET
      scanning, following which the last 30 minutes of scanning will be completed. A standard
      head-support device will be used to make the subjects comfortable during the scanning.

      If subjects find an arterial line or duration of scanning too uncomfortable, they are free to
      withdraw from the study at any time.

      The MRI scans take place in a confined space that makes some people claustrophobic.
      Claustrophobic individuals will be excluded from the study. Also during the scan the subject
      will hear loud banging noises and will therefore wear ear plugs to reduce this noise.

      Recruitment Process:

      Physicians at the Partners MS Center and the Brigham and Women's Hospital (BWH) Behavioral
      Neurology clinic may present the study to a subject during a regular scheduled clinic visit.
      If the subject is interested in the study, a copy of the consent form will be given. At the
      time of the subject's initial screening visit, a licensed physician investigator will answer
      any questions the subject may have regarding the study and subsequently obtain informed
      consent. In accordance with NIH guidelines, efforts will be made to attain a mix of study
      participants, in terms of gender and racial/ethnic representation.

      Consent Process:

      Informed consent will be obtained from the subjects by a licensed physician investigator on
      the study protocol. If the investigator is a clinician from the MS Center clinic, they will
      not be allowed to obtain consent from their own patients. Existing MS Center subjects may be
      sent a letter describing the study and a copy of the consent document. Interested subjects
      are directed to contact research staff via a telephone number provided in the letter inviting
      participation in the study to set up a screening visit. They will have the opportunity to
      discuss the study with research study staff prior to giving consent as outlined above.
      Subjects approached for participation in the study during a routine clinical visit will have
      the opportunity to participate in the study at that time or they may choose to return for
      participation at another time in the future. All subjects will be informed that they are free
      to withdraw consent from the study at any time without affecting the quality or type of care
      that they receive at BWH or MGH.

      Monitoring and Quality Assurance:

      During the study period, subjects will be followed by their clinical neurologists for adverse
      events and disease progression. If problems are reported to their physicians, they will
      receive care as is normally performed. In addition, the Principal Investigator (PI) will
      review all laboratory results of tests undergone by the subjects during the study period and
      help co-ordinate any necessary care with patient's primary providers.
    
  