
    
      RATIONALE FOR THE PROJECT

      Surgical scars are a challenging condition to treat. The aesthetic outcome of surgical scars
      is of great importance to patients and physicians after reconstructive surgery. The current
      approaches for the treatment of surgical scars range from non-invasive approaches to
      aggressive treatments with re-excision or ablative resurfacing lasers. Fractional
      photothemolysis is a new technology whereby only microthermal zones of injury to the skin are
      created which triggers the wound healing response, leading to skin repair mechanisms to
      improve the appearance and textural changes associated with surgical scars.

      Fractional photothemolysis (Fraxel SR laser, Reliant technologies, Inc) is a new technology
      whereby only microthermal zones of injury to the skin are created which triggers the wound
      healing response, leading to skin repair mechanisms to improve the appearance and textural
      changes associated with surgical scars. Fractionated resurfacing, with its significant proven
      efficacy in improving textural and pigmenatary abnormalities with a benign side effect
      profile, represents a promising novel treatment for surgical scars.

      Aim:

      Comparison of the outcome of the half of the surgical scar treated with Fraxel SR (Reliant
      Technologies, Inc.) laser versus the outcome of the contralateral half of the surgical scar
      which will be treated with the V-Beam Pulse Dye Laser

      SIGNIFICANCE:

      The cosmetic outcome of surgical scars is of paramount importance to surgeons and patients
      treated with both cosmetic and reconstructive surgery. It is impossible for surgeons to
      predict the wound healing properties of individual patients and particular anatomic sites and
      thus, there is little certainty that can be offered to patients about the cosmetic outcome of
      their surgical scars.

      SUBJECTS IN THE PROJECT:

      Inclusion Criteria:

      For inclusion, the subject must:

        1. Be at least 18 years old;

        2. Be otherwise healthy;

        3. Be treated by Dr. Kouba for a skin cancer surgery or plastic surgery procedure

        4. Agree to attend up 6 sessions post Mohs surgery (2-4 laser treatment sessions and 2
           follow-up visits post-laser)

        5. Be able to understand the requirements of the study, the risks involved, and be able to
           sign the informed consent form;

        6. Agree to follow and undergo all study-related procedures.

      Exclusion criteria:

      A. Patients who do not meet the criteria above and/or who fail to follow their post-operative
      instructions or make both of their post-operative clinic appointments.

      B. The control for this study will be the side of the scar treated with the V-Beam Pulse Dye
      Laser

      C. We will be speaking to patients at Henry Ford Dermatology regarding participation in our
      study. We will ensure that all patients understand the voluntary nature of their
      participation in the study. They will sign informed consent. In addition, we will be asking
      patients to give us their assessment of which side of their surgical wound had better
      improvement, the side treated with Fraxel laser versus the side treated with V-Beam Pulse Dye
      Laser.

      PROJECT DESIGN AND PROCOTOL:

        1. A comparison trial of surgical scars treated with Fraxel SR Laser (Reliant Technologies,
           Inc.) versus V-Beam Pulse Dye Laser (Candela Corporation) in 15 patients who underwent
           Mohs surgery and resultant cosmetic surgical reconstruction at Henry Ford Health System
           Department of Dermatology.

        2. At a minimum of 2 months post surgical reconstruction, patients will be eligible for
           inclusion in this research study. During each 2 weeks of the study, one side of the
           surgical scar will be treated with Fraxel SR (Reliant Technologies, Inc.) and the other
           half will be treated with the V-Beam Pulse Dye Laser (Candela Corporation) for aesthetic
           improvement of the scar
    
  