
    
      iCBT is the delivery of a tailored structured cognitive and behaviour therapy based
      programme, with support, to individuals with mild to moderate symptoms of depression and
      anxiety. There is now a substantial body of research evidence that supports the efficacy and
      effectiveness of internet-delivered cognitive behaviour therapy for depression and anxiety
      (Richards & Richardson, 2012; Andersson and Cuijpers, 2009). Historically, a number of iCBT
      interventions have been used in clinical practice in IAPT services. However, they have often
      suffered from poor engagement and consequently poor clinical outcomes. More recent
      developments in the field have produced more robust technological platforms, where content is
      delivered through a variety of media that enhance productivity, increase engagement and
      produce better clinical outcomes. The SilverCloud intervention has been demonstrated to be a
      clinical effective evidence-based cognitive behavioural treatment option (Richards et al.,
      2015).

      Chronic illnesses can have profound effects on well-being, functional capacity and quality of
      life. Psychological comorbidities with an LTC can further contribute to the distress that is
      caused by these symptoms. Patients with comorbid depression and anxiety disorders and a
      long-term condition are associated with significantly higher health care utilisation, poorer
      outcomes from treatment and increased costs of care (Moussavi et al., 2007; Naylor et al.,
      2012). The IAPT programme in the UK provides effective treatments for depression and anxiety
      but these have been underutilized by people with LTCs and partially this is due to an
      underrecognition; one reason for this has been the traditional precedence set on managing the
      physical aspects of any LTC and effectively paying little attention to psychological
      comorbidity (Coventry et al., 2011).

      Several pathfinders sites are currently involved in providing psychological treatment for
      long-term conditions, but to date, results have been limited due to several factors, such as
      delays in commencing programmes and funding issues. To this extent, SilverCloud wishes to
      implement their tailored "Space from…" series of programmes for long-term conditions -
      chronic pain, COPD and Diabetes. The purpose of the tailoring is to make the interventions
      more meaningful and relevant to patients with LTCs, but all the while having the same goal of
      addressing depression and anxiety disorders. In doing so it would be expected that
      individuals might be in a better position to effectively self-manage their LTC. The current
      study, therefore, seeks to assess the clinical feasibility of implementing customised
      internet-delivered interventions for depression and anxiety for people with LTCS presenting
      to IAPT services.
    
  