
    
      Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common, progressive disease affecting memory and cognition.
      Apolipoprotein E (APOE) has been identified as a genetic factor that may increase the risk of
      developing Alzheimer's disease (AD). While several consensus statements have advised against
      the clinical use of APOE genotyping, each of these called for research to evaluate the impact
      of susceptibility genotyping and to explore the process of communicating about risk issues.
      The REVEAL I Study was funded in 1999 to enroll adult children of patients with AD to
      determine who would choose to obtain APOE genotyping, to devise an education and counseling
      protocol for the disclosure of APOE genotyping, and to study the impact of disclosing this
      information. The REVEAL I study demonstrated that Alzheimer's disease risk assessments with
      APOE genotyping can be given to relatives of people with Alzheimer's disease without causing
      severe adverse psychological or behavioral effects.

      The REVEAL II study will examine whether receiving risk assessment and APOE genotyping
      disclosure through a Condensed Education and Counseling Protocol is as safe and as effective
      as receiving such information through our current Extended Protocol. This study will also
      examine whether there are any differences among groups who receive disclosure of APOE results
      and risk assessment by different provider types, such as a physician or a genetic counselor.
      At least one-third of the participants in REVEAL II will be African American, in order to
      explore how racial identity affects the desire to obtain genetic risk assessment and the
      impact of receiving it.

      Individuals who have a parent or sibling affected by Alzheimer's disease may enter the study
      either by self-referral to the study coordinator or by recruitment. Participants will have a
      scheduled phone interview during which demographic information, their relative's medical
      history, attitudes toward genetic testing and risk assessment for Alzheimer's disease, and
      interest in going on to the next step of the study will be assessed. During the second step
      of the study, participants will be randomly assigned to one of three study arms. Participants
      in the control arm of the study will be given the full educational and counseling protocol as
      was originally developed in the first funding period of this study. All participants will
      have the opportunity to continue with the study and have their blood drawn for genotype
      analysis and risk assessment. Follow-up sessions will be provided with psychometric measures
      and questionnaires.

      Participants will be seen by the genetic counselor for two follow-up appointments, six weeks
      and six months after disclosure of risk information. A final 12 month follow-up questionnaire
      will be completed by mail and will be followed by a phone call from the genetic counselor.
    
  