
    
      Background: Several interventional studies have shown improvement in core symptoms of
      Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) with aerobic exercise as an add-on therapy
      for children with ADHD treated with stimulants. Studies in the general population have shown
      that aerobic exercise in adults may improve cognitive function in general and executive
      function in particular. Although non-medication treatment for ADHD has focused on cognitive
      training in addition to medication, some evidence indicate that intense aerobic exercise
      impacts brain structure, improves brain function, and has effects similar to stimulant
      medication.

      Objectives: To assess the effectiveness, regarding ADHD symptoms, of an eight week aerobic
      exercise intervention, medication, and the combination of both aerobic exercise and
      medication treatments for adults with ADHD. The secondary objectives are to determine the
      effectiveness of these treatments on social skills, as measured by functioning in work,
      social, and family situations; anxiety symptoms; depressive symptoms; self-esteem; and the
      effect of motivation for exercise on adherence to exercise treatment.

      Hypothesis: Investigators hypothesize that the combined group which receives aerobic exercise
      and medication intervention will have the greatest improvement in both primary and secondary
      outcome measures; that treatment gains will be maintained at follow-up only if treatments are
      continued.

      Methods: Participants will be randomly assigned to one of three groups:

        1. Aerobic exercise intervention only. Participants of this group will meet twice a week
           for 8 consecutive weeks. Each meeting will involve 1 hour of moderate-vigorous intensity
           aerobic exercise.

        2. Medication treatment only. Participants of this group will receive optimal medication
           for them and will gradually be titrated up to their optimal dose. Once they are
           optimally titrated, they will attend 8 weekly sessions of an education class, which will
           focus on different topics of adult ADHD. These meetings will last 1 hour each week.
           Educational meetings are meant to control for group effects of the exercise group
           intervention.

        3. Medication combined with aerobic-exercise intervention. Participants of this group will
           receive optimal medication for them and will gradually be titrated up to their optimal
           dose. When the participants of this group will be at their optimal medication dose, they
           will begin the aerobic exercise classes twice a week for 8 weeks. They will not receive
           the educational sessions.

      Randomization will be stratified by sex, age and the degree of physical activity per week.
      Power analyses indicate that 23 participants are needed per each treatment arm, accounting
      for a dropout rate of 20%. Therefore initial enrollments should be at minimum 69 patients for
      all three arms, at least 23 patients per arm. There will 2 groups in each arm of the study,
      accounting for 10-15 participants per group at any one time.
    
  