
    
      A TCC offloads pressure and is the gold standard for DFU treatment, as documented in several
      studies. The TCC results in an average healing rate of 80-90% within 6 weeks, yet only about
      6% of DFU patients receive the TCC. The TCC requires special provider training for
      application. Given the high efficacy and low complication risk for the TCC, clinicians need
      to use the TCC to treat DFUs. Literature supports use of the TCC combined with other wound
      bed treatment modalities. AmnioExCel® is a dehydrated, extracellular human amnion derived
      tissue allograft that provides a structural tissue matrix that promotes angiogenesis,
      collagen matrix formation and re-epithelization (Werber et al., 2013). This study will look
      at whether or not combining AmnioExCel® and a TCC-EZ results in a better healing rate than
      TCC-EZ and standard wound care.

      Purpose/Research Questions:

      The purpose of this prospective clinical trial is to compare healing rates between two
      treatment modalities in patients with DFUs in an ambulatory wound care clinic. The treatments
      are Total Contact Casting (TCC-EZ) with AmnioExCel® and TCC-EZ with standard treatment.

      Research Questions:

        1. What is the difference in reduction in wound bed area for diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs)
           treated with Total Contact Casting TCC-EZ and AmnioExCel® compared to those treated with
           TCC-EZ and standard wound treatment?

        2. What is the difference in time to closure for DFUs treated with TCC-EZ and AmnioExCel®
           compared to those treated with TCC-EZ and standard wound treatment?

        3. What is the difference in cost of treatment for a diabetic foot ulcer treated with
           TCC-EZ and AmnioExCel® as compared to TCC-EZ with standard wound treatment?

        4. What is the relationship between the hemoglobin A1c test(HbA1c) or glycated hemoglobin
           test and reduction in wound bed area for DFUs treated with TCC-EZ and AmnioExCel®
           compared to those treated with TCC-EZ and standard wound treatment?

        5. What is the relationship between HbA1c and time to closure for DFUs with TCC-EZ and
           AmnioExCel® compared to those treated with TCC-EZ and standard wound treatment?

        6. What is the subjects' reported satisfaction using TCC-EZ?

        7. What is the reoccurrence of DFUs in a 90 day post treatment follow up?

        8. What are the characteristics of adverse side effects using TCC-EZ and AmnioExCel®?

      Methods:

      All patients in this study will receive 2 weeks of usual wound care consisting of wound
      cleansing, removal of pressure (offloading), sharp debridement as needed, and maintenance of
      a moist wound environment. If they have demonstrated less than a 50% improvement in reduction
      in wound area of their DFU over 2 weeks, subjects will be approached for participation in
      this study. If they agree to participate, they will be randomly assigned to one of the two
      treatment groups. Treatment for Group A will consist of TCC-EZ® and AmnioExCel® and treatment
      for Group B will consist of standard wound care and TCC-EZ® and standard wound care. If the
      subject has more than one ulcer the largest ulcer will be used for inclusion in the study. At
      the beginning and end of the study blood samples for HbA1c will be taken and if the HbA1c is
      greater than 15%, subjects will be excluded or if random blood sugar is greater than 450
      mg/dl (Marston et al., 2003). Study participation will be for 12 weeks or less if the wound
      closes before 12 weeks. DFUs not closed at the end of the 12 weeks of the study will continue
      to be treated until closed based on the decision of the Altru Wound Care Clinic providers.
      Complete wound closure will be defined as 100% re-epithelization without drainage or
      infection. Subjects clinic charts/records will be reviewed by the researchers to collect the
      following data: group assigned to, gender, age, diabetes diagnosis, co-morbidities, time
      ulcer has been present, if conventional treatment occurred for two weeks, date of 1st wound
      clinic visit, last HbA1c, date ulcer 1st noticed by patient, depth, and size of ulcer,
      ankle-brachial index, and ulcer characteristics at each visit will also be documented. At the
      conclusion of the study, subjects will complete a 12 question satisfaction questionnaire and
      six demographic questions on the TCC-EZ which will be administered by the clinic nurse or
      provider. Subjects may elect to withdraw from the study at any time without repercussion.
    
  