
    
      Background:

        -  The poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) family of enzymes is critical for maintaining
           genomic stability by regulating a variety of DNA repair mechanisms.

        -  Individuals with deleterious mutations in the BRCA1 or BRCA2 tumor suppressor genes have
           an increased risk of developing breast and ovarian cancers due to impaired or defective
           DNA damage repair; these individuals have an increased susceptibility to DNA-damaging
           agents and PARP inhibitors. Inhibition of PARP inhibits the repair of DNA damage caused
           by alkylating agents such as cyclophosphamide.

        -  Metronomic cyclophosphamide has demonstrated efficacy in several tumor types. The PARP
           inhibitor ABT-888 has been shown to potentiate the action of cyclophosphamide in
           xenograft models. This combination is well tolerated in a Phase I study and showing
           promising activity.

      Objectives:

        -  Compare the response rate (complete response (CR) + partial response (PR)) of the
           combination of ABT-888 with metronomic oral cyclophosphamide to the response rate
           (CR+PR) of metronomic oral cyclophosphamide in patients with deleterious BRCA mutations
           and refractory ovarian cancer or patients with primary peritoneal or ovarian high-grade
           serous carcinoma or fallopian tube cancer.

        -  Compare the response rate (CR+PR) of the combination of ABT-888 with metronomic oral
           cyclophosphamide to the response rate (CR+PR) of single-agent oral cyclophosphamide in
           patients with triple-negative metastatic breast cancer, stratified for deleterious BRCA
           mutation.

        -  Compare the response rate (CR+PR) of the combination of ABT-888 with metronomic oral
           cyclophosphamide to the response rate (CR+PR) of single-agent metronomic oral
           cyclophosphamide in patients with refractory low-grade lymphomas.

      Secondary Objectives:

      - Determine PAR levels in tumor biopsies, evaluate in archival tissue whether patients tumors
      have mutations in genes involved in DNA damage repair (e.g., BRCA/Fanconi anemia/protein 53
      (p53)), perform exploratory gene expression profiling to correlate PARP messenger ribonucleic
      acid (mRNA) levels or BRCA mutation status with response to therapy, count circulating tumor
      cells (CTCs), and determine H2AX levels in CTCs and tumor biopsies (National Cancer Institute
      (NCI) clinical center only).

      Eligibility:

      -Adults with refractory BRCA-positive ovarian cancer, primary peritoneal or ovarian
      high-grade serous carcinoma, fallopian tube cancer, triple-negative breast cancer, or
      low-grade lymphoid malignancies (non-Hodgkin's lymphoma) whose disease has progressed
      following at least one line of therapy.

      Study Design:

        -  This is a randomized, multi-histology Phase II trial with patients enrolled into 3
           cohorts: BRCA-positive ovarian cancer or primary peritoneal or ovarian high-grade serous
           carcinoma or fallopian tube cancer (A); triple-negative breast cancer (B); or low grade
           non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (C). Patients in cohort A will be randomized to the combination
           of ABT-888 with metronomic oral cyclophosphamide or metronomic oral cyclophosphamide
           alone. Patients in cohort B will be randomized to the combination of ABT-888 with
           metronomic oral cyclophosphamide or metronomic oral cyclophosphamide alone. Patients in
           cohort C will be randomized to the combination of ABT-888 with metronomic oral
           cyclophosphamide or metronomic oral cyclophosphamide alone.

        -  Cyclophosphamide (50 mg) and ABT-888 (60 mg) will be administered orally once a day,
           continuously in 21-day cycles.
    
  