
    
      Overweight and obesity increase the risk of developing several diseases having a negative
      effect on people's health. The prevalence of these conditions is increasing worldwide, but
      successful treatments are lacking. As excess body weight is a result of an imbalance between
      calories in and calories out, dietary intake plays an important role in maintaining a healthy
      body weight and overall health status. Calories come from carbohydrate, fat and protein, but
      they are not the same as each of these nutrients can impact metabolism in a different way.
      Nonetheless, little is known regarding the optimal quantity of macronutrients on improving
      body weight and overall health. Diets higher in protein have received special attention as
      more energy is burned for its digestion/absorption, people feel fuller for longer periods of
      time, and it confers metabolic advantages. However, further research is needed to elucidate
      their exact role regulating energy metabolism, short and long-term weight maintenance, and
      overall health. Well-designed studies using state-of-the-art equipment can help elucidate the
      mechanisms by which high-protein diets act in states of both normal weight and
      overweight/obese individuals.

      The overall purpose of this research is to investigate the impact of a 12-week higher protein
      diet on inflammatory, metabolic, and hormonal markers of obesity-associated conditions and to
      correlate this response to compositional shifts within the gut microbiota. Moreover, resting
      energy expenditure, body composition, appetite sensations and soy metabolomics will be
      explored.

      This study will be a randomized, parallel group, clinical trial of a 12-week nutritional
      intervention. A sample size of n=78 participants will be randomly allocated into one of the
      following groups:

        -  Control group (CON): Participants will be asked to maintain their usual dietary intake
           over 12 weeks. Participants' usual dietary intake is expected to reflect the North
           American dietary pattern (i.e. ~15% of total energy intake coming from protein, ~50%
           from carbohydrate and ~35% from fat).

        -  High-protein group (HP): Participants will be asked to maintain their usual dietary
           intake and consume a nutritional supplement composed of soy protein, honey and yogurt
           twice daily (in two snacks) over 12 weeks. The addition of the nutritional supplement to
           a North American Dietary Pattern (described on the CON group diet) will result in a diet
           composed of, approximately, 22% of protein, 48% of carbohydrate and 30% of fat of total
           energy intake. The amount of protein is considered higher than the North American
           dietary pattern (i.e. 15%); however, still within the Acceptable Macronutrient
           Distribution Range (AMDR) recommended by the Dietary Guidelines for Americans (10-35%).

      The following variables will be analyzed:

        -  Interleukin (IL)-6.

        -  Gut microbiota diversity and composition, specifically taxa that have been associated
           with health benefits, obesity, and weight loss.

        -  Systemic inflammatory biomarkers (high-sensitivity C-reactive protein [hs-CRP], IL-8,
           IL-10 and tumor necrosis factor-α [TNF-α]);

        -  Metabolic blood markers [glucose, insulin, lipid panel (i.e. total cholesterol, LDL,
           HDL, and triglycerides), peptide tyrosine-tyrosine (PYY), glucagon-like peptide-1
           (GLP-1), ghrelin, adiponectin, leptin, free glycerol, free fatty acids, and thyroid
           stimulating hormone (TSH)];

        -  Resting energy expenditure;

        -  Body composition;

        -  Appetite sensations (hunger, satiety, fullness, and prospective food consumption);

        -  Soy polyphenols' metabolomics. At baseline and after 6 and 12 weeks, individuals will
           attend our Human Nutrition Research Unit where all assessments will take place. In order
           to assess participants' adherence and follow-up, dietary intake, body weight and
           appetite sensations will be assessed weekly during the 12-week intervention period.
           Additionally, participants will be contacted by phone weekly and reminded to maintain
           their journal/log. Dietary intake will be assessed by a 3-day dietary record (2 week
           days and 1 weekend day) at baseline, at mid-point and end of the study. Participants
           will also be asked to complete a 1-day dietary record on one weekday, each week of the
           study. The purpose of this regular assessment is to avoid daily fluctuations in eating
           patterns, also ensuring a personalized feedback for those experiencing weight
           fluctuations. Both of these assessments (i.e. 1-day and 3-day dietary records) will be
           conducted using the online Automated Self -Administered 24-hour Recall (ASA24) Canada.
           The ASA24 is a validated web-based program that uses the validated U.S. Department of
           Agriculture's Automated Multiple-Pass Method, and is modified to support the Canadian
           food supply.

      Participants will receive a digital scale and will be asked to weight themselves daily.
      Participants from the HP group will also be asked to rate their appetite sensations on a
      100-mm VAS paper sheet. Appetite sensation should be completed in the morning (after waking
      up and while fasting) and 30 minutes after consuming the supplement snacks in order to assess
      hunger, satiety, fullness, and prospective food consumption.
    
  