
    
      Both a World Health Organization and the Brazilian Federal Government estimate that there is
      an abrupt increase in the number of elderly people. Data on approximately 10% of the elderly
      are affected by sarcopenia, a multifactorial syndrome that leads to the progressive and
      generalized loss of muscle mass and muscular strength, leading to a decrease in quality of
      life, increased physical dependence, fragility, morbidity and mortality. Parallel to the
      aging, well-being in the literature that the elderly present a phase advance, which promotes
      the change in the sleep-wake rhythm, as well as the reduction of time and sound quality.

      However, the view that a sarcophagus has a multifactorial feature sparing attention is for a
      possible non-sleep-wake rhythm and sleeping patterns of sarcopenic seniors at higher levels
      that occur in non-sarcopenic elderly. Interestingly, resistance training has often been used
      as a form of intervention both for the treatment of sarcopenia and for regulating the
      sleep-wake rhythm and to improve sleep parameters.

      In this sense, two questions need to be answered: Do higher sarcopenic individuals have no
      sleep-wake rhythm and are there no parameters when compared to non-sarcopenic elderly? The
      improvement of the resistance training analysis is also related to an improvement in the
      sleep-wake rhythm of the sleep parameters. In order to answer these questions the objective
      of the project is to evaluate whether elderly sarcophages present the sleep-wake rhythm and
      sleep quality at higher levels when compared to non-sarcopenic elderly and the benefits of
      resistance training for sarcopenic individuals related to rhythm regulation Sleep-wake and
      sleep patterns.

      Trained Non-Sarcopenic Elderly Group (GIT), Trained Elderly (GIT), Trained Elderly (GIT),
      Trained Elderly (ESSENCE) group; Group Elderly Controls No Sarcopenic (GC) and Elderly Group
      Sarcopenic Controls (GCS). The GIT and GIST groups underwent resisted training above 85% of 1
      RM for 12 weeks and the GC and GCS groups will participate in lectures on lifestyle
      improvement every 15 days but are submitted to the training protocol. All volunteers are
      evaluated according to sleep objectives and subjects, as well as monitoring levels of
      anabolic and catabolic endocrine substances, inflammatory profile, body composition, physical
      and muscular performance of life before, during and after the experimental period
    
  