
    
      The landmark Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) demonstrated that an intensive lifestyle
      intervention in people with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) could reduce the incidence of
      type 2 diabetes. These findings were consistent, regardless of ethnicity, age, body mass
      index (BMI), gender. However, the DPP does not have a specific focus on new mothers with a
      recent history of gestational diabetes. Although there are recommendations that all women
      with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) receive postpartum testing for diabetes and type 2
      diabetes risk reduction, study findings suggest that women with a recent history of GDM may
      be unaware of their risk for future diabetes, and also do not take steps to reduce their
      risks.

      The postpartum period is also a time when many changes occur in a woman's life, with
      competing responsibilities often altering sleep patterns, work schedules, eating patterns,
      exercise regularity, and time allocation. New mothers may have difficulty engaging in healthy
      lifestyle programs because of lack of time and energy, and because of competing work and
      family demands, including child care. In response to the barriers identified in literature
      and gleaned from the focus groups and informant interviews of a preliminary study
      (2009p000042), we created a lifestyle/behavioral intervention that utilizes a modified DPP.

      In 2012 we completed a one year pilot study (2009p002118) to assess the feasibility and
      effectiveness of the lifestyle/behavioral intervention. The pilot study demonstrated that
      women in the intervention group lost more weight and were closer to pre-pregnancy weight that
      the control group.

      Our goals in Phase 2 of the study are: to gather more data about the effects of the
      intervention at 12 months; to determine if the greater weight loss observed in the pilot
      intervention arm at 12 months can be replicated with a larger number of women and maintained
      at 24 months; and to see whether there is a significant effect on glucose tolerance in the
      intervention arm at 24 months.
    
  