
    
      As many as 90% of Veterans with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) report nightmares and
      insomnia and even when nightmares are excluded, sleep disturbances are the most prevalent
      symptoms of PTSD with roughly 50%-70% of patients suffering from co-occurring sleep
      disorders. The typical sleep complaints include nightmares, distressed awakenings, nocturnal
      panic attacks, sleep terrors and insomnia.

      While it has long been established that PTSD engenders sleep disturbances and averse clinical
      outcomes, current investigations indicate that disordered sleep is also a risk factor for the
      development of PTSD. In military personnel with combat exposure, comorbid insomnia and OSA, a
      condition originally labeled as "complex insomnia" has emerged as one of the most challenging
      sleep disorder to manage. In the presence of PTSD, the co-occurrence of OSA and insomnia is
      also associated with significant morbidity. Veterans with both PTSD and complex insomnia
      report more psychiatric symptoms, chronic pain, and higher rates of suicide. Further, these
      Veterans may have more difficulty adhering to CPAP because of increased awareness of the mask
      due to frequent awakenings and an inability to initiate or return to sleep with the mask in
      place. Fortunately, there are effective treatments for each of these sleep disorders.
      Traditional treatment models consist of treating OSA first, followed by adjunctive or
      concurrent treatment for insomnia only if the response to CPAP is deemed unsatisfactory.
      However, the suboptimal response observed in Veterans with PTSD from such an approach in
      terms of quality of life, PTSD symptoms, and CPAP adherence highlights the need to examine
      alternative modalities of treatment. At present, there are no general guidelines on the best
      strategy to treat complex insomnia in Veterans with PTSD. Prior studies have shown that
      cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is effective for treating insomnia when compared with
      hypnotic agents.Whether combination therapy offers a therapeutic advantage over CBT alone for
      complex insomnia in Veterans with PTSD is yet to be determined. The objective of this
      proposal is to conduct a pragmatic, randomized, parallel clinical trial comparing the
      effectiveness of Brief Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia in Military Veterans (BBTI-MV) plus
      eszopiclone, a non-benzodiazepine hypnotic, versus BBTI-MV alone in 52 combat-exposed
      Veterans with PTSD and OSA with coexisting insomnia on global sleep quality of life, PTSD
      symptoms, and CPAP adherence. The topic addresses several key areas of unmet needs for
      Veterans with PTSD and sleep disordered breathing. Among these are: 1) the association
      between complex insomnia and PTSD on global sleep quality of life; and 2) the effectiveness
      of combined treatment of CBT and eszopiclone versus CBT alone in improving sleep quality and
      PTSD symptoms; and 3) the impact of each treatment regimen on CPAP adherence. By establishing
      the most effective therapy in alleviating insomnia that complicates the presence of OSA in
      Veterans with PTSD, higher CPAP adherence will ultimately translate into improved cognitive
      function, enhanced quality of life, and suppression of PTSD symptoms. The long term benefit
      of this trial will also lead to opportunities for more personalized treatment including
      delivery method via mobile health technologies which will allow greater assimilation of
      results across several domains.
    
  