
    
      With the advances in technology and medical fields, the rate of cerebral palsy is increasing
      worldwide with the increase in the survival rate of preterm, low birth weight babies and
      neurodevelopmentally risky babies living in neonatal intensive care units.

      The International Classification of Health, Function and Disability - Child and Youth version
      (ICF-CY), developed by the World Health Organization, provides a common language to record
      problems involving functions and structures of the body, restrictions of activity and
      participation that occur in childhood and adolescence, and related environmental factors; and
      It was developed to use terminology and consists of four main components: "Body Functions",
      "Body Structures", "Activity and Participation", "Environmental Factors". According to
      ICF-CY, environmental factors that have an effect on activity and participation are
      changeable factors. Therefore, it is stated that environmental conditions should be changed,
      redesigned and the child-supportive environment should be increased in order to increase the
      level of activity and participation in children.

      Preschool children spend most of their time at home and playing games. Toys in the game
      environment, playmates, parental participation and attitude play a major role in the
      development of the child's motor and cognitive skills and social participation (6, 7). In
      recent years, the importance and positive effects of the enriched environment on the motor
      and cognitive development of babies have been emphasized in studies. Regular neuromotor
      evaluations and follow-up of risky babies are guiding in establishing an early intervention
      program. The "Affordances in the Home Environment for Motor Development-Infant Scale
      (AHEMD-IS)" scale, developed to evaluate the characteristics of the environment in which
      babies live, is a valid and reliable scale that is frequently used in the literature in many
      different areas such as hearing loss, motor developmental delay, sensory impairment, and
      typical development. is a scale (8-11). Translation has been done in many different languages
      so far. Turkish infants at risk on a scale to evaluate the home environment in Turkey within
      our existing information is not yet available. It is thought that the introduction of the
      AHEMD-IS scale into the Turkish language will give clinicians and academicians a different
      perspective in the evaluation of risky babies and children.
    
  