
    
      Acupuncture is used to lower blood pressure in patients with hypertension, and to relieve
      angina in patients with coronary artery disease. While the biological mechanisms of
      acupuncture analgesia have been studied intensely in animals and humans, the biological
      mechanisms for modulation of the cardiovascular system in humans remain largely unexplored.
      Acupuncture at traditional acupoints, and at nonacupoints, decreases the blood pressure
      response during mental stress in normal humans. This depressor effect cannot be fully
      explained by a decline in muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA). Further, in humans with
      heart failure (HF) in whom MSNA is elevated, we have preliminary data that acupuncture
      significantly decreases the MSNA response during mental stress. The following hypotheses will
      be tested: 1) acupuncture, performed at traditional acupoints and non-acupoints in normal
      humans, stimulates skeletal muscle afferent neurons causing a release of endogenous opioids,
      which oppose sympathetic excitation and vasoconstriction in visceral vascular beds, such as
      the kidney; 2) in humans with HF in whom MSNA is elevated and renal vasoconstriction is the
      rule, acupuncture utilizes similar mechanisms as in normal humans to produce exaggerated
      inhibition of MSNA and reflex renal vasoconstriction. Positron emission tomography and
      microneurography will be utilized to answer the following questions in normal humans and
      patients with heart failure: 1. Is acupuncture attenuation of BP during mental stress
      mediated by a decrease in renal vasoconstriction? 2. Is acupuncture sympathoinhibitory? 3. Is
      acupuncture modulation of the autonomic nervous system mediated by muscle afferents? 4. Is
      acupuncture modulation of the autonomic nervous system mediated by activation of endogenous
      opioids? Understanding the mechanisms of acupuncture modulation of the autonomic nervous
      system in humans may help clarify its role as a therapeutic modality in cardiovascular
      diseases, such as heart failure.
    
  