
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the clinical biologic activity of sorafenib tosylate and bevacizumab, defined as
      the sum of complete response, partial response, and prolonged stable disease for ≥ 16 weeks,
      in patients with unresectable stage III or stage IV malignant melanoma previously treated
      with at least 2 regimens of immunotherapy, cytokines, biologic therapy, or vaccine therapy or
      in previously untreated patients who are not appropriate candidates to receive
      aldesleukin-based treatment.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the safety and tolerability of sorafenib tosylate and bevacizumab in these
      patients.

      II. Evaluate the biologic activity of this regimen, in terms of time to progression,
      progression-free survival at 6 months, and overall survival, in these patients.

      III. Describe significant pharmacokinetic interactions between bevacizumab and sorafenib
      tosylate.

      IV. Characterize the pharmacodynamic relationships between the plasma concentration of
      sorafenib tosylate and bevacizumab and the effects of treatment on normal organ function and
      tumor tissue in these patients.

      V. Identify predictive biomarkers of response to this regimen in these patients.

      VI. Correlate changes in biological measurements with patient outcomes.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter study.

      Patients receive oral sorafenib tosylate on days 1-5, 8-12, 15-19, and 22-26 and bevacizumab
      IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of
      unacceptable toxicity or disease progression. Blood samples and tumor biopsies are obtained
      periodically for pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies. Samples are examined by liquid
      chromatography, mass spectrometry, immunohistochemistry, gene expression analysis, DNA
      mutation analysis, and genomic analysis for biological markers.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 4 weeks.
    
  