
    
      Acute coronary syndrome (ACS) is a disease with high mortality, morbidity and economic
      burden. Usually, it is caused by ischemic heart disease and atherosclerotic plaque rupture in
      the coronary arteries causing platelet activation, aggregation and thrombus formation. For
      decades, antiplatelet agents are the cornerstones of management of ACS and dual antiplatelet
      therapy with aspirin and P2Y12 receptor blocker are standard of care for patients with ACS
      with or without percutaneous coronary intervention. However, increasing evidence has shown
      that clopidogrel, which is a type of thienopyridine, has wide inter-individual variability in
      pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic actions which lead to suboptimal antiplatelet effect
      especially in Asian population. Cytochrome P450 2C19 is an important enzyme for
      thienopyridine metabolism and genetic polymorphisms of CYP2C19 have been demonstrated to be
      associated with clopidogrel resistance and ischemic event post percutaneous coronary
      intervention (1-3). The prevalence of the LOF allele of CYP2C19 is higher in Chinese than in
      Caucasians (4) and it may lead to the higher degree of clopidogrel resistance in Chinese
      patients as documented in our previous study (5) and study from another Asian country (6)

      In view of the potential limitations of clopidogrel in ACS treatment, American and European
      guidelines recommend use of newer P2Y12 blockers such as ticagrelor (7) for ACS patients.
      Though these agents have better anti-ischemic effect, they are associated with increased
      bleeding risk especially in Chinese patients whom are considered to be more prone to bleeding
      complications. As a result, local physicians are reluctant in using these potent antiplatelet
      agents despite their proven clinical efficacy in Caucasian studies. Evidence has shown the
      correlation between CYP2C19 genotype, platelet reactivity, clinical outcome and currently
      CYP2C19 genotype is an emerging target in the pharmacogenomic approach in guiding the use of
      antiplatelet agents. With the advent of rapid genotyping technologies (8), it is anticipated
      that the appropriate drug can be given to the appropriate patient.

      Verigene (Nanosphere, Northbrook, IL) is an FDA approved microarray-based genotyping assay
      for the rapid detection of cytochrome P450 2C19 polymorphisms from whole blood using
      nanoparticle probes. It utilises whole blood for detection of single nucleotide polymorphism
      and the results will be available in 2-4 hours. With proper training and handling, the
      accuracy is expected to be >99%. (9, 10)
    
  