
    
      Regional pain in the neck, shoulder and arm is a common problem when there is exposure to
      repetitive work with a prevalence of about fifty percent. In the absence of a widespread pain
      conditions, and when cervical radiculopathy is ruled out with appropriate imaging, myalgia,
      tendinopathy or neurogenic sources of pain may predominate in a given case.

      Myalgia (MTPS) may be characterized by muscles that are tight and tender to palpation and
      where there may be radiation of pain down the limb. A twitch may be elicited with stimulation
      of affected muscle. Numerous treatments for myalgia have been proposed with variable or
      incomplete success including local anesthetic injections, botulinum chemodenervation and
      platelet rich plasma injections.

      Neuralgic complaints may be caused by chronic compression in the interscalene triangle as in
      Thoracic Outlet Syndrome (NTOS) and other patients may have injury from sudden stretch,
      electrocution, inflammatory diseases, penetrating wounds or acute or chronic post-operative
      conditions. Botulinum chemodenervation and surgical decompression has been applied for
      treating nerve compression due to Thoracic Outlet Syndrome with partial success. [9-13]
      Chemodenervation tends to be transient in effect and surgery may have significant
      complications.

      Previous reports have demonstrated relatively poor outcomes with targeted treatments when
      there is a coexistence of conditions characterized by increased sensitivity as in complex
      regional pain syndrome (CRPS) or fibromyalgia. In the present retrospective review, it was
      anticipated that patients with CRPS may not respond as well to targeted treatment so that
      they were evaluated separately from patients with NTOS along.

      Because existing therapies for myofascial and neuralgic forms of cervicobrachial pain may
      have unsatisfactory outcomes, alternative therapies may be considered, particularly, for
      individuals who have failed to respond. Contemporary conceptualizations of chronic pain
      mechanisms include the contribution of inflammatory factors. Mindful of these considerations,
      locally targeted anti-inflammatory administrations may be thought to play a potential role in
      treatment of cervicobrachial pain.

      Alpha 2 macroglobulin is a plasma protein that acts as a molecular trap for inflammatory
      factors such as tumor necrosis factor, TNF. After plasma is enriched for A2M, it may be
      injected for treating chronic inflammation. Plasma enriched for A2M may be considered as a
      possible injectable agent to counteract inflammation that may occur with a cervicobrachial
      pain syndrome. The present paper reports on an experience using A2M for treating
      cervicobrachial syndrome which was predominant for either musculotendinous or neuralgic
      features.
    
  