
    
      OM with mucosal change, associated pain, and taste change - are clinically relevant
      toxicities of TKI's and mTORI's presently in use. The incidence of oral mucositis of any
      grade is for sunitinib 38%, sorafenib 28%, pazopanib 4%, temsirolimus 41%, and for everolimus
      44%.

      Optimal antitumor activity requires maintaining the highest tolerable dose in individual
      patients. In order to improve health related quality of life (HRQoL) and patient adherence,
      adverse effects should be prevented, if possible avoided and treated if necessary. Current
      oral formulations consist of various schedules (continuous administration or 4 weeks on, 2
      weeks off) to optimize the benefit-risk profile. Adherence to anti-cancer treatment is
      particularly important when prescribing oral therapies as adherence to the protocol can have
      a significant impact on efficacy and the severity of treatment-related AEs. As sorafenib,
      sunitinib, pazopanib, and everolimus are taken in the outpatient setting, patient education
      on the correct treatment dosing, usage and the nature, recognition, and severity of AEs is
      essential.

      Recent data suggest that TKI and mTORI associated OM is different from conventional
      chemotherapy related OM. Oral ulceration usually presents as aphthous-like ulcerations and
      has in some studies been reported as mucositis. An analysis of the appearance, course, and
      toxicity experiences demonstrated that the condition is distinct from conventional mucositis
      and more closely resembles aphthous oral mucositis. These TKI/mTORI related ulcers may
      represent a dose-limiting toxicity for this new class of agents, especially considering the
      fact that even lower grade mucositis with chronic daily dosing may be cumbersome to the
      patient and lead to dose reductions. Studies of treatment strategies for aphthous OM may
      therefore be important for the dose adherence of TKI and mTORI and for the overall acceptance
      of this therapy for patients.
    
  