
    
      The study is designed as a multicentre prospective cohort study with multiple Canadian sites.
      It will be initiated at The Ottawa Hospital prior to being offered externally. After
      obtaining informed consent, and confirming eligibility, participants weighing more than 90 kg
      with acute cancer-associated thrombosis will be treated with therapeutic weight-adjusted
      dalteparin (subcutaneous once daily injection, or twice daily, if the conditions of the
      participant do not allow once daily injection as per clinical judgement) beginning at
      enrolment (within 12 hours) and continuing until Day 30 visit. Subjects will receive
      therapeutic doses of dalteparin at a dose of approximately 200 IU/kg SC daily (up to 33,000
      IU) for one month. Following this study period of 30 days (± 4 days), patients will be
      followed for 5 months. During the follow-up period, each patient will pursue his/her
      treatment as per usual standard treatment protocols provided at each institution. Treatment
      used and clinical outcomes will be collected at the end of the follow-up period.

      The majority of Canadian Thrombosis specialists use weight adjusted dosing of dalteparin in
      patients weighing more than 90 kg with cancer-associated VTE. No expert recommends capping
      the dose of dalteparin to 18,000 IU in patients weighing over 90 kg as suggested by the
      product monograph. However, the risk of major bleeding episodes in patients over 90 kg
      receiving weight-adjusted LMWH remains unclear. The estimated rate of major bleeding episodes
      of patients with cancer associated VTE (Mean weight 79.1 kg) managed with therapeutic dose of
      dalteparin is 3.6% (95% CI: 1.9 to 6.2). We hypothesize that the rate of major bleeding
      events will be similar in patients (> 90 kg) with cancer-associated VTE treated with
      dalteparin 200 IU/kg daily (up to 33,000 IU). We plan to recruit 150 patients in this cohort
      study. We expect 6 major bleeding events. This would provide us with an overall bleeding
      event of 4% with an upper bound of the confidence interval of 8.5%). An informal survey of
      Canadian thrombosis expert has demonstrated that clinicians would feel reassured and continue
      to use weight-adjusted dalteparin in cancer patients weighing more than 90kg if the upper
      bound of the 95% confidence interval is less than 9% (i.e. < 3% possible absolute rate
      difference).
    
  