
    
      This is a Phase III open-label study, in which patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) who
      have completed a qualifying istradefylline study will be treated with istradefylline for a
      period of up to one additional year. Starting dosage of istradefylline will be 40 mg/d and
      maintenance dosage will be at the discretion of the Investigator. The available doses for
      istradefylline are 20 and 40 mg/d. Open-label istradefylline treatment will be initiated
      after a patient has satisfied all criteria for participation.

      Patients will undergo screening and baseline evaluations during which they will be assessed
      for eligibility. Screening procedures will vary slightly depending upon the allocation of
      patients to one of the following two groups:

      Group A: Patients who have completed double-blind treatment studies 6002-US-0 13, 6002- US-Ol
      S or 6002-EU-007 immediately prior to entering this open-label trial and may have had an
      interruption of study drug of 14 days or less. The screening visit for these patients will
      correspond to the final visit of the previous istradefylline study.

      Group B: Patients who have previously completed double-blind treatment studies 6002-US- 013,
      6002-US-O 18 or 6002-EU-007 or discontinued from open-label study 6002-US-007 and have had an
      interruption of study drug greater than 14 days. Screening for these patients will occur at
      the Week -2 and Day -1 Visits.

      Visits should occur in the ON state and procedures should be conducted in the order
      specified, whenever possible.

      Safety outcomes will be assessed by physical examination (including neurological
      examination), clinical laboratory tests and 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) at screening and
      at selected subsequent scheduled visits. Vital signs, including weight, concomitant
      medications, and adverse events will be monitored regularly throughout the trial. Changes in
      anti-parkinsonian medications will be permitted at the Investigator's discretion.
    
  