
    
      The Environmental Factors and Embryonic Development Project is about to recruit pregnant
      women from 16 cities, including Beijing, Guangzhou, Jinan, Nanjing, Hangzhou, Wuhan, Zunyi,
      Xiangyang, Nantong, Suizhou, Huangshi, Changzhou, Suqian, Shiyan, Xiaogan, and Huanggang. The
      project plans to recruit 6000-12000 participants in each city. Biological samples,
      questionnaires and data for embryonic dysplasia and gestational complications of pregnant
      women will be collected. The study includes four stages. In the first stage, the
      investigators will identify external environmental factors and behavioral factors that are
      associated with embryonic dysplasia and gestational complications in pregnant women based on
      external exposure monitoring strategies. In the second and third stages, the investigators
      will conduct several nested case-control studies based on our prospective cohort. Internal
      exposure monitoring will be applied to identify environmental endocrine disruptors which are
      associated with embryonic dysplasia and gestational complications in pregnant women in the
      second stage. In the third stage, the investigators will conduct genome-wide association
      study (GWAS) to screen susceptible genes or polymorphisms that are associated with embryonic
      dysplasia and gestational complications in pregnant women, identify any gene-environmental
      interactions with reference to the findings of the 1st and 2nd stages, and finally establish
      a comprehensive disease risk prediction model. In the fourth stage, the investigators will
      build animal models in order to identify the mechanisms how high-risk environmental exposures
      or behavioral factors as identified in the above stages may lead to embryonic dysplasia and
      gestational complications in pregnant women. The research team of the 16 cities are from
      Peking University (Beijing), Sun Yat-sen University (Guangzhou), Shandong University (Jinan),
      Chinese People's Liberation Army Eastern Theater General Hospital (Nanjing, Nantong,
      Changzhou, and Suqian), Zhejiang University (Hangzhou), Huazhong University of Science and
      Technology (Wuhan, Xiangyang, Suizhou, Huangshi, Shiyan, Xiaogan, and Huanggang), Zunyi
      Medical University (Zunyi), respectively. The core members of each research team are composed
      of experts from different disciplines in the field of public health.
    
  