
    
      Due to its integrated long-distance telemetry, the implantable pacemaker Philos II DR-T is
      capable of periodically transmitting data from the pacemaker memory to the BIOTRONIK Service
      Center via patient device. The BIOTRONIK Service Center decodes the data and presents it to
      the physician on a password secured internet site. Additionally, in case certain event
      criteria are met, the most important Home Monitoring information are immediately faxed to the
      physician as an Event Report. These events can be customised by the physician. Thus, the
      physician will be able to closely monitor the patient and check the adequacy and efficiency
      of the pacemaker therapy without requiring the patient to visit the physician. The
      transmitted data comprise information on atrial and ventricular rhythm, atrioventricular
      conduction and system status.

      The purpose of the national prospective, randomized, multicentric clinical study "COMPArative
      follow-up Schedule with home monitoring" (COMPAS) described here is to evaluate the benefits
      of pacemaker follow-up with home monitoring in France. The standard follow-up or therapeutic
      intervention will be deemed based on faxed event Reports reception and Cardio reports
      analysis on internet site. During the clinical study, the incidence of serious adverse events
      (hospitalisation, pacemaker dysfunction, and cardiovascular events), economic impact, safety,
      and practicability will be analysed. The findings from the ACTIVE group will be compared to
      those of a group receiving standard of care (CONTROL group). Both patient groups are followed
      for 18 months and will be followed with Home Monitoring switched on. The data from the
      CONTROL group will not be presented online to the attending physician, but a retrospective
      analysis on differences between the two groups will be performed.

      The trial will be conducted as a prospective, randomised, open, multicenter, national
      clinical trial. The enrollment of 400 patients in 50 clinical centres in France is
      anticipated. The principal inclusion criterion is indication for dual chamber pacemaker/ICD
      implantation. Main exclusion criteria comprise pacemaker dependency.
    
  