
    
      The process of recovery in schizophrenia involves resolving persistent symptoms and improving
      functional outcomes. Our research groups have demonstrated that using environmental supports
      in the patient's home to bypass deficits in cognitive functioning in a treatment called
      Cognitive Adaptation Training (CAT) improves adherence to medications and functional outcomes
      in schizophrenia and that Cognitive Behavior Therapy (CBT) decreases symptomatology and the
      negative effect of persisting symptoms upon individuals with this disorder. Data suggest
      these treatments have modality specific effects. Targeting both functional outcomes and
      persistent positive symptoms in a multimodal cognitive treatment provided in the patient's
      home is likely to have the most robust effects on functional outcomes, persistent symptoms
      and the distress caused by these symptoms for individuals with schizophrenia. We propose to
      randomize 200 individuals with schizophrenia taking antipsychotic medications to one of four
      psychosocial treatments for a period of 9 months: 1) CAT, 2) CBT, 3) Multimodal Cognitive
      Treatment (Mcog; an integrated treatment featuring aspects of both CAT and CBT), and 4)
      standard treatment as usual (TAU). Patients will be followed for 6 months after treatment is
      completed. Outcomes will be assessed at baseline and every 3 months. Primary outcome
      variables with include measures of symptomatology and functional outcome. We hypothesize that
      patients in treatments with CBT as a component (CBT and Mcog) will improve to a greater
      extent on measures of symptomatology than those randomized to non-CBT treatments (CAT or
      TAU)and that patients in Mcog will improve to a greater extent than those in single modality
      CAT. Moreover, we hypothesize that patients in treatments with CAT as a component (CAT and
      Mcog) will improve to a greater extent on measures of symptomatology than those randomized to
      non-CAT treatments (CBT or TAU) and that patients in Mcog will improve to a greater extent
      than those in single modality CAT. The potential public health implications of promoting
      recovery in schizophrenia through multi-modal treatments are profound. By integrating
      effective treatments the potential for synergistic improvement scan be assessed. Home visits
      can be costly. Maximizing the benefits to patients by providing multi-modal treatment on the
      same home visit is likely to improve a broader range of outcomes with minimal additional
      cost.
    
  