
    
      This study is conducted in cooperation with the Brain Health Registry (BHR, CHR #12-09628),
      an internet-based registry which will enroll individuals in order to facilitate clinical
      trials for the prevention of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other brain diseases and disorders.

      The investigators goal is to validate the Brain Health Registry's online cognitive measures
      developed by Lumosity. Investigators will meet this goal by collecting data from the newly
      developed BHR online cognitive screening battery along with standardized measures of memory,
      attention, executive functioning and speed of information processing currently used in
      clinical trials for Alzheimer's disease.

      Investigators will enroll 1000 subjects, 500 of whom will be recruited upon registering in
      the BHR. The other 500 subjects will be recruited from the Memory and Aging Center at the
      University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) and the Center for Imaging of
      Neurodegenerative Diseases (CIND) at the San Francisco VA Medical Center (SFVAMC).
      Demographic and clinical data will be obtained for each participant who will have 3 tests of
      cognitive function over a 2 week period: 1) unsupervised online cognitive testing, 2)
      supervised online cognitive testing, and 3) standard clinical neuropsychological assessments.
      The order in which cognitive evaluations are administered will be equally distributed within
      the sample so as to minimize practice effects. These subjects will also provide a saliva
      specimen in order to determine their ApoE genotype.

      Additionally, investigators will also conduct a small pilot study of 34 subjects to obtain
      one 3 Tesla MRI scan and one PET scan in order to obtain feasibility data for collecting
      longitudinal neuroimaging studies for participants in this sample.

      In addition to the main validation project and MRI/PET substudy, we will also run a substudy
      (n=330) that looks to validate an additional unsupervised online cognitive measure
      (administered via iPad application) called ReVeRe. ReVeRe, is an automated, self-administered
      measure of verbal memory (word list recall) that is modeled after the Rey Auditory Verbal
      Learning Test.

      There are two substudies for ReVeRe:

      ReVeRe 1 (n=250): This approximately 30 minute procedure will be administered initially
      during the NVP participant's clinic visit, and then will be collected remotely (by
      participants at home) on: (1) Day 7 after the initial clinic testing, (2) Day 21 after the
      initial clinic testing, and (3) ongoing at 6 month intervals through at least 18 months - for
      a total of 6 administrations.

      ReVeRe 2 (n=80): This approximately 30 minute procedure will be administered initially 2
      weeks after a follow up in-clinic visit, and then will be collected remotely in burst
      intervals. There will be three administrations at each time point (Day 0, 3, and 7), which
      will be collected every 6 months for 24 months after the in-clinic follow up visit. All
      participants in ReVeRe 2 will also receive an amyloid PET scan, as long as they did not
      already participate in the MRI/PET substudy.
    
  