
    
      Emotional problems such as anxiety and depression commonly surface during adolescence and are
      even more common among youth with chronic illness compared to other children. Emotional
      comorbidities are associated with decreased adherence to medical regimens in children and
      adults as well as poorer clinical outcomes for medical conditions and increased medical
      expenditures. It is widely accepted that cognitive behavioral therapy is an effective
      treatment for anxiety and depression and in-person CBT has been shown effective for young
      people with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). However, despite the presence of this effective
      treatment, the majority of those with anxiety and depression are untreated.

      Offering mental health services in an acceptable, feasible and low cost fashion remains a
      challenge.

      Research suggests that web-based CBT is a promising candidate for offering effective and
      feasible treatment for anxiety and depression to young people. It has been shown effective
      for mild to moderate symptoms of depression and anxiety in adults and adolescents with a
      primary diagnosis of depression. In adults, studies comparing face-to-face CBT treatment to
      web-based CBT with low level therapist support showed comparable clinical outcomes and a 15%
      cost savings for online treatment. Furthermore, an online treatment format may be especially
      appealing for younger populations who spend much of their time online as well as for people
      with chronic illness, who may be home-bound due to symptoms. Despite the well-established
      evidence base for web-based CBT in other populations, the greater affordability of web-based
      CBT compared to face-to-face treatment, and the appeal of the online format for young adults,
      the investigators are aware of no published studies examining the use of web-based CBT for
      young adults with chronic illness. The innovation of the proposed project is to study low-
      cost, web-based CBT in a new population of adolescents and young adults with inflammatory
      conditions that constitute serious chronic illness.
    
  