
    
      Study Description:

      Many neuropsychiatric disorders have extreme impairing impulsivity and compulsivity behaviors
      at their core. We hypothesized that the development of symptoms of impulsivity and
      compulsivity during childhood/adolescence and early adulthood will be associated with
      atypical trajectories of brain features including cortical glutamate (the main excitatory
      neurotransmitter) and functional/structural brain connectivity. Additionally, we hypothesize
      that cortical glutamate will be under genetic control (i.e., heritable) and that common
      genetic variant risk for disorders characterized by extreme impulsivity (e.g., attention
      deficit hyperactivity disorder) and by extreme compulsivity (e.g., obsessive compulsive
      disorder) will also be associated with atypical cortical glutamate trajectories. To elucidate
      the relationships between the developing brain, compulsivity/impulsivity and genomics, we
      will collect clinical assessments including clinician-led interviews, neurobehavioral
      assessments, neuroimaging data, and genomic samples using 1) a prospective longitudinal
      design to answer developmental hypotheses; 2) an extended multigenerational family design to
      assess genomic hypotheses.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objectives:

      A) To assess the effects of impulsivity and compulsivity on the developmental trajectories of
      cortical glutamate.

      B) To determine the heritability of cortical glutamate.

      Secondary Objectives:

      A) To establish the reliability of glutamate measurements.

      B) To examine the impact of atypical glutamate levels on developing structural and functional
      connections within the fronto-striatal circuits.

      Endpoints:

      Primary Endpoint:

      A) Age-related change in cortical glutamate levels and its moderation by individual
      differences in levels of impulsivity and compulsivity.

      B) Heritability of cortical glutamate (proportion of variance explained by additive genetic
      factors).

      Secondary Endpoints:

      A) 1. Glutamate levels estimated at 3 Tesla at short intervals to establish test-retest
      reliability.

      2. Glutamate levels estimated at both 3 Tesla and 7 Tesla (cross scanner validation).

      B) Measures of the brain s structural and functional connectivity.

      Study Population:

      We aim to recruit 1100 participants over the next 7 years. Individuals between 6 and 80 years
      of age with a wide range of impulsivity/compulsivity behaviors - ranging from normal to
      mildly/extremely impaired - will be recruited. No specific demographic groups will be
      targeted. Recruitment will be mainly done in the District of Columbia/Maryland/Virginia area,
      however some participants needed for primary aim B (heritability) might travel from
      elsewhere.

      Description of Sites/Facilities Enrolling Participants:

      The National Institute of Health is the sole site for enrollment of participant.

      Study Duration:

      The estimated study duration from the beginning of the study (study opens to enrollment) to
      the end (completion of data analyses) is 10 years.

      Participant Duration:

      Primary Objective A: Participants may complete follow-up visits for as long as the study is
      open; thus, they might complete visits over a 7 to 10-year period.

      Primary Objective B: Participants will complete the study after one visit and may complete
      forms at home; thus, the estimated time for participation is less than a month.
    
  