
    
      Oxaliplatin and 5-FU are chemotherapy drugs that are commonly used to treat certain kinds of
      cancers. Oxaliplatin interferes with the DNA. 5-FU interferes with cell metabolism. Docetaxel
      interferes with cell division.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have what are called "screening
      tests". These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in the
      study. You will be asked questions about your medical history and have a complete physical
      exam. You will have around 1 tablespoon of blood drawn for routine tests. You will have your
      height and weight measured. You will have a chest x-ray and an electrocardiogram (ECG - a
      test that measures the electrical activity of the heart). You will also have a chest x-ray
      and a computed tomography (CT) scan to check the size and location of the tumor. Women who
      are able to have children must have a negative blood pregnancy test.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive treatment with
      5-FU as an infusion into a vein using a continuous 24- hour portable pump. This will start on
      Day 1 and will continue for 48 hours. You will need to carry this pump with you at all times
      for 48 hours. The pump is about the size of a Sony Walkman®. You will also receive
      oxaliplatin as an infusion into a vein over 2 hours on Day 1. Docetaxel will be given as an
      infusion over 60 minutes on Day 1. You will have 12 days to rest between chemotherapy
      treatments. These drugs may be given to you as an outpatient. Treatment will be repeated on
      Day 15. Two 14-day treatment periods are called one cycle.

      You will be asked to fill out side effect sheets throughout your participation in this
      research study. You will be asked questions regarding nausea, hair loss, fatigue, meals, and
      other questions regarding your daily activities. Before each dose of chemotherapy (every 14
      days), you will have 1 teaspoon of blood drawn for routine tests.

      If the cancer gets worse or you experience intolerable side effects, you will be taken off
      the study and your doctor will discuss other treatment options with you.

      You will be asked to come for a follow-up visit at M.D. Anderson about 2-3 months after
      treatment ends if possible. At this visit, you will have a full physical, about one
      tablespoon of blood drawn for routine tests, a chest x-ray, and CT or magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) scans.

      This is an investigational study. Oxaliplatin is approved for treatment of colon and rectal
      cancer but not approved in the US for use in the treatment of gastric cancer. Docetaxel and
      5-FU are commonly used drugs for gastric cancer and are commercially available. The
      combination of these 3 drugs (docetaxel + oxaliplatin + 5-FU) is investigational. A total of
      up to 106 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M.D. Anderson.
    
  