
    
      This is an observational study.

      Participants:

        1. One of two anesthesiologists trained in cricothyroid membrane ultrasound scanning
           technique in pregnant population (study investigators)

        2. Subjects to be assessed: pregnant patients in their third trimester on the labor and
           delivery floor comfortable enough to take part in the study

      Two anesthesiologists will undergo ultrasound imaging training by an expert staff
      anesthesiologist whom is already trained in the procedure. As per previous published evidence
      on this, the investigator will need to correctly identify the location of cricothyroid
      membrane and its height in 15 volunteers. This will constitute the standardized training
      component of the study.

      Upon admission to the Labor and Delivery floor, women will be further explained the protocol
      and asked to sign the consent form. Then, they will have the cricothyroid membrane assessed,
      as per description above, and quantitative assessment will be performed. Firstly,
      quantitative assessment of the height of the cricothyroid membrane will be performed in the
      supine position (with left uterine displacement) with the neck in the neutral position. The
      central point of the cricothyroid membrane will be marked using a removable skin ink marker.
      The patient will then be asked to fully their neck. The change in distance of the midpoint of
      the cricothyroid membrane from the neutral head and neck position to fully extended
      positioned will be performed, as will the change in height of the cricothyroid membrane
      between the two positions.

      Quantitative assessment for change in central cricothyroid membrane distance will be done
      with measuring central points marked on the patients neck with skin marker ink. Quantitative
      assessment of change in cricoid thyroid membrane will be conducted using caliper measuring
      software build into the ultrasound machinery. Finally, the investigators will establish the
      starting distance above the sternal notch over which a theoretical 8cm incision in the neck
      which will overlie the cricothyroid membrane. This will be done by measuring the distance
      above the sternal notch with a surgical measuring ruler.
    
  