
    
      The investigators propose to test the implementation of evidence-based preventive
      interventions through a Virtual Learning Collaborative (VLC) with and without the novel use
      Automated Surveillance Reporting (ASR) intervention to change clinical practice and improve
      patient safety in common diagnostic procedures. Over 2 million people in the United States
      undergo diagnostic or interventional cardiac catheterization each year. Acute kidney injury
      (AKI), a patient safety metric set by the National Quality Forum, occurs in up to 14% of all
      patients following a procedure and up to 50% in patients with pre-existing chronic kidney
      disease (CKD), making AKI the most prevalent adverse event. Patients developing AKI have an
      increased risk of serious adverse events. There are widely accepted interventions to prevent
      AKI in patients undergoing cardiac catheterization. Our research team has demonstrated AKI
      can be prevented in 28% of patients with CKD through a large regional pilot. Our team has
      already developed ASR techniques for AKI nationally within the Veterans' Administration.
      Based on our own preliminary studies, the investigators hypothesize the incorporation of an
      automated plug-in ASR toolkit to provide near-realtime feedback to front-line care teams will
      significantly augment both VLC and Technical Assistance (TA) interventions in implementation
      trials. Our objective is to conduct a national randomized clinical trial testing the use of
      VLC or TA with or without a plug-in ASR toolkit to determine if ASR significantly improves
      outcomes for patients undergoing procedures with contrast dye to overcome the inconsistent
      application of known ways to prevent AKI. The rationale underlying the project is that ASR
      could prove to be a plug-in vehicle to improve patient endpoints in evidence-based preventive
      interventions in common diagnostic procedures. The investigators plan to test our hypothesis
      through the following specific aims in a 2x2 factorial cluster-randomized trial. For all
      aims, 16 hospitals will be randomized to receive one of the following interventions for
      18-months: A) Technical Assistance (TA); B) Technical Assistance with Automated Surveillance
      Reporting (TA+ASR); C) Virtual Learning Collaborative (VLC) with team-based coaching (VLC);
      and D) Virtual Learning Collaborative with Automated Surveillance Reporting (VLC+ASR).
      Specific Aim 1: Compare the efficacy of a VLC and/or ASR compared to TA to reduce the
      incidence of AKI. Specific Aim 2: Evaluate the sustained efficacy of VLC and/or ASR to reduce
      the incidence of AKI following the intervention period. The interventions proposed use novel
      interactive video coaching sessions and ASR as low-cost scalable implementation strategies to
      prevent a clinical endpoint (AKI). Eighteen hospitals have agreed to participate and be
      randomized. The investigators expect the impact of a plug-in ASR to augment evidence based
      preventive interventions and VLC could significantly improve the consistent application of
      these interventions and implementation trials. In our opinion, our study will open the door
      to a new paradigm of implementation science seeking to continuously improve health care.
    
  