
    
      This is a open label randomized, multi-center study conducted in Taiwan. The study aims to
      evaluate the effectiveness and safety of oral Rhynorm (A drug) and Rytmonorm (B drug) for the
      conversion of paroxysmal AF and is designed to evaluate the improvement in sinus rhythm
      restoration after the treatment with Rhynorm (A drug) and Rytmonorm (B drug) for 24 weeks.

      This study comprised of three phases: a screening phase, a washout run-in qualifying phase
      lasting about 7 days, and a treatment phase of 24 weeks. A total of 60 evaluable subjects is
      planned to be enrolled. With an estimation of 20% dropout rate, 72 patients will be enrolled
      to reach 60 evaluable patients at the end of study. After screening for eligibility, the
      eligible subjects will be randomly assigned to either of the two gruop. The two-group are
      shown in the following table.

      Group Treatment Drug Group A Rhynorm (A drug) Group B Rytmonorm (B drug) Patients with
      arrhythmia will be screened for eligibility after providing informed consent. Patients
      present with the symptoms of arrhythmia after withdrawn from other prohibited anti-AF agents
      for at least 7 days and completed run-in period event recorded will be qualified for entering
      this study and will be randomized to Rhynorm (A drug) treatment group or Rytmonorm (B drug)
      reference drud group in a 1:1 ratio.

      The clinical evaluation will be recorded during the study period. Before treating with
      Rhynorm (A drug) and Rytmonorm (B drug), the physical examination and condition will be
      tracked and recorded for at least 7 days as the historical data.

      During the treatment period, the subjects still had a routine OPD visit. Record symptom event
      and event recorder monitoring on OPD visit.

      Safety assessments on all randomized subjects include adverse events, vital signs, and
      laboratory tests (hematology and biochemistry). Any adverse events, symptom events and
      concomitant medications/therapies will be recorded on the CRFs throughout the study.
    
  