
    
      Background: Acromegaly is a slowly progressive disease caused by growth hormone (GH) excess.
      The estimated prevalence of the disease is 40 cases/1000000 population with 3-4 new
      cases/1000000 population per year. Most patients have classic manifestations due to acral and
      soft tissue change, including thickening of the calvarium, increased size of frontal sinus,
      enlargement of the nose, prognathism, and widely spaced teeth. The hands and feet are large,
      thickened and bulky. Acromegaly was also associated with many comorbidities including
      cardiovascular complications (acromegalic cardiomyopathy and arterial hypertension),
      respiratory complications (sleep apnea), metabolic complication (impaired glucose tolerance,
      diabetes mellitus), joint and bone complications (carpal-tunnel syndrome, osteoarthritis).3
      The outcome of growth hormone level suppression after transsphenoidal surgery is far better
      for microadenomas (80-90%) than for macroadenomas (less than 50%). Furthermore, higher growth
      hormone level at diagnosis was related to poor prognosis. An early detection of acromegaly
      with early intervention was desirable. However, due to the slowly progression of the disease,
      times from symptom onset to diagnosis were 5.2 to 5.9 year4.

      Current method to diagnose patients with acromegaly was to check serum GH and insulin-like
      growth factor 1 (IGF-1). However, tests for growth hormone and IGF-1 are currently
      unavailable in most hospitals in Taiwan and were expensive. We want to find a better
      screening tool for acromegaly with less expensive and high efficacy. Due to specific facial
      appearance of acromegaly, there were studies to recognize acromegaly by computer
      program1,2,3. They tried to develop computer programs to separate facial photographs of
      patient with acromegaly and normal subjects. The accuracy could reach 71.9% to 86%. Due to
      enlarged hand with increased soft tissue in patients with acromegaly, we also want to compare
      the difference of face, hand and feet morphology and face, hand and feet X ray of acromegaly
      patients with those of normal population. We hope to set a computer model to early detect
      acromegaly patients in Chinese people.
    
  