
    
      The Internet has become an important tool for many people with health concerns [1,2]
      specially for adolescents [3,4]. Concerns about confidentiality, coupled with the stigma and
      shame associated with some conditions, specially sexually transmitted infections and other
      Health related problems make the internet a safe enviroment for adolescents to seek for
      information. This is thought to lead to an under-utilization of traditionally providers as
      the primary care health services.

      These consultations, often made by young people, include sexual and reproductive health
      problems [5] and mental health disorders [6]. This can be a major problem, since the
      under-utilization of primary care services for certain topics and the search for advice on
      the Internet that is not usually trusted can subsequently lead to health complications that
      may require more expensive specialized medical interventions. long-term and, therefore, can
      translate into an increase in healthcare costs [7].

      School programmes as Salut i Escola, have had as an objective all these years, to provide a
      more readily access to health care practitioners in order to improve their health related
      problems, doubts in sexual orientation, mental Health issues, drug related consultations and
      prevention of high-risk sexual behaviors by collaboration with educational centers and the
      community health services present in the territory.

      Nowadays, with all the Advanced Technology we dispose, and because of the enormous amount of
      unstructured online content and the importance and difficulty of determining health
      information quality[8], it is almost obligatory to try to provide access to verified and make
      this study a tool to engage with adolescents and rovide them with accedd to trustful
      information.

      Therefore, the Salut i Escola program together with the software of a well known company AGH
      Health, have been tried to minimize hesitation in seeking health advice through a chat
      application called Xatjove [9]. This is an asynchronous mobile text-based communication agent
      that connects users with healthcare professionals. These professionals provide appropriate
      guidance and advice to users in order to help them take Health related decisions.

      As an anonymous digital health intervention, XatJove has the potential to address cost
      ineffectiveness caused by under-utilization health services in terms of shameful and
      stigmatized disorders.

      According to a pilot study on e-Consultation (then known as WebGP), some of the top ten
      reasons for consultation of patients using this virtual tool included cystitis and problems
      with contraception (in women) [10]. It is known that if ignored, these conditions can lead to
      more serious, unwanted and costly complications (lack of contraception can lead to unwanted
      pregnancies and sexually transmitted infections) [11,12]. The fact that users routinely
      reported these problems through interventions health services such as e-Consultation is a
      positive sign in terms of an increased use of health services for sensitive but important
      conditions.

      At the current time of the health crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and to reduce the
      risk of infection, it makes more sense than ever to try to avoid face-to-face consultations
      of nursing professionals in institutes and also the visits of young people. to Primary Care
      Centers (CAPs). Great care must be taken that this does not mean a reduction in consultations
      on topics related to the health and school program. In addition, the health crisis is
      expected to lead to an increase in the need for emotional support by young people and agile
      tools are needed that use technologies that this sector of the population dominates and uses
      on a regular basis [13].

      A sample of students aged 12 to 16 years from middle school and high school in the sanitary
      regions of the Anoia and Osona, province of Barcelona in the acadèmic course of 2020-2021.

      A confidentiality form will be filled by every person partisipating in the study.

      The parent or guardian of every student signed an informed consent document that described
      the purpose and procedure of the study. Students also signed separate assent forms with
      similar information.

      Study design Quasi-experimental design were the data collected by our coustomised close-end
      survey, initial registration of the participants and the number of visits will be collected
      for further data analysis.

      Place and Period of the Study Demografic region of Anoia and Osona, Barcelona. Duration of
      the study: Academic course of 2020-2021.
    
  