
    
      Background:

      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common malignancy worldwide, nearly 1.4 million new
      cases every year, for about 694000 deaths. Surgery is the primary treatment and results in a
      cure rate of approximately 50% of the patients. However, recurrence following surgery is a
      major problem, the second most common site of recurrence was peritoneum, which was as a
      result of the intraperitioneal free cancer cells (FCC) and microscopic cancer (MC). The
      remaining free cancers and microscopic cancer in abdominal cavity can not be killed
      completely because of the "peritoneal-plasma barrier" and "non-sufficient drug concentration
      in abdominal cavity by systemic venous chemotherapy". In recent years, hyperthermic
      intraperitioneal chemotherapy(HIPEC) has already been shown to be effective in improving the
      5 year survival rate of colorectal cancer. However, lots of clinically studies for patients
      with colorectal cancer are advanced, it is not sure yet whether surgery combined with HIPEC
      is effective on decreasing the rate of peritoneal carcinomatosis in T4 stage colorectal
      cancer. The efficacy tend to be magnified when stage T4 patients account for less, confusing
      HIPEC for treatment of patients with advanced colorectal cancer. Therefore, the aim of this
      study is to investigate the clinical efficacy of HIPEC in T4 stage patients, ruling out the
      effects of different T stages on curative effect. The results of this study will hopefully
      provide the clinical basis for improving the prognosis of patients with advanced colorectal
      cancer.

      Study design： This is a multicenter study in which 300 patients with T4 colorectal cancer
      will be randomized to surveillance alone (control group) or HIPEC (experimental group) after
      resection of the primary tumor, either by laparoscopy or open approach. Subsequently, all
      patients started mfolfox6 chemotherapy after operation in a month. Adverse reaction of
      chemotherapy during chemotherapy and post chemotherapy period will be recorded.

      Study population:

      The patients with colorectal cancer (T4N0-2M0) will undergo a curative resection by
      laparoscopy or open approach.

      Intervention:

      HIPEC equipment used in the perfusion fluid (Lobaplatin of 50mg completely dissolved in
      3000ml saline solution) is headed to 43℃. Then, it is injected into the peritoneal cavity by
      flow velocity of 200-400ml/min for 60 minutes.

      Outcomes:

      Primary endpoint is incidence of endoperitoneal recurrence at 36 months. Secondary endpoints
      are disease-free survival, overall survival, incidence of peritoneal carcinomatosis at end of
      follow-up with or without concomitant liver/lung metastases, quality of life and morbidity
      rate.
    
  