
    
      The current study focuses on repeated practice of a VR-based cognitive intervention with the
      intent of improving cognitive deficits known to impact ability to resume complex activities.
      This study details implementation of VR within a neurorehabilitation setting. Associations
      between the VR Stroop and neuropsychological, speech therapy, and global rehabilitation
      measures are examined. The investigators include a brain injured control group to address
      this frequently cited methodological concern.

      Inclusion Criteria Patients participating in this study were aged 18 years and older
      diagnosed with acquired traumatic or non-traumatic neurologic illness, and with dysfunction
      in executive and attention skills documented during their inpatient rehabilitation course.

      Patients that had not yet undergone a neuropsychological evaluation by the time they
      consented to participate in the study, were administered the Orientation and Cognitive Log
      (OLOG/Cog-Log) to ensure they were oriented and had sufficient cognitive ability to attend to
      and understand instructions.

      Exclusion Criteria Patients were excluded from participating in the study if they were
      medically unstable, as deemed by their primary doctor, were aphasic or had hemispatial
      neglect, had prior history of significant neurological complications or developmental delay
      resulting in compromised cognition, prisoners, and if they did not speak English.

      Participants ABI Patients Twenty-one patients with ABI participated in this pilot study
      (Figure 1): 9 diagnosed with stroke (43%), 6 with TBI (29%), 2 with anoxic injury (10%), 3
      with brain tumor (14%), and 1 with amyloid angiopathy (5%). Six of the 21 patients partially
      completed the study, but failed to complete all 8 intervention sessions. Two patients were
      medically withdrawn from Day Neuro due to refractory medical complications, two patients
      self-discharged from the program against medical advice, and two patients' rehabilitation
      regimens were concluded prior to their projected discharge dates when insurance or
      state-assisted benefits were not extended. Of the remaining 15 participants, 12 completed
      neuropsychological evaluation. The final analyses included 12 patients with ABI who completed
      VR treatment and all neuropsychological and rehabilitation outcome measures, and 12 Controls
      with ABI (see Figure 1).

      Control Group The 12 Controls were age- and gender-matched (and etiology when possible)
      patients who had previously received traditional neurorehabilitation and completed the same
      measures as the VR group prior to onset of the study, but they did not receive VR treatment.
      Their data was obtained via retrospective chart review of patients admitted to Day Neuro
      between 04/2013 and 07/2014.

      Intervention Schedule Patients completed the VR apartment program twice per week for a 4-week
      period (8 sessions total). The VR interventions replaced 30-60 minutes of speech therapy
      and/or 30-60 minutes of independent time (time designated for relaxation or completion of
      therapy assignments) per week of the study. Otherwise, clinical services were not altered
      (see Appendix 1 for detailed schedule of VR and Day Neuro therapy regimen).

      The total duration of sessions 1 and 8 was approximately 60 minutes each. The duration of
      sessions 2-7 was 30 minutes each.
    
  