
    
      To assess the efficacy of S-adenosyl methionine (SAMe) in symptomatic relief of primary
      biliary cirrhosis (PBC), we will treat up to 50 patients with either SAM-e (800 mg BID) or
      placebo for 12 weeks in a cross-over, double-blind placebo-controlled study.

      S-adenosyl methionine is a nutritional supplement which is available as an over-the-counter
      formula and is used for treatment of depression and arthritic pain. SAMe is produced in
      virtually all cells and participates in many biochemical pathways as a major methyl
      contributor. Intracellular levels of SAMe are often decreased in advanced liver disease. At
      present SAMe is undergoing extensive evaluation in a large multicenter, randomized controlled
      trial as an adjunctive therapy of alcoholic liver disease. SAMe has also been evaluated in
      patients with intrahepatic cholestasis and cholestasis of pregnancy with promising effects of
      relieving pruritus and fatigue and improving serum liver associated enzymes.

      In this study, we will recruit patients with PBC who have pruritus or fatigue despite therapy
      with ursodiol (the currently recommended therapy of PBC which is partially effective in
      relieving pruritus and fatigue). After medical evaluation and a brief period of monitoring,
      patients will be randomized to receive either SAMe or placebo given in oral form in similar
      appearing capsules twice daily. Patients will be followed at regular intervals for symptoms
      as monitored by validated questionnaires as well as for side effects and serum biochemical
      and hematological tests. After 12 weeks, therapy will be withdrawn for 2 weeks and patients
      will then be switched to the alternative capsules, either SAMe or placebo, for another 12
      weeks. The primary endpoints of therapy will be improvements in symptoms of pruritus or
      fatigue or both. Secondary endpoints will be improvements in serum biochemical liver related
      enzymes.
    
  