
    
      Procedure: Participants will be recruited through the University Clinic, affiliated
      psychiatric hospitals and outpatient psychiatric clinics in the area, and public websites.
      Interested participants will be interviewed on the phone to determine initial eligibility;
      those who meet criteria will be invited for a comprehensive evaluation.

      For potential participants under the age of 18, parents/caregivers will be asked the
      eligibility questions about their child. If the child meets initial eligibility criteria,
      both s/he and the parent/caregiver will be invited to the baseline appointment.

      The baseline appointment will take place at Zucker Hillside Hospital. Following the informed
      consent/assent process, participants will be interviewed by a trained research assistant to
      assess clinical and treatment history, and to determine diagnostic eligibility, using the
      SCID. Participants who meet eligibility criteria will proceed to complete other baseline
      measures.

      Emotion recognition baseline procedure. The baseline task allows for the measurement of each
      participants' baseline balance point, the point at which they are equally likely to see a
      given face as happy or sad (or angry). Each participant will complete 45 trials of the
      emotion recognition task in which each face from a morph sequence of happy and sad (or angry)
      faces is presented, the participant is then forced to decide whether a face is sad (or angry)
      or happy.

      Intervention: Once the baseline measures are completed, participants will be randomized to
      the sad-to-happy condition, the angry-to-happy condition, or a control condition (n =20 per
      group). Participants in the intervention conditions will complete the training task three
      times over three in-person sessions. The task will be similar to the baseline procedure;
      participants will view faces and be asked to judge the expression, however they will now be
      given feedback (e.g. "Incorrect! That face was happy."), in order to shift the category of
      happy faces to include those faces two morph steps beyond the participant's baseline balance
      point. Participants in the control condition will repeat the baseline task, with feedback
      consistent with their baseline performance (i.e. the faces they judged as happy initially
      will be called "correct" when judged happy again. The intervention will be administered a
      total of three times (once at baseline, once at the first follow-up, once at the second
      follow-up).

      Follow-Up: After the final training session, participants will complete the first follow-up.
      This will consist of the clinician-administered YMRS, as well as online questionnaires,
      including the LEE, PANAS, GBI, social network task, Perceived Social Support, feasibility
      questionnaire.

      Eight weeks after completing the final training session, participants will return to the
      research lab for the final follow-up, which will include the following measures, LEE, PANAS,
      GBI, social network task, Perceived Social Support, emotion recognition task, YMRS, and
      BDI-II to assess changes in mood episode over the study follow-up period. Participants will
      also be asked to complete a brief form about whether they liked the intervention and found it
      convenient to assess burden and feasibility.
    
  