
    
      Objective: To determine the effect of acute and long-term treatment with sildenafil on the
      clinical status of patients with moderate HF. Secondary Objectives: To determine the effect
      of acute and long-term treatment with sildenafil on cardiopulmonary exercise performance, the
      effect of acute and long-term treatment with sildenafil on neurohormonal activation, the
      effect of acute and long-term treatment with sildenafil on hemodynamics, and the effect of
      long-term treatment with sildenafil on quality of life. Background: Secondary pulmonary
      hypertension (PH) is a frequent manifestation of heart failure resulting in impaired vascular
      reactivity and permeability which contributes to the symptoms of HF. Levels of endothelin-1
      (ET-1), a potent vasoconstrictor, are increased in patients with HF. At the same time,
      pulmonary artery nitric oxide (NO) production is decreased. NO increases concentrations of
      the second messenger cyclic-GMP, ultimately leading to vasodilation. This imbalance between
      NO-dependent vasodilation and ET-1 induced vasoconstriction likely contributes to the
      development of secondary pulmonary hypertension. cGMP is metabolized by the type 5 isoform of
      phosphodiesterase (PDE5) an enzyme that is highly expressed in the lung. Sildenafil, a
      selective PDE5 inhibitor, has been used extensively for the treatment of erectile dysfunction
      and has recently been approved for use in the treatment of PH. Recent studies of short-term
      administration of sildenafil in HF patients with secondary PH have demonstrated reductions in
      pulmonary arterial pressure, pulmonary vascular resistance, pulmonary capillary wedge
      pressure, and systemic vascular resistance while increasing cardiac index and exercise
      performance. However, it remains to be seen if sildenafil is safe and effective in the
      long-term treatment of heart failure. Methods: This will be an open-label, pilot study
      designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of sildenafil for the treatment of moderate
      heart failure. The primary endpoint will be change in 6-minute walk test distance. Secondary
      endpoints will be changes in peak oxygen consumption (measured by cardiopulmonary exercise
      testing), neurohormones (b-type natriuretic peptide, catecholamines, ET-1), quality of life
      scores. Additionally, we will attempt to analyze responsiveness to sildenafil on the basis of
      PDE5 polymorphisms. Study procedures will be performed at the UNM General Clinical Research
      Center and the UNM Congestive Heart Failure Clinic. Patients will be hospitalized for 3 days
      to analyze safety and efficacy of sildenafil administered three times daily. Patients will
      complete exercise testing, neurohormone, and hemodynamic assessments at baseline (day 1) and
      following 24 hours of sildenafil treatment. The patients will then be discharged to complete
      a 12-week maintenance phase of treatment. At the conclusion of the maintenance phase the
      patients will be readmitted for 2 day to have repeat measurements performed. The main
      analysis will be done using paired t-tests. All statistical analysis will be performed using
      SAS v6.12.
    
  