
    
      The novel coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak has made the world transition to practices of
      quarantine, social distancing and social isolation. While they serve as prevention strategies
      for COVID-19, they may also cause an increase of other health problems. As well, closures of
      public areas and financial challenges act as barriers to exercise and dietary quality. Thus
      quarantine-type strategies, while needed, compromise the ability to self-manage one's health
      and increase their risk of adverse health events.

      Evidence suggests the negative effects of such quarantine-type strategies are especially
      being felt among Canada's seniors. A recent report by Statistics Canada indicates that 60% of
      Canadians, ≥65 years of age are 'very' concerned about their health due to social and
      economic consequences of COVID-19. Moreover, 80% of individuals reported being 'very' anxious
      about overloading the health system. This may in turn lead to rash decisions not to access
      health services as needed. Clearly, efforts are required to support older individuals to
      optimally manage their health to prevent disease and disability.

      In British Columbia (BC), various specialized health resources have emerged to support people
      during the COVID-19 pandemic. However, many are passive in that they require individuals to
      initiate contact in response to a concern, and none have a specific focus on health promotion
      or disease prevention and management.

      This study will ensure that community-living adults ages 65 years and older are effectively
      managing their health during these unprecedented times. Participants will receive a kit
      containing a self-help manual, a Health Report Card, and COVID-19 education. They will also
      received 6 telephone/video conference sessions with a student-coach who will utilize
      motivational interviewing techniques to foster lifestyle modification, and self-management.

      Objectives:

        1. To quantitatively evaluate the effect of the two-month, six session (30-45
           minutes/session) COACH program on health self-management, measured using the Health
           Directed Behaviour subscale in the Health Education Impact Questionnaire (heiQ),9 among
           community-living adults ≥65 years of age.

        2. To qualitatively describe the subjective experiences of participants receiving the COACH
           program.

      Hypotheses:

        1. COACH will improve health directed behaviour in community-living adults, ≥65 years of
           age.

        2. COACH will also improve secondary outcomes in the areas of mood, social support,
           health-related quality of life, health promotion self-efficacy, and other self-
           management domains in the heiQ.
    
  