
    
      Experimental Design. This randomized, comparative and clinical trial will be designed to
      evaluate the clinical and radiographic outcomes 6 months after three treatment modalities of
      mandibular degree II furcation defects.

      The patients study will exhibit buccal or lingual mandibular degree II furcation defects; all
      experimental sites will be accessed with a SPPF procedure. L- PRF and autogenous bone graft
      (ABG) will be applied to the debrided defects in the OFD+ABG+L-PRF group; the OFD+ABG group
      will receive only ABG and the OFD group will be treated with Open Flap Debridement (OFD)
      alone.

      Study Population. At least fifty-four patients, aged 18 to 70 years old, affected by
      moderate-to-severe chronic periodontitis, will be selected for this study and treated at the
      Operating Unit of Periodontology and Oral Hygiene of the Department of Medical, Oral and
      Biotechnological Sciences, "G. D'Annunzio" Chieti-Pescara University, Italy. Each patient
      will participate in the study with a single experimental site.

      The participants will receive verbal and written information and will sign a consent form
      approved by the Ethical Committee of the G. D'Annunzio University of Chieti medical faculty.
      The study protocol is in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki of 1975, as revised in
      2013.

      Each defect will be assigned a defect number and will be randomly allocated to one of the
      three treatment regimens. Assignment will be performed by a custom made computer-generated
      table. To conceal allocation, opaque envelops will be assigned to the specific experimental
      site and will be opened during surgery.

      Four months before the surgical treatment, all 54 patients will undergo non-surgical
      periodontal treatment consisting of supragingival and subgingival scaling and root planing
      (SRP) by ultrasonic instruments and hand curets and motivational instructions on oral home
      care.

      Complete oral and periodontal examinations will be performed for each patient before and 4
      months after the non-surgical treatment. These will include full mouth plaque score (FMPS),
      full mouth bleeding score (FMBS), probing depth (PD), vertical clinical attachment level
      (VCAL), horizontal clinical attachment level (HCAL), and gingival recession (GR) for six
      sites per tooth (mesio-buccal, mid-buccal, disto-buccal, mesio-lingual/ palatal,
      mid-lingual/palatal, and disto-lingual/palatal sites). The measurements will be recorded
      using a University of North Carolina (UNC-15, HuFriedy, Chicago, Illinois, USA) periodontal
      probe.

      Clinical measurements at mid-buccal or mid-lingual experimental sites will be taken
      immediately before surgical treatment (baseline) and 6 months after treatment, by the same
      experienced examiner (MP), who will be masked to the treatment. The primary outcome of the
      study will be HCAL gain at 6 months.

      Radiographic Measurements. Preoperative and 6 months postoperative standardized radiographs
      will be taken by the paralleling technique using an individual film-holder device consisting
      of a bite block rigidly connected to an acrylic dental splint to achieve identical film
      placement at each evaluation.

      The radiographs will be digitized using an image processing device, after choosing the
      standard scan settings (600 dots per inch and 256 levels of gray).

      Measurements related to vertical bone level (VBL) will be performed using a dedicated
      software and calculating the distance between the furcation fornix and the bottom of the
      defect.

      Before surgery, from each patient of all groups, to avoid unblinding, 30 ml of blood was
      collected in three 10-ml sterile tubes without anticoagulant, and it was quickly
      centrifuged‖‖ at 3,000 revolutions/minute for 10 minutes.The fibrin clot (L-PRF) was
      collected and squeezed in the L-PRF Box to form three membranes.

      Surgical Technique. All the surgeries will be performed by the same experienced clinician. In
      all groups, after local anaesthesia, mucoperiosteal SPPFs will be raised. Mesial and distal
      vertical releasing incisions will be performed to allow more visibility and defects
      accessibility. After flap elevation, flap mobility will be tested to ensure that primary
      closure of the wound could be achieved through tension-free suturing. The granulation tissue
      adherent to the alveolar bone will be removed to provide full access and visibility to the
      root and bone surfaces. SRP will be performed. ABG material will be collected using bone
      scrapers in OFD+ABG+L-PRF group and OFD+ABG group.

      In the OFD+ABG+L-PRF group , one L-PRF membrane cutted into small pieces and mixed with ABG
      will be placed in the furcation defect. The other PRF membranes in each patient will be
      placed over the grafted defect and will be sutured with an absorbable suture. The OFD+ABG
      group defects will be grafted only with ABG and will be not covered by a L-PRF membrane. The
      OFD group defect will be treated only with open flap debridement. Finally the flap will be
      repositioned and horizontal mattress and interrupted sutures will be carried out.
    
  