
    
      Over the last decades biopharmaceuticals such as agents against tumor necrosis factor (TNF),
      are frequently prescribed to optimize rheumatoid arthritis treatment. Although TNFi such as
      adalimumab, etanercept and infliximab, have improved the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, a
      proportion of patients discontinue the treatment because of inefficacy or intolerance.

      Where TNFi have failed, mainly two treatment approaches are available: switch to another TNFi
      or to a biological with a different mode of action (notably rituximab, abatacept or
      tocilizumab) or to a target synthetic DMARDs. The EULAR recommendation for the management of
      rheumatoid arthritis advocate that any biologic agent including a subsequent TNFi can be used
      with equal chance for effect in case of non-response to a previous TNFi. This recommendation
      is based on three randomized controlled trails, but it should be noted that systematic
      reviews also including non-randomized controlled studies sometimes concluded that non-TNFi
      are more effective after TNFi failure than a second TNFi.

      Of note, currently there are no strong predictors available for response to bDMARDS in RA.
      This study focuses on non-response after adalimumab, as this is the most prescribed TNFi
      worldwide.

      Although it seems that indeed on a group level response to a non-TNFi is comparable to a
      second TNFi after the first TNFi has failed, using therapeutic drug monitoring could identify
      subgroups of patient who would benefit more from either a non-TNFi or a TNF-i as next
      treatment. The underlying pathophysiological mechanisms for this hypothesis are explored in
      this study.

      Nonresponse on adalimumab in RA can have different causes. Firstly, the patient might not be
      sensitive to TNF blockade at all, or the patient develops this trait later on (primary
      nonresponse or secondary nonresponse). In these patients, switching to a non-TNFi might
      conceptually be superior to starting a second TNFi. However, in other patients nonresponse
      (either primary or secondary) might be caused by inefficient drug concentration because of
      development of antidrug antibodies against adalimumab. In these patients a TNFi might be just
      as effective as a non-TNFi, as these patients have drug- but not class failure. Thus, testing
      of adalimumab levels might be helpful in channelling patients to their most optimal
      treatment.

      Above mentioned hypothesis has been tested in three studies (5) of which one concerned
      adalimumab in RA. This study showed that response to a second TNFi was indeed higher in
      patients with antidrug antibodies (ADA) and low adalimumab levels, and lower in patients with
      adequate adalimumab levels. However, a diagnostic study comparing a serum concentration
      guided versus usual care switching strategy has not yet been performed.

      In this multi-centre, double blinded randomized controlled trial it will be evaluated whether
      clinical outcome after switching to a subsequent biological treatment is superior with a
      switching strategy using adalimumab concentration compared to usual care switching strategy.

      Patients with rheumatoid arthritis starting another bDMARD (biologic disease modifying
      antirheumatic drugs) after adalimumab failure (defined as DAS28-CRP >2.9) are randomly
      assigned to usual care (with randomized switch to etanercept or to a non-TNFi) or 'drug
      concentration' guided switch.

      Data regarding disease status, functioning, adverse events and use of co-medication/rescue
      medication will be collected during this study.
    
  