
    
      In nationwide 10 Dizziness Clinics of Korea, consecutive patients with each type of BPPV are
      randomized to each repositioning maneuver.

      For posterior canal type of BPPV (PC-BPPV), patinets are randomized into modified Epley
      maneuver and Semont maneuver.

      Subjects Consecutive patients with a diagnosis of PC-BPPV are recruited from nationwide 10
      Dizziness Clinics in Korea. The inclusion criteria for this study were (1) a history of
      positional vertigo, (2) direction-changing positional nystagmus appropriate for each type of
      BPPV, and (3) absence of identifiable central nervous system disorders that could explain the
      positional vertigo and nystagmus. To exclude the patients with nystagmus from central
      pathologies, all patients also will receive neurotological examinations including spontaneous
      and gaze-evoked (GEN) nystagmus, horizontal and vertical smooth pursuit and saccades, limb
      ataxia, and balance function in addition to routine neurological examinations. Even in
      patients with isolated vertigo, those with central ocular motor signs, limb ataxia, and
      severe imbalance will be arranged for MRIs.

      Diagnostic procedure To induce positional nystagmus, the patients lied supine from sitting
      (lying-down nystagmus) and turned their heads to either side while in supine (head-turning
      nystagmus). Then the patients were moved from a supine to sitting position and the head was
      bent down (head-bending nystagmus). Patients were also subjected to right and left Hallpike
      maneuvers and straight head hanging test to exclude BPPV involving the posterior or anterior
      canal.

      Study design and Randomization The investigators attempt to determine the immediate
      therapeutic efficacies of Epley maneuver and Semont maneuver for PC-BPPV, repeated barbecue
      rotation maneuver and Gufoni maneuver after barbecue rotatio maneuver for geotropic HC-BPPV,
      and repeated Gufoni maneuver and head-shaking maneuvers after Gufoni maneuver in apogeotropic
      HC-BPPV by adopting a prospective randomized controlled study design.

      Based on the data from the pilot study, the investigators estimated the proportion of
      immediate resolution would be 60-70% in the repositioning groups. By adopting 0.9 power to
      detect a significant difference (p=0.05, two-sided) and a drop rate of 5%, 200 patients of
      each type of BPPV will be required for each treatment arm.

      The immediate treatment response will be determined by participating neurologists in each
      clinic without knowing the maneuver applied to each patient from 30 minutes to one hour after
      initial maneuver. The absence of both vertigo and nystagmus will be required to determine a
      resolution. When the patient still show positioning nystagmus or vertigo, the patient will be
      received the another maneuver at each protocol arm.
    
  