
    
      A major goal of patients with spinal cord injury (SCI) is to regain walking ability, as
      limitations in mobility can affect most activities of daily living. In addition, patients
      with SCI may experience a higher incidence of falls due to impaired balance and gait. Dynamic
      balance control plays a crucial role during locomotion in human SCI. Thus, improved dynamic
      balance may facilitate locomotion in this population. Current balance training paradigms can
      be effective in improving balance during standing, but are less effective in improving
      dynamic balance during locomotion in humans with SCI. Thus, there is a need to develop new
      paradigms for improving dynamic balance and locomotor function in patients with SCI. The goal
      of this study is to test whether pelvis perturbation training paired with transcutaneous
      spinal direct current stimulation (tsDCS) will be effective in improving dynamic balance and
      locomotor function in humans with SCI. We postulate that providing a perturbation force to
      the pelvis during treadmill training will increase the activation of muscles used for
      maintaining lateral balance while walking. Further, repeated activation of particular
      sensorimotor pathways may reinforce circuits and synapses used for lateral balance control
      through a use-dependent neural plasticity mechanism. However, the excitability of spinal cord
      neural circuitries may be depressed due to the reduced descending drive signals from the
      upper level control center after SCI, which may reduce the efficacy of neuralplastic changes
      achieved following rehabilitation. The excitability of neural pathways is crucial for neural
      reorganization achieved following rehabilitation. Recently studies indicate that tsDCS may
      modulate the excitability of neural circuitries of the spinal cord in patients with SCI.
      Thus, we postulate that controlled pelvis perturbation training paired with tsDCS will be
      more effective than that paired with a sham in improving dynamic balance and locomotor
      function in humans with SCI. Results obtained from this study will lead to an innovative
      clinical therapy aimed at improving balance and walking function in humans with SCI.
      Improvements in balance and walking function may allow for increased participation in
      community-based ambulation and activities, and significantly improve quality of life in
      humans with SCI.
    
  