
    
      The PERG is recorded from small metallic buttons taped on the skin similarly to an
      electrocardiogram, with the difference that the electrodes are around the eyes.

      The only physical contact you will experience is a gentle cleaning of the skin with an
      alcohol prep pad. During the test you must look with both eyes at a Television (TV) display
      for about 3 minutes. During the follow up period you may be asked to take one more PERG test
      lying down in a bed.

      This will cause a momentary increase of your eye pressure similar to the one that occurs
      during your normal sleep. This may help to understand whether or not your optic nerve
      functions normally when the pressure in your eye increases. For OCT evaluation, the pupil has
      to be dilated with drops as you did before for your eye exam. You have to briefly look at a
      mark inside the instrument one eye at a time.

      PERG and OCT will be performed during the same day of your visit with the eye doctor. If you
      have already done these tests in the past, as part of another study or as part of your
      standard treatment, the results of these tests will be obtained from your record, and be
      included in this study.

      If you are a participant in the Observation Group, you will be monitored with PERG, OCT, and
      standard clinical examinations every six months until close of study. If you are a
      participant in the Medication Group you will be also treated with eye drop medicines.

      RISKS:

      There are certain risks and discomforts that may be associated with this research. You should
      be aware that you are at risk of developing glaucoma whether you participate in the study or
      not. It is not known whether the risk of developing glaucoma is reduced by eye drops to lower
      eye pressure; the study will attempt to answer this question.

      For the PERG, the only significant risk to you is a small chance of a rash to the cleansing
      agent for skin electrodes, which should go away without treatment. For OCT, there is a rare
      risk to you of an allergic reaction to the drops used to dilate your pupils. The risk is even
      lower if you did not have any reaction during your previous eye exams. In case of an allergic
      reaction, your eye doctor will immediately treat it. If you had previous problems with pupil
      dilation, you may wish to speak to your eye doctor about the option of doing this additional
      test.
    
  