
    
      Experimental Drug Profile. The active substance of Fortelyzin is Forteplase. It's recombinant
      protein which contains aminoacid sequence of staphylokinase. It is single chain molecula,
      consists of 138 aminoacids, weight 15.5 kDa. When staphylokinase is added to human plasma
      containing a fibrin clot, it preferentially reacts with plasmin at the clot surface, forming
      a plasmin-staphylokinase complex. This complex activates plasminogen trapped in the thrombus.
      The plasmin-staphylokinase complex and plasmin bound to fibrin are protected from inhibition
      by alpha2-antiplasmin. Once liberated from the clot (or generated in plasma), however, they
      are rapidly inhibited by alpha2-antiplasmin. This selectivity of action confines the process
      of plasminogen activation to the thrombus, preventing excessive plasmin generation,
      alpha2-antiplasmin depletion, and fibrinogen degradation in plasma. In rabbits anti
      forteplase antibodies are not produced. It was achieved by replacement of amino acids in
      immunogenic epitop of molecule staphylokinase. Blood fibrinogen decrease after i.v. injection
      of Fortelyzin less 10% within first 24 hours. Angiographic data suggests that restoration of
      coronary blood flow appears in up to 80% of patients with STEMI after i.v. injection of
      Fortelyzin.

      Main goals of the study are to prove an efficacy of the single-bolus intravenous injection of
      recombinant nonimmunogenic staphylokinase (Fortelyzin) in comparison with bolus infusion
      alteplase(Actilyse) in patients with ischemic stroke.

      To prove a safety and to assess possible adverse events in the single-bolus intravenous
      injection of recombinant nonimmunogenic staphylokinase (Fortelyzin) in comparison with bolus
      infusion alteplase (Actilyse) in patients with ischemic stroke.

      Study Design. All eligible patients will be randomized in two equal groups for administration
      recombinant nonimmunogenic staphylokinase (Fortelyzin) or alteplase (Actilyse) by using
      "envelope method" of randomization. It is an open-lable study. Each of agents will be
      administered no longer then 4,5 hours from symptoms onset. Comparative agent will be
      administered as prescribed in its instructions. All patients will be examination for 90 days
    
  