
    
      70 patients with heart failure, AF and CRT with BiV<95% will be recruited from outpatient
      clinic, pacing clinic or inpatient wards. Patients will be consented and will undergo
      baseline investigation with a transthoracic 2D echocardiogram, ECG, blood tests, cardiac CT
      with perfusion imaging, 6 minute walk test (6MWT), cardio-pulmonary exercise test (CPET) and
      Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire. Patients who are successfully screened
      will be randomized 1:1 to receive AF catheter ablation rhythm control or AV-node ablation
      rate control.

      Ablation Procedure:

      Patients will receive either AF catheter ablation or AV-node ablation during the procedure.
      Patients randomised to AF catheter ablation will receive isolation of all four pulmonary
      veins and additional lesions, considered indicated by the operator. The procedure will be
      classified as successful if all four veins are isolated and the patient is in sinus rhythm.
      Patients may undergo DC-cardioversion under sedation if they remain in atrial fibrillation.
      AV-node ablation will be performed in line with current standard of care. Patients will also
      undergo additional research investigations at the time of ablation as follows:

      Acute Haemodynamic Study:

      All patients will also undergo an acute haemodynamic study with pressure wire assessment of
      both the right ventricle and the left ventricle at the start and end of the procedure. This
      involves inserting pressure wires into the RV via a vein in the groin and into the LV via an
      artery in the wrist or the groin. This will provide novel information on how AF catheter
      ablation and AV-node ablation affect cardiac contractility.

      Invasive Electroanatomical Mapping (Optional):

      This is an optional additional procedure that patients may opt into at the time of
      recruitment. This is performed during the ablation procedure with mapping catheters and
      software which are CE marked and already in clinical use. Mapping of all four cardiac
      chambers will be performed. This will be achieved via a vein and an artery in the groin. This
      will provide novel information on how AF catheter ablation and AV-node ablation affect
      electrical activation of the atria and ventricles.

      Follow-up:

      Patients will undergo a 2D transthoracic echocardiogram and ECG 1 week post ablation.
      Patients will then be followed up at 6 months with 2D transthoracic echocardiogram, ECG,
      clinical review, CPET, 6MWT, Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire and pacing
      check.

      Patients in the AF catheter ablation group who have a recurrence of AF after a 3 month
      blanking period will be permitted a re-do procedure. The follow-up investigations will take
      place 6 months after the re-do procedure. If a patient has recurrence of AF after a second
      ablation procedure and it is felt a third procedure is indicated, this will be performed
      after the six month follow-up period has ended and the patient is no longer in the study.
      They will be included in the intention-to-treat analysis.
    
  