
    
      Owing to the massive outbreak of COVID-19, as of March 9, 2020, the virus has reportedly
      caused 108,618 infections and 3,800 deaths globally. The World Health Organization (WHO) has
      declared COVID-19 disease a public health emergency of international concern. As there has
      yet been specific therapeutic or vaccine for the condition, rigorous implementation of
      traditional public health measures including isolation, quarantine, social distancing, and
      community containment is the principle strategy to control the COVID-19 epidemic. In addition
      to the isolation of confirmed COVID-19 infected patients from noninfected population, it is
      equally if not more important to quarantine asymptomatic individuals with possible exposure
      to COVID-19 in order to reduce the viral spread. Indeed, quarantine measures have been
      initiated in many countries and regions, which restrict movements of asymptomatic individuals
      with COVID-19 exposure often with fever and symptom surveillance at home or designated
      facilities for the presumed incubation period (14 days). While conceptually attractive, the
      intermittency and high dependency of selfdiscipline for body temperature and symptom
      surveillance undermine the practicality and effectiveness of the approach. Furthermore, it
      has been reported that as many as 50% of COVID-19 infected patients had not had fever until
      the full-blown disease, thereby body temperature surveillance per se may not be sufficient to
      detect early disease progression.

      In the past few decades, advances in sensor technology miniaturize electronic physiological
      sensors that could be incorporated into wearable devices allowing continuous monitoring of
      physiological parameters such as skin temperature, heart rate, respiratory rate, oxygen
      saturation, perspiration and activity of ambulatory subjects in a 24/7 basis. Together with
      current telecommunication platform capable of instantaneous and multi-directional massive
      data transfer, it is possible to remotely monitor a large number of individual subjects'
      physiological parameters in a real-time manner, and relay to managing physicians for timely
      intervention. Nonetheless, such potentials have not been fully explored in the real-world
      disease management. The current study will assess the impact of remote continuous real-time
      physiological monitoring using wearable armband device Everion® (Biofourmis, Singapore) and
      artificial intelligence-powered analytical platform Biovitals® Sentinel (Biofourmis,
      Singapore) on detection of disease progression in asymptomatic subjects with COVID-19
      exposure under mandatory quarantine at designated facilities in Hong Kong. The research
      hypothesis is that by processing continuous physiological data collected using wearable
      device Everion® and patient reported outcomes with a cloud-based analytics platform
      Biovitals® Sentinel, it will possible to detect physiological changes and other clinically
      meaningful alerts that indicate early clinical progression in quarantined subjects with
      COVID-19 exposure.

      The wearable vital sign monitor Everion® is capable to track multiple vitals sings including
      heart rate, heart rate variability, blood pulse variation, respiration rate under rest,
      activity, steps, skin temperature and etc. It is Bluetooth connected to a dedicated
      study-smartphone that allows remote transfer of all the physiological data captured by the
      wearable device in real time. A specially-designed application (APP) on the study-smartphone
      enables the patient to participate in health monitoring by reporting symptoms regularly and
      make aware of his/her physical and physiological patterns via the monitoring displays on the
      smart-phone. The patient's passive physiological data from the device and the active data on
      the symptoms and outcomes from Biovitals® analytics platform are automatically transferred to
      the monitoring console on the cloud. Thus, the Biofourmis platform solution is proposed to
      allow the monitoring team to effectively and remotely monitor COVID-19 patients and evaluate
      the disease progression. Leveraging Everion, the smartphone APP, Biovitals® analytics
      platform and the caregiver dashboard, biofourmis has built an end to end solution, Biovitals®
      Sentinel to remote monitor and manage the suspected subjects.
    
  