
    
      INVASIVE PRESSURE-DERIVED INDICES OF STENOSIS SEVERITY

      In the setting of stable coronary artery disease (CAD), PCI or coronary artery bypass
      grafting (CABG) targets coronary lesions causing inducible myocardial ischemia. With the
      advancement of technology, the development of a coronary pressure guide wire enabled to
      reliably measure coronary perfusion pressure downstream of a stenosis and therefore
      trans-stenotic pressure gradients. On the basis of comparisons to noninvasive stress tests,
      the concept of fractional flow reserve (FFR) was introduced. FFR determines the ratio of mean
      distal coronary pressure and mean aortic pressure (the effective coronary perfusion pressure)
      during (pharmacologic) hyperemia. A FFR value of near 1 is then equivalent to a totally
      normal coronary artery, whereas a cutoff of 0.75-0.80 is commonly used to determine that PCI
      is warranted.

      With FFR, pharmacologic hyperemia is mandatory to induce minimal and constant myocardial
      resistance, which is the basis to directly relate coronary pressure and flow.In contrast, the
      recently introduced concept of the instantaneous wave-free ratio (iFR) claims to obviate the
      need for administration of pharmacologic stress. Instead, coronary pressure is analyzed at
      rest and during part of coronary diastole, when myocardial resistance is thought to be
      naturally constant and minimal (the so called wave-free period).

      LIMITATIONS OF PRESSURE-DERIVED INDICES OF STENOSIS SEVERITY IN DEFINING THE ISCHEMIC
      THRESHOLD

      A major limitation of pressure-derived indices of stenosis severity is related to the
      assumption of oversimplified physiologic concepts. Clinically, the diagnostic accuracy of FFR
      is restricted in three scenarios. Firstly, the pressure gradient evaluated by FFR is
      critically dependent on the magnitude of resistance offered by the microcirculation. With
      microvascular dysfunction, microvascular resistance remains inadequately high during
      pharmacologic hyperemia, meaning that the pressure gradient across the stenosis does not
      reflect the epicardial stenosis severity (overestimation of FFR).

      Secondly, with a focal stenosis, but well-preserved microvascular function and minimal
      diffuse atherosclerosis, hyperemic coronary flow (although reduced) may still be above the
      ischemic threshold, although the pressure gradient suggests otherwise. Thirdly, with severe
      diffuse coronary atherosclerosis, coronary flow may be reduced below the ischemic threshold,
      but with only an insignificant fall in the hyperemic pressure gradient (FFR). In summary,
      although FFR claims otherwise, the ischemic threshold set by FFR is unreliable in a
      significant proportion of pathophysiological and clinical scenarios.

      DIRECT ASSESSMENT OF REVERSIBLE MYOCARDIAL ISCHEMIA BY INTRACORONARY ELECTROCARDIOGRAM

      The electrocardiogram (ECG) is an indispensable tool in the diagnosis of myocardial ischemia.
      The commonly used surface ECG is however limited especially in detecting short-lasting, or
      minor myocardial ischemia. Furthermore, ischemia in the territory of the left circumflex
      coronary artery is often undetected. Conversely, due to its close vicinity to the myocardium,
      the intracoronary ECG (icECG) is much more sensitive in detecting acute myocardial ischemia.
      The icECG is obtained by attaching a reusable alligator clamp to a coronary guidewire. With
      the guidewire positioned in a coronary artery, the derived (pseudo)unipolar icECG reflects
      local epicardial ECG.

      The value of the icECG was first shown by Friedman et al. Unipolar icECG was recorded during
      balloon dilatation of coronary stenosis from the guidewire positioned across the stenosis to
      be dilated. Ischemic changes in icECG was observed in 72% of stenoses dilated. In the cases
      with no ischemic changes, either a prior myocardial infarction in the territory undergoing
      balloon dilatation or angiographic collaterals were present, consistent with the notion that
      ischemia was not inducible in nonviable myocardium or prevented by sufficient collaterals. Of
      note, ST changes in the surface ECG were seen in only 31% of cases.

      With acute and complete coronary occlusion, perfusion to the dependent territory is usually
      severely reduced which explains the frequent occurrence of icECG changes. However, the
      usefulness of the icECG has also been shown with partial coronary occlusion. Experimentally,
      Battler et al. demonstrated that during a partial stenosis producing only mild regional
      dysfunction, significant ST segment changes in regional epicardial ECG could be observed
      after 2-3 minutes. Clinically, Hishikari et al. showed in patients with non-ST-segment
      elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) that ST-segment-elevation in the icECG (icECG-STE)
      was observed in 27.6% of patients before PCI and was more common with LCX culprit lesions.
      Furthermore, in multivariate analysis, icECG-STE predicted greater peak values of troponin
      levels, consistent with greater myocardial injury. Similarly, but in patients undergoing
      elective PCI, Uetani et al. showed that icECG provided a useful method to predict
      post-procedural myocardial injury.

      With regard to detection of inducible ischemia by pharmacologic (vasodilator) stress, Balian
      et al. compared STsegment shift in the icECG (IST) during intravenous adenosine infusion with
      FFR in 48 patients. 81% of patients with an FFR ≤0.80 showed IST during adenosine infusion,
      while 14% had IST with an FFR >0.80. As a major limitation, the study compared icECG findings
      only with FFR and therefore, the mechanism of discordant results remained unclear.
      Furthermore, the choice of the pharmacologic stressor was questionable: the perfusion
      abnormalities induced by adenosine are the result of flow heterogeneity, in contrast to
      exercise (or inotropic pharmacologic stress, eg. dobutamine), where the perfusion
      abnormalities are the result of myocardial ischemia (detectable by the electrocardiogram).

      Thus, the goal of this study is to test the accuracy of intracoronary (ic) ECG during
      pharmacologic inotropic stress (i.e. Imitation of daily physical activity) to determine
      significant coronary lesions in comparison with established physiologic indices (fractional
      flow reserve (FFR), instantaneous wave-free ratio (iFR)) as well as with quantitatively
      determined percent diameter stenosis (%S) using biplane coronary angiography.
    
  