
    
      The World Health Organisation (WHO) estimates that (about 340 million population) 1 million
      annually health life years are lost by environmental noise exposure in high-income countries
      of Western Europe. Aircraft noise is thereby assessed at comparable volume as unpleasant as
      road and rail noise. Epidemiological studies have found a link between aircraft noise
      exposure and increased incidence of arterial hypertension and thus cardiovascular disease.
      The underlying pathophysiological mechanisms are not yet fully understood.

      The kidney acts as a long-term regulator of blood pressure and controls the extracellular
      sodium and water balance. Significant renal mechanisms of blood pressure regulation are the
      renin angiotensin system, renal sympathetic activity and sodium excretion. Animal work and
      clinical studies show that mental stress affects the renal plasma flow and urinary sodium
      excretion. In spontaneously hypertensive rats environmental stress resulted in sodium
      retention, triggered by increased renal sympathetic nerve activity, which is the development
      of arterial hypertension. In a pilot study in subjects at risk for developing arterial
      hypertension, the investigator observed a lower sodium excretion by mental stress. In healthy
      volunteers, a 30-minute mental stress test resulted in increased glomerular filtration rate,
      filtration fraction and an increase in urinary sodium excretion.

      In the rabbit noise exposure leads to an increase of frequency and amplitude of discharges of
      renal sympathetic nerve activity and accompanied by a reduction of renal plasma flow. The
      impact of aircraft noise on renal plasma flow and urinary sodium excretion has, to our
      knowledge, so far not been studied in humans.

      In this pilot study the Clinical Research Center investigate the influence of 30 minutes
      standardized aircraft noise on renal hemodynamics.

      Hemodynamic renal changes should be considered in the context of the systemic circulation.
      Therefore, the central hemodynamics is determined in the present pilot study by bioimpedance
      cardiography.
    
  