
    
      Background

      The World Health Organization (WHO) defines stroke as rapidly developing clinical signs of
      focal or global disturbance of cerebral function, with symptoms lasting more than 24 hours or
      leading to death and with no apparent non-vascular cause. The incidence of stroke in Sweden
      is 300 cases per 100.000 inhabitants in a year of whom 200 suffer the first incidence of
      stroke leading to 18.000 new stroke victims. Of these, about 20% will die within the first
      month and about 1/3 of the survivors will remain significantly disabled after 6-12 months.

      The upper extremity function is impaired after stroke in approximately 70-80% of patients in
      the acute phase and in 40% in chronic phase. This impairment limits the voluntary,
      well-coordinated, and effective movements as well as a person's level of activity and
      participation in their social and physical environment. This longstanding disability also
      affects the quality of life. Improved upper extremity function is one of the suggested areas
      for research by survivors of stroke.

      Objectives

      Primary Objective:

      Investigate the effectiveness of electromyography-controlled augmented reality, and serious
      gaming on upper extremity functionality in patients in the chronic recovery stage after
      stroke, measure with FMA-UE and ARAT tests

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  Investigate changes in the movement quality when performing a daily task using kinematic
           analysis and perceived difficulties in daily activities.

        -  Measure how strength changes on the affected limb after the treatment. Measure by a
           dynamometer.

        -  Measure with embodiment questioner if the treatment makes some changes on the embodiment
           of the affected limb.

        -  Measure with thermography the skin temperature differences between the affected and
           non-affected limb pre- and post-treatment.

      Tertiary Objectives:

      The tertiary objectives of this study are to investigate the effect of training on
      electromyography-based pattern recognition accuracy and Targeted Achievement Control scores,
      changes in kinematics, and changes in ABILHAND, Barthel index, muscle tone, and sensation
      scores in the affected limb over the recovery period.

      Study Design

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria for prospective patients will be addressed at the first
      measurement session. Baseline measurements will start at week 1 and, if necessary, inclusion
      and exclusion criteria will be reassessed.

      Patients will undergo a single subject design (A-B-A-FU). Intervention stages are as follows:

      A (Baseline). 2-3 weeks of no intervention with measurements taken once or twice per week,
      with a minimum of 3 assessments.

      B (Intervention). 6 weeks of intervention three times per week with measurements taken once
      per week (18 sessions).

      A (Reversal). 2-3 weeks of no intervention with measurements taken once or twice per week,
      with a minimum of 3 assessments.

      FU (Follow-up). Follow-up measurements taken after 3 months without treatment.

      Treatment Administration

      Surface electrodes and a tracking marker are placed on the subject's affected upper
      extremity. Electrodes are placed on active muscle sites along the affected extremity
      determined by palpation. If no active sites can be determined, electrodes are placed along
      with major muscle groups regardless of activation. Electrodes are fixed to an
      electromyography recording device, and signal acquisition and processing software (BioPatRec)
      is used to record electromyography (EMG) signals and display feedback. EMG signals are
      observed, and the most active electrode locations are documented and used for further
      experiments.

      The subject should attempt to perform different hand and arm movements with the extremity
      indicated by a nearby computer screen while the computer records EMG signals from the arm
      (referred to as offline training). Agonist-antagonist movement pairs should always be used in
      combination when selecting movements. Treatment sessions should start with one movement pair
      at a time and progress to multiple and simultaneous movements as treatment progresses and the
      patients perform better with the system.

      The computer system recognizes the different movements while the computer system records
      closely related EMG signals and will perform the subject's intended movements with a
      computer-simulated upper extremity.

      The subject will then use previously recorded movements to control a computer-simulated limb
      and attempt to match limb positions indicated on the computer screen. The system will measure
      how fast and how efficiently the subject reaches the target position with the simulated
      extremity Targeted Achievement Control (TAC Test). TAC tests will initially involve control
      over one degree of freedom at a time, e.g. rotation of the wrist or open/close hand
      movements. As the patient gains better control of their affected extremity and learn to use
      the system, the difficulty of the TAC Tests will be increased by adding additional and
      simultaneous movements.

      Duration of the Treatment:

      Each intervention session should take approximately two hours. The intervention stage of the
      trial will last six weeks with three sessions per week, total of 18 sessions.
    
  