
    
      Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic inflammatory autoimmune disease affecting
      many organ systems. SLE includes a wide spectrum of severity, ranging from relatively mild
      manifestations (e.g. skin rash or non-erosive arthritis) to seriously disabling or even life
      threatening complications, such as lupus nephritis (LN) and neuropsychiatric disorders . LN
      is one of the most serious SLE complications since it is the major predictor of poor
      prognosis .

      Lupus nephritis is a common major organ manifestation and main cause of morbidity and
      mortality of the disease. It is occurred in 30-50% of SLE patients at initial diagnosis and
      more prevalent in Asians and Blacks than other races . Approximately, 10-30% of LN patients
      will develop the end-stage renal disease (ESRD) within 15 years after diagnosis. The 5-year
      survival rate of a patient with severe LN is less than70-80% . Therefore, the diagnosis of
      SLE patients with LN has an important clinical implication in guiding the treatment of SLE in
      clinical settings.

      Renal biopsies have remained the "gold standard" of assessing lupus nephritis (LN) patients
      not only at diagnosis but also to assess the efficacy of treatment. In contrast, current
      noninvasive laboratory markers for LN such as proteinuria, urine protein to creatinine ratio,
      creatinine clearance, antidsDNA, and complement levels are unsatisfactory because they lack
      sensitivity and specificity for differentiating renal activity and damage in LN.

      The search for an accurate and reliable biomarker for lupus nephritis is particularly
      important since the only reliable method to evaluate it is by performing a kidney biopsy,
      that is an invasive procedure may not always be feasible. So significant effort has been put
      into identifying biomarkers that can anticipate impending lupus renal flare, forecast
      development of chronic kidney disease, or reflect kidney histology at time of flare .

      Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP1) is a chemokine that attracts monocytes/macrophages
      to sites of inflammation. MCP-1 is produced by mesangial, podocyte, and monocyte cells in
      response to various proinflammatory stimuli such as tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-
    
  