
    
      With an increasing amount of young women undergoing cervical surgery for the treatment of
      CIN, the fertility consequences need to be investigated. Infertility is estimated to affect
      approximately one in six to one in ten couples and only about half of these seek medical
      assistance. Causes of infertility include anovulation, tubal occlusion, endometriosis,
      cervical and male factor. In approximately one third of cases, there is no cause found as to
      why a couple are unable to conceive.

      Many recent studies have looked at the likely association between cervical surgery and
      increased risk of preterm labour. It has also been suggested in an Australian study that even
      women with untreated CIN have a higher risk for preterm delivery, although it is unclear
      whether this is related to the CIN itself, HPV effect or inflammatory changes in the cervix.
      Studies are needed to clarify this further.

      There are few studies published in the literature, investigating the possibility that
      cervical surgery has an effect on long term fertility. Most of these studies are small and
      under-powered.

      Kennedy et al in 1993 raised the possibility of cervical stenosis and amucorrhoea following
      LLETZ in their retrospective study. In this study, 15 out of 2315 women who had LLETZ, were
      subsequently seen in a fertility clinic. 2 out of these 15 women studied had cervical
      stenosis. The authors advised caution with the use of LLETZ in young women with mild to
      moderate dyskaryosis, although the investigators did concede that their numbers were small to
      draw definite conclusions.

      Bigrigg et al in 1994 performed a case controlled questionnaire regarding the safety and
      efficacy of LLETZ and this involved questions regarding infertility. There were 250 matched
      pairs- women who had had a LLETZ (study group) and those women identified who had normal
      cytology from their database (control group), for the entire study, but only 134 women
      answered the questions on infertility (72 in the LLETZ group and 62 in the control group).
      The investigators reported no apparent difference in infertility between the groups. Again
      this study was limited by size -72 in the study group and 62 in the control group could
      remember how long it took to conceive.

      Cruickshank et al in 1995, followed up 653 women following LLETZ with a questionnaire and
      found that none of the women subsequently investigated for infertility were found to have
      cervical stenosis or amucorrhoea. Again this study was limited by size and incomplete
      response rates. Of the 653 women, the majority reported that they had not stopped
      contraception since their treatment - 452. Only 57 women reported trying to become pregnant,
      of whom 11 succeeded, but 144 women did not answer this question on intention to become
      pregnant. It is difficult to draw conclusions from this incomplete data and small numbers

      As the cervix is necessary for sperm transit and subsequent fertility, it is likely that
      factors, which affect the cervix, would also affect fertility. Therefore, women who attend
      colposcopy for abnormal cervical cytology may be already at increased risk of fertility
      problems which treatments such as surgery may accentuate.

      In relation to cervical surgery, three potential mechanisms of damage have been proposed:

        1. Cervical stenosis - needs to be complete to prevent sperm entry.

        2. Secondary infection leading to ascending infection and tubal damage.

        3. Changes in physical characteristics of cervical mucus.

      However it must be noted that not all surgery on the cervix is the same. Specimens from LLETZ
      and cone treatments vary in size considerably and as would be intuitively suspected but also
      has been confirmed by studies, the thickness and volume of the specimens can predict the
      relative risk of pregnancy related morbidity. No study has looked at whether this size effect
      also relates to fertility.

      Some studies suggest that sub-fertile women who attend for IVF are more likely to have
      abnormal cervical cytology. As this is HPV related, they may also be more likely to have had
      other sexually transmitted infections. These may have caused tubal damage, thus leading to
      infertility problems.

      The psychological impact of receiving abnormal smear results and having to attend colposcopy
      has also been investigated. Recent studies now show that women are concerned and have anxiety
      about the potential effect that such results and treatments will have on patients' long term
      fertility. To be able to adequately reassure women that there will be no negative
      consequences to their reproductive health it is vital that the investigators research the
      fertility effects as well as the obstetric effects that possible treatments may have.

      The investigators would like to investigate the relationship between cervical surgery and
      infertility in a large group of women who have attended the colposcopy clinic in the National
      Maternity Hospital, Holles Street between the years 2001 and 2007.
    
  