
    
      Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) is a minimally invasive technique for treatment
      of superficial femoropopliteal artery (SFA) obstructions or occlusions in patients with
      intermittent claudication as well as critical limb ischemia. Initial technical success rates
      of above 95% can be achieved and acceptably low rates of complications are consistently
      reported in the literature. There is a direct relation between treated vessel length and
      patency rates. One year patency of lesions longer than 10cm has only been 22% at one-year
      follow up. This major drawback limits a widespread applicability of PTA, and the indication
      of PTA particularly in patients with intermittent claudication is discussed controversially.

      With the introduction of endovascular stents, the problems of elastic recoil and residual
      stenoses due to arterial dissection could be resolved and initial reports of stenting for the
      treatment of occlusive atherosclerotic disease of the SFA showed promising results with
      primary and secondary patency rates of 87% to 90% after 18 months. However, subsequent
      studies demonstrated that exaggerated neo-intimal hyperplasia in the stented segment
      frequently leads to instent restenosis. This condition will be of greater importance with
      increasing number of stent implantation procedures during the last years. Repeated PTA of
      instent restenosis is performed for revascularisation in these patients, but the gold
      standard for treatment of instent restenosis is unknown and the rate of recurrence after
      repeat treatment of instent restenosis remains high. The concept of cutting balloon seems
      appealing for this indication, as the balloon-mounted microtomes guarantee smooth lumen gain
      within the stent, without the risk of vessel wall perforation (due to the protecting effect
      of the stent as the outer limit for the microtomes).

      Initial reports of the use of the cutting balloon for the treatment of occlusive
      atherosclerotic disease of the SFA show promising results, indicating that the problems of
      elastic recoil and residual stenoses due to arterial dissection might be resolved. The
      cutting balloon has four tiny microtomes (< 0.1mm height) on the outside, which cut the
      fibrous plaque during expansion of the balloon. Consequently the problem of elastic recoil is
      ideally addressed, additionally less trauma is exercised on the vessel wall during dilatation
      of the balloon. This might be achieved by a reduction of vessel wall trauma, vessel wall
      inflammation and consequently reduced neointimal formation. The cutting balloon can be used
      for pre-dilatation with diameters slightly less than the target vessel diameter, but still
      cuts the fibrous plaque, the desired target vessel diameter is then achieved by final touch
      up dilatation with a standard angioplasty balloon. In the coronary arteries the cutting
      balloon has been used in randomized studies comparing CB-PTCA to PTCA, as well as in trials
      for the treatment of in-stent restenosis. All of these trials demonstrated the safety and
      efficacy of the cutting balloon, only larger randomized trials failed to proof superiority to
      conventional PTCA. Data in the peripheral arteries are at least scarce. Although the
      indications for CB-PTA in the SFA includes significant residual stenosis or in-stent
      restenosis, there are currently no published randomized controlled trials (RCT) comparing PTA
      vs. cutting balloon angioplasty (CB-PTA) for any specific condition. This lack of data led us
      to initiate a RCT comparing primary PTA vs. CB-PTA for treatment of in-stent restenoses in
      patients with intermittent claudication or critical limb ischemia with TASC category A-B in
      the femoropopliteal artery . The primary endpoint is the occurrence of restenosis as an
      ultrasonographic reduction of the vessel lumen diameter >50% within 6 months after
      endovascular treatment. In addition, the course of postintervention inflammation as indicated
      by serum levels of C-reactive protein (CRP), serum amyloid A (SAA) and fibrinogen will be
      assessed.

      STUDY DESIGN, INCLUSION AND EXCLUSION CRITERIA. Patients with in-stent restenosis
      (ultrasonographic stenosis > 50% of the vessel lumen diameter) after prior PTA and Stent
      placement of the SFA will be enrolled to this single-center prospective RCT. The protocol has
      to be approved by the institutional ethics committee and all patients have to provide written
      informed consent before enrollment. Entry criteria include symptomatic peripheral artery
      disease with intermittent claudication (Fontaine stage IIa or b), or critical limb ischemia
      related to a recurrent stenosis in a previously stented segment of up to 20 cm length.
      Exclusion criteria history of intolerance of anti-platelet therapy, or adverse reaction to
      heparin, bleeding diathesis, creatinine >2.5 mg/dL, hemodialysis, active bacterial infection,
      and allergy to contrast media, pregnancy and disability to give informed consent.

      FOLLOW-UP. ABI testing, treadmill exercise, and Duplex-sonography of the treated vessels will
      be performed in all patients at 1, 3, and 6 months after treatment. A peak systolic velocity
      of ≥ 2.4 was considered indicative of a >50% narrowing and was defined as indicative of a
      restenosis10. Reintervention or surgical bypass at the treated segment are also defined as a
      restenosis and loss of primary patency. An improvement of at least one Fontaine category
      above baseline is used to define clinical success in association with maintenance of at least
      a 0.15 increase in exercise ABI from the preprocedure level.

      COMPLICATIONS are classified as either major or minor (as described in Appendix A). Major
      complications are e.g. bleedings at the puncture side with hematoma and a decrease of serum
      hemoglobin more than 2 g/dl, loss of stent in the artery , vessel rupture, amputation,
      macroembolisation with need for further revascularisation and life threatening bleeding
      complications.

      STUDY ENDPOINTS. The primary study endpoint is the occurrence of a >50% restenosis at the
      treated segment at 6 months post-intervention as determined by duplex ultrasound (in-segment
      restenosis). Secondary objectives are primary technical success rates (residual stenosis <30%
      without need for secondary stent implantation, primary assisted and secondary patency,
      clinical patency, target vessel and target lesion revascularization, and cardiovascular
      adverse events at 1, 3, and 6 months after the procedure. Furthermore, the course of
      inflammatory parameters will be assessed.
    
  