
    
      Specific Aim 1: Utilizing a gold standard sham controlled randomized trial design, we will
      evaluate the change in pain, back related disability and quality of life in Veterans with
      CLBP who utilize either a custom foot orthotic or a sham orthotic.

      As part of this aim the investigators will build on the teams strength of recruiting and
      enrolling Veteran's with CLBP into a randomized trial. The investigators will collect
      baseline pain and disability measures utilizing validated tools. Once the patients are
      enrolled, utilizing the "gold standard" placebo controlled design the investigators will
      randomize patients to receive either a custom foot orthotic or a sham orthotic. The Veterans
      will then be assessed at 5, 12 and 24-weeks post baseline to evaluate differences in pain and
      disability. Based on previous studies on the effectiveness of custom foot orthotics the
      investigators hypothesize that that Veteran's who receive the custom orthotic will experience
      less pain and disability as compared to those who receive the sham orthotics.

      Specific Aim 2: To evaluate baseline characteristics of Veterans with CLBP predictive of
      responsiveness to custom foot orthotics including age, BMI, psychosocial characteristics and
      arch classification.

      Focusing on the Veterans who receive the custom foot orthotic, the investigators next examine
      the important characteristics that may predict those Veterans who are most likely to benefit
      from wearing custom foot orthotics. Assessing potential confounders or facilitators of
      effectiveness of the custom foot orthotic will allow the investigators to best describe
      potential mechanisms of responsiveness. The investigators have chosen previously described
      confounders to responsiveness to treatment of CLBP, specifically age, body mass index and
      psychosocial characteristics. This methodology is particularly important in a sham controlled
      trial to assess if effectiveness or lack of thereof, is a factor of the intervention or from
      other confounding variables. The investigators have also chosen to evaluate the arch
      classification based on the measurement of the Veterans arch; again this allows for specific
      recommendations concerning use of this product. Based on previous studies on the
      effectiveness of custom foot orthotics in addition to previous studies evaluating CLBP the
      investigators hypothesize that those Veterans who are older, have a higher BMI and greater
      fear avoidance belief scores will show less responsiveness to the custom foot orthotics as
      compared to those younger Veterans who have a lower BMI and lower fear avoidance belief
      scores. In addition based on previous biomechanical literature, the investigators feel that
      those Veterans with a lower arch will show the greatest responsiveness to the custom foot
      orthotic.
    
  