
    
      Extremity amputations are common operations both in the United States and other areas of the
      world. It is estimated that there are nearly 2 million adults living in the United States
      alone. Etiologies for extremity amputation are diverse but the most common indications
      include complications of type 2 diabetes, non-diabetic peripheral vascular disease, trauma,
      and oncologic conditions. Given the increasing prevalence of several of these pathologies,
      conservative estimates suggest that the population of people living with an amputated limb
      will likely double within the next several decades.

      Patients who undergo limb amputation are at significant risk of developing chronic
      neuropathic pain as a result of symptomatic neuroma formation, due in large part to the
      abundance of sizeable nerves within the extremities that are necessarily transected as part
      of the procedure. There are two distinct forms of pain experienced by patients who have
      undergone major extremity amputations. Residual limb pain is the more straightforward form of
      post-amputation pain attributable to neuroma formation within the amputation stump. Following
      peripheral nerve transection, axons regenerating from the proximal stump tend to form
      aggregates of disorganized neural growth called neuromas. Some neuromas will produce severe,
      intractable pain causing significant impairment in prosthetic fit and function, activities of
      daily living, and quality of life. Some estimates place the prevalence of residual limb pain
      attributable to neuroma formation as high as 75%. The other form of pain is known as phantom
      limb pain. While the underpinnings of phantom limb pain are the subject of ongoing debate, it
      is thought by many to arise from chronic stimulation of the cerebral cortex with painful
      inputs from peripheral neuromas, leading to unpredictable and poorly characterized
      reorganization of the cortex. Informed estimates of phantom limb pain prevalence as high as
      85% have been reported. Successful prevention and treatment of symptomatic neuromas in the
      setting of limb amputation is therefore of paramount importance given the central role in the
      pathogenesis of chronic post-amputation limb pain encompassing both residual limb pain and
      phantom limb pain.

      Treatment options for chronic post amputation pain caused by symptomatic neuromas are
      diverse. Medical options for both phantom limb pain and residual limb pain have been met with
      limited success. Despite the widespread use, the utility of neuromodulating medications, such
      as gabapentin, has been called into question by recent large scale meta-analyses that failed
      to demonstrate meaningful improvements. Neurotoxins, such as botulinum toxin, have also been
      studied and found to offer limited, if any, pain resolution.

      One of the most commonly used surgical approaches to treat and prevent symptomatic neuromas
      involves burying the proximal nerve stump into nearby muscle. There is a widely-held
      misconception that burying a proximal nerve stump into muscle will prevent a neuroma from
      forming. However, elegant animal studies have proven that regeneration of a neuroma is
      virtually guaranteed because innervated muscle will not accept additional innervation from
      regenerating neurons.

      In the past decade, two other surgical treatments for chronic post-amputation limb pain have
      come into vogue. Targeted muscle reinnervation (TMR) was initially pioneered as a means of
      providing intuitive control of advanced prostheses and only later observed to reduce neuroma
      pain. TMR involves transferring the proximal nerve stump of the injured nerve into a nearby
      distal motor branch. Early results are promising. A recently published randomized, controlled
      trial demonstrated the superiority of the TMR approach over the 'bury in muscle' approach, so
      much so that the trial concluded prematurely due to the superiority of the TMR compared to
      the historical technique.

      The other recently developed and widely popularized option for surgical treatment of chronic
      post-amputation limb pain involves creation of a regenerative peripheral nerve interface
      (RPNI). Similar to TMR, the RPNI was initially conceived as a method to provide an interface
      with an advanced neuroprosthetic prior to being employed as a treatment strategy for
      neuromas. RPNIs are muscle grafts that are coapted to the ends of severed proximal nerve
      stumps. This technique has gained popularity because of its technical simplicity and
      promising early clinical data. In contrast to the 'bury in muscle' approach, RPNIs are
      denervated at the time of harvest and have been shown to accept reinnervation via direct
      neurotization from the proximal nerve stump.

      To address possible limitations of the strategies described above, the investigators propose
      using muscle targets similar to RPNIs but maintaining vascularity - a vascularized,
      denervated muscle target (VDMT). This is accomplished by raising a portion of muscle on a
      vascular leash in proximity to the transected nerve. Perforating branches from larger blood
      vessels that perfuse adjacent muscle can be found in abundance throughout the extremities.
      Any nerves traveling with the vascular leashes will be divided to ensure complete denervation
      of the muscle. Therefore, VDMTs will be receptive to reinnervation from the implanted
      proximal nerve stump, maintain vascularity such that the VDMTs can be large enough to supply
      an abundance of sensory receptors (spindle cells, Golgi apparati, etc) to accept regenerating
      axons, and avoid the use of a nerve coaptation. In short, the VDMT offers possible
      enhancements to the surgical techniques currently in use.

      In terms of surgical outcomes, there is a robust body of data surrounding the TMR and RPNI
      operations, with some more recent reports providing pre- and post-operative pain scores for
      the individual operations. With the exception of one study that prospectively compared TMR to
      the historical gold standard of neuroma excision and implantation into surrounding tissue,
      there is a startling lack of prospective data on pain outcomes. Furthermore, the
      investigators are not aware of prospective, head-to-head comparative data for RPNI vs TMR.
      Robust, prospective, comparative data is now needed to validate the VDMT approach and assess
      its efficacy in comparison to the other established techniques.

      It is of prime importance to surgeons who perform extremity amputations (eg orthopedic
      surgeons, vascular surgeons, trauma surgeons, plastic surgeons, and podiatrists) as well as
      those who perform salvage procedures for post-amputation extremity pain to understand the
      potential of these operations in treating this pain. Physicians are still lacking
      evidence-based treatment guidelines. With the generation of this data, surgeons and patients
      can make more informed decisions about which operative intervention provides the highest
      likelihood of durable, significant pain relief.
    
  