
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate 2 year progression-free survival in patients with breast cancer more than 1 cm
      and/or lymph node positive breast cancer treated with weekly Carboplatin/Nab-Paclitaxel (with
      trastuzumab in patients with HER2+ disease, and with bevacizumab in HER2-).

      II. To measure clinical response rates in patients treated in the neoadjuvant setting.

      III. To measure the microscopic pathological response rate of this regimen in patients
      treated in the neoadjuvant setting.

      IV. To measure the toxicity and delivered dose intensity of this regimen. V. To assess the
      association between microscopic pathologic complete response and clinical complete response
      at the primary tumor site in these patients.

      VI. To measure the outcome of patients treated with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide with
      patients not treated with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Develop quantitative analysis methods to obtain pre-treatment tumor characteristic
      morphological, enhancement kinetic, and Choline metabolic parameters in breast cancer. Select
      an optimal set of features using the logistic regression analysis and the Artificial Neural
      Network (ANN) to predict pathologic complete remission (pCR) in HER-2 positive and negative
      arm.

      II. Investigate whether the early response patterns, analyzed using the percent tumor size
      changes, or changes in other lesion characteristic parameters, can be used to predict
      pathologic complete remission (pCR) in HER-2 positive and negative arm.

      III. Investigate whether combining the pre-treatment tumor characteristic parameters, and the
      early response pattern during the treatment course, can achieve a higher "area under the
      receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve" (AUC) in prediction of pCR than those based on
      pre-treatment MRI characteristics or tumor response patterns alone.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation IV over 30
      minutes and carboplatin IV over 60 minutes once weekly for 12 weeks. Patients with
      HER2-positive disease receive trastuzumab IV over 30-90 minutes once weekly for 12 weeks and
      patients with HER2-negative disease receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes once every two
      weeks for 5 doses. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Beginning 21-40 days later, patients undergo surgery.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 5 years.
    
  