
    
      Probiotics were defined as an ''live microorganisms, which, when administered in adequate
      amounts, conferred a health benefit on the host. Before 2005, some animal experiments
      indicated that probiotics could help weight gain. In 2006, there was a team observed the
      growth of infants who received infant formula with probiotics. The study found that infants
      who received infant formula with probiotics for half a year had higher height and weight than
      infants who received regular formula, and the defecation frequency was increased. So far,
      clinical studies had proved that probiotics had an efficacy on gastrointestinal immune
      regulation. Some studies had found that concentrated preparations mixed with various
      probiotics had therapeutic effects on inflammatory bowel diseases. The latest double-blind
      study of infants with acute diarrhoea showed that oral dehydration supplements enriched
      probiotics and zinc could reduce the severity of diarrhoea on day 2 without any side effects.
      Therefore, more and more probiotic clinical studies had suggested that probiotics could be
      used to regulate gastrointestinal related diseases.

      According to statistics, the proportion of atopic dermatitis in infants and children
      worldwide is about 10-20%, and about 30% of toddlers with more than three episodes of
      wheezing bronchitis may develop persistent asthma. Therefore, how to effectively prevent the
      occurrence of allergic diseases was still an urgent goal for infants and young children.
      There is now evidence in mice and humans of an early-life "critical window" in which the
      effects of gut microbial dysbiosis are most influential in human immune development.
      Investigators showed that infants at risk of asthma exhibited transient gut microbial
      dysbiosis during the first 100 days of life. Inoculation of the relatively lower abundance of
      the genus to asthmatic mice ameliorated airway inflammation. These results enhanced the
      potential for future microbe-based diagnostics and therapies, potentially in the form of
      probiotics, to prevent the development of asthma and other related allergic diseases in
      children.

      In addition, respiratory infections were diseases that needed attention during the growth
      phase of infants and young children. The most common treatment for respiratory infections or
      acute otitis media in infants and young children was using antibiotics, but antibiotic
      treatment might lead to antibiotic resistance and intestinal microbial disorders, which might
      promote colonization of pathogens. In recent years, probiotics had attracted more and more
      attention for the prevention of respiratory infections. For example, investigators showed
      that using Bifidobacterium probiotics in children before 2 years old might reduce the
      incidence of respiratory infections.

      Based on the above studies, Investigators will use infant formula with probiotics to infants.
      The study will assess the growth, incidence of allergies, gastroenteritis and respiratory
      infections of infants. This observational study will be conducted at the China Medical
      University Children's Hospital performed a double-blind randomized trial.

      The trial will be divided into three groups, the experimental group: (I) probiotic A formula,
      (II) probiotic B formula; control group: (III) regular formula (Youluck infant formula).
      Inclusion criteria included: (1) the normal spontaneous delivery (NSD) full-term health
      infants (≧37 weeks) and birth weight more than 2500 grams and (2) subjects who are expected
      to breastfeed are eligible for the trial after informed consent form is signed by the
      parents. Exclusion criteria included: infants with chronic diarrhea, hemangioma, cerebral
      hemorrhage, severe asphyxia (stage III), fetal chromosomal abnormalities, cyanotic congenital
      heart disease, intestinal hypoplasia or abnormal immune function after birth, liver failure,
      breastfeeding within two months after birth, taking other probiotic products within two weeks
      after birth, treatment with antibiotics during acute infection and diagnosis of allergies,
      gastroenteritis, respiratory infections will be excluded. The study will be conducted for
      half a year, 5 cans of Youluck infant formula are provided for each subject during the test
      period. The Youluck infant formula is sponsored free of charge by glac biotech Co., Ltd.
      During hospitalization, the infant will be feed by same group of experienced nurses and all
      infants will be monitored for adverse conditions such as vomiting, diarrhea or bloating every
      day. After the study is completed, the remaining probiotic milk powder will be subjected to
      high temperature and high pressure for sterilization, and then placed in an infectious
      garbage bag or infective trash can, and destructed by a cleaning company.

      Sample size calculation is based on the literature. The incidence of enteritis, allergic
      disease or respiratory infection in infants is about 30%. Investigators assume that the
      experimental group has a 50% improvement compared with the control group. If investigators
      allow 5% chance of type 1 error (α=0.05) and 10% chance of type 2 error (β=0.1), then the
      required sample size in each group will be 60 people (total 180 infants in three groups).

      The research data will be based on International Business Machines Statistical Product and
      Service Solutions (IBM SPSS) for analytical statistics. Normally distributed data were
      analyzed using Student's t-test two-tailed assay, and non-normally distributed data were
      analyzed using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test. Data were presented as mean ± standard
      deviation (SEM) or median, with P values < 0.05 being considered statistically significant.
    
  