
    
      Obesity is a dominant risk factor for the development of cardiovascular disease (CVD). The
      public health relevance of this relationship is underscored by the fact that 40% (93 million)
      of adult Americans are obese.

      Activation of the mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) is a major mechanism implicated in the
      pathogenesis of obesity-associated CVD. MR activation causes vascular stiffness,
      inflammation, and fibrosis, and MR antagonists improve clinical outcomes in heart failure
      with reduced ejection fraction, especially in obesity. However, even in the absence of heart
      failure, multiple mechanisms of CVD in obesity are mediated by excessive activation of the
      MR. These mechanisms include: autonomous aldosterone production, increased cortisol action,
      high sympathetic nervous system activity, increased leptin, inflammation, and oxidative
      stress.

      Autonomous aldosterone production is a highly prevalent and poorly recognized disorder that
      causes CVD independent of blood pressure (BP). Autonomous aldosterone production manifests
      across a wide severity spectrum, ranging from mild/subclinical (rarely recognized) to overt
      (primary aldosteronism). The investigators' work has characterized autonomous aldosterone
      production as a phenotype of non-physiologic, non-suppressible, and renin-independent
      aldosterone production that is highly prevalent in the general population of the U.S.A..

      Autonomous aldosterone production and MR activation are especially enriched in obesity,
      particularly among obese/overweight individuals with hypertension and/or metabolic syndrome.
      Current treatment guidelines do not recommend the early use of MR antagonists in obesity or
      hypertension, thereby delaying or omitting a targeted therapy that may specifically mitigate
      the mechanism of CVD in this high-risk population.

      The investigators have validated cardiac MRI methods to measure coronary microvascular
      function and myocardial fibrosis, both strong surrogates for CVD that correlate with
      aldosterone production and that improve with MR antagonist therapy.

      Prospective studies to investigate the early mechanistic contribution of aldosterone-MR
      activation in the pathogenesis of CVD in obesity, and whether MR antagonists can prevent
      this, are lacking. Mechanistic studies, using innovative and robust intermediate phenotypes
      of clinical CVD outcomes in a cost-effective manner, could have a major public health impact
      by implicating a targeted medical therapy (MR antagonists) to prevent CVD in high-risk
      obesity (overweight/obese individuals with hypertension and/or metabolic syndrome).

      HYPOTHESIS: MR antagonists in high-risk obesity improve cardiac MRI-derived myocardial
      perfusion reserve and fibrosis, independent of BP, and proportionately to the severity of
      autonomous aldosterone production.

      STUDY DESIGN: This mechanistic study will investigate whether MR antagonist therapy in
      high-risk overweight or obese participants can be a targeted strategy to prevent CVD.

      80 participants with overweight/obesity, untreated hypertension, and/or at least one other
      feature of the metabolic syndrome, will be enrolled. Participants will undergo a
      deep-phenotyping protocol to characterize aldosterone and cortisol physiology before
      randomization to eplerenone (25-100 mg/d) or chlorthalidone (6.25-25 mg/d + KCl 20 mEq/d) for
      one year. BP will be maintained in a target range to ensure outcomes are independent of BP
      control. Cardiac MRI-derived outcomes will be measured at baseline and after one year.

      AIM 1: To investigate whether eplerenone therapy in high-risk obese/overweight participants,
      when compared to chlorthalidone + KCl, can improve coronary microvascular function
      independent of BP, as measured via stress cardiac MRI-derived myocardial perfusion reserve (a
      strong predictor for incident cardiovascular events and death that has been shown to improve
      with MR antagonist therapy).

      AIM 2: To investigate whether eplerenone therapy in high-risk obese/overweight participants,
      when compared to chlorthalidone + KCl, can decrease myocardial fibrosis independent of BP, as
      measured via extracellular volume fraction on T1 mapping cardiac MRI (an established
      surrogate for myocardial fibrosis and inflammation that is also strongly associated with
      autonomous aldosterone production and mortality).

      Exploratory Aims: To investigate whether the severity of autonomous aldosterone production is
      associated with cardiac MRI-derived outcomes and predicts the response to eplerenone therapy;
      and, to investigate whether eplerenone therapy can improve measures of cardiac fat content,
      arterial stiffness (via pulse-wave velocity), and inflammation (via inflammatory markers and
      adipocytokines), when compared to chlorthalidone + KCl.

      IMPACT: Obesity/overweight status is enriched with autonomous aldosterone production and MR
      activation, mechanisms known to cause CVD. This study will investigate targeted mechanisms
      for the prevention of MR-mediated CVD in high-risk obesity using innovative physiologic
      phenotyping and surrogate imaging outcomes. This study will establish a mechanistic
      foundation for future outcome studies in obesity with incident CVD events.
    
  