
    
      Background:

      This study investigates the combination of ibrutinib, fludarabine and pembrolizumab for
      treatment of CLL. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia and small lymphocytic lymphoma (hereby
      referred as CLL) are tumors of B cells. A subset of patients categorized as high-risk CLL has
      a poor clinical outcome when treated with conventional chemotherapy. High-risk CLL is defined
      by relapsed/refractory disease status, or the presence of high-risk mutations, such as
      deletion 17p, TP53, and NOTCH1. While the cause of CLL is still unclear, studies have
      indicated critical factors required for the tumor cells. First, CLL cells grow and survive
      because they receive signals through the B-cell receptor (BCR); and second, CLL cells benefit
      from interactions with other cells, especially T cells.

      The stimulation through the BCR can be blocked by ibrutinib, which is an oral drug that
      selectively inhibits Bruton s tyrosine kinase (BTK). In clinical trials, ibrutinib
      demonstrated safety and high response rates in patients with high-risk disease. Ibrutinib has
      gained FDA approval as a treatment for CLL regardless of prior treatment or cytogenetic
      status. However, single-agent ibrutinib has limitations; the drug does not eliminate all
      tumor cells and, with time, the tumor cells may become resistant. Therefore, combination of
      ibrutinib with other drugs could be beneficial.

      Objectives:

      -To investigate the rate of complete response to ibrutinib, short course fludarabine and

      pembrolizumab.

      Key eligibility criteria:

      Patients with active CLL meeting treatment indications defined by 2008 International Workshop
      on CLL (IWCLL) consensus guideline.

      High-risk CLL defined by one of the following:

      Relapsed/refractory disease status (except patients with deletion 13q AND mutated IgHV), or

      Presence of high-risk mutations regardless of prior treatment status: deletion 17p, TP53

      mutation, NOTCH1 mutation, or complex cytogenetics.
    
  