
    
      ST segment elevation myocardial infarction represent 120 000 annual cases in France. Although
      its mortality has been drastically reduced by primary percutaneous coronary angioplasty
      (PCI), its midterm and longterm outcome in patients presenting initially with severe left
      ventricular (LV) dysfunction depends on the risks of heart failure and sudden death by
      malignant ventricular arrhythmias.

      Many clinical studies such as MADIT I and II, MUSTT and DINAMIT have participated in defining
      which patients should benefit from ICD implantation. These studies were based on evaluation
      of the LV ejection fraction (LVEF) and of the risk of arrhythmia (by electrophysiology or
      holter recordings).

      However, ESC Guidelines recommend a mandatory waiting period of 40 days post-PCI to
      reevaluate LVEF before confirming the need for ICD implantation (LVEF < 35%). Therefore,
      patients are at risk of sudden cardiac death (SCD). during this period.

      The investigators sought to determine whether specific cardiac MRI sequences could help
      predict which patients would eventually recover from their LV dysfunction and therefore
      reduce the risk of SCD by implanting ICD earlier than recommended.

      Patients presenting at our Cardiac ICU with STEMI and severe LV dysfunction (LVEF < 35%), not
      indicated to coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG) and free from initial cardiac arrest or
      severe ventricular arrhythmias, will be included. They will undergo a gadolinium-enhanced
      cardiac MRI during the 1st days of hospitalization with specific sequences to determine
      myocardial zones at risk of non-recovery.

      Initial assessment will also include thorough clinical examination with NYHA class,
      trans-thoracic echocardiography and blood works to evaluate renal function, inflammation,
      signs of heart failyre (BNP and troponin). Patients will be equipped with Lifevests for 6
      weeks and followed-up with the same criteria.

      Ratio of final ICD implantation will then be compared to the MRI criterion to determine
      whether LV recovery could have been predicted.
    
  