
    
      Problem Statement Maternal mortality is a tragic event with great social, economic and legal
      impact. The incidence rate varies depending on the source, however, it covers 400 cases per
      100,000 live births per year. The first cause of death in these patients is obstetric
      hemorrhage, which generates 150,000 deaths per year in the world. Not being outside of this
      situation, Bogotá presents a high number of women who present this complication, being the
      cause of death in 29% of cases in the years 2012 and 2013. Once this problem is identified,
      multiple strategies have sought to reduce maternal morbidity and mortality, one of the most
      influential being the "Millennium Development Goals", now called "Sustainable Development
      Goals". Associated with these, national and regional public policies are developed that seek
      to raise awareness about the importance of timely and early diagnosis, multidisciplinary and
      synchronous management among several health areas with the aim of preventing and treating
      obstetric hemorrhage to avoid fatal outcomes.

      Within the prevention and management of obstetric bleeding, there are behaviors that have
      shown significant impact on outcomes, such as, for example, the administration of uterotonics
      in the active management of delivery, which reduce the risk of postpartum hemorrhage by up to
      50% or the early administration of tranexamic acid, reducing mortality by 30%. However,
      despite these advances, a fundamental part of the initial handling of support is the
      volumetric resuscitation with crystalloids and in this field, although there is an indication
      to initiate replenishment of losses it is not clear what type of liquid to use and if any
      given their characteristics intrinsic can be superior to the other.

      Justification In clinical practice, the goal of resuscitation is to return to cellular
      homeostasis. Normal saline has been used for volumetric resuscitation for more than 50 years.
      However, questions about its suitability have been raised given the association with negative
      outcomes given its composition and question whether modifications in these would bring better
      results. Multiple studies associated resuscitation with an unbalanced solution (normal
      saline) with hyperchloremic acidosis, acute kidney injury and morbidity in general,
      especially in the critically ill patient.

      However, until now the evidence is not conclusive about whether this impact on the base acid
      state, hydroelectrolytic imbalance, and potential kidney injury is less with "balanced"
      solutions and generate better clinical results in all scenarios, surgical patients, patients
      and particularly in hypovolemic shock due to obstetric hemorrhage.

      Research question Are there differences in the volume of fluids and blood products to be used
      in the outcomes of patients with obstetric hemorrhage with the use of balanced crystalloids
      (Lactate Ringer or Plasma-Lyte) at the Hospital Universitario Santa Fe de Bogotá during the
      years 2018 - 2019?
    
  