
    
      The purpose of this study is to redevelop the Time for Living and Caring (TLC) intervention,
      in which dementia caregivers are taught strategies to assess and identify ways to spend
      upcoming periods of respite time, to a fully online, self-administered virtual coaching
      format, and then to pilot-test the new TLC intervention for feasibility and efficacy.

      Aim 1 is to modify, adapt, and refine the existing intervention modules, utilizing a
      community-engaged design process where stakeholders (i.e., current or former caregivers,
      diverse community leaders, and respite providers) will work as consultants alongside the
      research, technical, and creative teams to develop and provide feedback on the TLC
      prototypes. The primary endpoint of this phase of the study is a fully-developed, tested, and
      ready-to-launch web-based intervention.

      Aim 2 is to conduct a pilot test with dementia caregivers who are currently using respite,
      using a full powered pilot sample and a randomized waitlist-control experimental design where
      participants are exposed to the redeveloped TLC intervention for 8 weeks and will provide
      assessments of daily respite use, respite time-use satisfaction, and wellbeing. These pilot
      data will be used to assess feasibility and to explore hypotheses regarding the potential
      efficacy of the intervention as well as the mechanism - time-use satisfaction -underlying the
      intervention's effect on wellbeing. **Aim 2 uses a clinical trial methodology, and is
      therefore the part of the study that is described in detail here **

      Aim 3 is intended to explore future implementation with respite providers, as yet another
      assessment of the intervention's feasibility. We will host webinars to demonstrate the
      features and functionality of the TLC intervention. We will then ask providers for feedback
      on their likelihood of implementation and barriers to using TLC with their clients.

      Together, these three aims represent a comprehensive approach to Stage 1 behavioral
      intervention research activities, with the overall goal of (re)developing an intervention
      that is useful to dementia caregivers and is scalable to real world applications. Each aim
      has a separate sample and study design.

      Aim 1 Sample & Design: a dozen community stakeholders, consisting of current and former
      AD/ADRD caregivers, respite providers, and community leaders that represent diverse local
      populations. These participants will be considered "consultants" (not human subjects), per
      IRB. They are providing feedback and advice to the research team and technical designers in
      the creation and translation of the TLC intervention tools to a self-administered,
      app-delivered intervention.

      Aim 2 Sample & Design: a total of 150 respite-using AD/ADRD caregivers. This is the sample
      that is participating in the clinical trial. ** eligibility, measures, study design for this
      phase of the overall project are described in greater detail here **

      Aim 3 Sample & Design: a minimum of 100 respite providers, located anywhere in the US, such
      as staff from home health agencies, adult day care centers, area agencies on aging, long term
      care communities, hospices, hospitals, etc. Eligibility is based on their interest and
      willingness to learn more about the TLC intervention. This sample will provide feedback on
      the features and functionality of the TLC intervention, as well as specific advice on how it
      could serve their clients and be disseminated in the future. This is human subjects research,
      but is not part of the clinical trial.
    
  