
    
      Tracheal irritation from the endotracheal tube, with subsequent coughing is common during
      emergence from general anaesthesia supine position and is often thought not to be a
      complication, but a physiological response to protect the airway from aspiration, although
      the side-effects of this vital reflex may be highly undesirable in clinical practice.

      Coughing not only causes significant patient discomfort, but it may also cause hypertension,
      tachycardia, and increased intracranial, intraocular, and intra-abdominal pressure, which may
      lead to myocardial ischemia, arrhythmias, or surgical complications. Supine extubation also
      leads increased incidences of breath holding, laryngospasm, coughing, and monitor
      disconnection. These haemodynamic and airway responses are largely related movement of
      endotracheal tube during rolling of patients back to supine position during lighter depth of
      anaesthesia at conclusion of surgery. Coughing, breath holding, and laryngospasm also related
      to pooling of secretions to dependent patients airway in supine position.

      Various techniques and drugs for the prevention of cardiovascular response and coughing
      during emergence have been studied, including extubation in a deep plane of anaesthesia,
      administration of intravenous drugs such as esmolol, lidocaine, short-acting opioids, or
      dexmedetomidine, and intracuff lidocaine. A reliable means of preventing undesired coughing
      has not been demonstrated to date.

      Emergence in prone position has been found to be associated with less hemodynamic
      alterations, less coughing, laryngospasm, vomiting and monitor disconnections in patients
      undergoing lumbar surgery. There is a paucity of data regarding safety and efficacy of
      emergence from anaesthesia in prone position. The investigators present our initial
      experience of emergence from anaesthesia in prone position as compared to supine position in
      normotensive patients undergoing lumbar surgery in prone position.
    
  