
    
      Despite recent advances in treatment, a significant proportion of patients with Crohn's
      disease have suboptimal responses to medical therapy, leaving an urgent need to identify new
      therapies. One promising new approach to trea t IBD is through the manipulation of regulatory
      T cells (Tregs). Tregs are an immune modulating subset of CD4+ lymphocytes that antagonize
      the activation and effector function of multiple immune cell types and promote tolerance to
      self-antigens. Adoptively transferred Tregs are effective in murine models of IBD. An
      alternative approach to disease management through Treg manipulation is to increase Treg
      numbers in vivo. Interleukin-2 (IL-2, Proleukin®) is a T cell growth factor. IL-2 is
      currently licensed for the treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma and metastatic
      melanoma. At low doses, IL-2 promotes the selective activation and expansion of Tregs in
      humans. Tregs constitutively express CD25, a component of the high-affinity IL-2R, while CD25
      is only transiently expressed by activated conventional T effector cells. Low-dose (LD) IL-2
      selectively expands Tregs in humans and is safe in chronic GvHD and other phase 1 and 2
      clinical trials.

      This is a phase 1b/2a clinical trial to assess the safety and the efficacy of LD SC IL-2 for
      the treatment of CD utlizing daily sc LD IL-2 for 8 weeks in CD patients to determine the
      maximum effective dose (MED) and safety profile, and to assess a signal of efficacy. We aim
      to determine in CD patients whether sc LD IL-2 modulates peripheral blood and lamina propria
      Tregs in vivo and correlates with clinical outcome. We will perform deep immunophenotyping in
      CD patients treated with LD IL-2 and comprehensively assess the effects of LD IL-2 on CD4+
      Tregs and other immune cells in both peripheral and mucosal compartments, and correlate
      changes in immune phenotype with clinical outcome. Overall this trial is designed to
      determine the MED and safety profile of LD IL-2 in CD, to obtain a signal of efficacy, and to
      assess mechanistic underpinnings.
    
  