
    
      Design : Prospective monocentric double-blind pilot study with 2 parallel groups of 32
      patients. One with photobiomodulation (device set up and activated), the other with
      placebo-sham procedure (device set up but not activated). The study will consist of an
      inclusion visit (V0, D-30 to D-10), a photobiomodulation start visit (V1, D0), followed by 3
      follow-up visits (V2 to D30, V3 to D60 and V4 to D90).

      Dispositive : Photobiomodulation device developed by REGEnLIFE, RGn530 consisting of a
      modular helmet and an abdominal modular panel each comprising modules composed of low
      intensity infrared lasers (LLLT - Low Level Laser Therapy), infrared and red LEDs and a
      static magnetic field. The helmet and abdominal panel devices are connected to a steering
      console. Activation of the device will be done by personnel trained for this purpose by
      REGEnLIFE.

      Originality and innovation : This study proposes to evaluate a new medical photobiomodulation
      device in the field of neurodegenerative diseases. These techniques have shown positive and
      promising results in the following areas: wound healing, pain management, inflammation,
      tissue regeneration, and the following disciplines: neuropsychiatry, dermatology and
      neurology.

      Photobiomodulation is a technology of the same family as phototherapy, also called LLLT (Low
      Level Laser Therapy). It can be defined as the directional use of monochromatic or
      polychromatic light from low energy lasers and / or LEDs, in wavelengths included in the
      visible, infrared and near infrared, to modulate a function or induce a therapeutic effect in
      an athermal, non-invasive and non-destructive manner.

      This pilot study aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of this new non-invasive
      pre-marking device in patients with mild to moderate AD. To date, no study has been published
      with this device on this typology of patients.

      Duration of treatment : 8 weeks with 5 sessions of 25 minutes per week, for a total of 40
      sessions.

      Study population : Patients with international AD diagnosis criteria according to McKhann et
      al., 2011 at mild to moderate stage (MMSE score between 16-26), having agreed and signed free
      and informed consent to participate in this study, without contraindications to the carrying
      out of the complementary investigations necessary for the evaluation of the efficiency and
      the tolerance of the RGn530.

      Schedule of visits : Each patient will be followed for 3 months at the rate of 5 visits:
      inclusion V0 (D-10 to D-30), V1 (D0), V2 (M1), V3 (M2) and V4 (M3).

      Number of patients : 64 patients will be included in this study: 32 in the photobiomodulation
      group and 32 in the placebo-sham group.

      Duration of patient follow-up : Each patient will be followed for a total duration of 3
      months with visits involving clinical, biological, electrophysiological, imaging, tests and
      questionnaires to assess the efficacy and tolerance of RGn530.
    
  