
    
      Introduction: While the US health care system has the capability to provide amazing treatment
      of a wide array of conditions, this care is not uniformly available to all population groups.
      Oral health care is one of the dimensions of the US health care delivery system in which
      striking disparities exist. More than half of the population does not visit a dentist each
      year. Improving access to oral health care is a critical and necessary first step to
      improving oral health outcomes and reducing disparities. Fluoride has contributed profoundly
      to the improved dental health of populations worldwide and is needed regularly throughout the
      life course to protect teeth against dental caries. To ensure additional gains in oral
      health, fluoride toothpaste should be used routinely at all ages. Evidence-based guidelines
      for annual dental visits and brushing teeth with fluoride toothpaste form the basis of this
      implementation science project that is intended to bridge the care gap for underserved Asian
      American populations by improving access to quality oral health care and enhancing effective
      oral health promotion strategies. The ultimate goal of this study is to provide information
      for the design and implementation of a randomized controlled trial of a participatory,
      multi-level, partnered (i.e., with community stakeholders) intervention to improve the oral
      and general health of low-income Chinese American adults.

      Methods: This study will evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of implementing a
      partnered intervention using remote data entry into an electronic health record (EHR) to
      improve access to oral health care and promote oral health. The research staff will survey a
      sample of Chinese American patients (planned n = 90) screened at 3 outreach centers about
      their satisfaction with the partnered intervention. Providers (dentists and community health
      workers), research staff, administrators, site directors, and community advisory board
      members will participate in structured interviews about the partnered intervention. The
      remote EHR evaluation will include group adaptation sessions and workflow analyses via
      multiple recorded sessions with research staff, administrators, outreach site directors, and
      providers. The study will also model knowledge held by non-patient participants to evaluate
      and enhance the partnered intervention for use in future implementations.
    
  