
    
      For the purpose, the number of 42 participants reached by the power analysis method was
      determined as 60 people considering the possible separations. 60 participants will be
      included in the study. Participants should not have any orthopedic, neurological and
      cognitive disabilities and the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MOCA) scale score should be 21
      or higher. Participants will be divided into two groups as random consecutive and integrated
      dual activity groups.

      In the study sit-up, stand on one leg (eye open-closed), standing 30 sec stop (eye open
      closed stop), 10 m walk backward, sitting on top of the ball (eye open-closed), transfer of
      weight on the top-left, walking in straight line, 30 sec. stop on soft ground (eye
      open-close), balance training which does not force their efforts will be given in two groups.

      For the sequential dual activity group, immediately after these trainings, you should
      expected to find the letters Z in the mixed letters, search for the five words you read on
      the previous page, find the similarities between the concepts, find the letter in the given
      tables, derive the fruit names starting with the letter, count the days of the week etc.
      Attention, memory and arithmetic training will be given the ability to run. For the
      integrated dual activity group will be given similar cognitive tasks during simple balance
      training.

      The training program will be prolonged 8 weeks and 2 days per week for both groups.

      The assessment tests was performed before and after the program. Primer Outcome Measure: Berg
      Balance Scale, Timed Up and Go Test (Standart-Cognitive), 10m Walking Speed Test (under
      single and dual task conditions).

      Although there are many studies to increase and measure the balance and physical capacity of
      elderly people in the literature, there is no study using consecutive exercises and comparing
      the benefits of consecutive and integrated cognitive dual task training.

      A major cause of morbidity and mortality is a fall injury in the elderly. Therefore,
      preventing falls in elderly people and increasing the ability to balance is an important
      public health priority.

      Our study aims to benefit the public health, the reduction of health expenses of our country,
      the physiotherapists working with elderly people and the literature.
    
  