
    
      The objective of this study is to determine whether a new minimally invasive method for in
      vivo measurement of cortical bone tissue properties can identify those who are at risk for
      fragility fractures of the hip and radius. The investigators hypothesis is that women with
      fragility fractures of the hip and radius have altered cortical bone tissue properties
      compared to non-fracture controls independent of standard clinical tests, such as BMD. To
      test these hypotheses, The investigators propose two aims:

      Aim 1: Compare cortical bone tissue properties as assessed in vivo by reference point
      indentation in women with hip fractures and non-fracture controls.

      The investigators will compare cortical bone tissue material properties, as assessed by novel
      in vivo indentation at the mid-tibia in postmenopausal women with recent hip fractures (n)
      and age-similar controls without fractures (n=). In addition to in vivo indentation
      measurements, The investigators will assess hip and spine BMD by DXA; as well as other
      factors that may influence risk of fractures (e.g, vit D status, medication use and physical
      activity). Hypotheses: Postmenopausal women with hip fractures will have worse bone tissue
      material properties compared to non-fracture controls even after adjustment for BMD and other
      potential confounders.

      Aim 2: Compare cortical bone tissue properties as assessed in vivo by reference point
      indentation in women with distal radius fractures to non-fracture controls.

      The investigators will compare cortical bone tissue material properties, as assessed by novel
      in vivo indentation at the mid-tibia in postmenopausal women with recent distal radius
      fractures (n) and age-similar controls without fractures (n=). In addition to in vivo
      indentation measurements, The investigators will assess hip and spine BMD by DXA; as well as
      other factors that may influence risk of fractures (e.g, vit D status, medication use and
      physical activity). Hypotheses: Postmenopausal women with distal radius fractures will have
      worse bone tissue material properties compared to non-fracture controls even after adjustment
      for BMD and other potential confounders.

      Successful completion of this project will address the need to better assess bone mechanical
      properties at the tissue level in order to accurately predict fracture risk. The study will
      provide novel information about possible clinical utility of minimally invasive, in vivo bone
      indentation measurements to measure bone strength and its relationship to fracture risk.

      Aim 3: An amendment to the protocol expanded the study population to now include males >50
      years who present with distal radius fractures and those who present for a reason other than
      fracture (non-fracture controls). Hypotheses: Men >50 years with distal radius fractures will
      have worse bone tissue material properties compared to non-fracture controls even after
      adjustment for BMD and other potential confounders.
    
  