
    
      Indeed, in a recent work published by our team, several complication types in cancer
      survivorship has been identified: physical but also psychosocial disorders, which can lead to
      quality of life deterioration. The FCR in lymphoma pathology isn't yet documented and only a
      few studies concern the risk factors determination (age, sex, disease stage, treatment type,
      level of education, co-morbidity, isolation (familial status), financial resources, character
      trait in others cancers. Moreover, the FCR can be amplified by familial (young children) or
      professional responsibilities (self-employed profession). The consequences of FCR are poorly
      evaluated and are, however, potentially manifold: psychologic disorders, psychotropic
      consummation, delay of return to work and quality of life deterioration.

      So, FCR is an innovating research project, which studies the FCR incidence in the beginning
      of lymphoma After-Cancer (AC) M0 and also the associated risk factors we can class in three
      types: 1. "Patient" factors (age, sex, habitat: rural/urban, familial status, level of
      education, financial resources, co-morbidity), 2. "disease" factors: histological type,
      disease stage, risk factor, 3. "treatment" factors : conventional versus intensified.
      Moreover, we will study the consequences of FCR M0 upon quality of life and if there is a
      need of psychotherapy from the very beginning of after-cancer phase, for high intensity FCR.

      This present study is based on an interventional (with an analysis of human blood sample)
      prospective cohort, treated with anthracycline-containing regimens. This is a monocentric
      study which takes place in the Institut University du Cancer of Toulouse. The evaluation uses
      the scale of Fear of Cancer Recurrence Inventory (FCRI). The inclusion period lasts 2 years
      and patients will be followed during 2 years with a measure at M0, M12 and M24.
    
  