
    
      The Comprehensive vs. Assisted Management of Mood and Physical Symptoms (CAMMPS) study is a
      randomized comparative effectiveness trial designed to test the relative effectiveness of a
      lower-resource vs. a higher-resource enhancement of usual primary care in the management of
      Veterans suffering from with pain plus comorbid anxiety and/or depression.

      This is a single-site study enrolling Veterans. Patients followed in primary care clinics at
      the Roudebush VAMC will be eligible if they have clinically significant levels of pain plus
      comorbid anxiety and/or depression. A total of 300 eligible patients who provide informed
      consent will be randomized to one of two treatment arms. One group (n=150) will receive
      assisted symptom management (ASM) consisting of automated symptom monitoring by interactive
      voice recording or Internet and prompted pain self-management guided by symptom levels. The
      second group (n=150) will receive comprehensive symptom management (CSM) which combines ASM
      with optimized medication management delivered by a nurse-physician specialist team and
      facilitated mental health care. This team will partner with both VA primary care physicians
      and psychologists embedded in primary care to monitor and adjust treatments using
      evidence-based analgesic and antidepressant algorithms, reinforced self-management, and care
      coordination. The investigators postulate that although both interventions are likely to be
      beneficial, CSM will be superior to ASM.

      In short, this trial compares: 1) usual care plus assisted symptom management (ASM) vs. 2)
      usual care plus ASM plus optimized medication and care management and facilitated mental
      health care (CSM). Outcomes will be assessed at baseline, 1, 3, 6, and 12 months. The primary
      outcome is a composite pain-anxiety-depression severity score. Secondary outcomes include
      individual pain, anxiety, and depression scores; functional status and health-related quality
      of life; treatment satisfaction; and perceived barriers and facilitators of the CSM and ASM
      interventions. The rationale for ASM is preliminary evidence of its effectiveness and its
      lower use of resources. The rationale for CSM is that the addition of optimized medication
      management, facilitated mental health care, and coordination with both primary care
      physicians/Patient Aligned Care Teams (PACTs) and psychologists for the PAD symptoms should
      substantially enhance the benefits of ASM.
    
  