
    
      Pit and fissure sealant have been hailed as a highly effective preventive dental treatment
      since it was introduced first in late 1970s . Sealants have traditionally placed using two
      step bonding agents based on acid etching with phosphoric acid followed by drying and bonding
      agent application and curing. Multiple steps in application of bonding agents have been
      associated with more chances of procedure errors and prolonged procedure time. The newer
      bonding agents are based on minimizing the number of steps involved with introduction of self
      etching bonding agents.6th generation adhesives are based on mixing of two components where
      as the 7th generation adhesives are based on no mix technique.

      Previous studies on fissure sealants have focused on conventional etch and rinse bonding
      agents, there are only few published studies on effectiveness of the self etch bonding agents
      in retention of fissure sealants in vivo that have targeted the 6th generation adhesive.
      Feigal and Quelhas reported equivocal results with use of self etching bonding agents in
      comparison with etch and rinse bonding agents, but their study was limited by smaller sample
      size. Similar study was conducted by Burbridge which was based on short clinical follow up of
      6 month evaluation where Xeno III by Dentsply (6th generation bonding agent) was compared
      with Prime & Bond (Dentsply). Another study by Venker et al on Adper Prompt L Pop in a school
      sealant program was based on retrospective review of cases. In light of published literature
      on (6th generation) self etch bonding agent has been found to be equal or inferior to total
      etch bonding agents (5th generation). There are no published clinical trials on the
      retentiong rate comparison of total etch bonding agent with no mix slef etch bonding agents
      in pit and fissure sealant.

      Our study is based on comparison of effectiveness of single step bonding agent (7th
      generation adhesives) versus two step bonding agent in fissure sealant retention.
    
  