
    
      This study is a randomized controlled trial included 150 ICSI patients with history of
      recurrent fertilization failure. Patients had undergone ICSI trials in ART unit, Al-Azhar
      University, Cairo, Egypt, from July 2017 to November 2018. The study was approved by the
      university medical ethical committee (under registry number 202010454) and all couples had
      signed a written consent before initiation of the study and the treatment cycles. AOA
      candidate couples were counseled regarding the procedure. The patients were selected
      according to the following criteria:

      Inclusion Criteria: -

        1. Age between 20 and 40 years old.

        2. Cases with history of total fertilization failure in previous ICSI cycles

        3. Oocytes with normal morphology.

        4. Male factor infertility. Exclusion Criteria: - Abnormal oocyte morphology degenerated or
           immature oocytes.

      Two groups were randomly designated:

      The first Group: The oocytes were treated by calcium ionophore. This group involved 75 ICSI
      cycles.

      The Second Group: Oocytes were not treated by calcium ionophore. This group involved 75 ICSI
      cycles.

      Methods:

        1. Ovarian stimulation:

           All women received ovarian stimulating drugs according to the ART protocols (long
           agonist, flare up or antagonist protocols). Deca 0.1 was given s.c. daily, for
           down-regulation in short and long protocol while cetrotide 0.25 was given s.c. daily for
           down-regulation in antagonist protocol. Follicular development was monitored by
           ultrasound scanning and serum estradiol. Patients received 10,000 IU of Human Chronic
           Gonadotrophin (HCG) when most of the follicles measured more than 17-20 mm in diameter.

        2. Semen preparation:

           • The husband was asked to submit a semen sample in a sterile plastic container after a
           2 to 3-day period of abstinence and about 2 hours before the ICSI procedure. The
           specimen container must be clean, sterile and wide mouthed to minimize collection error.

        3. Oocyte retrieval:

             -  Under general anesthesia, the oocytes were aspirated by a specialized,
                ultrasound-guided needle (Labotect aspiration catheter, Germany) at 34-36 h after
                HCG injection. Warmed HEPES buffered medium (Irvine Scientific, Irvine, CA, USA)
                was used for handling and washing of oocytes.

             -  After ICSI, the whole injected oocytes were washed with Global total Fertilization
                Medium (Global pharm, Life Global, Brussels, Belgium, Europe) and the patients were
                randomly allocated into two equal groups (75 patients each) by using computer-based
                randomization program. Group one in which, the injected oocytes were transferred to
                a medium that contain 10 µmol of calcium ionophore (GM508 Cult-Active, Gynemed,
                Germany) and were incubated for 10 minutes, then again oocytes were washed with
                Global total Fertilization Medium (Global pharm, Life Global, Brussels, Belgium,
                Europe) and were incubated at 37°C in 6% CO2. In group two, the injected oocytes
                were not submitted to calcium ionophore activation.

             -  18 hours after injection, the whole injected oocytes in both groups were evaluated
                for fertilization, cleavage and quality at the day of embryo transfer (ET).

      Embryo Transfer

      • After ET, luteal phase support was conducted (intramuscularly progesterone injection 100 mg
      daily) for 14 days until pregnancy test.

      After data collection, both groups were compared regarding oocyte number, oocyte
      fertilization rate, number and quality of embryos, implantation rate and clinical pregnancy
      rate.
    
  