
    
      This 2-year longitudinal study compared cognitive and sensorimotor development of two groups
      of children. Both groups received two music courses of 45 minutes per week in a class setting
      (maximum 20 children per class), given by professional musicians.

      The intervention groups (n=34) learned to play string instruments "Orchestra in Class", the
      control groups (n=35) followed the standard Swiss school curriculum, with "sensitization to
      music" lessons, lacking focused instrumental practice.

      Children who received protocolled extracurricular music lessons before or during the study,
      were excluded from the analyses.

      The groups were compared at baseline (T0) after one year (T1) and after two years (T2) using
      standardized psychometric tests, evaluating cognitive and sensorimotor functions as well as
      tests on musicality.

      Music practice, covering a wide and diverse field of skills and abilities, from sensorimotor
      to cognitive activities at the highest level, is a real driving force for development. Widely
      distributed regions in the brain, which support all these functions, are trained and better
      coordinated as a result of this practice. This provokes changes in the morphology and
      function of the brain. Consequently, practicing music regularly brings benefits that go far
      beyond musicality. The results of various studies indicate that children who practice music
      show increased verbal memory, verbal intelligence, reading, visual-spatial processing,
      executive functions, attention, logical reasoning, and according to some authors even better
      mathematics or even IQ and social skills.

      Available evidence of beneficial musical practice effects on cognitive child development
      predominantly concerns children of parents with a high socioeconomic and educational
      background [10] and typically results from private lessons. Additionally, most of the time,
      the child is interested to learn a musical instrument, inducing a motivational bias.
      Evaluation of beneficial transfer effects restrains in general to a limited number of
      capacities or skills and randomized controlled trials (RCTs) with active control groups are
      scarce.

      Here, the investigators compared children who intensively practiced different string
      instruments in a class setting within a specific Orchestra in Class (OC) program, to peers in
      parallel classes that received the same amount of musical instruction, also within an entire
      class, but lacking focused training on a complex musical instrument. Entire existing classes
      were assigned randomly to the OC and the Control programs (cluster randomization). The study
      took place in public primary schools in popular neighborhoods in the Geneva area, avoiding
      confounding music effects with effects of socioeconomic background.

      The investigators anticipated that cognitive functions strongly involved in musical practice
      like working memory, attention, information processing, cognitive flexibility and abstract
      reasoning, as well as fine sensorimotor function would provoke enhanced positive transfer
      effects in the OC group as compared to the control group.
    
  