
    
      This is a phase II open-label study. The first part of the study (Part 1) is a dose
      escalation study of a 21-day regimen of IV Oxaliplatin in combination with weekly IV
      PEG-BCT-100 2.7 mg/kg and oral Capecitabine 1000 mg/m2 twice per day for 14 days. There are 3
      successive treatment cohorts in dose level of 85 mg/m2, 100 mg/m2 and 130 mg/m2 for
      Oxaliplatin. Subsequent treatment cohort is opened only after all patients in the previous
      cohort have completed the first 3 cycles of PACOX. The first patient entered the study is
      started at Cohort 1. At least three subjects will be treated at this cohort and observed for
      dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). If one of the three treated patients develops DLT at any dose
      level, three additional patients are to be entered at the same dose level. The dose of
      Oxaliplatin will be escalated if no DLT for the first three patients or one of the six
      treated patients develops a DLT. If two or more of the three/six patients at a given dose
      level experienced a DLT, dose escalation is stopped and the previous dose level is declared
      the MTD (recommended dose) of PACOX regimen for the second part of the study (Part 2). If the
      first three patients in Cohort 3 do not develop a DLT, an additional three patients will be
      enrolled in Cohort 3. If one or less than one patient in Cohort 3 has developed a DLT. the
      dose level is declared as the MTD.

      Toxicity will be assessed through physical examination and vital signs findings, safety
      laboratory tests results, and graded by the NCI CTCAE (version 4.0).

      Part 2: Patients receive the recommended dose of PACOX regimen as defined in Part 1. A 14-day
      screening period followed by a treatment period consisting of 3-week treatment cycles.
      Patients will be treated until disease progression or intolerable toxicity. The treatment
      period will end by a follow up visit at 30 days after the last dose of trial treatment. After
      the study treatment, patients will be follow-up every 8 weeks for survival status or until
      study termination.

      Patients in both parts of the study will receive PACOX regimen until disease progression,
      intolerable toxicity, death or patients withdraw consent. The clinical effects of PACOX
      regimen on tumor response will be evaluated. Tumour assessment which is based on RECIST 1.1
      criteria will be performed until disease progression.
    
  