
    
      Design:

      This will be a pilot trial evaluating the safety and immunogenicity of the WT-1 peptide
      vaccine in patients with hematologic malignancies. Ten patients with acute myelogenous
      leukemia (AML) or advanced myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), will be enrolled. Patients will be
      vaccinated with a preparation of WT-1-derived native and synthetic peptides plus immunologic
      adjuvant Montanide ISA 51 VG (Seppic Pharmaceuticals, Fairfield, NJ) and Sargramostim
      (GM-CSF). One dose level will be tested.

      Patients will receive 6 injections of the WT-1 vaccine. Doses will be given every 2 weeks.
      Each vaccine is given at a different location under the skin in the arm or leg. Patients will
      be monitored for 30 minutes after vaccination.

      WT-1 vaccine is given with another substance, Montanide, which clumps the WT-1 vaccine and
      improves the immune response. Patients will also receive an injection of Sargramostim
      (GM-CSF) 2 days before each vaccination and again on the day of the WT-1 injection at the
      same spot. Sargramostim (GM-CSF) stimulates the body's white blood cells to boost the immune
      response. Patients may be taught to do the Sargramostim (GM-CSF) injection themselves in
      which case patients will be given a log sheet to record the injection time and location. If
      not, they will need to come for an additional 24 study visits.

      To monitor their health while receiving the vaccine, patients will need the following tests
      and procedures as a part of regular cancer care.

        -  History and physical examination every 2 weeks

        -  Complete blood count (CBC) and comprehensive panel every 2 weeks

        -  Bone marrow aspirate at week 14 for patients with acute myelogenous leukemia or
           myelodysplastic syndrome.

      Patients will need these tests and procedures to see whether the vaccine is causing an immune
      response:

        -  A skin test will be performed before patients start the study and again in the 8th and
           14th weeks in which a small amount of the vaccine will be placed under the skin. Two
           days later, the site will be checked to see whether a bump or swelling has formed.
           Another substance which typically does cause a mild reaction (mumps) will also be placed
           under the skin to measure whether they have a normal immune reaction.

        -  We will take about 7 tablespoons of blood to measure their immune response. About 1
           tablespoon of blood will be taken to measure the levels of WT-1 in their blood. Blood
           samples will be taken prior to receiving the first vaccination and prior to receiving
           the vaccination at weeks 6 and 12.

      If the vaccine causes the patient to have an immune response, and their cancer does not grow,
      they may continue to receive the WT-1 vaccinations monthly for 6 more months. If this occurs,
      the patient will have a computed tomography (CT) scan or bone marrow test and immunology
      blood tests 2 weeks after the 9th and 12th vaccinations.
    
  