
    
      This prospective study will be conducted in El-Minia Maternity University Hospital after
      obtaining approval from the hospital ethical committee and informed consent from the
      participating parturients. The study will be conducted in the period from July to october
      2016. Candidates for spinal analgesia included primigravida parturients with ASA physical
      status I and II, term pregnancy of singleton fetus, all vertex presentation and uncomplicated
      pregnancies. Excluded from the study were patients with contraindications to regional
      anesthesia, diagnosed fetal abnormalities, allergy to the study drugs or previous systemic
      opioid administration. After the parturients being in active labor, dilated at least 4 to 5
      cm and asking for painless labor, they were selected by an experienced obstetrician to
      receive spinal analgesia, based on obstetric parameters such as cervical dilatation and
      effacement and position of the fetal head.

      Following monitoring with noninvasive blood pressure, electrocardiogram and pulse oximeter
      and recording of baseline vital signs, 18-G intravenous cannula was inserted and Ringer's
      solution 10 ml/kg was administered. Under strict aseptic technique, spinal analgesia was
      performed using pencil-point 25G spinal needle at the L3-L4 or L4-L5 interspace with the
      patients in the sitting position. The intrathecal medication included 1ml of 0.5% heavy
      bupivacaine (5 mg) diluted with 1 ml of normal saline and 25 μg fentanyl. Then, the
      parturients were placed in the supine position with left lateral displacement produced by
      placing a wedge under the right hip to prevent aortocaval compression and hypotension.
      Supplemental oxygen was applied using nasal cannula (2-4 L/min). Routine monitoring included
      maternal vital signs, uterine contractions and fetal heart rate tracing. The cardiotocogram
      was recorded continuously throughout the study period
    
  