
    
      Global aim: To assess stakeholders (patients, supportive individuals, and HCP's) views and
      priorities of lifestyle factors in the management of fatigue and related non-motor symptoms
      in Parkinson's disease, in addition to identifying facilitators and barriers to
      lifestyle-related behavior change, in order to inform the development of a subsequent
      lifestyle intervention.

      The study consists of two stages:

        1. Semi-structured interviews (lasting around 60 minutes)

        2. Online consensus workshops using a nominal group technique (2x 60 minute sessions)

      Setting: Both stages will be conducted remotely. For Stage 1 interviews will be conducted
      over the telephone (with or without videoconferencing). Stage 2 will use an online
      brainstorming platform to run the consensus workshop with concurrent videoconferencing.

      Participants: For both stages' participants will include individuals with Parkinson's
      Disease, supportive individual's (partners/caregivers/family members/significant others) and
      healthcare professionals.

      Analysis:

      Stage 1- Interviews will be analyzed using thematic analysis and framework mapping onto the
      COM-B model. Themes will be deductively mapped onto the categories and its associated
      constructs of the Capability, Opportunity and Motivation to Behaviour (COM-B) model to
      identify specific targetable aspects of behavior that may need to be addressed in the
      subsequent lifestyle intervention. A secondary categorical form narrative analysis of the
      interviews will also be conducted to supplement the main group analysis by providing a
      detailed insight into the experiences and stories of participants in relation to lifestyle
      changes on an individual level.

      Stage 2- Responses during the consensus workshop will be analyzed using frequency counts and
      descriptive. Data will include a complete list of ideas, scores allocated to each idea, the
      overall rank of each idea and any additional comments made by participants.
    
  