
    
      Patients who are scheduled to undergo a left heart cardiac catheterization for direct measure
      of left ventricular end diastolic pressure (LVEDP) as part of routine care will be asked to
      participate. Investigators will take non-invasive measures of LVEDP using the Indicor device,
      repeated at three time points before and after the catheterization procedure. The Indicor
      indirectly measures LVEDP by calculating a value from finger photoplethysmography (PPG)
      waveforms that will be recorded while the patient performs a Valsalva maneuver.

      Participants baseline characteristics will be gathered from the electronic medical record,
      including history of coronary artery disease, heart failure, hypertension, diabetes, or lung
      disease; list of blood pressure medications; serum markers of kidney function; and
      echocardiogram measurements including ejection fraction. These parameters will be used to
      assess relevance to the calculation of LVEDP by Indicor.

      The first Indicor measure will be conducted before the catheterization procedure. PPG probes
      will be attached to participants' first or second finger. Participants will be asked to
      strain as if having a bowel movement (Valsalva maneuver) for 10 seconds. Participants will
      blow into a pressure transducer that measures and displays the pressure of their effort. The
      Indicor device will acquire 3 successful efforts.

      During the cardiac catheterization, while the pressure transducer used by the clinical team
      to measure LVEDP is in the aorta, the Valsalva testing will be repeated. The device will
      again acquire 3 successful efforts. This will allow investigators to determine how well the
      amplitude changes of the PPG signal during Valsalva maneuver reflect the amplitude changes of
      central arterial pressure during the Valsalva maneuver. According to experienced
      catheterization cardiologists, this set of tests will not add significant risk to the
      procedure. This second set of tests may not be performed in all participants.

      Immediately after the cardiac catheterization, while the patient is still on the
      catheterization table, the Valsalva testing will be repeated. The device will again acquire 3
      successful efforts.
    
  