
    
      Heart failure is a common disease and remains a growing cause of morbidity and mortality
      worldwide. The poor prognosis of dietetic and medical treatment has led to Increasing
      interest in interventional and surgical techniques for improvement of LV function.

      Besides heart transplantation surgical interventions in heart failure patients focussed on
      mitral valve repair, biventricular stimulation and correction of coronary artery disease. A
      partial ventriculectomy as a true remodelling procedure has been invented by Battista with
      varying clinical results and reported high mortalities up to 20%. More commonly used is the
      Dor procedure , which is applicable for anterior wall aneurysms and has excellent short and
      long term results. On the other hand it has been designed for chronic aneurysms and is not
      suitable for dilated cardiomyopathies or subacute infarctions. More recently medical devices
      like the Acorn™ net or the Myosplint™ have been invented. Both require implantation of
      significant foreign material and are combined with inherent disadvantages. The Acorn™ device
      prevents progressive dilatation, but does not support systolic ventricular function, whereas
      the Myospilnt™ creates a less spherical geometry but not a physiological shape of the left
      ventricle (LV).

      Detailed knowledge of the underlying geometrical changes in failing left ventricles is a
      prerequisite to achieve improvement in function by surgery . It has been described that with
      progressive heart failure, the oval form changes towards a more spherical geometry. To
      classify the shape and amount of deformation, several indices have been defined . The
      classical sphericity index (SI) as the ratio between the short and long axis is commonly used
      and is able to predict volume increases e.g. after myocardial infarctions . Furthermore, it
      has been used for evaluation of remodelling surgery and mitral valve repair in heart failure
      patients . This index serves well for an overall judgement of the left ventricular geometry,
      but does not pay attention to asymmetrical aspects of remodelling in heart failure, which is
      present e.g. after myocardial infarctions. Especially the apex is not considered
      sufficiently, although it can be reshaped ideally in procedures like the Dor operation .
      Therefore a focus on this region of the left ventricle is desirable from a surgical point of
      view.

      Cine MRI scanning of the heart has gained increasing acceptance in the diagnosis of
      ventricular geometry changes , as it is highly accurate in determining global myocardial
      function without using ionising radiation or assumptions of ventricular shape , which are
      major drawbacks of other imaging modalities such as nuclear ventriculography or
      echocardiography , respectively.

      The current study analyses the LV geometry of failing LVs measured by MRI scanning with
      respect to systolic versus diastolic function. A new surgical method for remodelling enlarged
      left ventricles is introduced.
    
  