
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Women experience as much illness from hardening of the arteries including stroke and heart
      disease as do men, but because women experience them later in life, the importance of heart
      disease, cholesterol, and diet for women has been under appreciated.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Half of the subjects were randomized to diet instruction with two years of follow-up and half
      to six months of no intervention followed by the same diet instruction and followup. Control
      subjects had a fasting blood drawn at three months of the nonintervention period. Having
      parallel intervention and control groups was necessary to test the efficacy of the NCEP Step
      Two Diet: The diet was taught to study subjects during eight weekly two hour classes.
      Follow-up included four individual visits, at three, six, nine, and twelve months, with a
      dietitian and two group sessions, at 4.5 and 10.5 months, in the first year and two
      individual visits, at 18 and 24 months, in the second year. Fasting blood samples for
      lipoprotein lipid analysis and 4-day food diaries were collected at all individual visits.
      Additionally, medical history, lifestyle characteristics, vital signs, other adherence
      measures, behavioral factors related to adherence, and serum nutrients for monitoring
      nutrient sufficiency were collected. Dietitians provided adherence and dietary modification
      counseling as necessary to help participants maximize their adherence. The primary questions
      to be answered were: 1) Did the NCEP Step Two Diet effectively lower plasma lipids in
      hypercholesterolemic (HC) and combined hyperlipidemic (CHL) women and men over six months? 2)
      Did HC and CHL women have a different response than HC and CHL men? 3) Was response in women
      influenced by menstrual status and sex hormone exposure?, and 4) Were the behavioral
      adaptations to dietary modification different between women and men?
    
  