
    
      This is a single blinded randomized controlled trial comparing the procedural time for a
      sciatic nerve block via the lateral popliteal approach using ultrasound compared with nerve
      stimulation.

      24 patients will be randomly selected to determine if the patient will receive their sciatic
      block using an ultrasound or a nerve stimulation technique.

      Patients chosen to receive the ultrasound technique will have their blocks performed by
      attending regional anesthesiologist who are experts at ultrasound guided sciatic nerve blocks
      via the lateral popliteal approach.

      Patients chosen to receive the nerve stimulation technique will have their blocks performed
      by attending regional anesthesiologist who are experts at nerve stimulation sciatic nerve
      blocks via the lateral popliteal approach.

      Blinding:

      Both the patient and the person assessing the block will be blinded to the group allocation.
      The highest pain score during the procedure will be obtained by an observer blinded to the
      group allocation. The time taken for the block, the number of skin punctures and number of
      passes will be recorded by a person who is not performing the block.

      All popliteal blocks will be performed preoperatively by 1 of 4 staff anesthesiologists with
      substantial expertise in both peripheral nerve localization techniques. Patients will be in
      the supine position with a bolster below the calf keeping the tibia parallel to the floor.
      This allows placement of the ultrasound probe in the popliteal region in the ultrasound
      group. An ultrasound machine and a nerve stimulator will be set up in both groups and the
      patient will be blinded on the technique used for nerve localization. The ultrasound machine
      will be turned on and placed perpendicular to the anesthesiologist performing the block on
      the opposite side of the leg being blocked. The nerve stimulator will be turned on and a
      grounding lead place on the side of the leg being blocked for both groups. The
      anesthesiologist performing the block will be given the allocation only after the set up of
      both systems and just prior to commencement of the block. The patient will be sedated with
      2-5mg midazolam and 50-200 ug fentanyl to achieve anxiolysis while maintaining verbal
      contact. A screen will be set up to prevent the patient or the person assessing the block
      from seeing the block or the ultrasound screen.

      Nerve stimulation group:

      Time of block performance starts from first palpation of landmarks to the final injection of
      local anesthetics. The site of needle insertion was identified and marked (Surgical Skin
      Marker VX100; Vio Healthcare, Hailsham, East Sussex, UK) as the groove between the biceps
      femoris and vastus lateralis muscle 10 cm above the top of the patella. (4) A 22G 80mm
      (SonoPlex Stim Cannula Pajunk Medizintechnologie Germany) insulated needle is inserted with a
      nerve stimulator set at 1.0mA. The needle is inserted perpendicular to the skin and
      redirected at a 30 degree angle relative to the horizontal plane. The needle depth is
      estimated using the midpoint of the thigh and the tangential trajectory of 30 degrees. If
      plantar flexion is elicited, the nerve stimulator is dialed down to produce a stimulation at
      0.4mA or less. If stimulation persists at 0.2mA, the needle is withdrawn until stimulation
      disappears at 0.2mA but persists below 0.4mA. If dorsiflexion is elicited, the needle is
      inserted deeper to achieve plantarflexion. Internal rotation of the leg may be help in
      achieving the angulation.(4) If the needle does not achieve any stimulation, the needle is
      redirected in 5 degree increments between a 15 to 45 degree trajectory. (5) When the needle
      is in the correct position, 20 cc of 1.5% mepivacaine is injected in 5 cc increments over 30
      seconds. Aspiration for blood is performed before injection and after every 5 cc of
      injection. Injection is stopped if blood is aspirated or if there is pain on injection. The
      needle is then repositioned or the block abandoned on the discretion of the anesthesiologist
      doing the block. However, blood aspiration or pain will be noted.

      Ultrasound group

      Time of block performance starts from the first antiseptic skin prep on the patient to the
      final injection of local anesthetics. The lateral and posterior portion of the thigh will be
      prepped with chlorhexidine. The ultrasound probe is covered with a sterile dressing and
      placed in the popliteal fossa close to the popliteal crease. The tibial and common peroneal
      nerve is identified. A long axis slide in the cephalad direction is performed to identify the
      unity of the tibial and common peroneal nerve into the sciatic nerve. The 28 mm high
      frequency ultrasound probe is then then moved 2 or more cm cephalad and this is the level of
      the needle insertion. The 22G 80mm (SonoPlex Stim Cannula Pajunk Medizintechnologie Germany)
      needle is inserted in-plane from the lateral thigh to approach the sciatic nerve. (6) 20 cc
      of 1.5% mepivacaine is injected in 5 cc increments over 30 seconds. Aspiration for blood is
      performed before injection and after every 5 cc of injection. Circumferential spread of local
      anesthetics around the nerve is sought. The needle is redirected as required to achieve this
      goal. Injection is stopped if blood is aspirated or if there is pain on injection. The needle
      is then repositioned or the block abandoned on the discretion of the anesthesiologist doing
      the block. However, blood aspiration or pain will be noted.

      Block Evaluation After the placement of the block, the tibial (bottom of the foot) and common
      peroneal (top of the foot) will be assessed for motor and sensory loss. Motor loss will be
      graded as such: 0= no motor strength; 1 = some loss, 2 = full strength. using ice in a PVC
      glove every 5 minutes for 30 minutes. Sensory loss will be graded as such: 0 = no sensation
      to ice; 1 = some loss; 2= complete sensation to ice. If the block does not produce complete
      sensory loss in both distribution within 30 minutes, the block is defined as a failure. It is
      up to the discretion of the anesthesiologist if he wishes to perform a rescue block or
      supplement with local field block or to perform a general anesthesia.

      Other Evaluation Patients will be followed up in recovery to evaluate if general anesthetic
      or supplemental local anesthetic by the surgeon is required in the sciatic distribution for
      surgery.

      Patients will be followed up within 72 hours via a telephone interview with regards to signs
      and symptoms of infection and nerve damage.
    
  