
    
      Background

      Recent studies using rodent models have demonstrated that exposure to light at night,
      particularly short (i.e., blue) wavelengths, increases inflammatory response following
      cardiac arrest surgery, alters timing of food intake, elevates body mass, and promotes
      depression- and anxiety-like symptoms. However, filtering out the blue wavelengths in full
      spectrum light rescues this phenotype. Hence, the investigators aim to investigate if this
      effect is also observed in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery.
      Moreover, the investigators seek to determine the relationship between inflammatory response
      after surgery and the observed cognitive decline during this period.

      Significance If manipulating nighttime light in hospital rooms improves patient outcomes,
      then it would be a relatively easy and inexpensive innovation that could reduce post-surgical
      complications and save millions of dollars per year in health care costs by shortening the
      length of hospital stays and reducing morbidity.

      Purpose

      The purpose of this study is to determine whether filtering out blue light at nighttime
      reduces post-surgical inflammation and/or moderates cognitive decline and mood and sleep
      alterations in patients undergoing elective CABG surgery. If manipulating nighttime light in
      hospital rooms improves patient outcomes, then it would be a relatively easy and inexpensive
      innovation that could reduce post-surgical complications and save millions of dollars per
      year in health care costs by shortening the length of hospital stays and reducing morbidity.
      The investigators aim to determine the relationship between inflammation and cognitive
      dysfunction after CABG surgery.

      Primary Objective

      The primary objective of this study is to determine whether filtering out blue light at
      nighttime improves outcomes for patients undergoing elective, on-pump, CABG surgery. The
      investigators will measure changes in outcome by assessing differences in inflammatory
      markers, cognition and mood pre- and post-surgery.

      Study Design

      Life on Earth evolved under 24-hour solar days. Circadian rhythms evolved as adaptations to
      respond to predictable daily cycles of light and dark for the synchronization of behavioral
      and biological processes to the external environment. For nonhuman animals, restricting
      activities to the appropriate temporal niche is crucial to fitness and survival. For humans,
      temporal organization of physiology is equally important for health and wellness. Over the
      past century, the boundaries of day and night have been obscured by the widespread adoption
      of electric lighting devices at night. Disruption of internal circadian rhythms has become
      common in developed countries. For humans, the health consequences of chronic circadian
      disruption by nighttime light exposure are becoming increasingly apparent.

      The investigators have extensive experience with animal studies on the effects of LAN. For
      example, the investigators have established, in mice that have experienced an experimental
      cardiac arrest (CA) or stroke, display reduced survival after only 4-7 nights of exposure to
      dim light at night (dLAN, 5 lux-a child's nightlight 1 meter from the eyes). The
      investigators also detected depression-like behavioral responses, massive neuroinflammation,
      and increased neuronal cell death in the brain after this relatively brief exposure to dLAN.
      Exposure to dimly lit nights also elevated hippocampal cell death and microglia activation
      following CA. Dim light at night likely affects CA recovery by elevating neuroinflammation;
      selective inhibition of IL-1β or TNFα ameliorated the effects of LAN on CA outcome.
      Furthermore, the circadian system likely mediates the effects of dLAN, as adjusting the
      wavelength of the nighttime light exposure to ~640 nm (red) eliminated the detrimental
      effects of LAN on CA outcome. Together, these data suggest that lighting in clinical settings
      may affect patient recovery.

      In terms of the circadian system, not all lighting is treated equally. The intrinsically
      photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs) that project to the master circadian pacemaker
      in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) contain melanopsin and are most responsive to the blue
      region of the visible light spectrum, ranging from 450 to 485 nm. These wavelengths are
      present in broad spectrum white light such as natural sunlight and the majority of indoor
      lighting. In contrast, longer wavelengths of lighting, such as red light, do not activate
      ipRGCs and therefore minimally influence the circadian system. Thus, the investigators
      hypothesized that the circadian system is involved in dLAN-induced damage following CA with
      ipRGCs communicating the light information. To test this hypothesis in humans, the
      investigators propose that blocking blue light exposure at night, in patients who are
      undergoing an elective CABG surgery, should have reduced inflammation and thus, better
      outcomes. The investigators chose CABG patients because these patients are the most
      homogeneous. The investigators' mouse results indicate that adjusting environmental lighting
      could prove to be an inexpensive and effective way to improve patient outcome in cardiac
      intensive care units. Because of patient safety concerns and the need for monitoring,
      hospital ICU rooms are rarely completely dark and it is not uncommon for patients to be
      exposed to bright lights (100 lux) several times per night. Using the blue-light blocking
      goggles should prevent disruption of circadian rhythms and concomitant neuroinflammation and
      depressive/cognitive impairments post-surgery. Only minimal risk is involved for the
      participants.

      Baseline and Post-Surgical Cognitive Testing

      Testing will occur at baseline, during their preoperative visit, (typically 2-5 days prior to
      surgery) and on day 5 post-surgery, prior to discharge from the hospital. In accordance with
      the Consensus Statement on Assessment of Neurobehavioral Outcomes After Cardiac Surgery, the
      battery of instruments includes: Trail Making Test (part B), Digit Span subtest of the
      Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised (WAIS-R), Digit Symbol subtest of the WAIS-R, Randt
      Memory Test, Modified Visual Reproduction Test from Wechsler Memory Test. Each test also has
      received a high ranking for sensitivity to variation at the high end of cognitive spectrum
      (http://trans.nih.gov/CEHP/hbpcog-list.htm). Participants will also be administered an edited
      Hamilton Depression Scale questionnaire (http://www.assessmentpsychology.com/HAM-D.pdf; the
      investigators will not assess suicide or suicidal ideation) and the short version of the
      Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index survey (https://doi.org/10.1155/2018/9643937). Total testing
      time is expected to be approximately 30 min per session (~20 min of actual test taking). The
      investigators will use a Reliable Change Index to identify cognitive deficits; it calculates
      the distribution of expected change from baseline performance and takes into account factors
      such as test-retest changes in performance. Post-operative cognitive deficit is a decline
      from baseline of at least 1 standard deviation for at least one of the instruments [2]. The
      Confusion Assessment Method (CAM) Diagnostic Algorithm also will be used by attending medical
      staff on post-surgical days 1-5 to identify whether the participant is experiencing delirium
      on a given day (sensitivity 94-100%, specificity 90-95%; [2]. If the participant is
      determined to have depressive symptoms, the participant will not be eligible for the study,
      and the investigators will provide them with an information pamphlet with psychological and
      psychiatric resources (pamphlet documents are attached to this document). If any participants
      develop depression symptoms during the study, the investigators will provide them with the
      same resources.

      Baseline and Post-Surgical Assessment of Inflammation and Markers of Tissue Damage

      Approximately 10 mL of blood sample are taken on a daily basis as part of the pre- and
      post-operative CABG surgery standard of care.The investigators will collect an aliquot (~1
      mL) from these routine samples; thus, no additional blood draws will be required. The
      investigators will acquire samples from the pre-surgery, 5 day post-surgery, and 30d follow
      up samples, to assay for cortisol and inflammatory markers. Samples will be assayed for
      cortisol, TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-2, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, C-reactive protein (CRP), brain natriuretic
      peptide (BNP), n-terminal of the prohormone of brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP), highly
      sensitivity (hs) troponin I, and creatine kinase (CK-MB). Blood samples will be collected as
      close to 10:00 h and 22:00 h as possible to provide a morning and evening sample. CABG
      increases plasma concentrations of indicators of cardiac ischemia, including troponin T, hs
      troponin I, NT-proBNP, and CK-MB, and cerebral ischemia markers (S100β) as well as the
      pro-inflammatory marker IL-6 [3]. The WVU General Clinical Research Center will perform the
      assays on a fee basis.

      Controlling Night-time Light Exposure

      As described, the intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells are most responsive to
      the blue region of the visible spectrum ranging from 450 to 485 nm, with longer wavelengths
      of lighting minimally impacting the circadian system [4]. Therefore, study participants will
      use goggles beginning the evening of surgery. The participants in the control group will be
      provided with goggles that allow the full spectrum of light to enter the retina (comparable
      to not using goggles), whereas the participants in the experimental group will have goggles
      that filter out the blue wave lengths (comparable to red light exposure in the mouse
      studies). Goggles will be provided two (2) nights prior to admission to allow participants to
      habituate to sleeping with them. The goggles are produced by Uvex (Honeywell, USA) and can be
      worn with or without prescription glasses; visual acuity is good with the goggles and similar
      glasses have been used in studies in which healthy participants engaged in their normal range
      of evening behaviors while wearing the goggles [5-7]. The participants in the investigators'
      study will be exposed to typical hospital room lighting from 07:00-21:00h, then will put on
      the goggles from 21:00-07:00h. The participants will use the goggles each night they remain
      in the hospital, even if the eyelids of sedated patients are taped shut (light can pass
      through closed lids to affect physiological responses [8]). HOBO light recorders (Onset
      Computer Corporation, MA) will be placed in each participant's room to record ambient light
      levels throughout the study.

      Additional data that will be collected from medical charts and personal interviews and then
      compared between groups: age, race, body mass index, education level, previous myocardial
      infarction, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, diabetes mellitus, carotid artery stenosis,
      history of stroke, history of smoking (no, yes but <0.5 pack per day, yes but greater than
      0.5 pack per day), New York Heart Association functional class, pre-operative left
      ventricular function (%), duration of anesthesia (min), type of anesthesia, duration of
      surgery (min), aortic clamp time (min), trough nasopharyngeal temperature during surgery, use
      of intra-operational hypothermia, number of grafts, number of proximal anastomoses, number of
      distal anastomoses, prior/current statin, beta-blocker, and aspirin use, use of post-surgical
      ionotropes, blood loss (mL), blood transfusion on day of surgery (mL), use of vasopressors,
      amount of heparin (IU), duration of mechanical ventilation in ICU (h), post-operative atrial
      fibrillation, duration of stay in ICU (h), duration of post-operative stay in the hospital
      (days), evidence of post-surgical stroke, whether transferred to long-term care facility,
      pre-surgical and post-surgical use of antidepressants, wound infection, need for reoperation,
      and mortality.
    
  