
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the maximum tolerated dose of conatumumab up to a target dose of 10 mg/kg
           given concurrently with capecitabine and radiotherapy following induction therapy
           comprising conatumumab and gemcitabine hydrochloride in patients with locally advanced
           pancreatic cancer. (Phase I)

        -  To evaluate the overall survival of patients treated with this regimen. (Phase II)

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the safety profile in patients treated with this regimen. (Phase I and II)

        -  To evaluate the progression-free survival of patients treated with this regimen. (Phase
           II)

        -  To evaluate the primary tumor response rate in patients treated with this regimen.
           (Phase II)

        -  To generate translational research hypotheses. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I dose-escalation study of conatumumab, followed by a
      phase II study.

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive conatumumab IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 15
           and gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats
           every 28 days for 2 courses.

        -  Conatumumab and chemoradiotherapy: Beginning 14-42 days after the last course of
           induction therapy, patients undergo 3-dimensional radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a
           week, for 5½ weeks (28 treatments). Patients also receive conatumumab IV over 30-60
           minutes on days 1, 15, and 29 and oral capecitabine twice daily, 5 days a week, for 5½
           weeks.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Beginning 28-56 days after completion of chemoradiotherapy,
           patients receive conatumumab IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 15 and gemcitabine
           hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  