
    
      Peripheral artery disease (PAD) of the lower extremities is an extremely prevalent disorder
      and is an important cause of morbidity that affects more than 10 million people in the United
      States. This disorder is typically caused by atherosclerosis that limits blood flow to the
      limbs, particularly due to stenosis or occlusion of the superficial femoral artery (SFA)
      and/or popliteal artery. Although many patients are asymptomatic or are treated with
      lifestyle changes, such as exercise therapy, or pharmacological treatment, including statins
      and anti-platelet therapy, about 10-15% of patients have progressive symptoms which in severe
      cases may lead to amputation.

      Endovascular treatment with percutaneous vascular intervention (PVI), which includes
      percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA), stenting, atherectomy and thrombolytic therapy,
      can provide excellent acute success rates greater than 90-95% However, the intermediate to
      long-term patency rates of these arteries is hampered by neointimal hyperplasia resulting in
      restenosis of the artery. This occurs with all endovascular therapy to some degree in both
      the coronary and peripheral arena. With PVI in the superficial femoral and popliteal arteries
      the restenosis rates are approximately 30-40% at 12 months, depending on the complexity and
      severity of the disease.

      In the coronary field, stents are now coated with anti-restenotic pharmacologic agents (drug
      eluting stents-DES) such as paclitaxel and sirolimus-like drugs that prevent neointimal
      growth. There have been published reports of significant efficacy in preventing restenosis in
      the SFA by coating balloons with paclitaxel (drug eluting balloons-DEB) as well as a nitinol
      stent. Despite the fact that these products are CE Mark approved and available in Europe,
      currently there are no US FDA approved drug-eluting devices for use in PVI. Thus, there
      remains a need for an alternative therapy to prevent restenosis in the SFA following
      endovascular intervention.

      Administration of intra-arterial paclitaxel mixed with iodinated contrast has been shown to
      inhibit restenosis in a porcine coronary model.

      Delivering paclitaxel intra-arterially in the coronary tree following stent implantation has
      shown benefit in reducing the incidence of restenosis. The novel Targeted Adjustable
      Pharmaceutical Application System (TAPAS)-TAPAS Catheter Therapeutic Infusion System
      (ThermopeutiX, San Diego, CA, USA)-is a drug delivery catheter that consists of a proximal
      and distal occlusion balloon with an adjustable length that allows a drug to dwell in a
      specific segment of the artery for a period of time. The drug can then be aspirated and
      discarded to avoid systemic exposure.

      The PacTAP study is a randomized, double blind, placebo-control study to assess the safety
      and efficacy of delivering intra-arterial paclitaxel via the TAPAS catheter following PVI to
      prevent restenosis.
    
  