
    
      Background:

      The paradigm of combining therapeutic agents with non-overlapping toxicities for the
      treatment of malignancy produces clinical remissions and cures in a number of tumor types.

      A new class of agents, humanized and chimerized monoclonal antibodies, typically have little
      or no hematopoietic toxicity and can be readily combined with full doses of cytotoxic
      chemotherapy. It has become clear that in certain lymphomas and breast cancers, the
      combination of monoclonal antibodies and chemotherapy improves response rate and the quality
      of the response compared with that achieved by treatment with either agent alone.

      The clinical outcome for patients with T-cell non-Hodgkins lymphoma is significantly inferior
      to the outcome of patients with B-cell non-Hodgkins lymphoma. In most reports less than 20%
      of patients with T cell lymphoid malignancies remain free of disease at 5 years.

      Objective:

      Determine the toxicity and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of Alemtuzumab and EPOCH chemotherapy
      in untreated cluster of differentiation 52 (CD52)-expressing T and natural killer (NK)
      lymphoid malignancies

      Eligibility:

        -  CD52-expressing lymphoid malignancy.

        -  Patients with chemotherapy naive aggressive T & NK lymphomas. Patients with alk-positive
           anaplastic large cell lymphoma and patients with T cell precursor disease are not
           eligible.

        -  Age greater than or equal to 17 years.

        -  Adequate organ function, unless impairment due to respective organ involvement by tumor.

        -  No active symptomatic ischemic heart disease, myocardial infarction or congestive heart.
           failure within the past year.

        -  Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) negative.

        -  Not pregnant or nursing.

      Design:

      Three dose levels of Alemtuzumab will be evaluated to determine the toxicity profile and in a
      preliminary fashion the antitumor activity of the combination with Dose-Adjusted etoposide,
      prednisone, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin (EPOCH).

      Three dose levels of Alemtuzumab will be explored, in cohorts of three to six patients each.
      Patients will receive either 30, 60, or 90 mg of Alemtuzumab on day 1 of therapy, followed by
      dose-adjusted EPOCH chemotherapy days 1-5.
    
  