
    
      The incidence of bone and joint infections (BJI) in children (osteomyelitis, septic arthritis
      and spondylodiscitis) is 22 per 100,000 children in France. Every year, 3,000 children are
      hospitalized for BJI, 46% of whom are hospitalized for osteomyelitis. The clinical pictures
      of BJI are varied: some are severe from the outset; others are non-severe, such as BJIs in
      Kingella kingae, which are most common in children between the ages of 6 months and 5 years.
      Currently, the management of children's BJI, regardless of their severity, involves initial
      hospitalization to start intravenous antibiotic therapy. This non-inferiority trial
      evaluates, in children with acute osteomyelitis with no severity criteria, less invasive
      outpatient management with an oral antibiotic treatment given at the outset compared to
      standard management.

      Main objective : Demonstrate the non-inferiority of an ambulatory management strategy versus
      a standard strategy involving hospitalization on complete recovery without relapse at 6
      months after an episode of acute osteomyelitis in children aged 1-4 years without severity
      criteria.

      Primary endpoint: Complete cure without relapse at 6 months defined by the absence of
      clinical signs of osteomyelitis at 6 months AND the absence of secondary septic complications
      (septic arthritis, periosteal abscess) before the end of antibiotic therapy AND the absence
      of relapse or rehospitalization for osteomyelitis related to the initial infection. This
      criterion will be assessed blindly by an adjudication committee.

      Randomized controlled trial of non inferiority, with active control, in open multi-center.

      The control or experimental arm allocation (1:1 ratio) will be open-label of the physician,
      patient and parents. This is a PROBE study: The evaluation of the main judgment criterion
      will be carried out blindly by an adjudication committee.
    
  