
    
      Surgical AVR remains the universally accepted management for symptomatic aortic stenosis
      (AS). However, the best management of severe aortic stenosis, in the absence of symptoms,
      remains one of the most controversial areas in modern Cardiology.

      Exercise testing can identify asymptomatic patients with AS at increased risk, but with
      limited specificity. In a BHF funded project, the investigators have identified that cardiac
      MRI measured Myocardial Perfusion Reserve (MPR) may be a novel imaging biomarker in AS. MPR
      was the only independent predictor of aerobic exercise capacity (peak VO2) in patients with
      severe AS and was also inversely related to symptomatic status.

      In this multi-centre, observational, cohort outcome study, the investigators will follow 175
      patients with asymptomatic moderate to severe AS for a minimum of 12 months, and determine
      whether MPR is a better predictor of outcome than exercise testing, elucidate the mechanisms
      contributing to symptom development in AS and establish the determinants of MPR in AS.
      Patients will be recruited from tertiary Cardiac centres, as well as regional hospitals.
      Comprehensive CMR with adenosine stress to determine LV mass and function, focal and diffuse
      fibrosis and MPR; cardiopulmonary exercise testing (peak VO2 and exercise symptoms); rest and
      exercise echocardiography (AS severity, valve compliance) and NT-proBNP will be performed.
      The study will be run in conjunction with the Glasgow CTU. Investigations will be analysed
      blind to patient status and data will be entered in a validated database. Statistical
      analysis will be performed under the supervision of Prof. Ian Ford. The relationship between
      MPR and exercise testing with 1-year outcome will be analysed using logistic regression.
      Paired comparisons of the specificities of the two approaches on the same dataset will be
      carried out using McNemar's test.

      The primary hypothesis is that MPR will be a better predictor of adverse outcome than
      exercise testing.
    
  