
    
      Cervical spine surgeries have been increasing for many years. In Taiwan, according to the
      data published by the Department of Statistics, Ministry of the Interior, the elderly
      population (≥ 65 years old) increased and comprised 14.4% of the whole population in March,
      2018. The percentages is likely to rise to 20% after 8 years. Because cervical spine surgery
      is a procedure commonly performed in elderly patients, the increasing trend of cervical spine
      surgery will likely continue. Elderly patients experienced an increased odds of length of
      stay ≥ 5 days, pulmonary complications, cardiac compilations, venous thromboembolism, UTI,
      sepsis, and unplanned readmission after anterior cervical spine surgeries according to the
      literature. For example, in patients ≥ 65 years old undergoing cervical spine surgery, 9.80%
      patients experienced at least 1 complication or death. Patients of 70~74 years old (odds
      ratio [OR] =1.94, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.03~3.65) and patients with at least 1
      postoperative complication (OR 9.59, 95% CI 5.17~17.80) had increased risks of unplanned
      readmissions. Patients ≥ 75 years old were at higher risk of developing a complication or
      death with an odds ratio (OR 1.72, 95% CI 1.13~2.61). Identification of factors and change
      the policy of standard care in elderly patients can improve surgical outcome. The elderly
      have a different physiological change, such as lower elimination of the anesthetics,
      resulting in the confusion or delaying of detecting complications after the surgery.

      Airway complications after ACCS are not uncommon. This includes sorethroat, vocal cord
      paresis without overt symptoms, vocal cord palsy or dysphonia, and dysphagia. The incidence
      of voice and swallowing complaints is primarily published in the spine literature and is
      inconsistent with rates ranging between 0.4% and 71%. The discrepancy may result from
      differences in the measurements and timepoints. We have performed a preliminary observational
      study investigating postoperative dysphonia and dysphagia after anterior cervical spine
      surgeries. We demonstrated more patients score none or mild dysphonia after surgeries in
      groups receiving sugammadex as a reversal of muscle relaxants. Suggammadex is a unique
      neuromuscular reversal drug; modified γ-cyclodextrin that allows binding encapsulation of
      rocuronium. The rocuronium molecule (a modified steroid) bound within sugammadex's lipophilic
      core, is rendered unavailable to bind to the acetylcholine receptor at the neuromuscular
      junction and results in the revesal of the effect of neuromuscular blackade. As the
      preliminary observation was not a randomized, blinded study, whether sugammadex posses
      beneficial effect on postoerative dysphonia warrants investigation.

      Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) proposes a multimodal, evidence-based approach to
      perioperative care. The first goal of ERAS is the improvement of surgical outcomes and
      patient experience, with a final impact on a reduction in the hospital length of stay (LOS).
      The implementation of ERAS in spinal surgery is in the early stages. We believe the elements
      for ERAS should direct to the specific characteristics of surgery and surgical population.
      Therefore, our investigation for improving posteropative dyshonia and dysphagia will provide
      a important reference for choice of elements for ERAS of cervical spine surgeries in the
      future.
    
  