
    
      The prognosis of metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) patients has improved the last couple
      of years, due to the treatment with angiogenesis inhibitors and mTOR inhibitors. First line
      and second line therapy is nowadays standard. However, responses on third or fourth line
      therapy, in RCC patients participating in phase I studies have been observed. As yet the
      optimal sequence of therapeutic agents in mRCC is not known and data on progression free
      survival of third or fourth line treatment is not available. More and more patients with
      metastatic RCC will receive multiple sequential treatments. A large proportion of those
      patients will remain in a good condition and have a good quality of life. Those are the
      candidates for new lines of therapy.

      In the evaluation of new treatments the difficulty lies in the way of assessment of activity
      of new drugs. In the past, chemotherapy induced real volume responses, whereas with the new
      targeted agents volume reponse may take a long period of time (more than 6 months is not
      exceptionial), or will never induce a real decrease in tumor volume, while the patient may
      benefit from a long period of stable disease. All these new drugs are costly and not without
      side effects, and therefore there is an urgent need for new end points of therapy, better
      reflecting the activity of the drug.

      In first line poor prognosis metastatic RCC patients mTor inhibition with temsirolimus has
      become standard therapy based on an improvement in PFS and OS. Also for temsirolimus RECIST
      criteria have been used. However, by using the RECIST criteria for the evaluation of efficacy
      only the change in tumour volume is assessed. Temsirolimus is an antiproliferative anti
      cancer drug and proliferation might be assessed by FLT PET or FDG PET.

      Until now only very limited data have been published on the role of FDG PET and FLT PET after
      mTor inhibitors. FLT PET seems promising in mice glioblastoma in mice treated with mTor
      inhibitors. Another very recent paper reports the value of FDG PET as suurogate marker of
      everolimus activity, also in mice. Only one clinical study in which FDG PET was used in
      patients treated with mTor inhibitors had included patients with a mixture of diagnoses.

      Therefore, we propose to investigate in a systematic way whether molecular imaging with
      FLT-PET and/or FDGPET is a better predictor of response and progression free survival (PFS)
      than evaluation by standard anatomical imaging by CT-scan in RCC patients treated with
      temsirolimus. Furthermore, we propose to investigate the optimal way of assessment of
      molecular characteristics of the tumor (metabolism, proliferation) by comparing FLT-PET with
      FDG-PET.
    
  