
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the feasibility of administration of electronic patient-reported outcomes and
      functional assessment in gastrointestinal (GI) cancer surgery (gastric, colorectal, liver,
      pancreas).

      II. Determine percentage of patients able to complete > 80% of MD. Anderson Symptom Inventory
      (MDASI) and European Quality of LIfe-5 Dimensions (EQ-5D) web-based surveys.

      III. Determine percentage of patients able to wear the wristband device at least 1 week
      post-operatively.

      IV. Determine length of time to complete the web-based surveys.

      V. Determine length of time patients are able to wear the wristband device, before and after
      surgery.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the percentage of patients who did not enroll in the study and analyze the
      reasons why. This will be accomplished using: 1) the number of patients asked to participate;
      2) the number of patients who declined to participate, and 3) reasons for declining
      participation.

      II. Responses from the Satisfaction Tool will be used to assess: 1) ease of use of web-based
      surveys and wristband device; 2) feedback on items in the web-based surveys that are
      distressing or difficult to comprehend; 3) feedback on length of surveys and timing of
      administration; and 4) suggestions for items that were not covered but should be added.

      III. Calculate the mean number of missing items within each questionnaire to identify
      individual or subsets of questions that are difficult to answer.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients complete online surveys comprising questions about quality of life, symptoms, and
      activity level, and wear a wristband device (Vivofit watch) 3-7 days prior to and after
      surgery. After going home, patients complete the symptom survey three times a week and
      quality of life survey once a week for 2 weeks post-surgery.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up for 1 month.
    
  