
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine a minimal (short-duration) post-transplant immunosuppression regimen
           comprising cyclophosphamide and/or mycophenolate mofetil with or without tacrolimus that
           results in ≤ 20% incidence of grade II or higher acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD)
           in patients with hematologic malignancies undergoing nonmyeloablative allogeneic bone
           marrow or peripheral blood stem cell transplantation from an HLA-identical related
           donor.

        -  Determine the post-transplant immunosuppression regimen that results in < 10% incidence
           of nonengraftment, defined as < 5% donor chimerism in peripheral blood at day 60, in
           these patients.

        -  Determine the incidence and severity of acute GVHD in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Determine the frequency of mixed chimerism in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Nonmyeloablative allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) or peripheral blood stem
           cell transplantation (PBSCT): Patients receive fludarabine IV on days -4 to -2 and
           undergo total-body irradiation on day -1. Patients undergo allogeneic BMT on day 0 or
           PBSCT on day 0 (and days 1 and 2, if needed). Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF)
           beginning on day 5 and continuing until at least day 15 or until blood counts recover.

        -  Sequentially increasing levels of post-transplant immunosuppression: Cohorts of patients
           are enrolled into 1 of the following regimens:

             -  Regimen 1 (post-BMT immunosuppression): Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV on day
                3 only.

             -  Regimen 2 (post-BMT immunosuppression): Patients receive mycophenolate mofetil
                (MMF) once on day 3 and then twice daily on days 4-32.

             -  Regimen 3 (post-BMT immunosuppression): Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV on
                days 3 and 4 and MMF twice daily on days 4-33.

             -  Regimen 4 (post-PBSCT immunosuppression): Patients receive cyclophosphamide and MMF
                as in regimen 3.

             -  Regimen 5 (post-PBSCT immunosuppression): Patients receive cyclophosphamide and MMF
                as in regimen 3 and tacrolimus twice daily on days 4-33.

      Cohorts of approximately 10-20 patients receive sequentially increasing levels of
      post-transplant immunosuppression until a minimal (short-duration) post-transplant
      immunosuppression regimen is identified. The minimal post-transplant immunosuppression
      regimen is defined as the regimen in which ≤ 3 of 10 or ≤ 6 of 20 patients develop grade II
      or higher acute graft-versus-host disease AND ≤ 2 of 10 or ≤ 4 of 20 patients fail to engraft
      60 days post-transplantation. Once the minimal post-transplant immunosuppression regimen is
      identified, an additional 10 patients are treated with that regimen.

      Patients are followed for 60 days after transplantation.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 60 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  