
    
      More than one billion people are infected with A. lumbricoides, hookworm or Trichuris
      trichiura, the so-called soil-transmitted helminths (STH). Preventive chemotherapy - i.e.
      annual or biannual treatment of at-risk populations, is the current strategy against STH
      advocated by the World Health Organization. However, the currently used drugs albendazole and
      mebendazole have only moderate efficacy against hookworm and low against T. trichiura. The
      main challenge is their temporal decrease in efficacy, which might be associated with drug
      resistance, as it was shown in veterinary medicine. For increasing the efficacy and to avoid
      drug resistance, new drugs or the combination of different drugs is the way forward.

      The primary objective of this study is to assess the efficacy (based on cure rates [CR]) of
      the three combinations, i.e. albendazole-oxantel pamoate, pyrantel pamoate-oxantel pamoate
      and albendazole-pyrantel pamoate-oxantel pamoate in school-aged children infected with
      hookworms in Laos. Secondary objectives include; i) a proof of concept, investigating the
      difference between the two triple combinations albendazole-pyrantel pamoate-oxantel pamoate
      versus mebendazole-pyrantel pamoate-oxantel pamoate (based on CRs), ii) egg reduction rates
      (ERR) against hookworm and ERRs/CRs against A. lumbricoides and T. trichiura and iii)
      tolerability of the 4 combinations.

      Two stool samples will be collected from school-aged children (age 6-15) at baseline. 420
      hookworm positive children will be treated: 140 with albendazole-oxantel pamoate, 140 with
      albendazole-pyrantel pamoate-oxantel pamoate, 70 with pyrantel pamoate-oxantel pamoate and 70
      with mebendazole-pyrantel pamoate-oxantel pamoate treatment arms The medical history of the
      participating children will be assessed with a standardized questionnaire, in addition to a
      clinical examination carried out by the study physician on the treatment day. Children will
      be interviewed before treatment for clinical symptoms and 3 and 24 hours after treatment
      about the occurrence of adverse events. The efficacy of the treatment will be determined
      14-21 days post-treatment by collecting another two stool samples. All stool samples will be
      examined with duplicated Kato-Katz thick smears.
    
  