
    
      There are 2 section of this trial. Step1 is a phase Ib study.The patients will be treated
      with R2-MTX regimen （Rituximab 375mg/m2 IV d0, methotrexate 3.5g/m2 civ d1, lenalidomide
      15-25mg d1-14, 21 days per cycle) as induction regimen.The dose of rituximab and methotrexate
      is fixed dose. This is a 3+3 design Ib phase dose-escalation study to determined the maximum
      tolerated dose(MTD) of lenalidomide dose in combined regimen. 3 levels of lenalidomide dose
      will be investigated, 15mg, 20mg and 25mg. If the DLT is not found, the dose of 25mg qd will
      be used for phase II trial.

      [update 02-Jun-2020：the recommended phase II doses is 25mg d1-14]

      Step 2 is a single-arm phase 2 study with fixed does of R2-MTX regimen in newly-diagnosed
      PCNSL patients. The response will be evaluated every 2 cycles. Patients who achieved complete
      remission (CR) or partial remission (PR) will receive further treatment, and there are 6
      cycles of R2-MTX regimen for the induction. The patients with stable disease (SD) or
      progressed disease (PD) will withdraw from the trial and receive salvage regimens. After
      total 6 induction cycles, the investigators evaluate the efficiency again, the patients with
      CR or PR will go to lenalidomide maintenance for 2 years or until progression of the disease
      (PD), unacceptable toxicity, or patient/investigator discretion. And the patients with SD or
      PD will receive salvage regimen.

      [update 02-Jun-2020：Younger patients(≤60 years) who achieve PR after 6 cycles of induction
      therapy will be candidates of high-dose chemotherapy and stem cell rescue. Lenalidomide
      maintenance will be administed after the high-dose chemotherapy. Older patients(>60 years)
      who achieve PR after 6 cycles of induction will go to lenalidomide maintenance directly.]
      During following-up, surveillance examination and brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
      scans can be performed every 3 months up to the first 2 years, followed by doctor visit every
      6 months up to 5 years or the disease relapses.
    
  