
    
      Coagulopathy is a common problem after open heart surgery using cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB).
      Some bleeding is significant enough to require early re-exploration to control hemorrhage in
      2-4% of patients.(1,2) In adults, excessive post-operative bleeding occurs in association
      with repeat operations, emergency procedures, female gender, small body mass index, older
      age, peripheral vascular disease, renal insufficiency ( creatinine > 1.8g/dL) , poor
      nutrition ( albumin < 4g/dL) and in patients who have experienced prolonged CPB durations.
      (3,4)

      Factors that contribute to coagulopathy after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) using
      CPB include thrombocytopenia, acquired platlet dysfunction, loss of clotting factors, free
      heparin and increased fibrinolysis. (5-7). Lemmer and Colleagues (8) found that
      extracorporeal circulation results in significant fibrinolysis, as reflected by increased
      concentrations of plasmin and fibrin degradation products (FDP), both of which have
      deleterious effects on platlet function. Fibrinolysis was found to be responsible for 25-45%
      of significant post-bypass bleeding. (9)

      Many antifibrinolytic agents have been used to reduce post-bypass bleeding. These include ε-
      Aminocaproic Acid (10), Aprotinin (11) and Tranexamic Acid (TA) (12).

      TA has been found to bind to lysine binding sites of plasmin and plasminogen. Saturation of
      these sites displaces plasminogen from the fibrin surface thus inhibiting fibrinolysis.(13).
      TA has been used both systemically and topically.

      Due to the natural barrier properties of the pericardium, which prevents the free diffusion
      of substances, experimental studies have shown that the local application of different
      medications in to the pericardial cavity can lead to desirable therapeutic effects without
      significant systemic absorption. (14-16)

      There has been a systemic review and meta-analysis study done looking at 8 trials (622
      patients) using topical antifibrinolytic agents (aprotinin and tranexamic acid). No adverse
      effects were reported following usage of topical antifibrinolytics.(17)

      Topical TA has also been successfully used in controlling bleeding in bladder,
      gynaecological, oral, & oropharyngeal surgeries. (18-20)

      There has been no authors thus far who have compared application of intravenous TA to
      combination of application of intravenous TA and topical TA.

      This study is based on a hypothesis that the combination of intravenous (IV) TA and topical
      TA administration will significantly reduce the amount of post-op bleeding significantly
      following CABG using CPB.
    
  