
    
      The aim of this report was to evaluate the reliability of semi-automatically tracking local
      twitch responses (LTR) intensities during dry needling by assessing ultrasound signals with
      an optical flow method designed to estimate movement of ROIs, in addition to evaluating the
      relationship between LTR intensities and muscle elasticity.

      Experimental protocol and measurements For each subject, the ROM of the medial gastrocnemius
      (MG) and hamstring (HA) was determined in both lower limbs using weight bearing and the
      active knee extension test, respectively, using a universal goniometer. For the knee
      extension test, 180° were subtracted from the obtained range, and the values were presented
      as negative. Both tests present excellent intra- and inter-rater reliability.

      All participants were placed in a prone position with the ankle locked at 90º. Latent MTrPs
      were identified in both MG using according the presence of a palpable taut band and
      hypersensitive spot in the palpable taut band as diagnostic criteria. The ultrasound
      transducer was positioned over the MG muscle using a fixing device that was composed of a
      thermoplastic polymer, with enough space for the dry needling (DN) technique to be performed.

      The deep DN was administered by a physical therapist with three years of experience in the
      technique. The ultrasound video (SonoSite Titan; Sonosite, Bothell, WA, USA) was recorded at
      60 frames per second captured through an external capture device from Epiphan Systems Inc.
      (Ottawa, Ontario, Canada). According to the perception of the physical therapist and the
      ultrasound assessment, the filament needle was inserted into the MTrP to achieve three LTRs.
      Posterior to DN application, the ROMs of the MG and HA were measured.

      The recorded ultrasound video was examined by the Camtasia software (Tech-Smith Corp, Okemos,
      MI, USA) to select three LTRs for latter analysis. Each LTR was tracked by the Lucas-Kanade
      optical flow (LKOF) algorithm with affine optic flow extension [12]. All analyses were
      performed using the Matlab® 2014 software (Mathworks Inc., Natick, MA, USA). For tracking
      muscle thickness, two ROIs (size 250 x 70 pixels) positioned on the superficial and deep
      aponeurosis were manually selected.

      Muscle thickness was normalized as a percentage of recruitment using the following equation:
      (thickness contracted-thickness rest/thickness rest)*100. For manual tracking of LTRs, the
      recorded ultrasound video was analyzed in the Matlab® 2014 software. Peak muscle thickness
      was determined by selecting muscle borders using hyperechoic aponeurosis lines.
    
  