
    
      Due to the demographic change, there is a growing demand for professional and institutional
      care, as well as the need for 24-hour home care. Due to the cost-efficiency and 24-hour
      availability, the 24-hour home care represents a cornerstone of the care of older people and,
      with more than 60.000 users in Austria, it represents an important alternative to family
      assistance and mobile care. Care receivers range from elderly people, who only need
      assistance with household activities, to those with a high need for a round-the-clock care.
      Caregivers commute between Austria and the respective home country (mainly Slovakia, Hungary
      and Romania) for the care work in a two or more weeks rhythm. Burdensome working conditions
      arise mainly due to language problems, isolated coexistence with a person affected by e.g.
      dementia in combination with little to no relevant professional education and quality
      control.

      The aim of the project is the development and evaluation of a distributed client-server
      software solution for the support and quality assurance of 24-hour home care. The application
      software contains:

        1. an information and education portal (e-learning platform) with interactive learning
           content on common diseases and short videos on recurrent care situations in German, as
           well as in Slovak, Hungarian and Romanian as the most frequent languages of the
           caregivers.

        2. a comprehensive electronic care documentation that supports quality assurance and
           ensures transparency between people involved.

        3. an integrated emergency management, which offers caregivers the opportunity to react
           quickly and professionally to emergencies.

        4. links to translation pages or networking opportunities with members and relatives.

      By using the application software, the quality of care will be supported and further result
      in an increase of care quality and quality of life of the older adults cared for. Due to
      intense longitudinal evaluation design with more than 100 involved households facilitating
      24-hour home care for a period of 12 months, the efficacy will be measured
      multi-dimensionally. Common surveys and structured interviews of people with cognitive
      impairments tend to lack sensitivity to the interventions studied. Hence, a mixed-method
      approach has been selected that integrates 1) investigator observations, 2) interviews with
      caregivers, 3) interviews with relative and 4) interviews with care receivers (where
      possible). Trained investigators generate reliable ratings via triangulation. Field work and
      analysis follows the methodology developed as Toolkit ASCOT (Adult Social Care Outcomes
      Toolkit 11) SCT4 (self completion survey).
    
  