
    
      The Western diet is common in the United States and has a lot of salt, sugar, and fat. Modern
      globalization has shifted eating habits in many countries toward this unhealthy Western diet.
      For example, U.S. cable TV in other countries promotes this Western diet through
      advertisements for junk foods and sugary drinks. This is a major concern because experimental
      research studies show that seeing food advertising while watching TV leads to eating more
      food afterwards. Research studies also show that people who watch a lot of TV tend to think
      that junk food is not that harmful.

      Researchers now believe that some people living outside the U.S. are drawn to the U.S.
      culture and lifestyle and can become "Americanized" through a process called remote
      acculturation. These Americanized people in other countries such as Jamaica are mostly
      teenagers, but sometimes also adults. Americanized people outside the United States are even
      more likely to adopt the unhealthy Western diet even though they have never lived in the
      United States. In research the investigators did before getting this grant, they showed that
      Americanized youth and mothers in Jamaica watched more hours of U.S. cable daily and also ate
      more unhealthy food. This led them to develop a new healthy eating education program for
      Americanized families in Jamaica that highlighted the role of U.S. media - the "J(amaican)
      U(nited) S(tates) Media? Programme". The JUS Media? Programme teaches young people and
      mothers to question the health messages in food advertising on U.S. cable TV so that they can
      be smarter and healthier consumers. For example, the JUS Media? Programme covers the
      recommended food guidelines in Jamaica and teaches adolescents and their mothers the
      principles of media literacy, such as to think about "who is the source of this message?"
      "what do they want you to do?" and "what information is missing?". Finally, the JUS Media?
      Programme teaches participants to use these media literacy principles to challenge unhealthy
      food advertisements by creating smart, funny parody versions called subvertisements.

      In this project,the investigators evaluated how well the JUS Media? Programme worked for 7th
      graders and their mothers in Jamaica. About 30 adolescents and their mothers got a 2-session
      workshop, another 30 families got the workshop and text messages, and another 30 families did
      not get any part of the program.
    
  