
    
      The number of kidneys available for transplantation in the U.S. (~15,000/yr) does not meet
      demand (~80,000/yr). This discrepancy will likely worsen given the increasing U.S. prevalence
      of chronic kidney disease and is compounded by sizable organ attrition once organs have
      entered the donation process (25-30% attrition in Region 5). Furthermore, worsening renal
      function in donation after neurologic determination of death (DNDD) organ donors (an
      increasingly important source of allografts) is one of the strongest predictors of delayed
      graft function (DGF) and slow graft function (SGF) in the recipient. Both DGF and SGF are
      associated with decreased long-term organ survival and are of major concern to the transplant
      community.

      To alleviate the aforementioned supply-demand imbalance, there are two major unmet needs that
      must be urgently addressed. First, active medical interventions that are tested prospectively
      to protect the organ during the donation process hold sizable potential, but remain
      exceedingly rare. Second, compliance with pre-defined donor management protocols to restore
      and stabilize deceased organ donor physiologic functions remains low across different
      donation service areas, despite evidence that these protocols may improve organ yield.

      The goal of this proposal, therefore, is to demonstrate that (1) therapeutic hypothermia as
      an active medical intervention for the DNDD donor and (2) compliance with donor management
      protocols can substantially improve allograft function and survival.

      The investigators will accomplish this goal by extending an existing research infrastructure
      (HRSA, R380T10586) across several donor service areas. As such, the investigators will bring
      together a research network and use the power of this network to properly test a simple
      medical intervention, therapeutic hypothermia for renal protection, in a prospective
      randomized single blinded trial. Therapeutic hypothermia is an established cytoprotective
      intervention that has been demonstrated to be highly protective of organs in select
      critically ill patients. By combining two of the largest donation service areas in the nation
      (CTDN, Northern California and OneLegacy, Southern California), the investigators will have
      access to approximately 10% of all organ donors in the nation. This proposal aims to
      randomize 500 DNDD organ donors, the biggest cohort enrolled in a prospective randomized
      trial.

      The investigators will further leverage this network to track trial specific donor management
      protocols variables goals and drive tighter compliance with already established donor
      management protocols across all donor service areas in Region 5. This will allow the
      investigators to compile a large historical control cohort that will facilitate answering
      additional research questions with great detail. All organ procurement areas in Region 5 have
      confirmed their willingness to participate in this effort and contribute relevant organ donor
      data via a shared web-portal. Through this active participation, a secondary gain will be
      improved reporting of donor data and compliance with already accepted donor management goals.

      Test of feasibility will be improvement in various kidney function metrics that are commonly
      used to evaluate organ health during the donation process. Ultimately, the investigators
      believe this multi-pronged approach may lead to 800 to 1000 additional kidneys that are
      successfully transplanted nationwide each year.
    
  