
    
      Platelet rich plasma (PRP) is made from your own blood by taking a sample of venous blood,
      placing it in a special tube, and spinning the blood in a centrifuge which is a piece of
      equipment used to separate the components of blood. Blood is made of red blood cells, white
      blood cells and platelets, while plasma, the liquid component is predominantly water but also
      contains clotting factors, proteins, and glucose. Platelets are small, disk shaped clear cell
      fragments which are a natural source of growth factors. They circulate in the blood and are
      involved in hemostasis which is a process which causes bleeding to stop, leading to the
      formation of blood clots. So-called "Platelet-rich plasma" represents the patient's own
      plasma that has been mechanically centrifuged to increase the concentration of platelets
      compared to the whole blood. The basic idea behind PRP injection is to deliver high
      concentrations of growth factors to the scalp, with the hope of stimulating hair regrowth.

      PRP is an innovative therapy and has been used since 1987 to help promote healing in
      orthopedic surgery, dental surgery and dermatology. Recently, there have been reports
      supporting the use of PRP in the treatment of hair loss.

      Androgenetic alopecia (AGA) is the most common cause of hair loss. It has very limited
      treatment modalities which includes minoxidil, 5-alpha reductase inhibitors and hair
      transplantation. Each option has its own side effects range from hypertrichosis which is
      excessive hair growth, possible birth defects if given to women of child bearing age,
      decreased libido and the possibility of prolonged impotence.

      To our best knowledge, there are no double blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trials
      evaluating the efficacy and safety of PRP injection in treating AGA. A placebo is a simulated
      or otherwise medically ineffectual treatment for a disease or other medical condition
      intended to deceive the recipient. The investigators plan to conduct a clinical trial to
      assess the effects and safety of PRP on AGA. The investigators also plan to identify the
      presence of various growth factors in PRP and their correlations in hair regrowth.
    
  