
    
      Assessing biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal dementia

        1. Specific Aims

           To enhance the field of biomarker recognition and facilitate preventative and
           personalized medicine we are now posing the following question, does the Israeli patient
           population present similar plasma protein profile as described before for other
           populations (Marksteiner et al., 2011).

           Studies will be carried out by RNA transcript quantification, quantitative real time
           polymerase chain reaction (blood cells and CSF) and immunochemical detection at the
           protein level (CSF and serum).

        2. Methods:

      Lymphocytes:

      Human lymphocytes are isolated from 10 ml of venous blood using the Ficoll Paque method (de
      Rock and Taylor 1977; McCauley and Hartmann, 1982), for RNA extraction and determinations we
      shall follow-up the methods described in our manuscripts (Dresner et al., 2011).

      Blood plasma and serum will be prepared as outlined in www.peoimmune.com. Protein
      quantitation will be carried out using the Tri reagent (Sigma) which allows for simultaneous
      preparation of RNA, DNA and protein and plasma immunodepletion and albumin depletion kits
      from Sigma.

      Protein quantification: this will be carried out on cellular proteins and also on plasma
      proteins by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, followed by western analysis.

      CSF samples will be collected through a spinal needle inserted into the L4-L5 or L3-L4
      vertebral space with the subject in the lateral decubitus position. One ml of CSF derived
      from each patient will be immediately immersed in ice, with subsequent maintenance at -70
      degrees C (or in dry ice during shipping) until the time of the assay. Half ml of each CSF
      sample will be concentrated by lyophilization in a Speed-Vac (Holten, Gydevang, Denmark) to
      about 0.1ml. CSF protein immunoblotting will be performed using a similar methodology as
      described above [and see also(Kozlovsky et al., 2004)]. Protein expression will be analyzed
      by western blots (Shiryaev et al., 2010).

      Number of patients:

      We estimate that about 30 patients with Alzheimer's disease, 20 patients with frontotemporal
      dementia and 20 controls will be included.

      Professor Aharon-Peretz will evaluate patients with suspected Alzheimer's disease and
      frontotemporal dementia and include patients at various disease stages in a stratified manner
      (mild, moderate and severe). All patients will have signed an informed consent form, as per
      Helsinki guidelines. Clinical evaluation will include: physical and neurological evaluation.
      All patients will be asked to donate 50 ml blood and selected patients will undergo lumber
      puncture. The lumber puncture will be performed with the neurological work up. Professor
      Gozes will coordinate the scientific aspect of the study.

      Study coordinators:

      Scientific: Professor Illana Gozes, PhD, The Lily and Avraham Gildor Chair for the
      Investigation of Growth Factors; Director, The Adams Super Center for Brain Studies, Tel Aviv
      University: igozes@post.tau.ac.il Clinical material: Professor Judith Aharon-Peretz, MD, Head
      of "Cognitive Neurology Unit" Rambam Rambam-Health Care Campus, Haifa, Israel
    
  