
    
      Breast cancer and systemic chemotherapy: Systemic chemotherapy for operable breast cancer
      significantly decreases the risk of relapse and death. However, it is not possible to
      identify those patients at the outset who are likely to respond to adjuvant treatment and
      which type of treatment should be used. Adjuvant treatment given before surgery (neoadjuvant
      therapy) has a number of advantages in breast cancer, including a reduction in the
      requirement for mastectomy. Access to the primary tumor during early treatment allows for in
      vivo testing for predictive markers obtained by core biopsies that occur with successful
      treatment.

      Predictive markers in breast cancer: Prognostic factors like tumor size and nodal involvement
      are important indicators for breast cancer survival but have not been shown to be predictive
      of sensitivity to chemotherapy. With endocrine therapy, the prime example of a predictive
      marker is estrogen receptor (ER) expression, which predicts for response to tamoxifen and
      other endocrine treatments. However, predictive markers for chemotherapy are not established.
      Overexpression of c-erbB-2 might be associated with decreased response to CMF and increased
      response to anthracycline-based treatment, but these observations are still contentious.
      Expression of topoisomerase II may also reflect responsiveness to anthracycline chemotherapy.
      Recently, some emerging data also suggest that c-erbB2 may be a marker of taxane sensitivity.
      As such, we lack predictive biomarkers that could give early information on how effective
      chemotherapy is and whether additional treatment might be beneficial. A test for chemotherapy
      sensitivity, equivalent to ER in predicting response to endocrine therapy, would greatly
      facilitate treatment decisions so that in an ideal scenario, the treatment of each individual
      patient could be based on specific features of her disease.

      Neoadjuvant chemotherapy: Preoperative chemotherapy for large tumors (>3cm) or inoperable
      breast cancer is well established and is the standard of care for locally advanced breast
      cancer. Data from large series of patients have demonstrated that preoperative (neoadjuvant)
      chemotherapy leads to significant reduction of tumor size (downstaging) and improves both the
      rate and the cosmetic results of breast-conserving surgery. A recent large randomized trial
      involving 1,523 patients compared preoperative and postoperative chemotherapy (NSABP B-18).
      Although results of this study have shown no difference in disease-free survival and survival
      in women on preoperative or postoperative doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide chemotherapy,
      significant downstaging of tumors was achieved so that more patients who received
      preoperative therapy were able to undergo breast-conserving surgery. The rate of breast
      conservation in NSABP B-18 was 85% in patients with tumors greater than 3 cm, with less than
      5% of patients reported to have progressive disease while receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

      cDNA arrays: High-Throughput Quantitative Profiling of Gene Expression: With the advent of
      high-throughput quantitation of gene expression and cDNA technology, it is now possible to
      study expression of many genes simultaneously to characterize expression patterns in
      different breast cancers that may distinguish molecular phenotypes associated with clinical
      response to a treatment. In a recent report, a molecular classification of leukemia was
      demonstrated. Bone marrow aspirates taken from 38 patients with acute leukemia were evaluated
      for expression of 6,817 human genes. The 50 best discriminating genes were used to create a
      predictive index that was then applied to new samples and was found to accurately assign them
      as AML or ALL.

      Preliminary data for differential patterns of gene expression in responders vs non-responders
      of Taxotere chemotherapy: We conducted a pilot study to investigate gene expression patterns
      on core biopsies of human breast cancers in responders and non-responders to Taxotere
      chemotherapy.

      RNA was isolated from core biopsies of primary breast cancers taken from women before
      initiation of Taxotere chemotherapy. Clinical response was assessed after 12 weeks of
      treatment. We compared patterns of gene expression statistically in order to identify genes
      differentially expressed between responders and non-responders to this single
      chemotherapeutic agent.

      Overall, these genes efficiently cluster tumors into 3 groups: CR, PR, and NR. We have
      selected 2337 genes from these data for further analysis. As expected, the majority of these
      genes show heterogeneous expression patterns independent of treatment response, but six large
      gene clusters (approximately 180 genes) appear to predict likelihood of response to Taxotere
      therapy. Consistent with an apoptosis-induction mode of action for taxanes, responsive tumors
      appear to have higher expression of stress-related proteins, such as mitochondrial proteins
      involved in apoptosis (cytochromes, proteasome subunits), and higher levels of
      motility-related microfilament proteins (actin, myosin, and tropomyosin). Non-responders
      patterns are more complex but show elevated levels of some microtubule proteins presumed to
      be targets of Taxotere therapy (tubulins, tubulin-interacting proteins) and elevated levels
      of inflammatory-response genes. Surprisingly, non-responders also showed elevated
      proliferation (KI67) and oncogene (ABL1, MYC and JUNB) expression levels. This molecular
      portrait of Taxotere resistance differs from the expected profiles of general
      chemoresistance. Quantitative RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry studies to confirm these
      differential gene patterns of expression are in progress for all 40 patients.
    
  