
    
      Objectives and hypotheses

        1. Primary objective:

           • To examine if mindfulness-based intervention can reduce rates of relapse at 1 year in
           remitted patients with psychosis.

        2. Secondary objectives:

             -  To test whether mindfulness-based intervention can reduce stress, depressive
                symptoms, and improve functioning and quality of life at 1 year in remitted
                patients with psychosis.

      Participants Patients will be recruited from the Early Assessment Service for Young people
      with psychosis (EASY). This service provides specialized psychiatric care for the first three
      years for young persons with first episode psychosis and covers the entire population of Hong
      Kong of approximately seven million people. The sample will consist of 152 fully remitted
      patients diagnosed with schizophrenia or non-affective psychosis (schizophreniform disorder,
      schizoaffective disorder, brief psychotic disorder, or psychotic disorder not otherwise
      specified)

      Study design This is a single-blind, 12-month, multi-site, randomized controlled trial (RCT)
      of the effect of mindfulness intervention in preventing relapse in remitted psychosis.
      Patients will be randomized into either having 7-week mindfulness-based intervention or
      7-week psychoeducation groups. The study consists of the following time points: baseline
      (before the start of intervention), at 7-week after the intervention, and then monthly for
      the remaining 12 months following end of the intervention. Relapse will be assessed monthly
      during the 1-year follow-up period. Patients will be terminated from the study if relapse
      occurs during the follow up. The study will be carried out in accordance with Good Clinical
      Practice and with the Declaration of Helsinki. The study have sought for approval from the
      Institutional Review Boards at each site. All participants will be required to provide
      written informed consent. Patients will be individually randomized to one of the two parallel
      groups: 7-week mindfulness intervention or 7-week psychoeducation.

      Procedures

      Mindfulness intervention group All patients in the mindfulness group will receive EASY
      service and 7 weekly-session mindfulness-based intervention for psychosis (MBI-p). It is a
      protocol-based, low intensity mindfulness developed to help patients to achieve greater sense
      of peace and calmness, and facilitate participants in handling everyday stress and conflicts.
      MBI-p consists of seven 1.5-hour group sessions, and each group will have 2-6 participants.
      Each MBI-p session has the following components: engagement and introduction, mindfulness
      practices, daily life application and consolidation of learning. Facilitators in conducting
      the MBI-p will be trained by experienced investigators.

      Psychoeducation group All patients in the psychoeducation group will receive EASY service and
      7 weekly-session psychoeducation. Each psychoeducation will last for 1.5 hours, including
      topics on the signs and symptoms of psychosis, aetiology of psychosis and medication usage.

      Assessments The primary outcome of relapse will be assessed using the Positive and Negative
      Syndrome Scale (PANSS) and the Clinical Global Impressions (CGI) Scale (Guy, 1976). Relapse
      will be assessed before (baseline) and after intervention, and then monthly for 12 months.
      When patients experience a psychotic relapse at any point during this 12-month period, their
      participation will be terminated.
    
  