
    
      ADHF syndromes comprise around one million of emergency admissions per year in the United
      States, and the number of cases tripled in the last three decades, currently representing the
      main cause of hospital admission in patients over the age of 65 years. A recent study showed
      that among patients with similar risk in the presentation of ADHF, those admitted and treated
      in the emergency (in attempt to get early discharge) have higher mortality rate than those
      treated by hospitalization. On the other hand, uncertainty about the clinical course can also
      result in prolonged and unnecessary hospitalizations, which burdens the health system and
      consumes resources. Thus, It is vital to carry out studies that bring a better understanding
      of the pathophysiology of ADHF and to determine new risk stratification tools in the
      emergency department. Echocardiography is the most widely used imaging method and has a key
      role in the diagnosis and management of patients with HF. However, some methodological
      limitations of conventional echocardiography cause low reproducibility and intra and
      inter-observer agreement for some parameters, reducing their prognostic ability. In recent
      years, new technologies have been incorporated into the method in an attempt to overcome
      these limitations. One of these new technologies is echocardiography with "speckle tracking".
      The method, by its nature, has a significant advantage over parameters derived from
      conventional echocardiography, because of its ultrasound beam angle-independence. However,
      there is a paucity of data on this new technology in patients with ADHF in literature and we
      have not found studies evaluating the prognostic value of this method in a prospective cohort
      of patients in this condition. This study aims to develop knowledge of this assessment tool
      for cardiac mechanics in emergency care, exploring its potential prognostic value in patients
      with ADHF, aiming to assist the cardiologist in identifying eligible patients for early and
      safe discharge, and to identify those patients for whom hospitalization and longer treatment
      are recommended.
    
  