
    
      1. Background Complications of diabetes could cause death from stroke and myocardial
           infarction, and it is the chronic disease that leads to foot amputation, blindness and
           renal failure. According to the data of Statistics Korea, the prevalence rate of
           diabetes for people over 30 years old (standardization) has gradually increased from
           8.6% in 2001 to 9.7% in 2010. Although diabetes is not the direct cause of death or
           disability, it is becoming a significant health problem across the world as it is a
           major illness causing complications.

           Diabetic complications are very common; the patients of end-stage renal failure with
           diabetes were 56.7% and patients who begin renal replacement therapy with diabetes were
           70.5% in 2003. The prevalence rate of eye problems including cataract, retinopathies and
           glaucoma in diabetic patients is 1.9 times higher than that in non-diabetic patients. In
           addition, it is estimated that the incidence rate of acute stroke, which is a
           complication of the great vessels of diabetic patients, is also 5.2 times higher than
           that of the general population. As diabetes could cause various complications and be
           dangerous, the regulation of blood glucose level is essential in order to prevent these
           complications.

           According to the Korea National Health & Nutrition Examination Survey in 2008~2010, the
           rate of patients with well-controlled glycated hemoglobin of below 6.5% among diabetic
           patients over 30 years old is only 25%. Thus, many studies are being conducted to lower
           the glycated hemoglobin by administering various line drugs, alone or in combination,
           because the regulation of blood glucose is difficult for many diabetic patients.

           When the regulation of blood glucose ends in failure with a single dose of a drug, the
           combination treatment is recommended. Metformin is mainly used as the first-order
           treatment drug, and the second and third drugs, such as dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4)
           inhibitor and sulphonylurea, are recommended to use if the first one is not sufficient.

           DPP-4 inhibitor is a new line of hypoglycemic agent based on incretin. It has
           statistically significant results for the regulation of glycated hemoglobin compared to
           existing oral hypoglycemic agents.

           Therefore, many clinicians use Metformin as the first-order drug, and DPP-4 inhibitor as
           the second-order drug. Alogliptin, which was recently proved to have no side effects of
           the cardiovascular system, is effective in the regulation of blood glucose as well as
           the weight control and the prevention of hypoglycemia. Moreover, it is effective when
           administered alone, and also effective when coadministered with Metformin, Glibenclamide
           and Pioglitazone. In particular, the reduction degree of glycated hemoglobin was
           significantly larger when it was administered with Pioglitazone.

           Sulphonylurea, the most well-known hypoglycemic agent, is helpful in the regulation of
           blood glucose and reduces the occurrence frequency of hypoglycemia when combined with
           Metformin.

        2. Rationale This study examines the related factors of the Pioglitazone group, which is a
           TZDs line, and the Glimepiride group, which is a sulphonylurea line, as the third-order
           drugs for patients who are coadministered Metformin and Alogliptin, a DPP-4 inhibitor.

        3. Hypothesis When the SU and TZDs drugs administered as third-order drugs in the patients
           who administered second-order drugs, the treatment effect is different between the two
           drugs

        4. Primary Aim/Objective:

           The primary objective is to compare the mean changes of HbA1c at week 26 between the two
           groups, SU (glimepiride) administration and TZDs (Pioglitazone) administration, as the
           third-order drug among patients whose treatment is not sufficient after the combined
           administration of Metformin and Alogliptin.

        5. Primary Endpoint(s):

      The mean changes of HbA1c at week 26 from baseline
    
  