
    
      Each year, approximately 50,000 Canadians sustain an acquired brain injury (ABI) with 16,000
      of those individuals living in Ontario. Individuals with ABI not only suffer significant
      cognitive and motor impairments, but they often experience debilitating emotional distress.
      Emotional distress uniquely contributes to poorer functional outcomes and decreased quality
      of life. Moreover, emotional distress confers risk for the subsequent development of serious
      mental illness such as depression, anxiety disorders, suicide and possibly psychotic illness.
      While a great deal of clinical resources are devoted to the cognitive and motor sequelae of
      ABI, the concomitant psychological and psychiatric sequelae of brain injury often receive
      relatively little attention in in-patient and day-hospital programs, and the expense and
      inaccessibility of therapeutic services are often prohibitive for consumers in the sub-acute
      and chronic stages of brain injury. Moreover, few psychological interventions are tailored to
      the specific cognitive needs and content issues of brain-injured consumers. We have taken a
      well-validated mode of psychological treatment used in face-to-face therapeutic settings -
      Cognitive Behaviour Therapy (CBT) - and adapted it for the needs of brain-injured clients.
      Thus far, the protocol has been adapted for content issues and cognitive impairments of
      people with ABI, it has been adapted for telehealth delivery, it has been through expert
      review, and its feasibility has been assessed. The aim of the proposed research is to
      demonstrate in a randomized control trial (RCT) the efficacy of the adapted protocol, both in
      a standard delivery modality (i.e., face to face and group) and in the telehealth delivery
      modality in comparison to an education control group. The treatment is focused on improving
      coping skills and decreasing psychological distress post-ABI. If proven effective, the
      intervention could be used cost-effectively by a range of therapists (e.g., Psychologists;
      Psychiatrists; Occupational Therapists and Social Workers) to improve coping, adjustment and
      quality of life for ABI consumers irrespective of geographical location, mobility
      restrictions or economic status.
    
  