
    
      Background Gastric cancer is the fourth most widespread cancer in the world and is
      characterized by high mortality rates [1, 2]. A multidisciplinary context, in which surgery
      plays the main role, is essential to offer the best therapeutic strategy. Lymph node
      involvement in gastric cancer is present in 2-18% when the depth of the tumor invasion is
      limited to the mucosal or submucosal layer, but rises to 50% when the tumor involves the
      subserosa [3]. Lymphadenectomy is a fundamental surgical phase that must guarantee the
      oncological radicality and allow an appropriate tumor staging. Although it is among the most
      relevant factors influencing long-term survival, its extension and standardization is still
      the subject of much debate. The two latest editions of the Japanese Gastric Cancer
      Association (JGCA) guidelines [4] recommend a dissection on different levels (D1, D1 +, D2)
      depending on the type of gastrectomy and the clinical stage of the tumor. In recent years,
      some researchers have tried to apply the concept of "sentinel lymph node" to gastric cancer
      [5-7]. Although some do not consider that terminology the appropriate one in the context of
      gastric cancer, because of the multidirectional gastric lymphatic flows, several studies have
      highlighted interesting aspects, such as: limiting an extensive lymphatic dissection when not
      necessary, identifying the drainage routes outside the standard anatomical planes, possible
      assistance in minimally invasive procedures [8]. Most of the experiences in lymph nodes
      mapping were performed with a radio-isotope (Tc99m) associated or not with the intraoperative
      use of vital dyes (Blue dye). More recently, the properties of the ICG have been studied.
      This is a fluorescence dye, that can be detected in the NIR [9, 10]. The development of
      imaging tools using "NIR / ICG" technology is therefore an innovative approach for
      visualizing tumors, vascular structures, lymphatic channels, and lymph nodes [11]. Some
      advantages of the ICG are: reduced toxicity, absence of radioactivity, low cost, safe
      administration both intravenously and endoscopically through the submucosa or subserosa,
      protein binding without changing molecular structures, macrophages interaction at the lymph
      node level. Devices for fluorescence imaging are currently available in both open and
      minimally invasive surgery.

      In this field, robotic surgery has been becoming of great interest thanks to the
      manufacturing of new instruments which, compared to laparoscopy, allow to improve manual
      skills and gentleness in challenging movements [12]. The Da Vinci Xi robotic system has also
      produced an innovative imaging technology for ICG visualization made up with a laser source
      integrated in the robotic camera (Firefly). The surgeon at the console has therefore a 3-D
      vision that can switch to the fluorescence mode without the need to change the camera. Few
      clinical experiences have been reported to date [12]. Published articles refer to assistance
      in colo-rectal and hepato-biliary surgery for vessels or biliary structures visualization,
      while its use during lymph node dissection for gastric cancer has not yet been the subject of
      study protocols.

      Hypothesis: fluorescence imaging during lymphadenectomy in gastric cancer can significantly
      improve the quality of the dissection through a better visualization of anatomical planes and
      allow tailored dissections. Moreover, the tumor status in the fluorescent nodes could predict
      the nodes status in the overall specimen with high accuracy rate.

      Methods General study design: the overall objective is verifying the feasibility and the role
      of a lymphadenectomy assisted by fluorescence imaging during robotic gastrectomy.

      Two levels of investigation are planned:

        -  to detect the possible advantages of a fluorescence-guided surgery ("Navigation
           Surgery");

        -  to evaluate the possibility of considering the lymph nodes labeled by the ICG as
           predictive of the state of tumor diffusion ("Targeted Surgery") Type of study:
           Interventional study.

      Specific aims:

        1. To verify the ability of the procedure to highlight the main tumor lymphatic drainage
           pathways.

        2. To validate the concept of Navigation Surgery in gastric surgery by comparing the group
           of the experimental procedure with a control group undergoing the same type of surgery
           but not assisted by fluorescence.

        3. To find a correlation between the nodes marked by the ICG and the remaining nodes
           removed during the procedure.

        4. To identify the characteristics of those patients in whom the ICG can effectively
           discriminate the type of lymphadenectomy to be performed.

      Data collection: the following information will be collected for each patient.

      - General variables: demographic, histopathological, intra and post-operative features,
      complications. - Specific variables: total number of lymph nodes retrieved (LNs), Fluorescent
      lymph nodes (FLNs), metastatic LNs, LNs by station, FLNs outside the standard dissection
      plane, FLNs status (positive or negative for tumor), non-fluorescent LNs status

      Definitions and subdivision of patients:

        -  True positive patients: patients in which FLNs positive for tumor are detected when LNs
           positive for tumor are found in the analysis of the surgical specimen.

        -  False positive patients: patients in which FLNs positive for tumor are detected when LNs
           negative for tumor are found in the analysis of the surgical specimen.

        -  True negative patients: patients in which FLNs negative for tumor are detected when LNs
           negative for tumor are found in the analysis of the surgical specimen.

        -  False negative patients: patients in which FLNs negative for tumor are detected when LNs
           positive for tumor are found in the analysis of the surgical specimen.

      Sample size: considering the volume of patients included in published studies available in
      the literature on the use of fluorescence imaging and adding that the present project is the
      first to describe the use of robotic technology with fluorescence assistance in gastric
      cancer, a total of 20 patients will be enrolled for the experimental procedure. An additional
      sample including 20 patients will be the control group, based on the same eligibility
      criteria. The total sample of patients planned for the present study is therefore of 40
      subjects.

      Statistical analysis: SPSS v23 will be used to perform data analysis. The dichotomous
      variables will be expressed as numbers and percentages, while the continuous variables as
      mean and standard deviation, or median and IQR (minimum and maximum values). For the
      comparison with the control group, the continuous variables will be analyzed with the T test
      for independent samples and a value of P <0.05 will be considered statistically significant.

      Impact on clinical practice and healthcare system: this project can pave the way for a new
      concept of lymphadenectomy in gastric cancer involving minimally invasive surgery. Patients
      could benefit from a more tailored approach to their disease.
    
  