
    
      The standard treatment for traumatic hemothorax (HTX) and hemopneumothorax (HPTX) has been an
      insertion of a large-bore chest tube (CT) (French 28-32). The procedure is associated with
      significant patient's pain and discomfort. Investigator's institution has taken a lead role
      to replace chest tube insertion with pigtail catheter (PC) (14F) insertion. The investigators
      have previously published that, not only PC works just as well as the traditional CT for both
      pneumothorax 1) and hemothorax( 2), but it is also associated with a significant less
      insertion pain and tube site pain (3). In that hemothorax study, investigator reported 36
      patients who received PC for HTX (2) with the same success as 32-36F chest tube in term of
      initial output and success rate; success rate was defined as no further intervention was
      needed. Since the completion of that study (December 2011), investigator's division has
      inserted probably 100 PC for hemothorax and hemopneumohthorax Therefore, the investigators
      now believe that it is time for the investigator to demonstrate the efficacy of the PC for
      hemothorax with a prospective and randomized study as the investigator had done previously
      for traumatic pneumothorax (3).

      The investigators hypothesize that pigtail catheter will be just as effective as the chest
      tube in patients with traumatic HTX and HPTX.

      The investigators' study aim is to demonstrate the efficacy of the pigtail catheter in a
      prospective and randomized fashion as we have done previously in pneumothorax.

      The investigators' primary end point is the success/failure rate. Failure is defined as a
      second intervention is required i.e., second tube, video-assisted thoracoscopy (VATS), etc.

      The investigators' secondary end points are the amount of initial tube drainage, 24-hour,
      48-hour, 72-hour; and complications, hospital length of stay, and chest tube or pigtail
      insertion experience as expressed by the patient.
    
  