
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine if post-manipulation elastic therapeutic tape (ETT)
      with TheraBand® Kinesiology Tape to neck pain patients can impact neck range of motion (ROM)
      and post-manipulation pain. A convenience sample of 50 patients, between the ages of 18-64,
      who present with acute non-complicated postural neck pain will be recruited from an
      outpatient chiropractic clinic. Complications would include discogenic pain or radicular
      symptoms. Inclusionary criteria would also consist of onset less than 18 days and the
      indications for cervical manipulation, including pain, decreased range of motion, and
      hypertonicity. Exclusionary criteria will include pregnancy, contraindications to
      manipulation, and previous neck surgery. Patients will be recruited on the first visits to
      ensure they haven't receive manipulation before for this current plan of care. Upon providing
      consent to participate, patients will be randomly assigned into 2 groups; Control Group
      (n=25) and Tape Group (n=25). Pain and neck ROM will be recorded at 3 different intervals:
      (1) pre-cervical manipulation, (2) within 5 minutes of cervical manipulation, (3) with 24-48
      hours after manipulation. The control group will receive manipulation only, while the Tape
      Group will have ETT TheraBand® Kinesiology Tape applied immediately following cervical
      manipulation. The taping protocol will be applied by the investigator and consist of a "Y"
      strip applied at 25% tension running superior to inferior from the hair line to T1-2 and a
      horizontal "I" strip applied at 50% tension at the site of pain. Six cervical ranges of
      motion values will be recorded utilizing the Acumar DataCapture hand-held dual inclinometer.
      Range of motion will be measured at maximum (max) degrees and average degrees of 6 trials and
      will include: flexion (F), extension €, left side-bending (LSB), right side-bending (RSB),
      left rotation (LR), and right rotation (RR). Measure of pain will be asked of each patient
      using the Numeric Pain Rating Scale (NPRS) from 0-10. They will be asked to rate their pain
      at rest and when in motion.
    
  