
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the response rate of Avatar-directed salvage chemotherapy in patients with
      platinum-resistant ovarian, primary peritoneal and fallopian tube cancers.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the progression-free survival of patients with platinum-resistant ovarian,
      primary peritoneal and fallopian tube cancers receiving Avatar-directed salvage chemotherapy.

      II. To determine the overall survival of patients with platinum-resistant ovarian, primary
      peritoneal and fallopian tube cancers receiving Avatar-directed salvage chemotherapy.

      III. To determine the adverse events for patients with platinum-resistant ovarian, primary
      peritoneal and fallopian tube cancers receiving Avatar-directed salvage chemotherapy.

      IV. To determine the correlation between patient response and response in their Avatar.

      V. To enrich the Avatar response signature in response to Avatar-directed therapy using
      patient outcomes.

      VI. To compare the response rates between patients who did or did not receive bevacizumab
      treatment.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 4 treatment arms as directed by Avatar results.

      ARM A: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 1-96 hours on days 1, 8, and 15.
      Patients may also receive bevacizumab IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat
      every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity

      ARM B: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15.
      Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM C: Patients receive pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 60 minutes on
      day 1. Patients may also receive bevacizumab IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 15. Courses
      repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM D: Patients receive topotecan hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5 every 21 days
      or days 1, 8, and 15 every 28 days. Patients may also receive bevacizumab IV over 90 minutes
      on day 1 every 21 days or days 1 and 15 every 28 days. Courses repeat every 21 or 28 days in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for 3 years.
    
  