
    
      In current clinical practice malnourished (undernourished) patients may receive oral
      nutritional supplements (ONS) to aid in the management of their malnutrition
      (undernutrition). Poor compliance to ONS was been reported in the scientific literature,
      however recent studies of a low volume, high energy ONS have shown high compliance. This
      study aims to further explore compliance to low volume ONS compared to standard ONS. This
      study is a 2 week cross over study with a 4 week optional extension. Participants at risk of
      malnutrition will receive a low volume, high energy ONS for 1 week and a standard ONS for 1
      week in a random order to compare nutrient intake and compliance. This short term element of
      the study was designed based on a similar study by Hubbard et al 2009, where significant
      differences in compliance and energy intake were observed. Participants may then take part in
      an optional 4 week extension period where they will receive their preferred ONS for 4 weeks.
      Longer term outcomes such as change in weight, muscle function and tolerance to the ONS will
      be measured in this part of the study. Changes in weight and muscle function are typically
      seen in 4 weeks.

      Overview of the study:

        1. Participants will be assessed for inclusion and exclusion criteria by the investigating
           dietitian or research nurse, and then provided with information about the study.
           Eligible participants will be asked for their written informed consent. Participant
           characteristics and medical history will be collected.

        2. Participants will be randomly allocated to receive either:

      A. A standard ONS (1.5kcal/ml) as control, ad libitum in addition to diet for 7 days.
      Participants will then receive the high energy, low volume equivalent ONS (2.4kcal/ml) ad
      libitum in addition to diet for 7 days (n=70), or:

      B. A high energy, low volume ONS (2.4kcal/ml) ad libitum in addition to diet for 7 days.
      Participants will then receive the equivalent standard ONS (1.5kcal/ml) as control, ad
      libitum in addition to diet for 7 days (n=70). Participants will then have an option to
      continue with their preferred ONS for a further 4 weeks (28 days).
    
  