
    
      An important part of care in chronic kidney disease is an adapted diet. Its most important
      aspect is protein restriction. The rationale for protein restriction is a reduction of uremic
      wastes. However, nutritional requirements for protein synthesis limit the maximum extent of
      protein restriction. To deal with these conflicting targets, a minimum protein intake
      supplemented with ketoanalogues of amino acids (supplemented very low protein diet, sVLPD)
      meets the protein needs while reducing uremic waste.

      The aim of this explorative, observational study is to determine the effect of sVLPD on eGFR
      decline compared to a low protein diet (LPD) or no protein restriction.

      Data collection The study uses only data from routine health care records. The transfer to
      the electronic case report form is done by center investigators.

      Data entry is monitored monthly for completeness and plausibility. Missing or unusual data
      will be requested for completion or re-assessment.

      In case of high loss to follow up (>10%), low follow up frequency (<90% of patients with <3
      visits per year), or greater than 5% missing core data (age, gender, descent, height, weight,
      history of diabetes and hypertension, blood pressure, serum creatinin, dietary prescription,
      judgement of compliance), audit visits including source data verification and trainings may
      be done.

      Primary analysis Direct comparison of patients receiving sVLPD or LPD is not meaningful due
      to the non-interventional design. It is expected that sVLPD patients will have a more
      advanced stage of CKD, most likely will have higher severity of disease and possibly may have
      different demographic baseline data. Furthermore, other well-known risk factors for
      progression of chronic kidney disease like the presence of diabetes mellitus or high blood
      pressure may affect eGFR decline.

      A relevant amount of data is expected to be missing due to the observational nature and the
      use of data from clinical routine. Furthermore, missing data are unlikely to occur completely
      at random.

      Therefore, missing data will not be imputed but they will be implicitly modeled by a mixed
      model: mean changes of eGFR from baseline will be analyzed using a restricted
      maximum-likelihood based repeated measures approach. Analyses will include the fixed,
      categorical effects of actual treatment, study center, gender, visit time, and baseline
      variables presence of smoking history, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and baseline eGFR.
      Patient will be included as a random factor to the model. Significance tests will use a
      two-sided α = 0.05.

      Secondary analyses Compliance, dietary counselling, use of a nutritional diary, primary
      diagnosis of CKD, diabetes mellitus, and vegetarian diet will be included to the model
      described before and analyzed for independent effects or effect modification of the diet.

      The approach to the secondary analysis of development of serum urea is similar to the primary
      analysis.

      Cox-regression analysis will be done for time to dialysis initiation or reaching the
      composite endpoint [>50% eGFR decline or initiation of maintenance dialysis treatment]
      including the same baseline variables as mentioned for the primary endpoint.
    
  