
    
      This is a dual-center observational prospective study in patients with pulmonary arterial
      hypertension, chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension, pulmonary hypertension due to
      left heart disease. Patients undergoing right heart catheterisation due to dyspnoe with
      invasive exclusion of pulmonary hypertension will be recruited as disease control.

      The study comprises a 1-day screening period, followed by a right heart catheterization with
      exercise challenge.

      The study starts with screening, information of the patients and Informed Consent Form
      signature at day -1. Screening and inclusion of the patient can be performed on the same day.
      On the day of the planned right heart catheterization based on clinical grounds, exercise
      right heart catheterisation (RHC) using Swan-Ganz and/or Conductance catheters with
      simultaneous echocardiography will be performed. End of study is defined as a complete
      exercise RHC. Adverse events will be assessed until 1 day after the exercise RHC.

      After placement of the Swan-ganz or Conductance catheter patients will undergo an exercise
      challenge using the following protocol in semi-supine position until exhaustion:

        -  Incremental workload increase of 20Watt every 2-4 min.

        -  For patients not able to start a 20 Watt, initial workload can be adjusted to a minimum
           of 5 Watt with 5 Watt increase every 2-4 min until exhaustion

        -  Maximal exercise duration is 10-12 minutes

        -  Symptoms of dyspnoea during exercise will be rated by subjects at baseline, after 6
           minutes and at maximum according to the Borg perceived dyspnoea (0-10) scale.

      Simultaneously, echocardiography and lung ultrasound will be performed before exercise
      (baseline), after 6 minutes of exercise and at maximum.

      After assessment of right ventriclure pressure-volume loops during maximum exercise, guided
      by echocardiographic the conductance catheter will be placed in the right atrium to obtain
      right atrium pressure-volume loops during maximum exercise.

      Optional, the exercise RHC will be performed without the Conductance catheter and only with
      the Swan-Ganz catheter. In this case, pressure values and cardiac output will be measured
      using the thermodilution method, averaging 3-5 measurements at baseline, 6 minutes and
      maximum. Detailed assessment of right atrial pressure curves (with a and v wave) will be
      performed at baseline, 6 minutes and maximum exercise.
    
  