
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the use of antibiotics postoperatively in
      non-infected mandible fractures compared to the lack of postoperative antibiotics in the same
      population.

      The first outcome measure is infection. Evidence of infection includes persistent swelling,
      fever, recurrent swelling, erythema, and purulent discharge.

      The second outcome measure is no infection. Absence of persistent swelling, fever, recurrent
      swelling, erythema, and purulent discharge.

      Outcome measures will be assessed on follow-up visits: post op week 1, post op week 3, and
      post op week 6-8. Latest follow-up is up to 8 weeks. If the subject presents with any of the
      above mentioned symptoms during the 8 week post-op period, the subject will be considered
      positive for infection.

      Prospective randomized trial: Control group will not receive any postoperative antibiotics
      other than what is accepted as preoperative prophylactic antibiotics as per current standards
      of care. Trial groups will receive a single post-operative dose administration of Unasyn 3g
      or Clindamycin 600mg (for penicillin allergies), then the patients in the trial group will be
      switched to oral Augmentin 875mg twice a day for 7 days (Amoxicillin and Clavulanic acid
      which is clinically interchangeable with Unasyn), or oral Clindamycin 150mg to 300mg four
      times a day for 7 days (for penicillin allergies). If the patient is discharged home prior to
      completing 7 days of oral antibiotic therapy, patient will receive prescription to finish the
      remaining doses of antibiotics for a total period of 7 days.

      The patient will follow up post op week 1, post op week 3, and post op week 6-8. Latest
      follow-up is up to 8 weeks.

      Patients will be monitored for any complications, including reaction to IV and oral
      antibiotics. Patient will assessed after the one-time post-op IV antibiotic dose and during
      their follow-up visits at weeks 1, 3, and 6-8.
    
  