
    
      This will be a nonrandomized controlled study. Participants will self select to be a part of
      this intervention. The control data will be aggregated matched data from participants in the
      corporate wellness program at Memorial Health System, who choose not to participate in the
      intervention.

      Study participants will have already enrolled in the Memorial Health System (MHS) Corporate
      Wellness Program, and have met the inclusion criteria. As part of the wellness program health
      risk assessment, potential participants will be provided with a short summary of this program
      as a potential activity for their participation, with a link leading to a landing page, which
      will explain the study in more detail, and will include a link to the consent.

      In addition, about a week after completion of the health risk assessment, if meeting
      eligibility for this study, a reminder email will be sent.

      If the potential participant is interested, they can click the link to move to the on line
      consent. If they agree to the consent, they will be taken to an on line HIPAA release form,
      which will also need an electronic agreement to be enrolled into the study signified by
      typing in the participant's name and date of birth.

      Once this is completed, an email with an enrollment code and link to Mastering Diabetes will
      be sent the participant.

      Mastering Diabetes Program Description:

      The Mastering Diabetes Program is based on the Mastering Diabetes Method, which is based on
      almost 100 years of evidence based research demonstrating the effectiveness of a low-fat,
      plant-based, whole-food diet to reverse insulin resistance. Members are provided with a
      step-by-step online course that educates them how to transition to a low-fat, plant-based,
      whole-food lifestyle and reduce the overwhelm associated with ineffective pharmaceutical
      medication and ineffective dietary advice.

      The online course provides members with detailed information about the root cause of insulin
      resistance, the effect of a high-fat diet on increasing insulin resistance, how to achieve
      excellent blood glucose values in the short-term and in the long-term, what laboratory tests
      to get to measure progress, an overview of oral diabetes medication and insulin, how to track
      hour-by-hour decisions for excellent blood glucose control, how to lose weight permanently
      using a low-fat, plant-based, whole-food diet, how to buy food, where to buy food, how to
      prepare food easily, the benefits of intermittent fasting for improved insulin sensitivity,
      how to perform an intermittent fast for excellent results, how to adopt an exercise regimen,
      how to control your blood glucose before, during, and after exercise, how to change your
      breakfast, lunch, dinner, and also provides members with a collection of delicious and simple
      recipes.

      The program also provides members with direct access to expert coaches via an online
      community containing thousands of others living with all forms of diabetes, including type 1
      diabetes, type 1.5 diabetes, prediabetes, type 2 diabetes, and gestational diabetes. In
      addition, members get access to live biweekly Q&A videoconferences in which they can interact
      with coaches and personalize their experience. The cost of full coaching program is $399 for
      the first 3 months, then $99 per month thereafter.

      Participants, having enrolled in the wellness program, will already, as a part of that study,
      have agreed to have data collected at baseline and yearly thereafter, including BMI, blood
      pressure, resting pulse, lipid panel, hemoglobin A1c, health risk assessment survey,
      absenteeism and health claims data at baseline and yearly thereafter. If not collected within
      60 days, a new set of data will be collected to serve as baseline for this study. This is not
      specific for this study, but is the case for any new program activity that a participant in
      the corporate wellness study begins.

      Specifically for this study the health risk assessment data collection (including lab
      analysis) will also be repeated at 12 weeks. The lab work is accomplished at any MHS lab
      facility, according to current medical system standards.

      Participant health claims data will also be evaluated, beginning with the prior year's data,
      if available from MHS Human Resources, being utilized as a baseline, and followed for the
      subsequent years of the study.
    
  