
    
      Ventilatory protocol: Patients will be randomized to either the apnea group or the HFV group.
      In the HFV group the patients will be ventilated using a tidal volume of 1.5 ml per kg and a
      respiratory rate of 100 per minute for as long as the surgeon needs to perform the distal
      anastomosis of the coronaries.The same surgeon will perform all surgeries. In the Control
      group, ventilation will be stopped for the duration of the anastomosis as it's done
      currently. At all other times during the surgery, the ventilatory parameters will be adjusted
      to maintain a PaCO2 between 40 and 45 mmHg.

      The anesthesia protocol for the off pump coronary artery bypass will be as follows:
      premedication will be left at the discretion of the anesthesiologist. In the operating room,
      the patient will be instrumented with a radial arterial line before induction. Induction will
      consist of a bolus of 1.0 mcg per Kg of Sufentanil. Anesthesia will be maintained with 1mcg
      per Kg per hour of Sufentanil. One per cent Isoflurane will be used as hemodynamic parameters
      allow. Rocuronium 0.7 mg per Kg will be used to facilitate endotracheal intubation. Following
      endotracheal intubation the patients will monitored with a pulmonary artery catheter and a
      femoral arterial line. A perfusionist will be on standby at all times for possible conversion
      to extracorporeal circulation.

      Measures to effect:

      Routine baseline laboratory investigations will be performed at admission of the patient to
      the ward.

      Hemodynamic parameters:

      Arterial blood pressure, heart rate, pulmonary artery pressure, right ventricular pressure
      will be recorded five minutes intervals throughout the surgery.

      Ventilatory parameters and blood gases:

      End tidal CO2 and pulse oxymetry will be recorded at five minutes intervals throughout the
      surgery.

      Arterial blood gases will be performed after induction, before and after each distal coronary
      anastomosis and when judged necessary. The type and time for each anastomosis will be noted.

      C-reactive protein and brain natriuretic peptide:

      Measurements of CRP and BNP will be perform at admission, after induction of anesthesia, in
      the intensive care unit after the surgery and 24 hrs after admission to the intensive care
      unit.

      We will use the serum for measure of CRP.CRP will be measured using the Dade Behring N High
      Sensitivity CRP assay (Dade Behring Diagnostics,Marburg,Germany) on the BN ProSpec
      Nephelometer (Dade Behring Diagnostics).The assay will use monoclonal anti-CRP antibodies
      coated to polystyrene particles and a human calibrator traceable to the WHO reference
      material. We will use the Heparinised Plasma for measure of NT Pro-BNP.NT Pro-BNP will be
      measure by electrochemiluminescence immunoassay using the Roche Pro BNP assay (Roche
      Diagnostics , Mannheim,Germany) on the ElecSys 2010 analyzer (Roche Diagnostics).This assay
      will use two polyclonal antibodies in a sandwich format.

      Cerebral Oximetry Monitoring:

      Cerebral oxymetry (rSO2) using near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS, Invos 5100; Somanetics
      Corporation, Troy, MI) will be performed on all patients. After cleaning adjacent skin area
      with alcohol, an adhesive optode pad will be placed over each front-temporal area. Resting
      baseline rSO2 values will be obtained after waiting at least 1 min after placement of sensors
      once values had stabilized, with patient resting quietly and receiving 3-5 L of O2/min by
      nasal cannula. Continuous rSO2 values will be store on a floppy disk with a 15 s update for
      the duration of the intraoperative period. With application of the chest dressing, and before
      leaving the OR, monitoring will be discontinued and optodes will be removed.

      Transesophageal echocardiographic (TEE) measurements:

      A comprehensive TEE examination will be performed for all patients as it's done
      routinely(25). Specific TEE measurements as recommended be the ASE will be perform before and
      after distal coronary anastomosis(26). RVMPI will be defined as the sum of isovolumic
      contraction time and isovolumic relaxation time divided by the ejection time and the normal
      value is 0.28±0.04). RV MPI will be measured using both pulse wave and tissue Doppler imaging
      from a deep transgastric view and upper esophageal view. Right ventricular FAC % will be
      measure in 4 chambers view and calculated as RV change in area in diastole minus RV change in
      area in Systole divided by the calculated RV area in Diastole (37).

      Analysis of HR and BP variability:

      Baseline HR and BP variability will be analysed using wavelet transformation (27). The
      extraction of characteristic frequencies, or specific oscillations, of a signal that is
      composed of the consecutive R-R intervals for HR variability analysis, or consecutive
      systolic blood pressures for BP variability analysis, is used. The analysis will be made
      using MATLAB® and the dedicated toolbox software Wavelab. High frequency power of the HR
      variability is indicative of changes in parasympathetic nervous system. Total power of the BP
      variability signal is used as a measure of sympathetic outflow.
    
  