
    
      Study design:

      This is an investigator-initiated, prospective in-vivo safety and feasibility study with two
      procedures.

      Procedure 1 (AMC):

      Patients that are indicated for transperineal template mapping biopsies (TTMB) are included
      for procedure 1 and will receive transperineal CLE or OCT measurements prior to TTMB.
      Procedure 1 is to test the technical feasibility and safety of in-vivo focal imaging with CLE
      and OCT. Only if transperineal CLE or OCT measurements are possible, the investigators
      proceed with procedure 2.

      For procedure 1: 4 patients that are scheduled for TTMB; 2 patients for CLE and 2 patients
      for OCT.

      Procedure 2 (VUmc):

      Patients scheduled for a robot-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy (RALP) will be included in
      procedure 2 and receive transperineal CLE or OCT measurements prior to their surgery. Results
      will be correlated with histology by correlating biopsies during the TTMB procedure or with
      RALP the measurement trajectory will be marked. After the RALP, the prostate will be cut
      exactly through the measurement trajectory for whole mount coupes. In high-risk of
      high-intermediate-risk patients receiving an extended pelvic lymph node dissection with the
      RALP, ex-vivo CLE measurements will be performed.

      For procedure 2: 10 patients that are scheduled for RALP; 5 patients for CLE and 5 patients
      for OCT. Intervention: Transperineal CLE or OCT measurements will be performed directly prior
      to the TTMB or RALP. The CLE and OCT probes are inserted by a needle with the same diameter
      as a biopsy gun. In the case of RALP, measurement trajectories will be marked for
      histopathology correlation.

      Intervention:

      Transperineal CLE or OCT measurements will be performed directly prior to the TTMB or RALP.
      The CLE and OCT probes are inserted by a needle with the same diameter as a biopsy gun. In
      the case of RALP, measurement trajectories will be marked for histopathology correlation.
    
  