
    
      More than 250 million courses of antibiotics are prescribed annually in the ambulatory care
      setting in the United States alone, including more than 40 million in children under 18 years
      of age. The perception that antibiotic use has minimal attendant adverse side effects
      contributes to the over-utilization of antibiotics in clinical circumstances when they are
      not strictly indicated. We have learned much about the human microbiome. The emerging view is
      of profound life-long bi-directional interactions between our microbiota and our cells.
      Perturbations in the microbiota affect metabolic, immune, and cognitive physiology in
      experimental animal models. When a person takes an antibiotic, the antibiotic diffuses via
      the blood into all body compartments, selecting for resistance. We propose to examine the
      effects of two commonly used antibiotics (the beta-lactam, amoxicillin and the macrolide
      azithromycin) on human microbial populations and on metabolic and immune physiology, studying
      healthy human volunteers in a randomized controlled clinical trial at the NIH Clinical
      Center. Our hypothesis is that in addition to acutely perturbing the human microbiome, these
      agents will have measurable metabolic and immunologic effects, with residual effects in the
      weeks that follow. To test this hypothesis, we will assess the effects of a brief therapeutic
      course of antibiotics on microbiome and metagenome composition. After an initial evaluation
      period, antibiotics will be given for 7 days or 5 days (depending on the antibiotic), and
      there will be a post-treatment evaluation. A control group will receive no drug intervention.
      Specimens will be obtained from multiple sites at each of 10 time points occurring before,
      during, and after antibiotic administration, and used for estimating bacterial and fungal
      composition and gene content. We will also assess the effects of the antibiotic course on
      markers of innate and adaptive immunity as well as markers of metabolic and hormonal
      physiology. A subgroup of subjects will be studied in the clinical center metabolic chamber
      to assess 24-hour energy expenditure and its components (sleeping, diet-induced, and activity
      energy expenditure), as well as macronutrient oxidation rates (carbohydrate, fat, and
      protein), during 3 of the 10 study visits. In addition to the primary data analyses, we will
      build a model that integrates the temporal data to begin to understand the complex
      intertwined physiology between microbiome and host.
    
  