
    
      Frailty is the decline in physical and cognitive reserves leading to increased vulnerability
      to stressors such as surgery or disease states. Frailty is not a disease, but a syndrome with
      a distinct frail phenotype that includes decreased status in mobility, muscle mass,
      nutritional status, strength, and endurance. Frail patients are at greater risk of adverse
      outcomes, such as functional decline, prolonged hospitalization with associated increases in
      healthcare costs and death. Multiple measures of frailty exist and although they are
      important for understanding risk for a given patient population or resource utilization, they
      do not provide any insight as to how to manage or treat frail patients.

      In critically ill patients, sarcopenia has long been tied to poor outcomes, poor nutrition
      status, and decreased ability to perform activities of daily living (ADLs). We hypothesize
      that sarcopenia as a marker for frailty in critically ill patients can be used to track
      development and recovery of frailty.

      The objective of this proposal to create a prospective cohort study of critically ill
      patients to identify modifiable risk factors of sarcopenia as potential targets for
      therapeutic measures to improve or reverse frailty.

      The primary aim of the study is to track sarcopenia in critically ill patients. Sarcopenia is
      a measure of frailty and is associated with worse outcomes in critically ill patients. The
      aim to understand how the kinetics of sarcopenia differ in critically ill population given
      the heterogeneity of with various disease process which may affect the degree and rate of
      muscle wasting. Understanding the disease process is important in identifying when or how to
      intervene to obtain meaningful recovery.

      Secondary aims are to assess the role biomarkers in patients across the frailty spectrum to
      understand their role frailty. Additionally nutrition is well known to affect sarcopenia and
      nutritional status is a key component in frailty. Nutrition status will be tracked to
      understand development of sarcopenia.
    
  