
    
      Allergic rhinitis is defined as the symptoms of sneezing, nasal itching, airflow obstruction
      and, mostly, clear nasal discharge caused by IgE-mediated reactions against inhaled allergens
      and involving mucosal inflammation driven by T cells (Th2) auxiliary type 2. pollens and
      molds, as well as allergens from perennial interiors, such as dust mites, pets, pests and
      some molds. The pattern of dominant allergens depends on the geographic region and degree of
      urbanization, but the general prevalence of sensitization to allergens does not vary among
      census districts in the United States.2 Sensitization to inhaled allergens begins during the
      first year of life; Sensitization to indoor allergens precedes sensitization to pollens.
      Because viral respiratory infections occur frequently in young children and produce similar
      symptoms, it is very difficult to diagnose allergic rhinitis in the first 2 or 3 years of
      life. The prevalence of allergic rhinitis reaches its peak in the second to fourth decades of
      life and then gradually decreases.

      The frequency of sensitization to inhaled allergens is increasing and is now more than 40% in
      many populations in the United States and Europe. The prevalence of allergic rhinitis in the
      United States is approximately 30%. Allergic rhinitis contributes to lost or unproductive
      time at work and school, to sleep problems and among affected children, to less participation
      in outdoor activities. In addition, children with allergic rhinitis are more likely than
      unaffected children to have myringotomy tubes placed and their tonsils and adenoids removed.
      The ability to control asthma in people with asthma and allergic rhinitis has been linked to
      the control of allergic rhinitis.

      Most people with asthma have rhinitis. The presence of allergic rhinitis (seasonal or
      perennial) significantly increases the likelihood of asthma: up to 40% of people with
      allergic rhinitis have or will have asthma. It is also important to define the physiological
      functional breathing of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Functional or physiological breathing
      is through the nose, while OSA is the collapse of the muscles of the oropharyngeal airways.
      Nasal obstruction and OSA are usually comorbid. Therapies to increase nasal volume and
      airflow in compromised patients have a significant benefit in reducing the symptoms of
      nighttime and daytime respiratory disorders.

      The nose represents more than 50% of the total resistance of the upper airway and plays an
      important role in the establishment of physiological functions such as humidification,
      heating and air filtration. The nasal mucosa is a dynamic organ controlled by the autonomic
      nervous system. Periodic nasal congestion and decongestion have been termed the "nasal
      cycle." In patients with permanent unilateral nasal obstruction, the nasal cycle can
      contribute to a significant increase in total resistance of the respiratory tract.

      Each nasal inhalation mixes nitric oxide (NO) gas from the maxillary sinuses and is
      transported to the lungs. It is NOT necessary for the movement of the cilia in the paranasal
      sinuses to carry out the waste, it is anti-fungal, antibacterial and anti-viral, it is also
      important in the peripheral vasodilatation of the blood vessels. In selected patients, it was
      recommended that the final point to treat OSA be the restoration of nasal breathing.
      Resistance of the upper respiratory tract can cause an increase in blood pressure. Mouth
      breathing does not have any of the mechanisms of physiological protection, so that people
      with this condition are more prone to respiratory infections, as well as to dental sequelae
      (gum disease, open anterior bite). That is why the investigators propose to study the
      combination of an antihistamine with more than 60 years in the market that was studied
      intranasal in the 50s. Nowadays it is known that the combination of antihistamine have better
      effect, less side effects than oral treatments. In the US and Europe, a combination of
      steroids with antihistamine of European origin is available only by recipes and is highly
      expensive. This research proposes to study a separate antihistamine in a nasal spray. It is
      important to note that this antihistamine is available without prescription (OTC) and has
      been studied intranasal since the 1950s1,2.

      Method

      A multicenter, randomized, double-blind, 14-day study will be conducted during the spring of
      2019. After starting 5 days of placebo therapy, 100 patients from each group with moderate to
      severe nasal symptoms will be randomized to treatment. with (1) chlorpheniramine nasal spray
      vs placebo (nasal saline). All treatments will be administered in the form of 1 spray per
      nostril twice a day. The main variable of effectiveness will be the change from the beginning
      in the total score of nasal symptoms (TNSS), which consists of nasal congestion, nasal
      discharge, nasal itching and sneezing. The main efficacy variables will be (1) the change
      from the beginning to day 14 in the total reflective nasal symptom score (TNSS) in the first
      12 hours, which combines scores for rhinorrhea, sneezing, itchy nose and nasal congestion,
      and (2) Start of Action, based on the instant TNSS for 4 hours after the first dose of the
      study drug. During the double-blind treatment period, patients will record their symptom
      scores on daily cards twice a day (morning and afternoon). Patients older than or equal to 18
      years will complete the questionnaire on the quality of life of rhinoconjunctivitis (RQLQ) at
      the beginning of the study and on day 14. Patients will be instructed to call the office at
      any time for any questions . Follow-up appointments will be in 1 week, two, and four weeks.
    
  