
    
      At the ENT department of the university hospital Vienna (AKH Wien) patients are treated with
      intratympanic triamcinolone acetonide before cochlea implantation to reduce inflammation and
      in some cases to protect residual hearing. Triamcinolone acetonide levels in cochlear
      perilymph will be evaluated in an open prospective clinical study. Patients scheduled for
      cochlear implant surgery between 18 and 90 years will be included. Patients who are treated
      with steroids preoperatively will be excluded from the study. Patients will be randomized
      after inclusion to one of four groups. The randomization is carried out to generate
      hypothesis for the needed dose and best time of application in the future. Triamcinolone
      acetonide will then be applied 20-24h before surgery or at the beginning of the surgery,
      depending on randomization (see below). About 20 µl of perilymph will be sampled
      simultaneously to a blood sample during cochlear implant surgery.

      The probes will be stored at -80°C. Triamcinolone acetonide levels of the blood and perilymph
      will be determined by the pharmaceutical laboratory (Department of Pharmaceutical Technology
      and Biopharmaceutics, University of Vienna).

      The patients will be randomized to 4 groups. Group 1 - Volon A 10mg administration 20 - 24
      hours before sampling. Group 2 - Volon A 40mg administration 20 - 24 hours before sampling.
      Group 3 Volon A 10mg - administration 1 to 2 hours before sampling. Group 4 - Volon A 40mg
      administration 1 to 2 hours before sampling.

      The time interval of application (1 to 2 hours and 20 to 24 hours before sampling) are a
      result of varying time of surgery depending on surgeons and patient anatomy as well as day to
      day clinical organization. Patients can withdraw consent at any time of the study.

      The active phase of each patient will be between 6 and 9 days depending on time of follow-up
      visit.
    
  