
    
      Anxiety disorders are among the most prevalent mental disorders, with lifetime prevalence of
      30% in US (Kessler et al., 2005) and only 9,9% in Poland (Moskalewicz, Wciórka, Kiejna,
      Wojtyniak, 2012), the study of the similar methodology, like in the U.S. Many studies suggest
      their strong comorbidity with personality disorders in some countries. Recent meta-analysis
      of 125 studies conducted by Friborg, Martinussen, Kaiser, Overgård and Rosenvinge (2013) has
      shown that a risk of comorbid anxiety disorders and personality disorders varies from 35% to
      52%. Alongside anxiety disorders, the most frequently co-occurring are cluster C personality
      disorders. Epidemiologic studies also show high comorbidity rates for anxiety and depressive
      disorders, ranging from 40%-80% (Jacobi et al., 2004; Lamers et al., 2011). The data on
      relationships between comorbid mental disorders and treatment outcome is inconsistent.
      Reviews by Reich and Green (1991) and Reich and Vasile (1993) including 38 studies have shown
      that comorbid anxiety disorders and personality disorders are negatively related to treatment
      outcome. However, Dressen and Arntz (1997) after analyzing 15 studies do not share these
      conclusions.

      Day treatment care is directed precisely to the patients who need treatment of a greater
      intensity and cannot be treated in outpatient care. Group psychotherapy (often used together
      with pharmacotherapy) is employed in day care since the 1940s (cf. Cameron 1947; Goldman,
      1989). This form of therapy is chosen on economic basis. The treatment usually takes place a
      few days a week and lasts for several months. Different types of psychotherapy or different
      treatment methods (e.g. therapeutic community, psychodrama, art therapy, psycho-drawing,
      movie therapy, social skills training) are often applied together. In Poland, group
      psychotherapy is widely used in day care. Nowadays 300 such wards exist in Poland.
      Psychotherapy for anxiety disorders and personality disorders lasting for few months (most
      often three months) is provided for approximately 8000 patients a year (IPIN, 2009).

      The effectiveness of day care is investigated to a very small degree, compared to its
      frequent usage (cf. Marshall et al 2001). However, difficulties in identifying the basic
      effective components of the treatment and a large diversity of treatment programs make it
      difficult to generalize the results.

      Among a scarce number of published studies, only four were randomized controlled trials
      (RCT). Three of these studies compared psychotherapy in day care units to outpatient
      psychotherapy (Tyler et al., 1987; Dick et al., 1991; Arnevik et al., 2009) and one study
      used a waiting list control group (Piper, Rosie, Azim, & Joyce, 1993). Tyler et al. (1987)
      found no significant differences between day care and outpatient care for anxiety disorders.
      Dick et al. (1991) found a significant difference in the improvement of personality disorder
      pathology, in favor of day care. In the first study psychotherapy modality was not mentioned,
      in the second an eclectic psychotherapy was applied. In another study Arnevik et al. (2009),
      day care (18 week group psychodynamic and cognitive-behavioral psychotherapy) was compared to
      individual psychotherapy in patients with personality disorders and no significant
      differences in improvement were observed between the two groups. Piper et al. (1993) found
      that day care patients suffering from affective disorders and personality disorders
      experienced a significant improvement that continued in follow-up after 8 months (18 week
      group psychodynamic psychotherapy), compared to patients in a waiting list control group.
      Authors of a Cochrane review of day care versus outpatient care notice that because of a
      small number of existing studies: "there is only limited evidence to justify the provision of
      day treatment programs and transitional day hospital care, and no evidence to support the
      provision of day care centers" (Marshall et al. 2001). Existing data is therefore not
      sufficient to justify the use of group psychotherapy in day care, and more high quality
      research is needed. The question of which treatment of the two most widely used,
      psychodynamic or CBT, is more effective also awaits an answer. These questions are relevant
      in light of the large expenditures incurred by the national health funds financing the
      treatment. They are also important for the health care in Poland, where this type of
      treatment is very common.

      Objectives

      The main objective of the planned research is to evaluate the clinical effectiveness of
      intensive, short-term, psychodynamic and cognitive-behavioral group psychotherapy for an
      anxiety disorders with comorbid depressive or personality disorders in day care conditions.

      More specific objectives are: 1) Demonstrating effectiveness of each treatment in a day care
      setting relative to wait-list control; 2) Demonstrating the relative short- and long-term
      effectiveness of the two active treatments; 3) Preliminary examination of predictors and
      moderators of treatment response; and 4) Preliminary examination of mediators of therapeutic
      change; 5) Detailed comparison of impact of both methods of treatment on the outcome of used
      measures.

      Study design

      This study is a randomized controlled trial (RCT) in which participants will be allocated to
      one of the three conditions: 1) psychodynamic group therapy; 2) cognitive-behavioral group
      therapy; 3) or a waiting-list control group (WL). Participants allocated to the waiting list
      condition start their treatment after 12-week waiting period. The total duration of the study
      will be three years. Figure 1 shows the trial design. The study protocol, information
      brochure and informed consent were approved by the Medical Ethics Committee of the Warsaw
      Medical University.

      Study center

      The protocol and the design is part of the research grant given to the II Department of
      Psychiatry Medical University of Warsaw. The study will be carried out at the day unit Wola
      Center of Mental Health at Hospital of Wola in Warsaw that is used as clinical setting of the
      II Department of Psychiatry Medical University of Warsaw.

      Participants (recruitment, inclusion and exclusion criteria, randomization)

      Participants with anxiety disorders and comorbid personality disorders will be recruited in
      outpatient clinic. Subjects who meet all the inclusion criteria will be randomized to two
      modalities of treatments and the waiting list. Inclusion and exclusion criteria are listed in
      Table 1. The number of excluded patients and reasons for exclusion will be recorded. The
      diagnostic criteria are based on the DSM-V system. Independent researchers not involved in
      the treatment will make diagnosis of personality with with the Structured Clinical Interview
      for DSM-IV Axis II Disorders (SCID-II; First, Gibbon, Spitzer, Williams, Benjamin, 1997,
      2010) and of clinical disorders with International Neuropsychiatric Interview 5 (M.I.N.I.;
      Sheehan et al., 1998; Masiak & Przychoda, 1998). Diagnosis and qualification to treatment
      modality is carried out during ambulatory sessions. Up to 6 individual sessions will be
      required for the recruitment procedure including 3 sessions with a certified clinical
      psychologist, 2 sessions with a psychiatrist, and one for outcome measures. Pharmacological
      consultation take place before randomization. Waiting time before admission is planned to be
      between 4 and 8 weeks. Participants will be randomized using random numbers tables. Baseline
      measurement will occur a day before the beginning of therapy. A recruitment flow chart is
      presented in Figure 1. Patients are planned to be enrolled in the study over a period of
      three years. Before participating in the study, each patient will be provided with written
      information about the study and invited to give written consent for inclusion. Participants
      who will not meet the inclusion criteria will be offered suitable alternative treatment
      options. The focus of the treatment is on psychotherapy, but a medication is continued or
      initiated if necessary during the screening procedure at least 4 weeks before the beginning
      of a group psychotherapy (stable medical treatments with SSRI or SNRI without dose changes
      during psychotherapy). Due to high comorbidity of anxiety and depressive disorders,
      depressive disorders patients with mild depression disorders were not excluded, however
      patients with main depressive pathology were not included.

      Assessments

      Patients are subjected to 4 assessments: 1) at screening; 2) baseline after randomization; 3)
      in the end of the 12 weeks treatment; 4) six months after the end of the therapy, in order to
      evaluate longer-term effects of the treatments. Information from the screening is used to
      perform stratified randomization and to validate inclusion and exclusion criteria. Patients
      are assessed by independent and trained clinicians, who are blind to treatment conditions and
      who will not be involved in the direct clinical care of any of them. Primary outcome measures
      and secondary outcome measures can be distinguished in this study. Primary outcome measures
      include self-report symptoms of anxiety, observer rated symptoms of anxiety, global
      improvement and dichotomized diagnosis of anxiety disorder. Secondary outcome measures
      include personality, depression, self-esteem, defense mechanisms, beliefs about self and
      others, interpersonal problems, object relations, parental bonding, meta-cognition,
      mindfulness and quality of life. The following socio-demographic data will be collected: sex,
      age, marital status, education, past treatments, symptom history, medication. We also examine
      patients' expectancy for change and treatment. Some of the variables (e.g. presence or
      absence of a personality disorder) will be treated in exploratory analyses as predictors and
      moderators of treatment response.
    
  