
    
      There are approximately five million pediatric surgeries performed in the United States every
      year, and approximately 50% of pediatric patients experience significant stress and anxiety
      before their surgery. High anxiety can result in increased postoperative pain, increased
      analgesic consumption, and delayed recovery. The perception of pain can have a strong
      psychological component and can increase if the patient gives the area of injury constant
      attention. Thus, different distraction techniques have been utilized by pain psychologists to
      take the patient's attention away from the area of injury.

      Pharmacological intervention to treat preoperative anxiety in children has its own
      side-effect profile. Midazolam is a common medication used parentally, nasally, or orally to
      alleviate preoperative anxiety. However, there are many side-effects that are not always
      preventable. Reports of 3.8% of patients having paradoxical effects from midazolam have been
      documented, and delayed emergence is possible in surgeries of short duration. In addition,
      midazolam can also result in critical events perioperatively, such as airway obstruction and
      worsened nausea and vomiting. Non-pharmacological interventions could help avoid these
      complications, however, current studies do not show a viable alternative to a pharmacological
      interventions.

      Virtual Reality (VR) is a technology that allows individuals to experience a virtual world.
      VR initially began as a form of entertainment, but it has expanded its application into
      several other areas. Within the past 10 years, this type of technology has been applied
      clinically as a method of distraction for medical procedures such as chemotherapy, physical
      therapy, burn wound changes, and surgery. VR allows the patients to be immersed in an
      interactive world stimulating sights, sounds, and motion to help enhance the distraction from
      pain, ultimately reducing anxiety. A small validation study was conducted at the Virtual
      Reality Medical Center to test the usability and safety in patients with chronic pain.
      Patients were presented with pleasant relaxing scenes including natural areas like forests,
      beaches, and mountains, with relaxing and soothing effects to help mimic slowed breathing.
      Researchers in this study found that the pain distraction virtual environment (VE) was easy
      to use, had good stereo sound effects, and was immersive and interactive. They also found
      that patients experienced low levels of fatigue, headache, eyestrain, and nausea when using
      the VR device. No studies have involved VR in setting of anesthesia induction period and a
      non-pharmacological intervention for preoperative anxiety.

      A pilot study conducted by Wiederhold et al, tested 6 chronic pain patients using a
      head-mounted VR device. All six study participants reported a significant drop in pain while
      using the natural VE. Similarly, a study from the University of Washington found that
      children playing VR video games or navigating through a virtual environment while receiving
      wound care for their burns had lower pain scores than patients who just played video games.
      Another study conducted by Wiederhold et al., looked at fear and pain before and after dental
      treatment and found a significant decrease in pain perception and stated anxiety scores in
      patients using the VR eyeglasses compared to the nonuse group.

      Based on success in other medical procedures, we propose a study to examine the efficacy and
      feasibility of using VR during induction of anesthesia to help minimize anxiety,
      postoperative pain and analgesic use in patients undergoing a tonsillectomy or a
      tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy procedure.
    
  