
    
      We will conduct a pilot study to investigate the ability to generate a dose-response curve of
      serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D to incidental ultraviolet light exposure measured objectively with
      a computerized personal ultraviolet light radiation dosimeter among 10 healthy volunteers in
      New Mexico where the population is highly exposed to solar UV radiation. During the follow-up
      period we will collect solar exposure data through a self-reported sun exposure diary, in
      tandem with objective UV dosimeter data, and will collect blood samples for serum
      measurements. We will carry out clinical measurements of serum vitamin D, parathyroid
      hormone, and calcium and phosphorus ions. We will analyze the correlation between the vitamin
      D and the recorded UV exposure in order to evaluate physiological changes due to solar
      exposure. This pilot study is important for melanoma prevention as there is currently
      confusion among the public as to how much sun is needed for vitamin D production and when too
      much sun exposure will increase risk for developing melanoma.

      Expected benefits of this study to the participants include obtaining an objective measure of
      daily ultraviolet exposure and vitamin D status and the possible need for supplementation.
      Expected benefits to society include determining a dose-response of vitamin D to ultraviolet
      light that will enhance our understanding of the balance between necessary and harmful
      ultraviolet exposure. The results generated in this pilot study could provide a scientific
      basis for designing a larger study to develop effective primary prevention against cutaneous
      malignant melanoma.

      This pilot study will investigate the ability to generate a dose-response curve of serum
      25-hydroxyvitamin D to incidental ultraviolet light exposure measured objectively with a
      computerized personal UVR dosimeter. The knowledge obtained will provide important pilot data
      a larger NIH grant to estimate the risk-benefit of solar exposure and serum vitamin D in the
      development and prevention of cutaneous melanoma.
    
  