
    
      The investigation was carried out over a period of 16 weeks, with 12 weeks dedicated to the
      RT program and 4 weeks allocated for measurements. Anthropometric, body composition, and
      blood samples measurements were performed at weeks 1-2, and 15-16. A supervised progressive
      RT was performed between weeks 3-14. The CG did not perform any type of physical exercise
      during this period.

      Recruitment was carried out through newspaper and radio advertisings, and home delivery of
      leaflets in the central area and residential neighborhoods. All participants completed health
      history and physical activity questionnaires and met the following inclusion criteria: 60
      years old or more, physically independent, free from cardiac or orthopedic dysfunction, not
      receiving hormonal replacement therapy, and not performing any regular physical exercise more
      than once a week over the six months preceding the beginning of the investigation. After
      individual interviews, 59 volunteers were dismissed as potential candidates because they did
      not meet the inclusion criteria for the investigation. The remaining 51 older women were
      randomly divided into one of two groups: a training group that performed the RT program or a
      control group that did not perform any type of physical exercise. Anthropometric, body
      composition (DXA), phase angle, total body water (intra and extracellular water compartments;
      Xitron 4200 Bioimpedance Spectrum Analyzer), muscular strength (1RM), and blood sample
      measurements were performed pre- and post-training. Two-way analysis of variance for repeated
      measures was applied for intra- and inter-group comparisons. When an F-ratio was significant,
      Fisher's post hoc test was employed to identify mean differences. The statistical power was
      determined to verify the statistical power of the analysis. Pearson's correlation was used to
      evaluate the correlation between delta percent changes in body composition, and muscular
      strength, inflammatory and oxidative stress biomarkers (independent variables) with the
      percentage change in PhA (dependent variables). Subsequently, linear regression (bivariate
      analyses) was performed for all variables that presented P<0.05 in the Pearson's correlation
      analyses. For the multiple comparison the multivariate regression model was performed. For
      all statistical analyses, significance was accepted at P<0.05.
    
  