
    
      Bariatric surgical procedures, including gastric bypass, vertical sleeve gastrectomy, and
      biliopancreatic diversion, are the most effective and durable treatments for obesity.
      Bariatric surgery provides long-term benefit for patients with diabetes, fatty liver disease,
      and other metabolic disorders, through both weight loss-dependent and -independent
      mechanisms.

      Bariatric surgery is associated with low short-term mortality and may be associated with
      long-term reductions in all-cause, cardiovascular, and cancer-related mortality. This
      surgeries are major surgeries include risk of mortality still.

      Different level anxiety that can define as fear or worry can be seen in 60%-80% of patients
      scheduled surgery. Anxiety levels; may vary on age, gender, type of operation, previous
      experience of anesthesia and surgery and way of hospitalization. Preoperative anxiety affects
      negatively the surgery, the anesthesia and postoperative recovery. It may cause the
      pathophysiological response as hypertension and arrhythmia even refusal the surgery is
      planned. Also the anesthetic requirements and the risk "awareness" during the operation may
      increase. Patients with high level anxiety have more postoperative pain symptoms too.
      Therefore determination of the causes and prevention of anxiety is important.

      Melatonin is a hormone secreted from the pineal gland, also known as the pineal gland. It's
      production is stimulated by darkness, independent of sleep, and is inhibited by exposure to
      light and proved endocrine rhythms. It shows a daily biorhythm. The circadian rhythm of
      melatonin changes according to age and it's production decreases with older ages. Melatonin
      level can be measured in the blood and in urine collected for 24 hours. Melatonin is an
      antioxidant, antinociceptive, hypnotic, anticonvulsant, neuroprotective, anxiolytic,
      sedative, analgesic and has a preventive effect of delirium in intensive care. Irregularity
      of melatonin secretion causes a sleep irregularities, psychosis in intensive care unit and
      some behavioral disorder. It has been demonstrated that oral exogen administration of
      melatonin was effective on preoperative anxiety.

      The aim of this study was to determine the relationship between endogenous melatonin levels
      and anxiety levels in patients with bariatric surgery.
    
  