
    
      The prostate gland is a clinically important male accessory sex gland and vital for its
      production of semen. Prostate cancer (PCa) is now ranked 4th in annual incidence of male
      cancer and ranked 8th for cancer-related death in men in Hong Kong which accounts for about
      6.2 deaths per 100,000 persons. Its incidence is rising rapidly, almost tripled in the past
      10 years. As the elderly population continues to increase, the impact of PCa on the men's
      health and also the burden on health care system will continue to rise.

      Despite the improvement in awareness of the disease and also increasing use of serum prostate
      specific antigen, many patients still presented at a late stage that beyond cure by local
      therapy. Together with those patients suffered recurrent disease after local therapy, many
      PCa patients required the use of androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) for the control of
      disease.

      However, unlike other malignancy, PCa is characterized by its slow progression nature and
      even for metastatic disease the 5-year survival is upto 20%. Therefore, while ADT can provide
      effective control of disease, there are increasing evidences suggesting that it can also
      result in many adverse effects in the patients, and these effects are particular important
      due to the long survival of these patients. From the western literature, the adverse effects
      can be quite diverse. Classical side effects after ADT include mood changes, hot flushes,
      change in cognitive function, loss of libido, erectile dysfunction, osteoporosis and
      pathological fracture. Also there are more and more evidences showed ADT will also altered
      the metabolic and cardiovascular status of the patients and resulted in increase in insulin
      resistance and increase in risk of cardiovascular related mortality.

      Traditionally, in order to achieve a complete control of PCa, ADT is given in a continue
      manner, either in the form of bilateral orchidectomy or regular luteinizing hormone releasing
      hormone injection. However, in order to balance the benefit and potential of long-term
      complication, intermittent hormonal therapy (IHT) become increasing common to be used in
      patients suffered PCa, in particular those with low tumour volume and low-grade disease.
      However, formal comparison of the benefit, in term of side effect reduction, for IHT compare
      to traditional continue-hormonal suppression is still lacking.

      Unfortunately information regarding the side effects of ADT in Chinese population is lacking.
      However, there are some evidences from female menopause related studies that there may be
      some differences in the presentation and prevalence of sex hormone deprivation in difference
      racial groups. Therefore, there is a need to have more information on the adverse effect
      profiles related to ADT (both complete and IHT) in Chinese population.
    
  