
    
      Endotracheal tube general anesthesia (ETGA) is required for a variety of surgeries.
      Traditionally, the patient is placed in a sniffing position to facilitate endotracheal
      intubation with a direct laryngoscope. Increased attempts in intubation or intubation failed
      may be encountered during direct laryngoscope, leading to hypoxemia or neurological sequelae.
      Injure to the teeth, gingiva or lips is also sometimes unavoidable. With the advent and more
      widespread use of video-assisted laryngoscopy (VL), the incidence of difficult intubation has
      decreased.

      However, the optimal position for endotracheal intubation facilitated by VL is not yet
      determined. A previous study suggested that better glottic view is achieved when placing the
      patient in a neutral position than the sniffing position during orotracheal intubation by
      fiberoptic bronchoscopy. The objective of this study is to evaluate the effects of different
      patient positioning (neutral position versus sniffing position) on the glottic view and
      intubation time during orotracheal intubation facilitated by two video-assisted laryngoscopes
      (McGrath laryngoscope and C-MAC D-blade laryngoscope).

      A total of 252 American Society of Anesthesiologists I-II patients, in the age above 20
      years, who required orotracheal intubation for elective surgery were included in the study.
      Patients received nasotracheal intubation, awake tracheal intubation, emergency surgery,
      required rapid-sequence intubation (RSI), those in pregnancy, with possible difficult
      intubation(with oropharyngeal pathology, limited neck mobility, previous head and neck
      surgical history), anticipated difficult intubation assessed by preoperative Airway Difficult
      Score(ADS)(≥ 7), with allergy history of common anesthetics agents or any underlying
      comorbidities which refrain them from receiving common anesthetic agents were excluded.

      The types of VL and the orders of position were randomly allocated by computer and the study
      take place in the operation room. Primary outcomes include airway difficulty (evaluated by
      ADS), ease of intubation (evaluated by intubation difficulty scale [IDS], the percentage of
      glottic opening [POGO]) and intubation time. By the indexes above and crossover analysis, the
      study aimed to prove the ideal position for VL, improve the efficiency of intubation and
      decrease the rate of difficult intubation by VL in the future.
    
  