
    
      Healthy lifestyle intervention programs aim to increase exercise and teach youth and about
      healthier dietary options, in hopes of avoiding obesity complications such as diabetes, and
      addressing the root causes of obesity. The program entitled Bright Bodies: A Lifestyle
      Intervention Program for Obese Youth, has been tested rigorously, showing significant
      improvements in body mass index and insulin resistance at both 1 and 2 years after the
      program and reversal of early abnormalities in glucose metabolism. While abnormalities on
      standardized oral glucose tolerance testing are well described in obese youth, this test may
      not reflect the "real life" glycemia changes in obese children. Understanding early glycemic
      changes in obese youth is important to better identify those at risk and strategize effective
      treatment plans, to avoid progression to prediabetes and diabetes. Thus the use of a
      continuous glucose monitor (CGM) may be a helpful adjunct to understanding the disease and
      therapy approaches in these patients.

      A CGM is a device inserted under the skin on the abdomen which monitors glucose levels every
      5 minutes, recording this information. CGM is commonly worn by kids with type 1 diabetes. The
      study will allow collection of information on glucose variability in much greater detail than
      can be seen from intermittent fingerstick glucose values or from an oral glucose tolerance
      test. Given the widespread epidemic of obesity and its complications, the ability to
      illustrate glycemic variability in obese youth is key to delineating risk categories and
      optimizing treatment. While lifestyle modification programs can be effective in improving
      measures of insulin sensitivity and OGTT results, their effect on real life glucose values
      has not been described. Hence the current study, aims to describe day-to-day glycemic
      variation in obese youth using CGM.

      All enrolled subjects will wear a CGM for up to 7 days prior to initiation of the Bright
      Bodies program, and for up to 7 days at the end of the program. Additionally subjects will
      complete a food record and report exercise during both study periods. The study periods will
      take place during the 2 months prior to and the 2 months after completing the Bright Bodies
      program. The study will be explained to volunteers who meet eligibility criteria and informed
      consent/assent will be obtained. Demographic data will be recorded. Medical history will be
      obtained and a brief physical exam may be performed. Height, weight, BMI, percent body fat,
      fat mass, and fat free mass will be measured.

      After enrollment subjects will meet with study personnel and learn how to keep a food record,
      with intermittent phone contact by study personnel to optimize food record compliance. They
      will also be asked to record exercise and any medications taken. A blinded CGM will be
      inserted at the beginning of each study period. Subjects will be educated regarding the CGM,
      including the requirement to measure blood glucose levels with a glucometer 3 times a day, at
      least every 12 hours (ideally on waking in the morning before eating, before dinner, and
      before bedtime), to calibrate the sensor. Subjects will be given a glucometer to obtain
      fingerstick blood sugar values and receive instruction regarding its use.

      During the follow up visits the CGM will be removed, and the CGM and glucometer will be
      downloaded and collected. The food record will be collected.
    
  