
    
      COPD has a multiple etiology and organ impaired inflammatory disease. In clinical
      characteristic include airway inflammatory response, cili mobility impairment and lung
      consolidation change; the others change includes: other functional impairments such as
      malnutrition, body mass loss, osteogenesis and osteoporosis. The prevalence of osteoporosis
      and osteopenia patients is generally higher than in healthy subjects and some other chronic
      disease. Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease are at increased risk of
      osteoporosis and fractures. Risk factors such as smoking, advanced age, physical inactivity,
      malnutrition, and low weight may be responsible, but a number of pathophysiological
      explanations including the presence of a chronic inflammatory state with increased levels of
      proinflammatory cytokines and protein catalytic enzymes may also be involved. The use of oral
      glucocorticoids is also a significant risk factor. Osteoporosis, however, may be equally as
      disabling as COPD, and may impair respiratory function even further if the patient
      experiences vertebral compressions and loss of height The number of patients with
      osteoporosis is rising and osteoprosis becomes an important medical and public health issue
      as the population gets older including Taiwan. Osteoporosis is a silent disease and it is
      thus important to screen for osteoporosis institute treatment an dreduce fracture incidence.
      In this study, we will survey the prevalence, correlations and effectiveness of intervention
      of osteoporosis in COPD patients. This study purpose hope can understand patient's
      osteoporosis status, pulmonary function impairment and exercise intolerance. Then, we may be
      can prevent the unnecessary of fracture and maintance of bone mineral contains by the
      pulmonary rehabilitation program training in osteoporosis COPD patients.
    
  