
    
      This is a phase IIb, prospective, multi-country, multicenter, randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled, parallel group study to investigate the efficacy, safety and
      transformation of NP following single intradiscal injection of STA363 (lactic acid) into one
      or two IVDs compared to placebo for the treatment of discogenic low back pain. This study
      will be conducted in Russia, Spain and the Netherlands.

      The primary objective is to demonstrate superiority of STA363 over placebo in reducing low
      back pain as measured by the NRS. A total of 168 patients will be screened in the study with
      the aim to recruit 126 patients to be randomly allocated to one of the three treatment
      groups:

      Group 1 - 42 patients will receive STA363 containing 90 mg (60 mg/mL) lactic acid Group 2 -
      42 patients will receive STA363 containing 180 mg (120 mg/mL) lactic acid Group 3 - 42
      patients will receive placebo

      The investigational medical product (IMP) will be injected into the center of up to two IVDs.
      Patients with two discs appropriate for treatment will be treated at both affected levels by
      two separate injections.

      Each patient will have 5 visits to study site and 1 telephone call. The patient's total time
      in the study will be approximately 61 weeks (~15 months) including an 8-week screening
      period.

      Each patient will perform a screening visit (Visit 1) maximum 60 days before planned
      treatment. Randomization and treatment will be performed at Visit 2 (Day 1) after
      confirmation of patient's eligibility for the study. The IMP will be administered, monitored
      by fluoroscopy or other available method of real-time x-ray imaging to ensure that an
      injection is correctly placed in the IVD nucleus and that no leakage occurs. Immediately
      after treatment the patients should remain supine for as long as possible (at least 1 hour).
      For safety reasons, patients will be allowed to leave the clinic not earlier than 2 hours
      after the last injection. After leaving the clinic, patients will be offered analgesics
      and/or other measures according to standard clinical practice. They will also be given advice
      on restricted physical activity during the first two weeks after injection. Patients should
      not drive or operate machinery for 12 hours following the treatment procedure.

      Patients will be followed up at 1 month (Visit 3/Day 30±7, visit to study site), 3 months
      (Visit 4/Day 90±7, telephone call), 6 months (Visit 5/Day 180±7, visit to study site) and 12
      months (Visit 6/Day 360±7, visit to study site) after treatment. Follow-up MRI will be
      conducted as part of Visit 5 and Visit 6, to assess the transformation of the NP into
      connective tissue and other disc characteristics.
    
  