
    
      Trial design:

      Infertile women undergoing IVF treatment will be randomized into one of the following two
      groups by an online randomization program:

      Letrozole group: letrozole 2.5mg daily will be given at the start of the antagonist during
      ovarian stimulation i.e. day 5 of stimulation.

      Control group: standard care with FSH alone during ovarian stimulation.

      Intervention:

      Subjects can be put on oral contraceptive pill in the preceding cycle for scheduling
      stimulation. On day 2-3, a pelvic ultrasound will be performed for antral follicle count.

      Letrozole group:

      Daily 150-300 IU human menopausal gonadotrophin (HMG) / Follicle stimulating hormone (FSH)
      from cycle day 2-4 (at least 5 days after stopping the oral contraceptive pill) and
      co-treatment with letrozole 2.5 mg daily from stimulation day 5 until the day before hCG
      administration. GnRH antagonist (cetrotide or orgalutran) 0.25 mg daily from stimulation day
      5 until the day of hCG administration.

      Control group:

      Daily 150-300 IU HMG/FSH cycle day 2-4 (at least 5 days after stopping the oral contraceptive
      pill) until the day before hCG administration. GnRH antagonist 0.25 mg daily from stimulation
      day 5 until the day of hCG administration.

        -  150 IU HMG/FSH for women with AFC >15

        -  225 IU HMG/FSH for those with AFC 5-15

        -  300 IU HMG/FSH for those with AFC<5

      A blood sample will be taken and analyzed in the local laboratory for serum E2, P and
      testosterone levels on cycle day 2 or 3 (baseline) and day of hCG (or the day before). The
      remaining serum will be frozen and stored for later analysis.

      A sample of follicular fluid (FF) will be collected from the first blood free follicle. The
      FF will be frozen and stored for later analysis: Estradiol, testosterone, inhibin B and AMH
      levels.

      All techniques of IVF including harvesting of oocytes, insemination with specially prepared
      sperm, embryo culture in the laboratory, embryo transfer and luteal phase support will be
      according to local protocols. One or two embryos or blastocysts will be replaced.

      A pregnancy test will be carried out 2 weeks after embryo transfer in both arms. All women
      who have a positive pregnancy test 2 weeks after embryo transfer will undergo a transvaginal
      ultrasound scan to identify the presence and number of gestation sac with a fetal heart
      signifying an ongoing pregnancy. Pelvic scan will be repeated at 8 weeks, 12 weeks, 24 weeks
      and 36 weeks of gestation for fetal growth.
    
  