
    
      Music is often used as a non-verbal means of emotional expression. As communication can be
      impaired in the elderly due to cognitive impairment and diseases, music can be used to
      recreate communication between the patients and their environment. Music therapy has long
      been used to improve communication, health and quality of life. Music is also known to
      regulate pain, mood and anxiety levels. In the geriatric population, music listening has been
      shown to decrease depressive symptoms and neuropsychiatric symptoms such as agitation and
      anxiety. As a result, the use of music is recommended by national guidelines to control the
      behavioural symptoms of patients in long-term care facilities. Despite the demonstrated
      positive benefits of music for health and behavioural outcomes, very few studies using music
      have been performed in the hospital environment and even fewer on short-stay geriatric units.

      Older adults are the fastest-growing group of patients admitted to hospital, and the
      age-related burden of non-fatal health outcomes is one of the main challenges faced by
      hospitals. Thus, assessing and addressing the needs of the growing number of geriatric
      patients is necessary. One of those age-related burdens is related to falls. Falls are highly
      frequent in geriatric patients, particularly on short-stay geriatric units, with a prevalence
      of up to 30 %. Falls are associated with increased length of hospital stay, high health-care
      costs and negative non-fatal health outcomes including multi-morbidities and related
      disabilities.

      Previous research has shown that music may decrease the risk of falls. For example, it was
      shown that the rhythm of music, combined with physical exercise, can improve measures of gait
      stability. In older community dwellers, music-based programs have demonstrated that
      improvement of gait stability decreased the risk of falls. We therefore hypothesized that
      music listening may decrease the risk of falls of geriatric patients admitted to a short stay
      unit.

      This study aimed to examine the influence of music listening on the risk of falls in patients
      admitted to a Geriatric Assessment Unit (GAU) by comparing the Morse Fall Scale (MFS) score
      for patients who attended music listening sessions and in control patients who did not attend
      these music sessions. To our knowledge, this is the first study to assess the effect of music
      listening on the risk of falls in a geriatric unit.
    
  