
    
      Hypothesis Fecal biotherapy will be more effective than placebo at inducing remission in
      patients with active UC.

      Approach and work plan Patients aged 18 or over with active UC defined as a Mayo score (13)
      more than 3 with an endoscopic score more than 0 will be eligible for the study. Subjects
      will be excluded if they are participating in another clinical trial, are unable to give
      informed consent, have severe comorbid medical illness, have concomitant Clostridium
      difficile infection or have severe UC requiring hospitalization. Continued treatment with
      5-ASA, azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine or anti-TNF therapy (e.g. infliximab) will be permitted
      if taken at stable dose for more or equal to 12 weeks prior to randomization. Eligible
      patients will be randomized to receive fecal biotherapy or placebo. Fecal biotherapy will be
      provided by an unrelated donor who is able to give informed consent, travel to the treatment
      centre at St Joseph's Hospital, Hamilton and able to collect fecal sample as needed for the
      fecal transplantation protocol. Fecal microbiome profiling will be carried out using both
      Roche 454 pyrosequencing and Illumina sequencing.

      One hundred and thirty active UC patients will be randomized 1:1 according to a computer
      generated randomization list. Randomization will be administered centrally at the GI Clinical
      Trials Unit to ensure concealment of allocation. Eligible patients will be randomized to
      receive a weekly fecal biotherapy enema or a placebo enema for six weeks. In order to
      mitigate a placebo effect, both the patient and study staff will be blinded to the allocation
      of the treatment. An unblinded, independent laboratory technologist will prepare the
      retention enema according to the treatment arm to which the patient is assigned. The enema
      containers will be fully colour-tinted from the tip to the bottom of the container. The
      container will be placed inside a paper bag, which contains baking soda to absorb the odor.
      Both the patient and the study nurse will be required to wear a tightly fitted mask at all
      times during the infusion and retention of the enema.

      Subjects will have a sigmoidoscopy (or colonoscopy if clinically indicated), physician
      assessment and complete a Mayo score (13) and IBDQ questionnaire (15) at baseline. The
      physician assessment, IBDQ and partial Mayo score (Mayo score without the sigmoidoscopy) will
      be repeated at 3 weeks. A repeat sigmoidoscopy, physician assessment IBDQ and Mayo score will
      be completed at 6 weeks, at exit from the study. No new medical therapies (e.g.
      corticosteroids, antibiotics, probiotics) will be permitted during the six-week study period.
      At the end of the treatment component of the study, fecal biotherapy will be offered to the
      participants in the placebo arm with clinical and sigmoidoscopic evidence of active UC.
    
  