
    
      Subjects and study design

      In this pre-post pilot feasibility study, subjects served as their own controls. Participants
      were recruited from a hemodialysis clinic, located in Florianópolis' metropolitan area, Santa
      Catarina state (Southern Brazil), from June to August 2015 with the following inclusion
      criteria: hemodialysis treatment ≥ 3 months, age ≥ 20 years, and body mass index (BMI) ≥ 23
      kg/m2. Exclusion criteria were allergy to apple, presence of cancer or acquired
      immunodeficiency syndrome, kidney transplant less than 6 months before enrolling in the
      study, taking antioxidant or nutritional supplements during the 30 days before enrollment,
      having been hospitalized within 6 weeks before the beginning of the study, or suffering from
      an acute illness.

      Subjects were instructed to keep their usual dietary habits for the duration of the study,
      except for avoiding intake of polyphenol-rich foods (i.e., vegetables, fruits and
      fruit-containing products, chocolate, tea, coffee, honey, and any alcoholic beverage) within
      2 days before and during intervention. On two different days, each volunteer consumed 300 mL
      Fuji AJ, immediately after a dialysis section. After a washout period of 3 weeks, the
      volunteers drank 150 mL Fuji AJ in a similar manner as described above. Before and after 30
      and 60 min of AJ consumption, blood samples were withdrawn for biochemical analysis. This
      protocol was chosen taking into account the previous favorable effects of AJ consumption on
      serum OS biomarkers described for healthy volunteers.

      Baseline clinical and biochemical data were obtained from medical records. This study was
      approved by the ethics committee of human research of the Federal University of Santa
      Catarina (UFSC) (protocol number 37090614.6.0000.0118) and all participants gave written and
      informed consent.

      Apple juice and analysis

      Fuji apples were obtained from the Experimental Seasonal Fields at the Empresa de Pesquisa
      Agropecuária e Extensão Rural de Santa Catarina' Station in the city of São Joaquin, Santa
      Catarina, Brazil (latitude 28º 17' 39", longitude 49º 55' 56" and altitude 1.415 m),
      harvested in their commercial maturation stage during 2015's harvest. After harvest, apples
      were stored at 4 ± 1°C. To allow for a quick and easy apple intake in large amounts, 300 mL
      of AJ, equivalent to 3.5 apples, and 150 mL AJ, equivalent to 1.5 apples were used. Before
      preparing the juice, the fruits were sanitized in sodium hypochlorite. Apples with peel and
      no seeds were blended in a centrifugal juice extractor without water addition. Each dose of
      AJ was prepared and consumed immediately.

      The contents of dry matter, total soluble solids, potential of hydrogen (pH) and titratable
      acidity of AJ were measured following official methods. The total phenolic content of the AJ
      extracts was measured using the Folin-Ciocalteu method colorimetric. The total flavanol
      content was estimated using p-dimethylaminocinnamaldehyde (DMACA) method. The total
      antioxidant capacity was determined using the DPPH (2,2-diphenyl-1-picryl-hydrazyl-hydrate)
      method. For total monomeric anthocyanin, a spectrophotometric pH differential method was
      used. Analyses were conducted with each AJ used in the two intervention days, in triplicate.

      Blood sampling and laboratory methods

      In each experiment day, blood samples from participants were collected in three different
      moments. Venous blood samples were collected using a vacuum system (Vacutainer Becton
      Dickinson BD®, São Paulo, Brazil) into heparin, Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid
      (EDTA)-containing tubes or additive-free tubes. Plasma and serum were immediately obtained by
      centrifugation (3,000 revolutions per minute (RPM), 10 min, room temperature) for the
      measurement of uric acid, phosphorus, glucose, potassium, Total Antioxidant Status (TAS) and
      Total Oxidant Status( TOS). In order to quantify the endogenous antioxidant enzymes, an
      aliquot of whole blood was lysed. In order to measure reduced glutathione (GSH), an aliquot
      of whole blood was preserved in N-ethylmaleimide (NEM). All samples were immediately stored
      at -80°C for later analysis in duplicate.

      Serum uric acid, phosphorus and glucose concentrations were determined using commercially
      available kits (Labtest Diagnóstica SA, Lagoa Santa, Minas Gerais, Brazil) in an automated
      multi-biochemical analyzer (Cobas Miras Plus, Roche®, Germany). Serum potassium levels were
      measured in an automated Dimension Max System (Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Products®,
      Germany), according to the manufacturer's instructions.

      TAS and TOS assays were measured spectrophotometrically, according to Erel's methods.
      Ascorbic acid and GSH were determined using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), as
      previously described. The superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity was evaluated using SOD Assay
      Kit (Sigma Aldrich®, St. Louis, Missouri, USA) according to the manufacturer's instructions.
      Catalase (CAT) activity was determined spectrophotometrically according to the previously
      described method. The glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activity was determined using the NADPH
      oxidation rate method.
    
  