
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine if dose-painted, intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT), fluorouracil,
           and mitomycin C decreases the combined rate of gastrointestinal and genitourinary
           adverse events (grade II or greater) by at least 15% in the first 90 days after the
           start of treatment in patients with primary invasive carcinoma of the anal canal
           compared to patients treated on the radiotherapy, fluorouracil, and mitomycin C arm on
           clinical trial RTOG 98-11.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the feasibility of performing IMRT in these patients in a cooperative group
           setting.

        -  Evaluate adverse events experienced by patients treated with this regimen and to
           decrease the grade 2 and higher and grade 3 and higher overall adverse event rates by
           15% or 20% as compared to the radiotherapy and mitomycin C arm of RTOG 98-11.

        -  Evaluate the total duration of radiotherapy.

        -  Evaluate the efficacy of this regimen, in terms of locoregional failure, disease-free
           survival, time to colostomy, colostomy-free survival, and overall survival of these
           patients.

        -  Determine clinical complete response at 8 weeks after completion of study treatment.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive mitomycin C IV over 10-30 minutes on days 1 and 29 and fluorouracil IV
      continuously over 96 hours on days 1-4 and 29-32. Patients also undergo dose-painted
      intensity-modulated radiation therapy once daily, 5 days a week, for 5½ to 6 weeks beginning
      on day 1. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6
      months for 1 year, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 59 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  