
    
      Respiratory diseases are a significant healthcare burden worldwide. In Canada, this is
      expected to increase. Non-invasive medical imaging tests are able to provide regional
      functional and structural information of the lung and may aid in the diagnosis and treatment
      of respiratory diseases. Current examples include chest x-ray, x-ray computed tomography
      (CT), and nuclear medicine techniques. However, these techniques suffer from various
      associated limitations. X-ray based methods offer high resolution and rapid acquisitions, but
      only reflect lung structure and anatomy by measuring tissue density. Nuclear medicine
      techniques may be used to measure lung function but suffer from poor resolution and long
      acquisition times. Furthermore, both x-ray based and nuclear medicine imaging techniques make
      use of ionizing radiation, which may not be suitable for longitudinal imaging, or imaging in
      vulnerable populations such as children.

      Conventional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) images the 1H nucleus (proton) attached to
      water molecules in biological tissues. MRI can provide high-resolution anatomical and
      functional information of the lung with multiparametric contrast without the use of ionizing
      radiation. However, major drawbacks associated with conventional 1H MRI of the lung are the
      low tissue density, large magnetic susceptibility differences between numerous air/tissue
      interfaces, and image corruption by cardiorespiratory motion during the necessarily long
      image acquisition time frame. Wo;;

      One strategy which may be employed to overcome the limitations associated with conventional
      1H MRI is the application of safe MR-sensitive inhaled tracer gases. This allows for the
      direct visualization of the spatial distribution of these gases, revealing regional
      ventilation directly. In this study we aim to develop, implement, and test these technologies
      for improved in-vivo imaging of lung structure and function in adults and children with no
      history of respiratory disease.
    
  