
    
      The target population for this study will be children between the ages of 6-12 with a
      diagnosis of ADHD, ASD or CHD. Potential subjects for this study will be recruited from the
      clinical teams within SickKids and partnering institutions (e.g., CAMH and Holland
      Bloorview). Participants will be identified by a psychiatrist, psychologist or specialist
      physician as meeting diagnostic criteria for one of the three disorders; 1) ADHD, 2) ASD, 3)
      CHD. Families of children who have expressed interested in this study will be contacted by
      research staff to discuss the study in more detail and will coordinate the logistics of an
      initial consent and enrollment appointment. Parent(s)/guardian(s) of participants will be
      required to consent and children will be required to assent to take in this study.

      This protocol is divided into 3 studies: sub-study 1 (ADHD), sub-study 2 (ASD) and sub-study
      3 (CHD) each consisting of a pre-post treatment design with 6 month follow-up. Each sub-study
      includes an active treatment and wait -list arm. Please see study visit schedule (pg. 11) for
      time-line of events and measures by participant at each time point. Participants will be
      tested at SickKids at pre-treatment, post-treatment and follow-up. Participants will train at
      home with weekly calls from research staff. Assessors at all clinic visits will be blind to
      treatment status. All pre, post and following-up clinic assessments will be conducted off
      stimulant medication with a washout period of 48 hours.

      Stratification: Participants may be taking medications at the time of the study (stimulants
      and non-stimulants including SSRI or antipsychotic medications). Families will be asked to be
      stabilized on their current dose of medication for at least for a month before commencing the
      study and to maintain the same medication and dosage during the 5 week study. If a change in
      the type of medication or dosage takes place during the study it will be recorded. Due to the
      established impact of stimulant medications on EF 20 21 this class of medication will be used
      as part of the randomization process to attain equal proportions of participants using
      stimulant medications in the Mega Team and TAU groups. As some medication use is anticipated
      in all disorder groups the same randomization approach will be used in all three studies.

      Sample Size: The sample size for sub-study 1 (ADHD) will be 220 participants with 110
      randomized into each group from initial estimated recruitment pool of 250. The sample size
      will provide 80% power to declare statistical significance if the true difference between
      treatment groups is 0.43 standard deviations or greater, using a two-sided, 5% level test of
      hypothesis, Bonferroni corrected for three comparisons. A pilot study of Mega Team is
      currently underway (Dr. Crosbie PI, a registered clinical trial) and results from that pilot
      will provide final estimates of the standard deviations before commencement of the current
      study. The planned sample for each of sub-study 2 (ASD) and sub-study 3 (CHD) will be 120 (60
      per arm) given the novelty of investigating cognitive rehabilitation targeting EFs in these
      populations. Information from sub-study 1, which will happen first, and the results from the
      Mega Team pilot study, will allow adjustment in sample size of sub-study 2 and sub-study 3.
      All aspects of enrollment, randomization, and attrition will be monitored and documents using
      CONSORT flow diagram22.

      Randomization: Participants within each sub-study who have consented/ assented to the study
      and meet all inclusion criterion will be randomized to either Mega Team or TAU waitlist
      stratified by medication status (yes or no)) using random block sizes. Randomization will be
      carried out using RedCAP23.

      Blinding: Assessors at all clinic visits will be blind to treatment status. Participants and
      parents will be asked not to make mention of their treatment status during visits. They will
      be reminded of this regularly. Assessors will indicate their blinded status at the end of all
      visits. Parents and children will be asked not to inform teachers of the treatment status. At
      the time of questionnaire completion, teachers will be asked if they are aware of the
      treatment status of the child.

      Intervention Conditions:

      Mega Team Training Sessions: Mega Team is highly engaging video game based cognitive
      intervention that trains multiple executive functions: response inhibition, verbal working
      memory and visual working memory in the context of a single game with increasing difficulty
      based on the individual performance. Children in the treatment group will train at home on
      their own tablet or on a study tablet provided to the family (if needed). They will be
      instructed to practice Mega Team for 15 minutes a day, approximately 5 days a week for a
      targeted minimum of 21 sessions and a maximum of 25 sessions. The minimum value of 21
      sessions has been selected based on findings of prior research. Majority of studies using
      other models of intervention have been able to capture significant training-induced
      improvements after 21 sessions 24-26. The maximum training of 25 sessions has been set to
      control for variability within and between our groups. Performance on Mega Team will
      automatically upload to a secure portal hosted by eHave for monitoring of enrolment,
      adherence and for data analyses. Scoring algorithms will track how often and how long the
      participants trained on Mega Team as well as their performance. Weekly calls from research
      staff will provide motivation and address barriers to game play.

      TAU waiting list Control: Children in the control group will not be provided with any overt
      intervention but continue with treatment recommendations as provided by their clinical care
      team. They will be asked to complete a video game usage log weekly to record the type and
      duration of their regular video game playing, and will receive weekly calls from research
      staff, as will participants assigned to Mega Team. Participants on in the TAU group will be
      given access to the game at the completion of the 6 month follow-up visit.
    
  