
    
      Screening for AIP gene mutation is recommended in patients with pituitary adenomas of
      childhood-onset, GH or PRL secreting tumors who are diagnosed before the age of 30 years and
      positive family history in two or more family members according to present evidence in the
      literature. It is also known that AIP mutation is usually associated with more aggressive
      clinical behavior due to unclarified reasons.

      The prevalence of AIP mutation in Turkish population and types of mutations have not been
      defined previously. The primary aim of the present study is to define the AIP gene mutation
      prevalence and the relation with clinical and tumour behavior in a subgroup of Turkish
      acromegalic patients. If AIP gene mutation is detected in some patients, it will be possible
      to screen the family of the patient for the presence of AIP mutation or at least for the
      presence of pituitary adenoma.

      Acromegalic patients who are followed in Erciyes University Medical School Department of
      Endocrinology will be enrolled into the study. The clinical and laboratory data will be
      recorded and the remission status of the patients will be determined. Each exon of AIP gene
      including splicing points will be reproduced by PCR and will be analyzed for the presence of
      mutation by sequence analysis. Genomic DNA will be isolated from peripheral blood samples of
      acromegalic patients by using the QIAamp DNA blood mini kit (QIA-GEN, Milano, Italy)
      according to the manufacturer's instruction. Fifty nanograms of genomic DNA will be ampliﬁed
      with primers as reported. The entire AIP gene will be examined acromegaly patients and
      healthy control group. Each AIP exon from each DNA sample will be ampliﬁed using PCR. Six AIP
      exons will be ampliﬁed using the Thermo Taq DNA polymerase and following conditions: an
      initial denaturation at 96°C for 5 min, followed by 34 cycles of 94°C for 45 s, 60°C for 45
      s, 72°C for 1 min, then a ﬁnal extension step at 72°C for 7 min.PCR ampliﬁcations will be
      checked on a 2 % agarose gel. PCR products will be purified by PCR purification kit.
      Sequential alterations will be determined by bidirectional sequencing. Six AIP exons will be
      sequenced by using Beckman CEQ 8000.

      The cases will be analyzed further in means of clinical features according to presence of AIP
      gene mutation.

      The prevalence of AIP gene mutation, clinical reflection of presence of AIP mutation will be
      determined and genetic consultation will be given to the carriers of AIP gene mutation at the
      end of the study.
    
  