
    
      Diffusing Alpha-emitter Radiation Therapy is a form of interstitial brachytherapy which may
      be effective in treating malignant skin and superficial soft tissue tumors for several
      reasons. First, alpha-emitting radionuclides have a high linear energy transfer (LET), which
      produces a dense track of ionization events within cells and DNA, which produce complex DNA
      damage and more effective cell kill than more sparsely ionizing forms of radiation, such as
      gamma-rays or x-rays. Second, alpha-emitting radionuclides exhibit a higher relative biologic
      effect (RBE) compared to gamma-rays or x-rays, due to the relative insensitivity to cancer
      cellular radiosensitivity associated with cell cycling. Finally, alpha-emitting radionuclides
      are relatively insensitive to hypoxia, which is common as malignant skin and superficial soft
      tissue tumors become larger (Hall 2000).

      Alpha particles have been considered unsuitable for treatment of solid tumors, since no
      practical method to effectively irradiate a macroscopic tumor with these short-range
      particles (penetration range in human tissue of ≤0.1 mm) has been found.

      The "Diffusing Alpha-emitter Radiation Therapy (DaRT)", based on the interstitial
      intratumoral placement of an encapsulated Radium-224 source (3.7 days half-life), is
      described in this study. These sources release short-lived alpha-emitting atoms into the
      tumor microenvironment by recoil. These atoms are dispersed in the immediate surrounding
      tumor microenvironment both by convection through tumor interstitial fluid and by thermal
      diffusion. The decay of Radium-224 in the capsule results in the release of the short-lived
      (half-life of about 1 minute) radioisotope Radon-220. Radon-220 migrates in the tumor
      microenvironment until it decays. This is followed by the decay of its daughter radioisotope,
      Polonium-216. Lead-212, the result of this last decay, gives rise to Bismuth-212, which emits
      yet another alpha particle. The result of these decay events is the release of alpha
      particles (Kelson 1994 and Kelson 1995). DaRT will be used in this study for the treatment of
      malignant skin and superficial soft tissue tumors.

      This study has been designed to determine the feasibility of performing the procedure
      required to deliver radiotherapy to the tumor. At the same time, the safety of the treatment,
      tumor response, radiation safety, device placement stability, and patient reported quality of
      life, and molecular and histologic effects on the tumor will be assessed.

      The DaRT sources will be inserted using preplanned radiotherapy parameters, with a specified
      number and size of DaRT sources. Approximately 2-3 weeks after placement of the DaRT sources,
      the placement of the sources will be reassessed by volumetric imaging, and then they will be
      removed. Tumor response to DaRT will be assessed periodically 3 months after removal of the
      device.

      This is a single-institution pilot feasibility trial in which 10 subjects will be enrolled.

      The primary objectives are is to explore the feasibility of delivering radiotherapy for
      malignant skin and superficial soft tissue tumors using DaRT (Alpha Tau Medical, Tel Aviv,
      Israel), a form of interstitial brachytherapy which uses a novel radioisotope delivery
      system, as well as to determine the frequency and severity of acute adverse events. Secondary
      objectives will include assessments of radiotherapy-related adverse events, tumor response,
      radiation safety, stability of device placement, and associations with quality of life.
    
  