
    
      Weeks 1 through 48 (Study Year 1): The first 48 weeks of the study were a randomized,
      double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group treatment period. Participants were randomly
      assigned to treatment in a 2:1 fashion to ADV or PLB. Prior to randomization, eligible
      participants were classified into 1 of 6 strata based upon age at screening (2 to < 7 years;
      >= 7 to < 12 years; >= 12 to < 18 years) and prior exposure to treatment for chronic
      hepatitis B (CHB) (prior treatment; no prior treatment).

      Weeks 49 through 240 (Study Years 2 through 5): At Week 48, all placebo-treated participants
      who did not exhibit HBeAg or hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) seroconversion at Week 44,
      plus all ADV-treated participants, were offered the opportunity to receive open-label ADV for
      up to an additional 192 weeks. Any participant with HBV DNA >= 1000 copies/mL at 2
      consecutive visits 12 weeks apart was to be discontinued from open-label study treatment. The
      only exception was for participants in the adolescent age range with prior lamivudine
      experience who were allowed the opportunity to add lamivudine to ADV; similarly, if
      combination failed to impart suppression of HBV DNA below 1000 copies/mL (confirmed)
      discontinuation was necessary. All participants who discontinued study drug due to confirmed
      seroconversion were requested to continue to return for study visits for the remainder of the
      study in order to evaluate the durability of seroconversion. Participants who wished to
      discontinue study treatment and withdraw from the study prior to study completion were
      requested to return every 4 weeks for 16 weeks for posttreatment evaluations following an
      early termination visit. Any participants who experienced posttreatment hepatic flares during
      the 16-week follow-up period were to be followed every 4 weeks until their ALT levels
      returned to <= 2 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) for a maximum off-treatment follow-up
      of 6 months. Participants who experienced a severe hepatic flare (per protocol definition)
      after discontinuation of ADV during the open-label treatment period may have been eligible to
      receive ADV for treatment of the hepatic flare (after consultation with the Gilead medical
      monitor).
    
  