
    
      The internet is a popular method for obtaining information. Increasingly, it is also used to
      answer medical and health related questions, because compared to other methods (e.g. going to
      the library or visiting a doctor) it has a number of advantages to offer like low costs,
      availability, easy accessibility, anonymity, and great diversity of information types and
      sources. 60 to 80 percent of internet users search online for medical information. In this
      context the term "cyberchondria" was coined in the media to describe the potentially
      detrimental effects of this behavior. The first studies in this field using self-report
      retrospective data showed that individuals with elevated levels of health anxiety seem to
      make increased use of the internet for this purpose and it seems to maintain health anxiety
      in the long-term. However, up until today little is known about the consequences of this
      behavior and the maintaining mechanism.

      This randomized controlled experimental study investigates the effects of health-related
      internet use on affect, symptom severity and health anxiety in individuals with pathological
      health anxiety. Participants will first undergo a baseline assessment. After that health
      anxiety is induced using the Autobiographical Emotional Memory Task and participants complete
      another assessment. Then participants are randomly assigned to either an online medical
      searching condition (experimental group, EG) or a non-searching condition (control group, CG)
      to manipulate attentional focus. The EG is requested to search online for health information
      (external focus of attention), the CG is requested to do nothing and not to distract
      themselves (internal focus of attention). Then another assessment is completed and the
      treatment groups are compared regarding the effects on affect, symptom severity and health
      anxiety. Besides examining these effects a further aim of this study is to identify the
      underlying mechanism. Two possibilities are supposed: a) An increase of the variables of
      interest due to health-related information or b) a decrease due to externalization.
    
  