
    
      In neurodegenerative disorders and psychiatric disorders, cognitive dysfunction is frequently
      reported. In Parkinson's disease (PD), Multiple Sclerosis (MS) and patients treated with
      electroconvulsive therapy after a severe or therapy resistant depression (postECT), executive
      dysfunction, attention deficit or episodic/autobiographic memory deficit is prevalent. In MS
      and PD, these dysfunctions can appear already early in the disease. The majority of PD
      patients - lifetime prevalence is about 80% - develops PD dementia. In MS, about half of the
      patients experiences problems with cognitive functions. ECT is used to treat patients with
      severe and/or therapy resistant depression. However, 30-50% of these patients develops severe
      cognitive dysfunction. Recovery usually occurs within six months after ECT. However,
      performances remain below-average compared to norm groups and there are large individual
      differences. The cognitive difficulties in MS and PD have a significant negative influence on
      the quality of life. Cognitive dysfunction in PD is associated with decreased independent
      daily functioning, hospitalization and the development and severity of neuropsychiatric
      symptoms. Furthermore, in the clinic cognitive dysfunction has been reported to be one of the
      most dreadful side effects of ECT. However, effective treatment of the described cognitive
      dysfunction is still in its infancy.

      Cognitive training is based upon the principle that plasticity of the brain can facilitate
      function improvement by intensive training. In several neurological diseases, cognitive
      training has shown significant improvement in cognitive functions. In MS and PD, earlier
      studies have been small, frequently without an adequately controlled design. Additionally,
      earlier cognitive training programs have frequently been executed in a health care
      organization, impairing patients to successfully attend all training sessions due to mobility
      impairments. Also, there are limited studies in the effects of cognitive training on improved
      functioning of daily living and neuropsychiatric symptoms like anxiety and depression. Given
      the fact that there is an absence in cognitive training studies in patients post-ECT, there
      is no knowledge about the ability of cognitive training to speed up the natural course.

      Using this pilot study, the investigators aim to study the feasibility of a randomized
      controlled trial using an online computerized intervention for training cognitive abilities
      in three patient groups. By using a double-blinded, controlled study design, the
      investigators keep in mind limitations of earlier comparable studies. If this treatment
      proves to be feasible, and a rough estimated effect size is positive, a larger randomized
      controlled trial can be executed to study the effectivity of this treatment. When effects are
      positive, an online cognitive training programme could prove to be a cost-efficient
      intervention that is accessible at home - something which is important for patients with
      mobility problems. The investigators hypothesize that patients using online cognitive
      training will improve more on cognitive functions, as compared to patients using an active
      training condition.
    
  