
    
      Suicide is a significant problem among Veterans of the U.S. Military. Katz (2007) reported
      that there were 144 suicides among Veterans who served in Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF)
      and/or Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF) from 2002-2005. There is no nationwide surveillance
      system that tracks Veteran suicides. However, the National Violent Death Reporting System
      (NVDRS) created in 2003 by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) with the
      purpose of gathering thorough information about suicides and other violent deaths allows
      researchers to reasonably extrapolate national suicide rates for Veterans. A CDC report
      (2006) based on NVDRS data estimated that approximately 6,500 veterans from all wars die by
      suicide each year, accounting for approximately 20% of suicides per year nationwide. While
      much is known about risk factors for suicide (e.g., Beck, Steer, Kovacs, & Garrison, 1985;
      Jobes & Mann, 1999) such information has little clinical utility for predicting whether or
      not an individual is likely to die by suicide in the near-term. One of the few attempts to
      address this issue is the interpersonal-psychological theory of suicide (Joiner, 2005). The
      interpersonal psychological theory proposes that people die by suicide for three reasons: (1)
      they perceive themselves as a burden to others; (2) they experience a profound feeling of
      disconnectedness from others, what Joiner (2005) calls ''thwarted belongingness'' (p. 118);
      and (3) they have become habituated to the fear and physical pain inherent in a suicidal act
      by repeatedly enduring painful and provocative situations, whether through such experiences
      as repeated suicide attempts, other physically painful experiences, or frequent exposure to
      danger. Importantly, all three factors must be present for a suicide to occur, according to
      the interpersonal-psychological theory; together, these three characteristics are ''proximal,
      causal, interactive risk factors'' (Van Orden, Witte, Gordon et al., 2008a, p. 72).
      Components of the theory have been tested in adults (Joiner, Pettit, Walker, Voelz, Cruz, &
      Rudd, 2002; Joiner & Rudd, 2000), college students, and adolescents (Joiner, Rudd, Rouleau, &
      Wagner, 2000). However, research has only begun to explore whether the theory applies to
      Veterans (Cornette, Deboard, Clark, Holloway, Brenner, Gutierrez, et al., 2007; Cornette,
      deRoon-Cassini, Joiner, & Proescher, 2006). Brenner et al. (2008) conducted a qualitative
      study of OEF/OIF Veterans which found relevance of the theory to their experiences. In
      particular, themes emerged around combat as a context for exposure to painful stimuli,
      perceptions of burdensomeness, and failed belongingness. This theory shows promise for
      designing prevention and clinical intervention strategies for Veterans, but more data are
      needed on which to base such work. To facilitate testing the interpersonal-psychological
      theory of suicide, Joiner and colleagues have developed several instruments (Bender, Gordon,
      & Joiner, 2007; Bryan, Morrow, Anestis, & Joiner, 2010; Van Orden,Witte, Gordon et al.,
      2008a). The Interpersonal Needs Questionnaire (INQ) taps into the constructs of thwarted
      belongingness and perceived burdensomeness. The Acquired Capability for Suicide Scale (ACSS;
      Van Orden et al., 2008) measures fearlessness about suicide. The current study will focus on
      the 12-item version of the INQ (INQ-12; Van Orden, Witte, Gordon, Bender, & Joiner, 2008a)
      recently validated by Freedenthal, Lamis, Osman, Kahlo, and Gutierrez (2011). This measure
      contains seven items that assess perceived burdensomeness and five items that assess
      belongingness. An example of a burdensomeness item in the INQ-12 is, ''These days, I think I
      have failed the people in my life''. An example of a belongingness item is, ''These days,
      other people care about me''. The ACSS is a 20-item measure rated on a scale of 1 (not at all
      like me) to 5 (very much like me). Sample items include, "I am not at all afraid to die" and
      "I can tolerate a lot more pain than most people". Van Orden et al. report acceptable
      convergent and discriminant validity. The authors also reported a strong negative correlation
      with the fear of suicide subscale on the Reasons for Living Inventory (RFL; Linehan, Nielsen,
      & Chiles, 1983) and a positive correlation with the courage to kill oneself item on the Beck
      Scale for Suicide Ideation (BSS; Beck & Steer, 1991). Bender, Gordon, Bresin, and Joiner
      (2011) reported acceptable internal consistency as well. However, formal psychometric studies
      of the ACSS have yet to be conducted. Joiner (2005) describes burdensomeness, failed
      belongingness and acquired capability as separate constructs, with the INQ-12 and ACSS
      designed to assess each independently. However, for purposes of explaining whether a given
      individual is likely to die by suicide, Joiner et al. (2009) explain that the first two
      constructs together create the desire for death and that the third is necessary for a person
      to engage in potentially lethal self-harm behavior. Therefore, a complex interaction between
      the three is proposed. Support for this interaction was found by Joiner et al. in two
      independent samples, one community sample of young adults and a second drawing on archival
      data from active duty military personnel being treated for a recent significant
      suicide-related event (e.g., serious ideation or attempt). A major limitation of this study
      was that measures of the constructs differed, making it somewhat difficult to determine what
      was being assessed in the two samples. Additionally, in their psychometric examination of the
      INQ-12 Freedenthal and colleagues (2011) found evidence of an overarching factor uniting the
      two subscales of burdensomeness and failed belongingness. Assessing for suicide risk is a key
      element of the clinical management of high-risk individuals (Gutierrez et al., 2009), but is
      only the first step. To adequately select appropriate interventions clinicians must know what
      is driving an individual's suicidality (Jobes, 2006) and also what factors are keeping the
      person from acting on their thoughts and urges. This information better helps the clinician
      and client to develop strategies aimed at creating (or rediscovering) what makes life worth
      living; focusing on plans, goals, and hope for the future (Jobes, Comtois, Brenner, &
      Gutierrez, 2011). Historically, the RFL (Linehan et al., 1983) has been one of the primary
      measures of protective factors against suicide, and indeed has shown great utility. A
      potentially related area of study is the role of one's values. The consciously chosen way in
      which an individual lives her life, the driving force behind her actions, and the desired
      outcomes of her behaviors define what an individual values (Luoma, Hayes, & Walser, 2007).
      Helping clients live lives consistent with their values provides purpose and meaning, gives
      direction to their choices, and allows them to set reasonable, flexible goals likely to
      motivate meaningful action (Luoma et al.). Accomplishing these things should greatly
      facilitate reducing an individual's risk of suicide, since it answers the fundamental
      existential question "why is life worth living?" Ciarrochi and Bailey (2008) created the
      Survey of Life Principles to assess values, and provide preliminary support for its use in
      their manual.
    
  