
    
      Approximately 5000 Canadians are annually diagnosed with rectal cancer. For patients
      undergoing rectal cancer surgery two unfortunate outcomes are permanent colostomy and local
      tumor recurrence. Research demonstrates that in Ontario, Canada and other parts of the world
      the standard of care for rectal cancer surgery leaves room for improvement.

      This is a multi-center trial that will test if a set of interventions designed to positively
      influence surgeon practice, titled the Quality Initiative in Rectal Cancer (QIRC) strategy,
      can improve rates of permanent colostomy and local tumour recurrence for surgically treated
      rectal cancer patients. Secondary outcomes to be assessed include sexual, bowel, and bladder
      function, and quality of life. The QIRC strategy consists of a workshop to discuss quality
      issues in rectal cancer, operative demonstration to demonstrate optimal surgical techniques,
      the use of opinion leaders, and a postoperative questionnaire designed to prompt surgeons to
      re-examine their key operative steps. The QIRC strategy is largely designed to teach total
      mesorectal excision, a new gold standard for rectal cancer surgery that has been shown in
      non-randomized studies to lower patient rates of permanent colostomy and local tumour
      recurrence.

      Sixteen hospitals across the province of Ontario were allocated by cluster randomization to
      the QIRC strategy (experimental arm) versus minimal intervention (control arm). All hospitals
      are high-volume centres - an annual rectal cancer procedure volume of 15 or greater.
      Hospitals in the control arm represent the normal practice environment. Approximately 700
      patients will be assessed. In addition to measuring rates of permanent colostomy and local
      recurrence of tumour, the study will examine bowel, bladder and sexual function, and overall
      quality of life among patients.

      A positive trial - better results in hospitals that receive the intervention - may suggest
      that to effectively influence surgeon practice, resource intense approaches are necessary
      along with active buy-in from the surgical community.
    
  