
    
      In recent years, for resectable esophageal cancer lesions, the National Taiwan University
      Hospital has developed MIE from the traditional open-abdomen and open-chest reconstructive
      surgeries. Because the wounds of minimally invasive surgeries are smaller, most of the
      patients can be extubated soon in the operation rooms. During the period when the patients
      are sent to ICU for observation, they do not need endotracheal tubes for positive pressure or
      sputum suction. Thus, high standards are needed for the inspections of post-operative chest
      care, depth of respiration and ability of expectoration in these patients.

      The HFNC used in this study can supply more than 40-60 L/min of oxygen flow, which is many
      times higher than the traditional nasal cannula. In addition, HFNC provides heating and
      moisturizing functions, so the patients 'nasal and oropharyngeal cavities do not dry out.
      This way, the patients can wear HFNC continuously for many days. Furthermore, when the
      patients close their mouths, HFNC can create a PEEP of 6-8 cmH2O, which helps with lung
      expansion after chest surgeries and lowers the risk of pneumonia related to lung collapses.

      This is a prospective study that uses the treatment guideline of our chest surgery ICU. We
      recruited 60 patients who underwent MIE in the National Taiwan University Hospital between
      January 2018 and December 2018. The clinical data collected included vital signs (blood
      pressure, heart rate, respiratory patterns and frequencies, saturation of blood oxygen and
      carbon dioxide, etc.), blood tests, images and bronchoscopic analysis of sputum.

      The goal of this study is to analyze common care problems and complications patients may
      encounter during the acute stage in ICU after MIE. By comparing the differences between the
      treatment group and the control group, we can interpret the role of HFNC.
    
  