
    
      Spinal decompression is a surgical procedure that is performed to alleviate pain caused by
      pinched nerves (neural impingement). Surgical options for decompressing the lumbar spine vary
      from minimally invasive disc decompression to open laminectomy and foraminotomy. The lumbar
      spine decompression and fusion differs from a microdiscectomy in that the incision is longer
      and there is more muscle stripping. Lumbar spinal decompression is a commonly performed
      procedure and the conventional open techniques of decompression remain the gold standard of
      treatment.

      During a lumbar decompression back surgery, a small portion of the bone over the nerve root
      and/or disc material from under the nerve root is removed to give the nerve root more space
      and provide a better healing environment. A lumbar spine decompression and fusion is
      typically performed to relieve the lumbar spinal stenosis symptoms. The goal of the surgery
      is to allow more space for the nerve root, thus reducing pain (and potentially any leg
      weakness or neurological symptoms) and restoring the patient's ability to participate in
      everyday activities[1].

      Quadratus lumborum (QL) block was introduced in 2007 and is performed for perioperative pain
      management in various abdominal, pelvic, gynecological and hip procedures in all age
      groups[2]. Four types of QL block were described, differentiated by the exact location of the
      anesthetic injection. Type 1/lateral QL block is performed at the lateral border of the QL
      muscle, type 2/posterior QL block is performed at the medial edge of the QL muscle (at the
      border or the spine erector muscles and the thoraco-lumbar fascia), type 3/anterior is
      performed between the QL muscle and the psoas major and type 4 is intramuscular (see figure
      1). In the majority of cases, these blocks are performed pre/post operatively under
      ultrasound guidance. There are sporadic reports of QL block performed for lumbar spinal
      surgery [3, 4].However, the plane for a type 2 QL block can be easily reached during open
      midline spinal surgery.

      The importance of pain control in the postoperative period for spinal surgery has been
      discussed and proven extensively, with both immediate and delayed reduction in complications
      and improved clinical results [5, 6].

      The investigators hypothesize that the type 2 QL block is an effective analgesic tool for
      lumbar laminectomy surgery, because in lumbar laminectomy the quadratus lumborum is already
      exposed and is in direct visual contact. For that reason it is imperative, in our opinion, to
      test its benefits of this procedure.

      Study's objective:

      To test the safety and efficacy of open quadratus lumborum block as an add-on postoperative
      analgesic technique for lumbar spine decompression and fusion.

      Study design:

      This is a pilot comparative study, double blind and placebo controlled . Patients scheduled
      for a lumbar spine decompression and fusion will be divided randomly into two groups of N=50
      each. Subjects in both groups will receive an intra-operative exposure of the posterior QL
      block plane, with injection of long acting local anesthetic for group A and Saline for group
      B. Both groups will be monitored during their admission in the department for opioid dose
      administered, reported pain levels (NRS), narcotics side effects (delirium, urinary
      retention, falls) and general operative complications. Patient pain levels, satisfaction and
      general complications will be gathered during clinic follow up.

      Methods:

      Patients arriving to undergo lumbar spine decompression and fusion will be offered to
      participate in the study. They will receive a thorough explanation about the study and will
      sign an informed consent form. The division into each group will be done randomly on a one by
      one basis, by an operating room nurse. The scrubbed nurse will be exposed to the nature of
      the substance injected for its sterile preparation, however the surgeons will be blinded to
      it. Patients will be blinded to their study arm until the end of the study. The lumbar
      laminectomy (open decompression) procedure will be performed as usual:

        -  First, the back is approached through a two-inch to five-inch long incision in the
           midline of the back, and the left and right back muscles (erector spinae) are dissected
           off the lamina on both sides and at multiple levels.

        -  After the spine is approached, the lamina is removed (laminectomy), allowing
           visualization of the nerve roots.

        -  The facet joints, which are directly over the nerve roots, may then be undercut
           (trimmed) to give the nerve roots more room.

        -  Fusion will be performed with pedicular screws and rods and when indicated an interbody
           device.

      Study group A will be given an analgesic injection into the quadratus lumborum, comprising of
      Marcaine 0.25% with normal saline (for a total of 20 ml per side). Study group B will receive
      an identical procedure, however with 20 ml normal saline alone per side. Time required to
      perform the block for both sides will be measured.

      The postoperative regime will include a standardized pain protocol as is used in routine
      practice. all other operative or postoperative procedures are the same for both groups. Data
      will be collected from nurses and physical therapy as well as discharge notes. A standardized
      form for obtaining data will be used in clinic follow up at 2-3 weeks and 3-4 months.

      Safety data collected:

      A subjective report of each patient regarding any adverse events will be collected by the
      study nurse during their recovery. The surgeon will report at the end of each operation if
      there were any adverse events and level of difficulty administrating the injection on
      designated forms.
    
  