
    
      You will receive the chemotherapy drug fludarabine for 5 days (Days 1 to 5). The drug
      melphalan will be given on Days 4 and 5. You may also receive the drug anti-thymocyte
      globulin (ATG) on Days 4, 5, 6. This will be followed by infusion of blood stem cells or bone
      marrow from a donor on Day 7. A separate consent will be provided to the donor. The donor can
      be a brother, sister or another family member or a compatible unrelated donor. The drugs and
      the stem cells will be given through a catheter (a small tube) placed under the collarbone.
      You may receive your treatment on an inpatient or outpatient basis. If treated on an
      inpatient basis, you will stay in the hospital during treatment and recovery, which can take
      4 to 5 weeks even if there are no complications.

      The chemotherapy and the ATG are given to help the body accept the transplanted stem cells or
      bone marrow. You will receive antibiotics to fight infection and a medicine called G-CSF
      (Neupogen®) to help blood counts rise back to healthier levels. G-CSF is given as an
      injection under the skin. You will also need blood and platelet transfusions.

      You will be given standard drugs to help decrease the risk of side effects. You may ask the
      study staff for information about how the drugs are given and their risks.

      If the cancer grows and graft-versus-host disease is not present, you may be eligible to
      receive donor blood cells (lymphocytes) infused through the catheter. This may cause
      graft-versus-host disease and may help shrink the cancer. If the cancer grows and
      graft-versus-host disease is already present, then donor lymphocytes are not given.

      Sometimes, the body rejects the donor cells; this reaction is called "graft rejection".
      Sometimes the donor cells attack the body, a reaction called graft-versus-host disease
      (GvHD). The drugs tacrolimus and methotrexate will be given to help prevent these reactions
      from occurring. These drugs are given through a vein or by mouth before and/or after the
      transplant.

      You must stay in the Houston area for at least 100 days after the transplant. After 100 days,
      you must return to Houston every 3 months for 2 years for tests and checkups, then once a
      year for at least 3 years. If there is no sign of lymphoma growth at the follow up visit(s),
      you will receive no further treatment.

      This is an investigational study. The drugs used in this study are approved by the FDA and
      are commercially available. As many as 35 patients will take part in the study. All will be
      enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  