
    
      This study will be conducted at the Kansas City VA Medical Center, Kansas City, MO. The
      investigators have the pCLE system that the investigators are currently using in a
      multicenter study evaluating patients with Barrett's esophagus. Patients referred for
      screening and/or surveillance colonoscopy will be prospectively enrolled in this study.
      Inclusion criteria - referral for screening and/or surveillance colonoscopy and the ability
      to provide informed consent. Exclusion criteria: prior surgical resection of any portion of
      colon, prior history of colon cancer, history of inflammatory bowel disease, use of
      anti-platelet agents or anticoagulants that precludes removal of polyps during the procedure,
      poor general condition or any other reason to avoid prolonged procedure time, history of
      polyposis syndrome or HNPCC, inability to give informed consent, inadequate bowel
      preparation, allergy to fluorescein, pregnancy, and renal insufficiency. Moderate sedation
      for the procedure will be administered in a standard fashion with intravenous midazolam,
      meperidine or fentanyl. This will be a single arm study with all procedures being performed
      with a standard white light colonoscope (CF - H180AL, Olympus America). After cecal
      intubation, the colonic mucosa will be carefully visualized during withdrawal under
      high-definition white light and if a polyp is detected, its characteristics will be
      documented: size, location, and morphology [Polypoid (sessile, pedunculated) or Non-polypoid:
      (superficial elevated, completely flat, depressed)]. Then 5ml of 10% fluorescein sodium will
      be injected intravenously. Following this the pCLE probe will be passed through the biopsy
      channel of the colonoscope and placed on the polyp to obtain confocal images and video
      sequences. During the initial phase unblinded comparisons of the confocal images and videos
      with the polyp histology (20 adenomas, 20 hyperplastic) will be performed in order to
      evaluate the criteria described by the Mayo Jacksonville group (22) that differentiate
      between neoplastic and non neoplastic polyps. Following this initial phase, these criteria
      will be applied in a prospective manner to predict polyp histology (100 polyps) real time
      during the procedure prior to their removal. Multiple confocal images and videos of each
      polyp will be saved with appropriate labeling. Pathologists will be blinded to the endoscopic
      and pCLE findings of the polyps. Polyp size will be assessed by comparing with sheath of a
      polypectomy snare or open span of a biopsy forceps. Photo documentation of the polyps will be
      performed. Polyps will then be removed in the standard fashion with a biopsy forceps or snare
      and sent for histopathological evaluation. Each polyp will be sent in a separate jar and
      labeled accordingly. The bowel preparation will be evaluated and graded according to
      previously reported criteria (24): excellent, good, fair, and inadequate. Patients with
      inadequate bowel preparation will be excluded. Complications including gastrointestinal
      bleeding (requiring intervention) and perforation will be recorded.

      Outcomes:

      The predicted histology of polyps based on the confocal images and videos and the correlation
      with actual histology for accuracy of prediction will be the primary outcome. Secondary
      outcome will be the inter-observer variability in polyp histology prediction based on the
      confocal images and videos of polyps (by kappa statistics).
    
  