
    
      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Airway responsiveness and lung function, endpoints with a strong genetic basis, are central
      to the obstructive airway diseases (asthma and COPD). In contrast, the dissection of the
      underlying genes requires unique sample resources, accurate and comprehensive phenotyping,
      and an efficient study design. To address to this three-pronged challenge, a genomic screen
      brought together a large, homogenous, mostly untreated sample from Anhui, China, a wealth of
      expertise in asthma phenotypes, and a potent study design based on extreme discordant sib
      pairs.

      Since this approach utilized an extant asthmatic family population, no support for data
      collection was required. The primary focus of the study was two intermediate phenotypes
      related to asthma and COPD: airway responsiveness (characterized by increased responsiveness
      to histamine methacholine or other nonspecific agonists and measured by the slope of the dose
      response relationship) and forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1). Since both traits are
      continuous, the appropriate study design considered only siblings with extremely discordant
      phenotypes. For many studies, this strategy was not feasible due to the thousands of families
      that must be phenotyped to identify a sample of such siblings. The plan was to utilize the
      organization of a well-established network in China to collect 150 extreme discordant sib
      pairs of each intermediate phenotype. For airway responsiveness, the estimated power from
      this sample, equivalent to roughly 600 concordant sib pairs, was intended to surpass the
      power of all existing studies, including the U.S. Collaborative Study on the Genetics of
      Asthma. Further, with similar power, this was the first study to test for linkage to FEV1.
      Moreover, to further augment power, potential phenotypic heterogeneity was reduced by
      stratifying the analyses by total and specific serum IgE levels, skin test reactivity,
      peripheral blood eosinophilia, respiratory symptoms, age, gender, bronchodilator response,
      and cigarette smoking.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  