
    
      High-grade pancreatic trauma (HGPT), while uncommon, presents challenging diagnostic and
      therapeutic dilemmas to trauma surgeons. Multiple management strategies to HGPT have been
      reported, which was associated with a high level of morbidity and mortality rate. Besides,
      few prospective studies have investigated the optimal management strategy of patients with
      HGPT.

      We aimed to compare surgical drainage with percutaneous drainage in the management of HGPT.
      To do so, the strategy is to integrate precise prospective clinical records extensive
      clinical treatment data in a large cohort of patients. All the clinical departments,
      participating in the study, include patients, with tight collaboration between Trauma,
      Intensive Care and Surgery departments. Demographics and clinical parameters are collected in
      a database.

      Once after the diagnosis is confirmed, the inclusion of patients is performed, before
      scheduled hospital management, and after eligibility criteria checking, and consent form
      signature. During clinical management, several samples are collected: blood samples and
      surgical specimens. As a usual practice, post-operative treatment will be prescribed at the
      investigator's discretion, with the help of an acre-established algorithm. Several samples
      are also collected during this exam(blood and biological tissue sample).

      At the same time as these managements, clinical data regarding medical history, pre-hospital
      treatment history, surgical history, treatment history, post-operative treatment if
      prescribed, treatment history between surgery and image logical diagnosis are recorded.
      Clinical data are also collected 12months after discharge during a scheduled visit organized
      as usual practice, for long-term study.

      Several studies will be performed along with the cohort setting-up:

        -  Comparison of the diagnosis time and treatment time of patients with HGPT

        -  Study of surgical methods and intraoperative conditions in patients with HGPT

        -  Study of ICU resuscitation treatment of patients with HGPT

        -  Study of complication, ICU length of stay and hospital length of stay for patients with
           HGPT

        -  Study of nutritional support treatment for patients with HGPT

        -  Study of mortality and cost for patients with HGPT

      All the biologic samples are stored on sites at -80°C, or at room temperature depending on
      the samples: Samples collected in tubes, are sent immediately, at room temperature, to the
      central pathology department in Jinling Hospital, Nanjing, China. All the other samples,
      stored at -80°C, are sent to the research institute of General Surgery, Medical School of
      Nanjing University, China.

      Samples analyses are performed by dedicated research centers: DNA, and RNA extraction for
      transcriptome analysis, histological analyzes, etc:

      Histological analyzes: Analysis of the structure of the excised pancreas or intestinal
      tissue.

      Molecular Biology: Whole-genome expression analyses are performed using microarray and
      followed by Gene Ontology and clustering analyses.

      Microbiota: Bacterial composition of the ileal mucosa-associated microbiota is analyzed at
      the time of surgery using 16S (MiSeq, Illumina) sequencing. The obtained sequences are
      analyzed using the Qiime pipeline to assess composition, alpha and beta diversity.

      Immunology: Phenotype of immune cells: Immune cells are extracted from blood and fresh
      mucosal tissues. The phenotype of these cells is analyzed by cytometry.

      Analysis of neutrophil extracellular traps:

      The concentrations of cell-free DNA, cell-free nucleosomes, neutrophil elastase(NE) and
      myeloperoxidase (MPO) were measured in sera and plasma byHuman Cell Death Detection ELISA or
      sandwich ELISA.

      Pancreatic tissue was removed rapidly and divided into different parts for later analyses.
      One was used for confocal microscopy and one third was snap-frozen in liquid nitrogen for
      biochemical quantification of pancreatic myeloperoxidase(MPO), histone 3, and histone 4
      levels, etc. One was fixed in formalin for histologic analysis.
    
  