
    
      Abdominal pain is a common symptom in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) that
      alters quality of life and can lead to increased healthcare utilization. In addition to
      abdominal pain, pain can result from extra-intestinal manifestation of IBD. 40% of IBD
      patients suffer from extra-intestinal manifestations. Although abdominal pain has been
      traditionally attributed to inflammation, functional abdominal pain exists in patients with
      IBD, associated with a variety of potential causes. About 20-40% of patients in complete
      clinical and endoscopic remission continue to experience chronic pain. Thus, when examining
      an IBD patient with abdominal pain, in addition to IBD-related complications (e.g.,
      inflammation, stricture), it is important to screen for other contributors, including
      peripheral factors (visceral hypersensitivity, bacterial overgrowth, and bowel dysmotility)
      and centrally mediated neurobiological and psychosocial underpinnings. These central factors
      include psychological symptoms, sleep disturbance, and stress. Opioid-induced hyperalgesia
      (e.g., narcotic bowel syndrome) is also growing in recognition as a potential central source
      of abdominal pain.

      Pronounced severe pain impacts health related quality of life (QoL). Longstanding pain leads
      to decreased QoL, increase in pain medication intake, and co-morbidities including
      depression, anxiety and even addiction. Furthermore, pain attacks severely interfere with
      social and professional life.

      Knowledge of these potential aetiologies should be used to individualize treatment of
      abdominal pain in patients with IBD. Accurate assessment of the source of pain can help guide
      appropriate diagnosis workup and use of modifying therapy.

      The aim of the study is to determine the epidemiology of pain in patients with Crohn disease
      (CD) and to characterize their pain (localisation, temporal characteristics, acute vs.
      chronic, sensorial characteristics, existence of neuropathic component, existence of
      hyperalgesia), and their impact of QoL, depression and anxiety
    
  