
    
      Informal caregivers (caregivers, often family or friends) play an integral role in managing
      patients with complex, chronic diseases. It is estimated that caregivers provide $470 billion
      of uncompensated care. Despite their impact, healthcare systems largely neglect caregivers.
      Long distance caregivers of older adults (who make up 15% of caregivers in America) are at a
      particular disadvantage. In the current healthcare system, health information technology
      (HIT) has not been optimized to support the needs of caregivers and patients. Providing HIT
      that supports enhanced communication between patients, caregivers, and clinicians can improve
      patient safety by increasing the accuracy of patient data and by reducing
      miscommunication(1).

      There is limited knowledge concerning best practices to promote caregivers' and patients'
      activation and engagement, especially with HIT. Access to personal health information through
      the personal health record (PHR) has the potential to improve chronic health care management,
      and encourage patient engagement. Although caregivers and patients express a willingness to
      adopt PHRs, in practice, multiple barriers hinder PHR adoption. A properly designed PHR can
      help caregivers and patients manage their health and become partners in the healthcare team.

      This study's overall objective is to identify caregivers and cardiovascular patients'
      communication and technology needs and to build and test an optimized PHR design that
      promotes active participation of patients and their caregivers in their health. The overall
      hypothesis is that an optimized PHR will expand the role of caregivers to improve the
      patient's health and improve the satisfaction of both patients and caregivers with their
      care. The investigators will employ an agile, user-centered design process involving
      caregivers and older cardiovascular patients.
    
  