
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare progression-free survival of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer that
      progressed on first-line therapy comprising bevacizumab and FOLFOX, OPTIMOX, or XELOX treated
      with irinotecan hydrochloride-based chemotherapy and cetuximab with vs without bevacizumab.

      II. Compare overall survival of patients treated with these regimens. III. Compare objective
      tumor response (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial response) in patients with
      measurable disease treated with these regimens.

      IV. Compare the tolerability and safety profile of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, randomized study. Patients are stratified according to Zubrod
      performance status (0 vs 1 or 2), discontinuation of oxaliplatin during first-line therapy
      (yes vs no), planned concurrent chemotherapy (FOLFIRI vs single-agent irinotecan
      hydrochloride), and time from last dose of bevacizumab (14-42 days vs >= 43 days).

      All patients receive 1 of the following chemotherapy regimens:

      SINGLE AGENT IRINOTECAN HYDROCHLORIDE: Patients receive irinotecan hydrochloride
      intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      FOLFIRI: Patients receive irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 90 minutes and leucovorin calcium
      IV over 2 hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV continuously over 46-48 hours on days 1 and 2.
      Treatment repeats every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Patients are then randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive single-agent irinotecan hydrochloride or FOLFIRI as outlined above
      and cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours on day 1. Courses repeat every 14-21 days (depending upon
      chemotherapy regimen) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive single-agent irinotecan hydrochloride or FOLFIRI as outlined above
      and cetuximab as in arm I. Patients also receive bevacizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1.
      Courses repeat every 14-21 days (depending upon chemotherapy regimen) in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM III (closed to accrual as of 4/20/2009): Patients receive single-agent irinotecan
      hydrochloride or FOLFIRI as outlined above and cetuximab as in arm I. Patients also receive a
      higher dose of bevacizumab (higher than in arm II) IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Courses
      repeat every 14-21 days (depending upon chemotherapy regimen) in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and
      then once a year for 3 years.
    
  