
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Cetuximab is designed to prevent or slow down the growth of cancer cells by blocking protein
      on the surface of the cancer cell, called the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR).

      Sirolimus is designed to block a protein called mTOR inside the cancer cell. This may
      interfere with the growth or spread of cancer cells or possibly kill the cancer cells.

      Study Drug Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a dose
      level of cetuximab and sirolimus based on when you joined this study. Up to 9 dose levels of
      cetuximab and sirolimus will be tested. Three (3) to 9 participants will be enrolled at each
      dose level. The first group of participants will receive the lowest dose level. Each new
      group will receive a higher dose than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects
      were seen. This will continue until the highest tolerable dose of the combination of
      cetuximab and sirolimus is found.

      Once the highest tolerated dose of the combination of cetuximab and sirolimus is found, 2
      groups of additional participants (Group 1 and Group 2, each of 14 participants) will be
      enrolled and receive the study drugs at that dose level. Another 14 participants with the
      non-small lung and head and neck cancer will receive the study drug at that dose level, as
      well.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Each study "cycle" is 28 days.

      Everyday, you will take sirolimus by mouth 1 time a day. You should take it at about the same
      time each day with food and a cup of water.

      On Days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of each cycle, you will receive cetuximab by vein over 2 hours. If
      the first dose is well tolerated, you will receive the next dose over 1 hour.

      Study Visits:

      At every study visit, you will be asked about any current health conditions you have, drugs
      you are taking, and if you have experienced any side effects.

      Between Days 8 and 15 of Cycle 1, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

      -If you are enrolled in a Group 2 of the highest drug combination dose, you will have a tumor
      biopsy and your blood (about 1-3 tablespoons) will be drawn for pharmacodynamic (PD) testing.

      About Days 8 and 22 of Cycle 1, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      About Day 15 of Cycle 1, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      About Day 22 of Cycles 2 and then every 1-2 cycles, the following tests and procedures will
      be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      Every 4 weeks, you will have a blood (about 1 teaspoon) drawn or urine collected for
      pregnancy test if you are able to become pregnant.

      Every 8 weeks, you will have an x-ray, CT scan, MRI, and/or PET/CT to check the status of the
      disease. The study doctor thinks it is needed, they will be performed more often.

      Length of Study:

      You may stay on study for as long as you are benefitting. You will be taken off study if you
      experience intolerable side effects, the study doctor thinks it is in your best interest, or
      the cancer gets worse.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      About 28 days after the last dose of study drugs, you will have an end-of-study visit. At
      this visit, the following tests or procedures may be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have an x-ray, CT, MRI, and/or PET/CT to
           check the status of the disease.

      This is an investigational study. Sirolimus is FDA approved and commercially available as an
      anti-rejection drug for kidney transplant recipients. Cetuximab is FDA approved and
      commercially available for the treatment of colorectal and head/neck cancers. The combination
      of these drugs is investigational.

      Up to 137 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  