
    
      Using implementation science methodology, the study seeks to assess the effect of 9 months
      treatment with inclisiran with or without behavioural support, compared to standard of care
      with behavioural support, on LDL-C reduction, total lipid profile, assessments of patient and
      healthcare professional (HCP) satisfaction, health-care resource utilisation and healthcare
      service process evaluation.

      The primary objective of this study is to demonstrate superiority of inclisiran +/-
      behavioural support compared to standard of care + behavioural support in a primary care
      setting, in reducing the percentage change in LDL-C from baseline to Day 270 in adults with
      elevated LDL-C.

      Patients taking part in the study, will do so for 9 months.

      Patients taking part in the study will be randomised to one of three groups:

        1. Continue your current lipid lowering medication, plus a telephone-based lifestyle
           support programme.

        2. Continue your current lipid lowering medication, plus Inclisiran

        3. Continue your current lipid lowering medication, plus Inclisiran and plus a
           telephone-based lifestyle support programme.

      For those patients assigned to group 2 or 3 who will receive Inclisiran, this will be given
      as an injection from a pre-filled syringe. The patients will be given Inclisiran twice during
      the study, once at the start of the study on day 1 and a second time 3 months later at day
      90.

      For those patients assigned to group 1 or 3 they will receive a telephone-based lifestyle
      support programme. Support will be provided to patients through monthly telephone-based
      support calls, from a health care professional and health advisors. During the calls, support
      will be offered to ensure patients understand their cardiovascular disease diagnosis and how
      to implement lifestyle changes that may reduce their risk.
    
  