
    
      Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a common finding in intensive care unit (ICU) patients.
      Approximately 30 to 65% of patients experience an episode of AKI, and 5% of ICU patients are
      treated with renal replacement therapy. AKI is associated withimportant short term and
      long-term morbidity as well as mortality, and therefore also with costs. Finally, there is a
      close link between chronic kidney disease (CKD) and AKI. CKD patients are at greater risk for
      developing AKI, and survivors of AKI treated with renal replacement therapy (AKI-RRT), may
      develop chronic kidney disease (CKD) and end stage kidney disease (ESKD).

      Different aspects of RRT modality may impact on outcomes, and data that have emerged over the
      last decade have improved evidence and also rejected commonly accepted dogma. Initial data
      suggested a better outcome when a higher dose of treatment was applied [5,6]. However, one
      small and two large prospective randomised controlled trials failed to reproduce these
      earlier findings. Observational data seems to suggest that continuous RRT (CRRT) modalities
      are associated with better outcomes. However, relative small, randomized studies and
      meta-analyses do not demonstrate such a benefit. Observational data suggests that CRRT is
      associated with improved renal recovery, and also examining the data from the 2 large
      randomized studies on intensity of RRT suggest that CRRT confers a benefit. Also, despite RRT
      being available for over 50 years there are no clear consensus guidelines for the initiation
      of RRT. A recent survey found that up to 89 different combinations of indications are used.
      Recently, the Acute Kidney Injury Network and the Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes
      (KDIGO) group, formulated recommendations for this. Recent observational studies indicated
      that commonly accepted cut offs such as serum urea concentration are probably not that
      important. Furthermore, timing of initiation may have an effect on outcome. Some studies
      suggest that early initiation is associated with better outcome, on the other hand others
      could not demonstrate a benefit and have even demonstrated inferior outcomes.

      The most recent survey in Europe showed that CRRT is the preferred modality among
      intensivists, and that despite the recently published evidence treatment doses are similar to
      those of a decade ago.

      Data on the use of renal replacement therapy (RRT) for AKI and for CKD in ICU patients are
      either on specific patient groups, such as cardiac surgery patients, based on surveys, or
      dates back for at least a decade. Furthermore, these studies suffered from exclusion bias, as
      patients who fulfilled criteria for initiation of RTT, but who were denied RRT, were not
      considered. That this may be an important consideration is illustrated by findings from a
      recent small single centre study that demonstrated similar mortality rate between RIFLE-F
      patients who were and who were not treated with RRT. Therefore, the Acute Kidney Injury
      Network (AKIN) recommended measuring the epidemiology of AKI.

      The investigators anticipate that the evidence that has been generated on different topics of
      RRT for ICU patients may have influenced current practice. Also, the investigators anticipate
      regional differences in RRT practice.
    
  