
    
      Heart Failure (HF) is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in developed countries and a
      major national and global health problem involving about 2% of the overall population and 10%
      of the elderly.

      A remarkably high proportion (around 50%) of stable optimally treated patients with HF and
      systolic dysfunction experience persistent, moderate-to-severe breathing disorders both
      during nighttime e during short-term laboratory recording.Sleep Disordered Breathing (SDB) is
      associated with transient hypoxia and increased sympathetic activity. Both factors could
      worsen Left Ventricular Ejection Function (LVEF) or increase serious arrhythmia.

      Diagnosing and treating apnea may become a relevant issue in the management of HF patients .
      Prognostic stratification of congestive HF is an important objective in patient management.
      Many prognostic stratification scores have been suggested, however none has gained extensive
      acceptance. Variables used to generate stratification scores must be simple, clinically
      relevant, and readily obtainable. Furthermore, they must correlate to clinical events, such
      as hospitalization, Implant Cardioverter Defibrillator (ICD) intervention and mortality. ICD
      interventions are known to correlate with prognosis, and should thus be included among the
      end-points.

      Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) has been demonstrated to positively affect SA by
      reducing the apnea-hypopnea index (AHI). The recently developed implantable ventilation
      sensor which allows automated detection of advanced breathing disorders may provide not only
      the possibility to closely track the benefit of treatment but also provide further insights
      into the pathophysiological mechanisms linking Central Sleep Apnea (CSA) to HF. Given that
      the automated detection of sleep disordered breathing has been only performed in a limited
      cohort of patients with preserved LVEF requiring pacemaker (PM) implantation for standard
      bradycardia indications, one aspect requiring clarification is the assessment/validation of
      the performance of the automated detection in patients with HF.

      The RDI is used to assess the severity of sleep apnea based on the total number of complete
      cessations (apnea) and partial obstructions (hypopnea) of breathing occurring per hour of
      sleep. These pauses in breathing must last for 10 seconds and are associated with a decrease
      in oxygenation of the blood. In general, the RDI can be used to classify the severity of
      disease (mild 5-15, moderate 15-30, and severe greater than 30). An implanted pacing device
      with a respiratory sensing function may provide clinically useful diagnostics and treatment
      for sleep-related breathing disorders.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the performance of the APNEA Scan algorithm in
      patients implanted with an ICD or CRT-D device endowed with the APNEA Scan algorithm. Primary
      objective of this study is to evaluate the performance of RDI value calculated by APNEA Scan
      algorithm, as a binary discriminator of severe Sleep Apnea (SA) as detected by the
      gold-standard sleep study. Secondary objective of the study is to assess the incidence of
      clinical events after 24 months of enrollment and investigate its association with the RDI
      values calculated by APNEA Scan algorithm.
    
  