
    
      Background

      Acute myocardial infarction owes to a plaque rupture resulting in total (STEMI) or partial
      occlusion (NSTEMI) of the coronary artery. Current guidelines in NSTEMI recommend an invasive
      coronary angiogram (CAG) and possible treatment with percutaneous intervention (PCI) within
      2-72 hours. In NSTEMI patients and multi vessel disease (MVD), identification of the lesion
      responsible for the current event (culprit) at the time of the examination can be difficult.

      Meanwhile, identification of the culprit lesion is vital to conduct proper treatment in order
      to restore blood flow to the myocardium. Furthermore, treating an artery with no plaque
      rupture (non-culprit), imposes a small risk for complications, which may be fatal. In
      addition, since the symptoms relate to the culprit lesion it is currently unclear whether all
      stenosis or only the culprit should be treated by PCI. Today precise identification of the
      culprit lesion in NSTEMI patients with MVD remains unsettled.

      Purpose

      The overall objective of this study is proper and precise identification of the culprit
      lesion in NSTEMI patients with MVD.

      Methods

      The study employs cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR), which allows detection of myocardium
      exposed to even brief periods of ischemia. Furthermore, Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT)
      which visualises the coronary artery lumen and wall. OCT allows for direct visualization of
      atherosclerotic plaques, presence of thrombus and atherosclerotic plaque ruptured that cannot
      be seen on a CAG alone.

      Patients will have CMR performed prior to CAG. The PCI operator determines culprit based on
      CAG and ECG changes alone. OCT is subsequently performed on culprit lesion(s) and stenosis ≥
      50%.

      Sample size calculation

      Assuming the culprit lesion can be correctly identified with history/angiography/ECG in 95%
      of cases a positive predictive value >90% with 95% accuracy can be reached with 100 patients.
    
  