
    
      Interventions to optimize parent-provider interactions are urgently needed to ensure
      adolescents aged 12 to 17 years with Disruptive, Impulse-Control, and Conduct disorders (DIC)
      receive the behavioral health care they need. For these adolescents, behavioral health care
      is complex, long-term, and requires parental participation. Research shows providers have
      biases and limited skills and confidence to communicate with these parents to encourage them
      to voice their concerns and care preferences. Low income and minority parents are at greatest
      risk of not being involved in their adolescents' behavioral health care, having poor
      interactions with providers, and are more likely to perceive poor quality of their
      adolescents' behavioral health care, and low treatment engagement. If unaddressed, poor
      parent-provider interactions interfere with adolescents' retention in behavioral health care.
      No evidence-based interventions have targeted both parents and providers to optimize their
      interactions and improve behavioral health care for adolescents with DIC. To address these
      problems, the investigators propose modifying the evidence-based DECIDE intervention to
      target parents and providers of adolescents with DIC. DECIDE stands for Decide the problem;
      Explore the questions; Closed or open-ended questions; Identify the who, why, or how of the
      problem; Direct questions to your health care professional; Enjoy a shared solution. DECIDE
      was developed for ethnically/racially diverse adult patients with serious mental illness and
      the latest evidence-based iterations include intervention components targeted to and shown to
      increase patient activation, provider communication, and patient-provider interactions.
      DECIDE has two primary components: 1) three patient training sessions designed to help
      patients effectively ask questions and participate in decisions about their care: and 2) a
      12-hour workshop and up to 4 individual coaching sessions for providers to improve
      perspective-taking, reduce attributional errors, and increase receptivity to parent
      participation and collaboration. The purposes of this two-phase study are: Phase I, Aim 1.
      Modify the DECIDE intervention for parents and providers of adolescents with DIC. Phase II,
      Aim 2. Evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of modified DECIDE. Aim 3. Estimate
      preliminary effects of modified DECIDE to improve parent, provider, and adolescent outcomes.
      Innovative features of this study are the proposed focus on both parents and providers; and
      inclusion of parent activation and provider communication, which are new in field of child
      and adolescent behavioral health care, and focus on low income and minority parents. The
      investigators expect to find that compared to usual care: Hypothesis 3.1. Modified DECIDE
      parents will show greater improvements in: 1) activation; 2) parent-provider interactions; 3)
      perceived management of adolescents' behavioral health care, 4) perceived quality of
      adolescents' behavioral health care, and 5) engagement in adolescents' behavioral health
      care. Hypothesis 3.2. Modified DECIDE providers will show greater improvements in: 1)
      communication skills; and 2) parent-provider interactions. Hypothesis 3.3. Adolescents of
      modified DECIDE parents and providers will show higher rates of retention in behavioral
      health care. Sample will include 16 providers and their parents ( ~ 5 parents per provider, n
      = 80) recruited from the Child and Adolescents Program of a large safety net health system
      setting that serves predominately low income and minority persons. Feasibility will be
      assessed using tracking logs and field notes, and acceptability through parent and provider
      satisfaction scores and in depth, semi structured interviews. Outcomes will be assessed at
      baseline and within 4 weeks post- intervention using standardized questionnaires or surveys
      from parents, providers, and independent observers reports. Effects sizes will be estimated
      using linear mixed models. If study findings are positive, we will be poised to test the
      modified DECIDE intervention in a fully powered R01 level randomized, controlled, multi-site
      clinical trial.
    
  