
    
      1. Autologous bone marrow stem cells (ABMSC) mobilization and harvest For harvesting more
           ABMSC, ABMSC mobilization is induced by recombinant human granulocyte colony stimulating
           factor (rhGCSF,Gran○R), administered subcutaneously at a dose of 300μg daily for three
           consecutive days before bone marrow puncture.

           Bone marrow (160-200ml) of the patients is harvested from both posterior superior iliacs
           according to standard procedures under local anaesthesia and is collected in a plastic
           bag containing heparin.

        2. Both treatment group and control group receive drugs therapy.

        3. ABMSC separation and infusion ABMSC is separated and purified in a class 10,000 clean
           laboratory. After fat and bony particles are removed by filtration, collected cells are
           moved to a cell-processing device. The reagents adopt the method of negative cells
           collection. Take the cells which intended to remove as target cells, and carry out the
           removal step-by-step. On the basis of this method, red blood cells, blood platelets,
           blood plasma will be completely removed with part of white cells and lymphocytes being
           remarkably removed as well while all the stem cells / progenitor cells are being well
           retained.

           The nucleated cell (white blood cell) count of final ABMSC is measured by an automated
           complete blood count instrument and flow cytometry analysis. The number of mononuclear
           cells is counted manually under a microscope by Wright-Giemsa stain method. Cell
           differentiation factor 34(CD34) positive cells were determined by flow cytometry
           analysis.

           The time of ABMSC separation and purification is 2.5-3 hours. ABMSC is added to 10 ml
           saline and well mixed by shaking the vial gently. The catheter is pushed to reach the
           proper hepatic artery. The diameter of the catheter is 1.4mm, it is thin enough to
           easily been inserted to right gastric artery . The mixture of saline and ABMSC is
           infused into proper hepatic artery at uniform speed for about two minutes. The catheter
           is removed after the ABMSCi.

        4. Statistical analysis - Categorical data are presented as absolute values and
           percentages, whereas continuous data are summarized as mean and Standard Deviation.
           Statistical analysis was performed using t-test for paired or unpaired samples. Time
           courses of measurements of liver function parameters were analyzed by repeated-measures
           ANOVA. The analysis is performed using the Statistic Package for Social Science (SPSS).
           All statistical analysis is based on two-tailed hypothesis tests with a significance
           level of p< 0.05.
    
  