
    
      Purposes Study part 1: Quantify the occurrence of risk factors of atherosclerosis among
      patients with very premature CAD in the Central Denmark Region and investigate to what degree
      patients are treated according to national guidelines.

      Study part 2: Investigate the occurrence of CAD among middle-aged 1st degree relatives of
      established patients having very premature CAD.

      Study part 3: Evaluate possible genetic "risk factors" in families with a high CAD prevalence
      using exome sequencing analysis.

      Hypotheses Hypothesis 1: Patients with very premature CAD have modifiable risk factors, which
      are inadequately treated relative to current national guidelines.

      Hypothesis 2: The occurrence of very premature CAD is associated with familial accumulation
      of the disease.

      Hypothesis 3: The use of exome sequencing in selected families with phenotypic severe
      premature CAD will identify disease-causing genetic variants.

      Method Study part 1. Patients suffering from premature CAD who have had a percutaneous
      coronary intervention (PCI) or coronary artery bypass graft operation (CABG) done before the
      age of 40 years will be selected from the West Denmark Heart Registry (VDHD). Specifically,
      patients treated at Aarhus University Hospital (AUH) in Skejby for myocardial infarction
      (MI), stable or unstable angina pectoris in the period of January 1st 2007 - December 31st
      2013 will be recruited and the occurrence of registered risk factors be evaluated (sample
      indicates app. 170 patients per year). After informed consent is obtained, they will
      participate in this research study. Participants will be interviewed in the cardiac
      outpatient clinic at the Dep. of Cardiology, AUH, Skejby. The following information about
      cardiovascular risk factors will be collected; family history of atherosclerosis (a pedigree
      analysis will be performed and cases of diagnosed CVD will be identified), prior medical
      history (i.e. hypertension, dyslipidemia, diabetes, chronic kidney disease, vascular
      disease), smoking status and number of pack years, alcohol consumption and vascular symptoms
      (i.e. angina pectoris, intermittent claudication). Gathered information will be compared to
      the registered information in patient records and VDHD. In addition, information about
      localization of the invasive treatment, the degree of CAD, and the latest estimate of the
      left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) will be collated. All patients will be examined
      regarding height and weight, abdominal girth and a blood sample is collected. An automated
      office blood pressure measurement (Bp-TRU device) will be performed. Levels of creatinine
      (e-GFR), total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, triglycerides and HbA1c will be
      measured. Further, a blood sample will be saved for prospective DNA analysis (below). The
      investigators will evaluate to what degree the treatment targets have been met in accordance
      with national guidelines. Analysis will be corrected to reflect changes in these treatment
      guidelines, which have occurred in recent years.

      Study part 2. Patients from study 1 (index patients) are requested to establish contact to
      1st degree relatives between 30 and 65 years of age for the purpose of participating in Study
      part 2. The form of contact follows regular department guidelines for contact to family
      members. 1st degree relatives who give their informed consent will be included in study part
      2 (participants). Patient records from participants who are diagnosed with atherosclerosis
      will be obtained. Exclusion criteria will be former diagnosis of CAD by CTCA or percutaneous
      transluminal coronary angiography, chronic atrial fibrillation, renal failure (e-GFR <
      30ml/min), obesity (BMI > 30 is indicative but body geometry plays a role), former allergic
      contrast reaction and pregnancy. A traditional risk profile and blood samples will be
      collected as in study part 1. Prior to the CTCA, LVEF is estimated by echocardiography. A
      CTCA is performed according to the standard protocol in the department. Initially the CT-scan
      is performed without contrast in order to estimate the coronary calcification by Agatstons
      method. Afterwards a scan is performed with 70 ml of iodine-containing contrast. ECG
      modulation and radiation-reduced protocols will be used so that an average participant (70
      kg) may expect to receive a radiation dose below 3 mSv. The analysis of the contrast study
      will focus on automated- and semi-automated plaque quantification. Non-cardiac findings will
      be described according to department standard procedures by the Dep. of Radiology, AUH,
      Skejby, and medical intervention performed as clinically indicated.

      Study part 3. Families from study part 1 and 2, who are considered severely affected by
      atherosclerosis, evaluated on a basis of family size, number of affected and severity of
      disease, will be selected. Family members (index patients, 1st degree relatives and if
      relevant also their 1st degree relatives) who consent,will be included in study part 3.
      Contact with relatives who have not yet participated in the project will be attempted as in
      study part 2. A traditional risk profile and a blood sample for DNA analysis (exome
      sequencing) will be requested if it has not already been obtained. The analysis takes place
      at Department of Molecular Medicine (MOMA), AUH, Skejby, who have the required equipment,
      software and laboratory expertise in performing the tests as well as the bioinformatic
      analysis. First, genomic DNA is purified and fragmented to a size of 200-500 base pairs.
      Illumina TruSeq libraries (to be used with the exome sequencing) will be produced at a
      Caliper Sciclone-robot where the exome enrichment with Nimblegens EZ in solution Exome v3 kit
      will also take place. The dataanalysis will be taking place at MOMA under the guidance of the
      MOMA staff. First sequences will be trimmed and aligned to the humane genome. Second,
      alignments will be fine-tuned before variants will be called, including single nucleotide
      variants and insertions/deletions of various size. The interpretation of the data will be
      taking place in the software program Cartagenia, which gives access to an abundance of public
      and commercial databases and also offers the opportunity of integrating private databases.
      Variants will be filtered on a basis of frequency, gene position, existing knowledge and
      different in-silico prediction tools. Possible significant findings will be validated by
      Sanger sequencing.

      Statistical analysis At the found genotypes from study part 3, coupling analysis is performed
      to identify regions in the genome shared by disease-affected individuals. The use of pedigree
      analysis and coupling analysis substantially reduce the candidate intervals in the genome,
      thereby increasing the statistical power to identify disease-causing variants even in small
      families. Because the precise genetic architecture and family structure of the included
      families is not known, exact calculation of statistical power will not be possible. In case
      of a dominant monogenetic disease, a filtration only based on localization (coupling) reduces
      the potential variants by app. 80% within a pair of affected siblings and by more than 95%
      for monogenetic recessive diseases, if affected individuals from inbred families.

      Research Biobank A research biobank will be established under The Institute of Clinical
      Medicine, Health, Aarhus University. A sample of 2x4 ml (BD Vacutainer K3E 7,2mg Ref. 368860)
      and 1x4ml (BD Vacutainer SST II Advance, Ref. 367957) blood from all participants in studies
      1-3 will be submitted to the biobank for further analysis. The sampling is performed at AUH,
      Skejby or a glass and a return envelope will sent to the patient for the drawing of blood by
      their family physician. The sample is cryo-preserved and exome sequencing is performed on the
      participants of study part 3. The biobank will be carried on after the project has ended for
      the purpose of future research. In case of future analysis on the preserved material The
      Research Ethics Committee and the participant (if still alive) will be noticed before hand.
      Permission to store the biological material will be applied continuously according to
      specified intervals by The Danish Data Protection Agency. All participants may demand their
      biological material destroyed at any time.
    
  