
    
      Background/Purpose. A key contributor to hospital-associated disability is immobility during
      hospitalization. While fewer than 5% of patients have physician orders for bed rest,
      hospitalized older adults spend only 3% of their time standing or walking. The hazards of
      immobility in the hospital have been recognized for more than two decades, but there are
      currently no VA-system wide approaches to address this important gap in clinical care.

      STRIDE is a supervised inpatient walking program developed by an interdisciplinary team of
      investigators, clinicians and administrators at the Durham VA and funded by the VHA Office of
      GEC. STRIDE consists of a one-time gait and balance assessment conducted by a physical
      therapist, followed by daily supervised walks by a recreation therapy assistant for the
      duration of the hospital stay. Program evaluation has demonstrated high satisfaction among
      Veteran participants and reduced need for post-acute institutional care. As a result, the
      Durham VAMC funded STRIDE as a permanent program that currently serves over 650 Veterans
      annually, and the VHA Office of GEC funded a dissemination grant to launch the program at
      another medical center. The investigators' initial experience with STRIDE implementation
      suggests interprofessional relationships and team dynamics are key determinants to the
      success of a new hospital-based clinical program that requires collaborative processes
      involving multiple disciplines.

      As part of the investigators' Optimizing Function and Independence QUERI, the investigators
      plan to implement the STRIDE clinical program at 8 VAMC sites in a stepped-wedge design with
      sites randomized to implementation strategy and start date.

      Objectives. The investigators plan to conduct an evaluation to examine the impact of STRIDE
      on patient outcomes.

      Key questions: Do STRIDE participants have fewer discharges to skilled nursing facilities and
      shorter lengths of stay? Do STRIDE participants have better physical function and higher
      health-related quality of life at 30 days post-discharge? What is the value of STRIDE from
      the Veteran's perspective? The investigators also plan to conduct a mixed method evaluation
      that examines implementation outcomes and provider team experience that will not be reported
      here.

      Methodology. The investigators will compare patients discharged from sites before and after
      the STRIDE program is implemented to assess discharge to skilled nursing facilities and
      length of stay (approx. n=2000). A subset of patients participating in the STRIDE program and
      a comparison group will be surveyed 30 days post-hospital discharge to assess outcomes
      including health status, physical function, and quality of life. A subset of patients will be
      interviewed one week post-discharge to gain feedback about the STRIDE program and perceived
      benefits of a hospital inpatient mobility program.
    
  