
    
      Major Depressive Disorder affects approximately 15% of the adult population over a lifetime.
      Controlled studies indicate that short-term antidepressive medications or psychotherapy
      produce full remission in only about 46% of patients. Furthermore, about 80% of patients will
      continue to have subsequent recurrences after remission of the first episode, with each
      episode increasing the probability of future recurrences. The World Health Organization
      estimates that by the year 2020 depression will be the second largest cause of medical
      disability worldwide. As a result, there is a need to validate treatments that produce
      remission and prevent recurrences upon long-term follow-up. Furthermore, since several
      treatment types are currently widely practiced, there is a need to demonstrate both their
      efficacies and cost effectiveness.

      We propose to conduct a pilot study to determine the feasibility and provide estimates for a
      randomized controlled study of combined antidepressive medications plus one of three forms of
      psychotherapy in common use for adults with an acute episode of recurrent major depression.
      Two treatments of interest, Cognitive-behavioural (CBT) and psychodynamic (DYN) psychotherpy,
      will be compared to Supportive Clinical Management (SUP-CM), which will serve as the control.
      Overall, the study will compare each active psychotherapy to the control treatment for
      retention-attrition, and efficacy in producing remission, preventing recurrence after up to
      18-months of treatment, and improving functioning. Secondary aims will explore whether
      putative psychological risk factors for depression improve more in the active psychotherapies
      than in the control condition, and determine whether this improvement predicts or mediates
      staying well. Finally, we will develop preliminary estimates of the cost-effectiveness and
      cost-offset of the three treatment conditions at termination and 3 year post-treatment
      follow-up. If either or both active treatments give estimates of superior prevention of
      recurrences or residual symptoms and impairment, these estimates will be used to plan a
      subsequent more definitive study, including their relative cost-effectiveness and
      cost-offset.

      Adults (N=30, 10 per condition) meeting DSM-IV-TR criteria for an acute episode of major
      depressive disorder with at least one prior episode will be randomized to 18-months of either
      (1) Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) or (2) Psychodynamic psychotherapy (DYN), to a
      standard control treatment (3) Supportive Clinical Management. All patients will receive
      antidepressive medications (ADM), which will be prescribed according to a pre-defined
      protocol similar to the CANMAT guidelines. Once remission has been achieved, continuation of
      ADM will follow the same guidelines in all three therapy conditions. Assessments will include
      the LIFE-method to code the course of depressive episodes and dysthymia, the HRSD-17 and
      BDI-2, role functioning and impulse symptom measures, and theoretically based measures of
      both cognitive, affective and dynamic psychological risk factors, and health care costs and
      economic productivity. Patients will be assessed at intake and six month intervals for the
      treatment period and three year subsequent follow-up, totaling up to 54 months for each
      patient. The HRSD-17 and economic data will be collected more frequently. Intent-to-treat
      analyses will compare each active treatment to the control treatment. If 18-months of either
      of these two most commonly used psychotherapies provides estimates of reduced recurrence and
      morbidity compared to standard treatment, these estimates will be used to design and power a
      subsequent complete study including cost-effectiveness and cost-offset.
    
  