
    
      The (CMF) may be structural abnormalities with significant effect on function (e.g) cleft
      palate .

      Or minimal effect on clinical function but may have cosmotic impact (e.g) pre-auricular pit .

      In developed countries, outcome of neonatal congenital anomalies is favourable because of
      availability of antenatal diagnosis, improved surgical skills and technologies, sophisticated
      neonatal intensive care unit, availability of total parenteral nutrition and adequate staff.

      In developing countries, however, neonatal surgery is still fraught with a lot of problems
      including late presentation and lack of medical facilities and human resources, thereby,
      making newborn surgery to be associated with unacceptably high morbidity and mortality.

      Due to the burden of other neonatal and childhood diseases in developing countries, neonatal
      surgery is often considered low priority in healthcare budget planning and allocation.

        -  Effective live , saving medical treatment is available for survival birth defects with
           functional disorders .

        -  Neonatal with birth defect may be further referred to appropriate level of medical ,
           surgical facilities .

      Risk factors:

        -  Unknown cause

        -  Preconception causes are genetic and partially genetic, originating mostly before
           conception. Birth defects are due to abnormalities of the genetic material-chromosomes
           and genes including chromosomal abnormalities, single gene defects and multifactorial
           disorders (which are caused by the interaction of genes and the environment).

        -  Post-conception causes develop after conception, but before birth. Birth defect is
           caused by an intra-uterine environmental factor. This includes teratogens that interfere
           with normal growth and development of the embryo or foetus, mechanical forces that
           deform the foetus, and vascular accidents that disrupt the normal growth of organs.

        -  Socioeconomic and demographic factors:

      Congenital anomalies are more frequently seen among low income families and countries.

        -  Maternal age: advanced maternal age increases the risk of chromosomal abnormalities,
           such as Down syndrome.

        -  Infections:

      Some Maternal infections during pregnancy can increase the risk of birth defects such as:

      Rubella infection (German measles-a viral infection) to pregnant mother can result in to
      miscarriage, deafness, intellectual disability, heart defects and blindness in newborn.

      Toxoplasmosis (disease caused by parasite found in soil) infection during pregnancy can cause
      birth defects such as hearing loss, vision problems and intellectual disability.

      Sexually transmitted infections (STIs): such as syphilis, cytomegalovirus can cause serious
      birth defects.

      Zika virus infection: during pregnancy can cause certain birth defects (microcephaly and
      other abnormalities).

      • Environmental factors: Maternal exposure to certain medications, psychoactive drugs,
      tobacco, radiation and pesticides during pregnancy may increase the risk of congenital
      anomalies in foetus or neonate.

      Working or living near, or in, waste sites, smelters or mines may also be a risk factor.

      Certain drugs when taken during pregnancy may cause birth defects; these drugs are called
      teratogenic drugs (Category 'X' drugs). Categories 'X' drugs are contraindicated during
      pregnancy. (Drugs are categorized into 5 categories according to the development of adverse
      effects on the foetus, category A, B, C, D and X.)
    
  