
    
      Many biomarkers have been evaluated in sepsis, especially for prognostic purposes, but none
      has yet been shown to have sufficient sensitivity or specificity for routine use in clinical
      practice. However, highlighting a biomarker facilitating the evaluation of the severity of
      sepsis remains relevant in a pathology where survival is largely conditioned by the
      initiation of an early and adapted treatment. Recent evidence suggests that hepcidin, which
      is the key hormone for systemic regulation of iron metabolism, may be an interesting
      prognostic biomarker. The synthesis of this peptide is regulated by the iron stocks of the
      body, erythropoiesis, but also inflammation. The mechanisms inducing the expression of
      hepcidin during inflammation are multiple: interleukin-6 (IL-6) in particular,
      pro-inflammatory cytokine is a strong inducer of hepcidin. In addition, its expression is
      increased by the effect of lipopolysaccharide via Toll-like receptors . In septic patients,
      elevated levels of hepcidin or pro-hepcidin have been reported . A new role for hepcidin in
      the control of inflammatory and / or immune response has recently been reported. Thus, in a
      model of murine septic shock, the deleterious character of a lack of expression of hepcidin
      could be demonstrated . In humans, hepcidinemia has been shown to be a predictive factor in
      the development of immunotolerance in hepatic transplant patients. Hepcidin therefore plays a
      major role in the regulation of the inflammatory and / or immune response and in particular
      during sepsis. The investigators therefore hypothesize that hepcidin could be the marker of
      an adverse prognosis in septic patients expressing this.

      Primary endpoint is to evaluate the prognostic value of plasma hepcidin assayed on admission
      to intensive care on mortality at D28 in severe sepsis.

      Sensitivity of plasma hepcidin assayed at admission to intensive care on mortality at D28 in
      patients with severe sepsis.

      In a first step, a search for the hepcidin threshold value with the best sensitivity and
      specificity to predict death on D28 will be performed using a receiver operating
      characteristics (ROC) curve. This threshold value will be used to evaluate the primary
      endpoint and also determine specificity and positive and negative predictive values.
    
  