
    
      Levothyroxine (T4) is used to treat patients with hypothyroidism and may often result in
      lifelong therapy. Its physiologically active metabolite is tri-iodothyronine (T3).
      Levothyroxine is also endogenously produced in the body. Since small changes in levothyroxine
      administration (e.g. change in brand or formulation) can cause significant changes in serum
      thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) concentrations, precise and accurate TSH control is
      critical to avoid potential adverse iatrogenic effects. Till date, the active pharmaceutical
      ingredient (API) for levothyroxine tablets marketed in India has been sourced from company 1.
      GSK India proposes to change the source of the API from the existing source (company 1) to to
      new source (company 2). In view of this change in the source of API, it is essential to
      determine whether it has any impact on drug product performance based on pharmacokinetic (PK)
      measures of total serum T4 and total serum T3 of the to-be-marketed formulation of
      levothyroxine (test formulation from company 2, Treatment A) relative to the formulation
      currently in the market (reference formulation from company 1, Treatment B).

      This will be a single-center, open-label, two-period, two-treatment, two-sequence,
      randomized, single-dose, crossover study. 26 healthy adult males will be randomized to
      receive a single dose (6 x 100mcg tablets = 600mcg) of the test formulation of levothyroxine
      and reference formulation of levothyroxine separately in each treatment period. There will be
      two treatment sequences (AB, BA) and a 35 day washout between the two treatment periods.

      The study will be conducted at BA/BE facility after approval from an independent ethics
      committee. Subjects will have a screening visit within 21 days prior to the first dose of
      study drug, two treatment periods with each containing a single dose of study drug, followed
      by 48 hours of serial PK sample collection. Subjects will check out of the unit on Day 3 (at
      7am) after collection of the 48 hour PK sample. The subject will be instructed to return for
      the next treatment period or for the final follow-up visit, as appropriate. The final
      follow-up visit will occur 35 days after the last dose of study drug. Subjects will be
      assigned to each of the two treatments randomly as per the randomization schedule.
    
  