
    
      AD diagnosis is projected to increase from approximately 5 million to 13.8 million Americans
      by 2050. The Alzheimer's Association estimates that healthcare costs for AD by 2050 could be
      1.2 trillion dollars per year for Americans aged 65 years or older. There is marked focus on
      treating AD during the MCI phase, which precedes AD.

      In the brain, insulin normally facilitates microvascular blood flow, glucose uptake, and
      glucose oxidation for adenosine triphosphate (ATP) generation. Insulin resistance (IR) is
      defined as a reduced cellular responsiveness to insulin, characterized by higher insulin
      levels needed to maintain glucose regulation in the periphery and certain brain areas. IR is
      found in MCI and AD patient brains. AD-related neuropathology, such as amyloid
      beta-containing plaques, progressive atrophy, and glucose hypometabolism first occur in brain
      areas that also have a high density of insulin receptors. Such areas include medial temporal
      lobe (MTL) and prefrontal cortex (PFC). Furthermore, as illustrated in the literature and
      previous work of the investigators, peripheral IR is associated with AD-like changes in MTL
      and PFC, including: 1) brain atrophy; 2) less glucose uptake; 3) accumulation of
      amyloid-beta, a hallmark of AD; and 4) increased phosphorylation of tau fibrils, another
      hallmark of AD. Finally, higher IR is related to deficits in memory performance and executive
      function.

      These cognitive deficits can be ameliorated with 40 IU of intranasal insulin, which increases
      insulin processing in the brain with minimal peripheral effects, where MCI and AD patients
      show stable visuospatial working memory, as well as declarative learning and memory. One
      limitation of intranasal insulin is that it does not change obesity, which causes IR, and may
      therefore be only temporarily effective. As such, the investigators are interested in dietary
      regimens that can lower IR and may have long-term beneficial effects on AD neuropathology and
      cognitive output. Critically, intermittent calorie restriction (CR) diets reliably decrease
      body weight and IR in human adults. Intermittent CR protects neurons against dysfunction and
      degeneration in AD models. The underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms involve improved
      cellular bioenergetics and up-regulation of protein chaperones and antioxidant pathways in
      neurons. For example, 5-2 CR, a diet consisting of 5 days ad libitum followed by 2
      consecutive days consuming 500-600 kcal, decreases IR beyond what is achieved with daily CR,
      and has a compliance rate of 83% versus 55% even by 6 months. It is also important to mention
      that no serious Adverse Events have occurred during past 5-2 CR studies.
    
  