
    
      Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic liver disease
      in the United States and a common cause of unexplained mildly elevated serum aminotransferase
      levels. NAFLD, initially felt to be benign, is now known to potentially progress to cirrhosis
      and its complications, including the development of liver cancer. NAFLD is strongly
      correlated with Type 2 Diabetes, insulin resistance, and the metabolic syndrome (1-6). It is
      hypothesized that the pathogenesis of hepatic injury in NAFLD is due to insulin resistance
      and the oxidative stress associated with obesity and metabolic syndrome (7). No adequate
      medical treatment has been shown to be effective for the treatment of NAFLD. Several studies
      (8-22) have evaluated the effect of metformin in patients with NAFLD in relation to insulin
      resistance, Homeostatic Model Assessment Insulin Resistance Index (HOMA-IR) values,
      aminotransferase levels, liver morphology, and histological improvement with treatment. These
      studies however have shown discrepant results with relation to aminotransferase levels and
      only a few studies have been able to evaluate histological improvement with follow-up
      biopsies. There have been no studies focusing specifically on the pre-diabetic population.
      These patients who are at an increased risk of progressing to diabetes may exhibit a
      different response to treatment with metformin than non-diabetic or diabetic patients. All
      the studies support the fact that metformin has a beneficial effect on improving insulin
      resistance and decreasing the incidence of metabolic syndrome, but there is no consensus thus
      far on its influence on NAFLD. The majority of published studies were limited by small sample
      size. Randomized controlled trials with adequate sample size and of longer duration are
      needed as well as studies assessing endpoints such as liver morphology and histology. The
      results of this pilot study are significant in that metformin may be a relatively safe and
      inexpensive way, in addition to lifestyle modifications, to treat NAFLD. The results of this
      pilot study will pave the way for the larger power, longer duration study required to answer
      this question.
    
  