
    
      This is a multi-center, randomized, outcome assessor- blinded clinical trial of infants
      discharged home from the ED with acute bronchiolitis. Two groups will be compared: infants
      receiving bronchiolitis suctioning via a bulb (see below) versus those given nasal suctioning
      via a battery-operated nasal aspiration Zo-Li device just prior to each feeding for 72 hours
      post index ED visit discharge. Evidence suggests that suctioning at frequent intervals is
      associated with movement of secretions from the lower airway with improved minute volume.40
      The 72 hour study period has been chosen since the majority of infants discharged from the ED
      with bronchiolitis experience the targeted outcomes within this time frame.9

      Prior to the ED discharge, all study participants will receive usual bronchiolitis care
      ordered by the ED physician as per standard of care which consists of supplemental oxygen for
      saturations <90% and supplemental IV hydration in those with inadequate oral intake.41
      Eligible consenting patients deemed suitable for discharge home (representing approximately
      60-70% of the bronchiolitis population presenting to the ED) will be randomly allocated to
      one of two study groups:

      Control Group: this group will receive standardized routine discharge instructions describing
      information about bronchiolitis, expected course of illness, recommended management
      strategies such as fever control, augmented air humidification, need for frequent feeding and
      warning signs prompting return for care. This group will be suctioned prior to feeds via bulb
      suction (with saline drops) which is expected to provide minimal effect, due to non-sustained
      negative pressures generated during bulb release. Since the benefit of nasal suction in
      bronchiolitis is unknown, this design is ethically reasonable. However, the use of no suction
      would likely meet with parental resistance and enrollment would be difficult. Families in the
      control group will be given the bulb device at no cost and instructed in the appropriate
      technique of using this tool prior to feeds.

      Intervention Group: in addition to receiving the aforementioned bronchiolitis discharge
      instructions, this group will undergo nasal suctioning prior to each feeding as needed for 72
      hours post discharge home, using exclusively the Zo-Li study device (see above under study
      device), with saline nose drops. Families in this group will be given the Zo-Li device at no
      cost and instructed in the appropriate technique and importance of using this tool.

      We shall not reveal the identity of the study devices to the ED physicians in order to
      minimize contamination of the control group. The ED treating physicians will also be blinded
      to which device the infant had been randomized to. We shall also ask the ED treating
      physicians not to recommend specific suctioning devices to the study patients.
    
  