
    
      The brachial plexus is a group of 5 nerves from the spinal cord that provide the movement and
      sensation of an upper extremity. In some difficult deliveries, traction on the shoulder may
      lead to damage to the brachial plexus and will result in an arm that is paralyzed. This is
      called 'birth related brachial plexus injury' (BRBPI). This may occur in up to 1/1000 births
      and the nerves may be injured minimally to severely. About 2/3 of children with this injury
      will recover to quite functional levels simply by maintaining looseness of joints while their
      nerves slowly heal. Some children have nerve injuries severe enough that they require
      surgical reconstruction with nerve grafts and nerve transfers to achieve even adequate
      function. One almost universally common outcome, even in children with otherwise "good"
      recovery, is that the motions of external rotation of the shoulder and supination of the
      forearm are weaker, later to recover, and often incomplete. Even beyond these direct
      functional weaknesses, because the arm is positioned poorly, joint contractures and imbalance
      of these motions can interfere with other upper extremity movements like elbow flexion, even
      when elbow flexion itself is well recovered. More importantly, lack of full motion leads to
      long term changes in the structure, growth, and posture of the shoulder requiring further
      musculoskeletal surgery, or a child with permanent deformity or disability. Surgery cannot
      completely correct this deformity. Any gains in active and passive range of motion during the
      first year of life may improve these long-term shoulder outcomes. The investigators have
      instituted a program of early passive repositioning mostly using a custom Sup-ER (Supination
      and External Rotation) splint during early growth and development to improve arm position and
      range of motion where ER and Sup are weak. In compliant patients in a pilot study, the speed
      and strength of recovery of ER and Supination are improved compared to historical controls.
      It is a novel splint and protocol designed by the investigators and has significantly changed
      the care received by patients in BC. This study will evaluate the use of Sup-ER splint in
      multiple centres over a five year period by assessing the arm function at common time points
      in recovery.
    
  