
    
      Abacavir (ABC) is a nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) and continues to have
      good efficacy even in patients who have some resistant mutations to NRTIs. ABC is approved
      for use in children 3 months old and up. It is a preferred NRTI option for second line
      treatment in children in the World Health Organization guidelines (WHO). In the US and
      European guidelines, ABC is also recommended for first line treatment. Published studies
      support the efficacy and safety of twice and once daily ABC. In HIV-infected children < 12
      years, ABC is licensed twice-daily only. However, ABC is licensed either twice-daily or
      once-daily for HIV-infected adults and children >12 years. In addition, ABC can be
      administered as the fixed dose combination once-daily with lamivudine (3TC), Kivexa, for
      HIV-infected adults and children >12 years.

      Lamivudine (3TC) is a commonly used NRTI that is well tolerated and approved for young
      infants and children as a component in the first and second-line regimens in guidelines. Both
      once-daily and twice-daily 3TC are standard practice in many treatment guidelines although
      once-daily is US FDA-approved for age > 12 years only. The Thai Ministry of Health pediatric
      HIV treatment guideline recommend either once- or twice-daily as treatment options for
      children. The WHO currently recommends the twice-daily 3TC dosing only and encourages more
      pharmacokinetic studies of once-daily 3TC in children.

      PK of ABC and 3TC in African and European children showed similar PK parameters for both
      twice daily and once daily dosing. There are no data on PK of ABC in Asian children and few
      studies on PK of 3TC in Thai children. Vanprapar et al. reported data in 42 Thai children
      weighing 6-30 kg participated in a cross-over PK study in which they received twice-daily
      dosing of generic fixed dose combination tablets of stavudine, 3TC, nevirapine or the liquid
      formulations of these drugs. The 3TC exposure was significantly higher with the tablet
      formulation but comparable to historical data in western adults and children taking branded
      tablets. Chokephaibulkit et al. reported higher 3TC exposure in 41 Thai HIV-infected children
      with 3TC tablets than 3TC solution.

      There is strong evidence indicating that Asian patients, particularly Thais, have higher
      plasma concentrations for several ARVs compared to Westerners. Genetic differences between
      ethnicities may be the primary cause for altered drug metabolism, and as a result, different
      PK parameters. Higher drug concentrations in Thai adults have been shown for zidovudine,
      nevirapine, efavirenz, indinavir, lopinavir, atazanavir and saquinavir. Such high ARV
      concentrations were also shown in Thai children for nevirapine, indinavir, lopinavir and
      saquinavir. There are no data in Thai children for ABC. Only two studies evaluated 3TC
      concentration in Thai children using twice-daily dosing. It is conceivable that Thai children
      may have different PK profile of ABC and 3TC particularly once-daily dosing and than those
      reported in African and European children. In addition, using ABC and 3TC will provide an
      opportunity for Thai children to benefit from its once-daily dosing and good long-term safety
      particularly the favorable lipodystrophy and lipid profile.
    
  