
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) has been described as a new emerging epidemic currently affecting
      around 1% of the population. Risk of AF increases with age and as the elderly continue to
      comprise a larger percentage of the population in the United States, the health burden of AF
      continues to increase. Some estimates project nearly 16 million cases of AF in the US alone
      by 2050. The economic burden of AF has been estimated to be between $6-26 billion. AF is a
      significant risk factor for stroke if left untreated as well as mortality. The diagnosis and
      treatment of AF have therefore become an important aspect of cardiovascular medicine.

      Current pharmacological treatments for AF have modest efficacy and suffer from potentially
      life-threatening side effects. Current ablative and surgical approaches to AF, though
      somewhat more successful, use an anatomic, 'one-size fits all' strategy (with some minor
      variations) that does not address the specific mechanisms underlying this complex arrhythmia.
      The pulmonary veins have been shown to be a common location of AF triggers. Thus, the most
      common approach for catheter ablation involves the isolation of the pulmonary veins, such as
      the wide area circumferential pulmonary vein ablation strategy. The lack of consideration of
      specific sources may be, at least in part, responsible for post- ablation arrhythmias
      occurring in up to 40% of patients who undergo pulmonary vein ablation. However, while
      ablation/surgical success has been shown to increase with more extensive ablation/surgery in
      the atria, the latter comes at the cost of significant "collateral damage" to the atrial
      myocardium as well as to surrounding structures, with an accompanying increase in the risk of
      complications and a decrease in atrial function. The time and cost to perform these
      procedures is also significant. Thus, catheter and surgical ablation strategies tailored to
      the specific arrhythmia origin of a patient's AF would have a significant impact on the
      ability to treat this arrhythmia.

      The investigator's laboratory has developed a novel electrogram morphology recurrence
      analysis to observe the nonlinear dynamics of AF activation. This technique to map AF
      activation is based on the hypothesis that AF electrograms with morphologies that are highly
      recurrent and that have short cycle lengths represent the locations of stable AF sources. The
      investigator's preliminary data show that when the highest recurrence percentage or shortest
      recurrence cycle length occurs in the left atrium in patients undergoing pulmonary vein-based
      ablation, the patients has a much higher chance to stay in sinus rhythm post-ablation than
      when the highest recurrence percentage or shortest recurrence cycle length occur in the right
      atrium. Cycle length of all activations was not a predictor of outcomes. High resolution
      electrical mapping of AF in the canine atria showed that the shortest recurrence cycle length
      sites correspond to areas containing rotors. Thus, these preliminary data provide strong
      evidence that morphology recurrence mapping is able to identify the locations of AF sources.
    
  