
    
      Among the dental conditions that are most common among the children is dental caries. This
      condition can afflict an individual in the course of their entire life. However, it is
      possible to develop prevention mechanisms especially during childhood (1). Dental caries can
      be defined as the damage of a specific susceptible part of the enamel through acids that are
      produced by bacteria as they ferment carbohydrates that have been trapped within the teeth
      (2). A number of endogenous bacteria are known of producing acidic by-products, which ends up
      destroying the tooth. Some of the notorious bacteria are Streptococci mutans, Lactobacillus
      spp. and Streptococcus sobrinus. Release of acids through fermentation cause a fall in pH
      causing decalcifying of the structure of enamel, thereby causing irreversible damage in form
      of caries (3, 4). Recent research studies have indicated that the use of probiotics provides
      a future prevention solution against caries. The use of probiotic therapy is based on the
      fact that the oral cavity has a specific ecosystem of bacteria comprising of normal flora and
      pathogenic bacteria, which live together. Probiotic therapy seeks to balance this oral
      ecosystem so as to ensure that harmful bacteria are eliminated. An imbalance in oral
      ecosystem can cause dental caries, for example, streptococcus mutans, which form part of the
      normal oral flora can result to decalcification of the enamel if their numbers rise beyond
      normal. Probiotic is a derivative of Greek work, which means "for life," it was first used in
      1965 by Lilly and Stillwell and was found to be a contrast of the antibiotic (5). WHO/FAO
      (2002) defines probiotics as living organisms that have health benefits to the host when
      administered in the desirable amounts. In a number of studies on probiotics, the focus has
      been on reducing the number of mutans streptococci. The most widely used probiotic strains
      are Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium. Irrespective of the strain or product used, various
      studies point to reduced number of mutans streptococci in saliva, an effect that is widely
      varied with the study groups being small (6,7,8,9) and conducted over a short period
      (6,7,8,9,10). Based on these findings, the efficacy of probiotic chewable tablets in
      prevention of caries require further analysis.
    
  