
    
      1. Objectives :

           1.1. Primary objective: Determine the epidemiological parameters of candidemia cases
           among ICU patients in India 1.2. Exploratory objectives

             1. Determine the prevalence of candidemia among ICU patients.

             2. Determine the prevalence of candidemia due to C. albicans and each species of
                non-albicans Candida species.

             3. Determine the demographics and risk factors for candidemia patients, and comparison
                of relevant variables between the cases with C. albicans and non-albicans Candida
                species isolation.

             4. Describe the management of candidemia cases and outcome.

             5. Determine the in-vitro antifungal susceptibility testing of Candida isolates.

        2. Study description and purpose:

           2.1 Observational multicentre study of ICUs in India. Institute having ICUs and facility
           for diagnosis of candidemia will be chosen.

           2.2 Purpose: Determination of epidemiological parameter of candidemia, description of
           current management and outcome of patients with candidemia. This would help in
           formulation of a guideline for management of patients with candidemia especially when
           the patients are critically ill and admitted in ICUs.

           2.3 Critical issues & risk: There is no risk for patient as it only observational study
           and no intervention is intended. The site selection would be important to get useful
           data.

        3. Study design:

           3.1 Site selection: The major tertiary care centers will be evaluated on the basis of
           responses to a set of questionnaire (Annexure I). Only centers having ICU facilities and
           competence to diagnose candidemia will be selected. Expected number centers will be ~20.

           3.2 Study period: October 1, 2010 - March 31, 2012

           3.3 No of patients: Consecutive patients with candidemia diagnosed in ICUs > 48 h after
           admission during the study period will be included in each site. Expected number of
           patients with candidemia would be ~2000

        4. Patient selection:

           4.1 Inclusion criteria:

             1. Admitted in ICUs for > 48 hours

             2. All age group patients will be included (both adult & children)

             3. Diagnosed as proven candidemia with isolation of Candida species ≥1 occasion from
                blood during ICU stay.

             4. Blood culture positive for Candida spp. , if sample has been drawn within 48 hrs
                after discharge from the ICU.

           4.2 Exclusion criteria: a) Patient already diagnosed for candidemia before admission in
           ICUs or in ICU for ≤48h .

        5. Patient management:

           During the study period, all process of patient management including diagnosis and
           treatment will be determined by treating physician. There will be no intervention in
           patient management as a part of study related activities.

        6. Conduct of the study 6.1 Investigators of the study - The ICU specialist in charge and
           microbiologist/mycologist of each center will be the site investigators of the study.
           Prof. Arunaloke Chakrabarti of PGIMER, Chandigarh will be coordinator of the study.
           A/Prof. Sharon Chen, Medical Mycologist, Infectious Diseases and Microbiology, Westmead
           Hospital, Australia will be the advisor of the study.

      6.2 Patient enrollment - The investigator should ensure that only the patients with
      candidemia development in the ICU (see inclusion criteria) are included. Consecutively all
      patients meeting the eligibility criteria will be consecutively enrolled. The patients will
      be enrolled prospectively as soon as the diagnosis is confirmed. The patients will be
      followed up till discharge from hospital or 30 days after start of antifungal therapy or
      death (whichever is earlier).

      6.3 Data collection - The form (Annexure II) will be filled up within 5 days of diagnosis of
      candidemia. The investigator would make sure that the patient is not identified (No mention
      of patient's name, address, hospital registration no. or any laboratory no. on the survey
      forms). The data collection will be performed both on line and on hard copy. The following
      variable will be noted:

        1. Demographic data

        2. Evaluation of the severity of the patient (severity will be assessed on the basis of
           scoring system available in the hospital (e.g, APACHE, SOFA).

        3. Underlying disease

        4. Risk factors

        5. History of previous antifungal therapy (prophylaxis/empiric/ definitive treatment)

        6. Description of candidemia episode

        7. Laboratory results

        8. Diagnosis of candidemia. 6.4 Laboratory or mycological tests - No laboratory or
           microbiological test is mandatory for the patient as a part of study. Study protocol
           will not intervene anywhere in laboratory investigation of the patient. Data of the
           laboratory tests performed as part of routine will be collected on study cases forms 6.5
           Patient management: The study will not intervene anywhere in patient management. The
           clinician in charge will manage the patient. The data of management practiced will be
           incorporated retrospectively in management form (Annexure III) within 7 days of
           patient's discharge from hospital or 30 days after start antifungal therapy or patient's
           death (whichever is earlier) 6.6 Identification of Candida isolates and antifungal
           susceptibility testing: Candida isolates may be identified and antifungal susceptibility
           testing may be performed at the study centers as part of the center's routine procedure.
           However, all Candida isolates (isolated from blood) will be submitted to the reference
           laboratory at Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER),
           Chandigarh after filling the form IV. PGIMER, Chandigarh will confirm the identity of
           all Candida isolates and perform antifungal susceptibility testing according to CLSI
           M27-A3 protocol (broth microdilution method) 6.7. Statistical analysis: Descriptive
           statistical methods will be employed to analyze the data.

      7. Security and Confidentiality Once the patient is deemed eligible to participate and
      consent has been obtained (if any), a unique study number will be assigned. Subject initials
      and institution identification will be entered into a log book that will remain sole property
      of each site. The logbook will be kept secured at each site according to site's policies and
      procedures. The logbook will assist the investigator at the particular Institute to track and
      upload data in the system. Each site will be able to view its own patients entered and
      summary data on the aggregate patients of all centers, but no data from other sites.

      8. Publication : In the event of publication, the Investigators' names that will be cited
      will be those who have attributed the largest number of cases of the study. The coordinator
      and the advisor will also be cited. The order of the authorship would depend upon the number
      of cases per investigator per center, in the decreasing order. The exact number of authors
      remains to be decided upon, but the maximum number may be restricted to 11. The 'SIHAM'
      candidemia network will be mentioned at the end of authors. All other investigators will be
      acknowledged as participants of the network in the appendix. The sponsor of the network will
      be acknowledged in each publication. None of the sites is permitted to make any publication
      on its sites data, based solely on the parameters included in this study for the cases
      included in the present study, during this study period. If there is any breach of this
      understanding, the data from that centre will not be included in the final data analysis.

      9. Ethical Issue: The project should be cleared by the participating centers at their
      respective local Ethics Committee before commencing the project. The Ethics approval
      Certificate should be submitted to the coordinator before commencing the project.
    
  