
    
      Vitamin A is an essential nutrient needed for the visual system, and maintenance of cell
      function for growth, epithelial integrity, red blood cell production, immunity and
      reproduction. All infants are born with low stores and depend on vitamin A from breast milk
      to initially accumulate and maintain adequate stores. Infants of vitamin A depleted women are
      at greater risk of becoming vitamin A deficient early in life, especially if they are not
      breast fed. Correcting vitamin A deficiency is addressed by some African countries through
      vitamin A supplementation of children and food fortification programs. However, assessing
      vitamin A status, and the effectiveness of government interventions, is challenging in
      settings where infectious diseases are endemic, as in most African countries. Evaluation of
      vitamin A status is relatively insensitive when based on changes in serum retinol
      concentrations, which are homeostatically controlled and negatively affected by subclinical
      infections. Liver stores of vitamin A, the best indicator of vitamin A status, cannot be
      routinely evaluated. The isotope dilution technique is the preferred method for determining
      vitamin A status and assessing the efficacy and effectiveness of intervention programs aimed
      at improving vitamin A status. It is the only indirect assessment method that provides a
      quantitative estimate of vitamin A status across the continuum of deficient to excessive
      stores. Thus, this technique can be used for assessing vitamin A status in populations at
      risk of excessive status due to exposure to too much vitamin A through combined
      supplementation and consumption of fortified foods and/or preformed vitamin A-rich foods. The
      aim of this project is to use nuclear techniques to evaluate vitamin A nutritional status of
      young children during semi-annual administration of vitamin A supplements, and to assess how
      this relates to infection status. The IAEA has provided significant support on use of stable
      isotopes in assessing body composition and breast milk to Member States in Africa, it is now
      establishing the stable isotope technique to assess vitamin A body stores in Cameroon and
      Zambia (and additional implementation is possible in Morocco) for use throughout the region.
      These inputs will be used in this project to provide key information to stakeholders on how
      vitamin A intervention programs affect vitamin A status in children and how infections affect
      vitamin A status or validity of stable isotope techniques.
    
  