
    
      Although great potential exists to promote healthy behaviors through financial incentives,
      few studies have compared the efficacy and effectiveness of incentives in a Medicaid
      population. This is important because although financial incentives structured as rewards to
      individuals substantially improve rates of healthy behaviors, the absolute proportions of
      people adopting healthier behaviors remain low. Early approaches to financial incentives
      generally have reflected all-or-nothing thinking by showing that providing incentives is
      better than not providing incentives, and by assuming that incentives will work similarly
      across different types of people. But basic research in behavioral economics suggests that
      how you pay and whom you pay may be critical factors. Furthermore, the relative effectiveness
      of incentives based on processes vs. outcomes is unknown, and indeed, is one of the most
      fundamental unresolved questions in the incentive literature. Economists would argue that
      outcome-based incentives are likely to be more effective because they allow each person to
      figure out the most efficient path to achieve a desired result. On the other hand, behavioral
      economists would argue in favor of incentivizing processes because they are simpler and more
      concrete. Additionally, some ethicists argue that incentivizing processes is fairer because
      they are effort dependent, and because in some cases the ability to achieve improvements in
      outcomes may be related to factors people cannot control, such as their environment or their
      genes. Ultimately, the key question from a health and economic policy standpoint is which
      approach is more effective. In this regard, improvements in outcomes seem appropriate to
      incentivize directly because such results are required for incentive programs or other
      interventions to improve health and/or reduce health care spending. And indeed, there is some
      limited evidence suggesting that incentives for weight loss, for example, may be more
      effective than incentives for process measures (eg, attendance) in obesity programs.

      The goal of the New York State Medicaid Incentives Plan is to improve clinical outcomes and
      decrease health expenditures by increasing smoking cessation, lowering high blood pressure,
      preventing diabetes onset, and enhancing diabetes self-management among Medicaid enrollees in
      New York State. Several incentive strategies will be explored to promote the use of
      under-utilized Medicaid benefits and regional resources. The New York State (NYS) Medicaid
      Incentives Program will target four prevention goals: 1) smoking cessation; 2) lowering high
      blood pressure; 3) diabetes onset prevention; and 4) diabetes management. For each prevention
      goal, four treatment arms have been defined. One treatment arm will receive incentives for
      process activities; one treatment arm will receive incentives for achieving desired outcomes;
      one treatment arm will receive incentives for both process activities and outcomes; and one
      arm will serve as a control, receiving no incentives. The smoking cessation incentive program
      will be piloted in western New York where smoking rates are higher than other regions of the
      state. Participants will receive direct cash payments for participating in smoking cessation
      counseling (process), filling nicotine replacement therapy prescriptions (process), and
      quitting smoking (outcome). 2,332 participants will be recruited for this study. The blood
      pressure control incentive program will be piloted in New York City where stakeholders are
      highly engaged and a large population of people at risk for inadequate blood pressure control
      reside. Participants will receive direct cash payments for attending primary care
      appointments (process), filling antihypertensive prescriptions (process), and decreasing or
      maintaining a decreased systolic blood pressure by 10mmHg or achieving another clinically
      appropriate target (outcome). 488 participants will be recruited for this study. The diabetes
      management incentive program will be piloted in New York City where the capacity of diabetes
      self management educators is the greatest. Participants will receive direct cash payment for
      attending primary care appointments (process), attending diabetes self-management education
      sessions (process), filling diabetes prescriptions (process), and decreasing their HbA1c by
      0.6% or maintaining a level of 8.0% or less (outcome). 660 participants will be recruited for
      this study. The diabetes onset prevention incentive program will be piloted in western New
      York and New York City, where the capacity of YMCA Diabetes Prevention Programs is the
      greatest and well-integrated with stakeholders. Participants will receive lottery tickets for
      attending YMCA Diabetes Prevention Program sessions (process) and losing or maintaining a
      reduced weight (outcome). 596 participants will be recruited for this study. Other incentive
      approaches and research questions will be explored through rapid cycle evaluation.
    
  