
    
      Mucus hypersecretion is a clinical feature of BE. This mucus-retention aids bacterial
      infection that can lead to pulmonary exacerbations, which further develops the "viscous
      cycle" of mucus-retention, infection, inflammation and tissue damage. Mucoactive drugs target
      this cycle by potentially increasing the ability to expectorate sputum and/or decrease mucus
      hypersecretion.

      The current guidelines indicate that mucoactives in combination with airway clearance may be
      considered to enhance sputum expectoration in BE, but the evidence to support their use is
      limited. Furthermore, evidence for the effectiveness of hypertonic saline (HTS) and
      carbocisteine is insufficient to recommend them within the management of BE. However,
      EMBARC/BRONCH-UK data show that BE centres do prescribe mucoactives. This is important
      because adherence to therapies in BE in general is low, decreases as the number of prescribed
      medications increases, and is also related to poorer patient outcomes, including the number
      of pulmonary exacerbations and quality of life. Therefore, it is essential that only those
      drugs that are effective should be prescribed for patients with BE. There are cost
      considerations associated with mucoactives, and there is a risk of polypharmacy side effects.

      Unlike BE, relatively strong evidence exists to favour the use of both HTS and carbocisteine
      within other respiratory conditions. Therefore, this trial will answer important clinical
      questions about whether similar benefits can be demonstrated in BE by using a pragmatic
      design to explore the specific effects of mucoactive agents, and directly support, or refute,
      more targeted use of these drugs.

      Patients will be randomised to one of four treatment groups: (i) standard care and twice
      daily nebulised HTS (6%), (ii) standard care and carbocisteine, (iii) standard care and
      combination of twice-daily nebulised HTS and carbocisteine, or (iv) standard care alone.
    
  