
    
      Traditionally androgen deprivation (by orchidectomy, or more recently by medication) has been
      reserved for the palliative treatment of men with advanced, incurable prostate cancer.
      However, evidence from large scale trials is beginning to suggest that androgen deprivation
      (AD) may be helpful in preventing relapse in patients with more localised disease who are
      treated surgically or by radiotherapy. Of the 8000 patients per annum who are treated with
      curative intent, one half (4000) have cancers where 'adjuvant' AD may be prescribed according
      to interpretation of the registered indications. There are, however, enormous variations in
      prescribing practices which reflect uncertainty as to the appropriate indications. An
      important issue is osteopenia.

      The increasing use of AD in men with earlier stages of cancer, whose life expectancies exceed
      3 years, has exposed many unwanted metabolic sequelae of prolonged AD, the most important
      being osteopenia. In 1996, with the funding support of the NHMRC and the pharmaceutical
      industry, TROG therefore launched a large randomised three-arm trial. Two of the arms
      repeated the two arms of the US Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) 86.01 trial which, at
      the time, was showing early indications of benefit for the addition of two months maximal
      androgen deprivation (MAD), using Goserelin (Zoladex) and Flutamide, before radiation therapy
      and one month during. Since work from Canada had indicated that continued AD for periods
      longer than three months produced additional shrinkage of the prostatic tumour, the TROG
      96.01 trial incorporated a third arm: six months MAD prior to and during radiotherapy. The
      trial completed its recruitment target of 800 eligible patients in early 2000. Although in
      August 2001 the median follow up time was still very short, a preliminary analysis indicated
      that significant increases in time to biochemical relapse had been produced by AD. In fact,
      the benefits of AD were independent of stage, tumour grade and initial PSA value which were
      confirmed also to predict time to biochemical failure. The hazard of relapse reduced to 0.75
      (0.55 - 0.97, 95% confidence intervals) with 3 months AD, and still further to 0.6 (0.45 -
      0.82) with six months AD.

      Subsequent international developments in this area of research encouraged the design of a
      'follow on' trial. A European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) trial
      reported that 3 years of adjuvant ('post hoc') AD (using Goserelin alone), administered after
      radiotherapy, reduced relapse and improved survival in patients with locally advanced
      prostate cancer. The US Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) 85.31 trial indicated that
      indefinite Goserelin administration after radiotherapy reduced treatment failure rates at all
      sites when compared with radiotherapy alone. The RTOG 92.02 trial showed that 24 months of
      adjuvant Goserelin also reduced failure rates in patients treated with 4 months of MAD prior
      to and during radiotherapy. Subset analyses of the RTOG trials, suggested that patients who
      gain most from prolonged AD in terms of survival are those with high grade cancers.

      It was therefore logical for TROG to propose a second trial with the intention of finding out
      whether an additional 12 months of AD administered after radiotherapy (aka 'intermediate
      term' AD [ITAD]) would reduce relapse and mortality in patients treated with six months of AD
      prior to and during radiotherapy (aka 'short term' AD [STAD]) as in the 'best' arm of its
      first (96.01) trial. The availability of the potent bisphosphonate, zoledronic acid, also
      made it possible to find out whether or not osteopenia induced in the two arms of the
      proposed second trial would be prevented by a second random assignment to 18 months'
      bisphosphonate therapy (BP).

      This is a randomised phase III multicentre clinical trial.

      After informed consent is given and eligibility is checked patients will be randomised to one
      of four trial arms:

        1. 6 months of androgen blockade with an LH-RH analogue (5 months before start of
           radiotherapy) (STAD),

        2. 18 months of androgen blockade with an LH-RH analogue (starting 5 months before start of
           radiotherapy) (ITAD),

        3. 18 months of therapy with zoledronic acid 4 mg by intravenous infusion every 3 months
           for 18 months beginning concurrently with STAD

        4. 18 months of therapy with zoledronic acid beginning concurrently with ITAD.

      Stratification will be according to the following criteria:

      T2 / T3, 4 Gleason score 2 - 6 / 7+ Presenting PSA <10 / 10 - 20 / >20 Treatment centre

      Radiation Treatment will be delivered using a conventional technique, unless the treatment
      centre of the participating clinician demonstrates an ability to deliver the treatment using
      a CRT, IMRT, or HDRB technique verified by the trial TACT.

      Drug Treatment:

      LH-RH analogue (LH-RHa) (Leuprorelin acetate 22.5 mg) will be delivered as a depot injection
      every 3 months. This will be administered as an Intramuscular injection (IMI).

      Zoledronic acid 4 mg will be delivered as an intravenous infusion over 15 minutes once every
      3 months for 18 months, in patients randomised to this therapy. No placebo therapy will be
      given to patients randomised to 'no bisphosphonate therapy' treatment arm.
    
  