
    
      Randomization and concealment of allocation will be pharmacy-controlled using a computerized
      central randomization service. The treating physician, bedside nurse, research assistant, and
      participant will be blinded to the intervention. Eligible participants will be randomized in
      a 1:1 allocation ratio with a stratified block design of four or six to either (1) IN
      ketamine (each single dose, 10 mg/kg prepared in 0.9% NS in 3 mL syringe and atomizer, to a
      maximum of 8 mL) PLUS IV 0.9% NS 0.02 mL/kg or (2) IV ketamine (single dose, 1 mg/kg, to a
      maximum 80 mg) PLUS intranasal 0.9% NS 0.10 mL/kg divided to both nares. Due to the
      perceptible differences in interventional routes, each participant will receive both IV and
      IN interventions using this double-dummy approach. For IN dose volumes less than or equal to
      0.5 mL, the entire dose will be delivered into 1 nostril and for doses greater than 0.5 mL,
      the dose will be divided equally between both nares. Adjunctive sedation will be given as
      needed in the form of IV ketamine, any dose, for participants who are adequately sedated 1
      minute after IV administration at the discretion of the treating physician. Inadequate
      sedation in this context refers to one of the following: participant's vocalizations are
      consistent with pain OR participant withdraws or localizes due to pain. Eligible participants
      will be identified by the treating physician after viewing the radiographs and performing a
      clinical assessment. The physician will then inform a research assistant (RA) that the
      participant is eligible. The RA will then seek informed consent and explain the protocol to
      the family. Baseline demographic information will be obtained. Informed consent for PSA and a
      pre-anesthetic assessment will be performed by the treating physician in accordance with the
      usual standard of care. The RA will record a continuous video of the participant's entire
      body and monitor using an iPad starting immediately after the IV intervention until the
      participant is awake and able to tolerate oral fluids. DOCS scores will be obtained by two
      trained outcome assessors every 30 seconds for the entire duration of the video. The outcome
      assessors will also score the entire video for emergence delirium using the Paediatric
      Anesthesia Emergence Delirium (PAED) scale every 5 minutes beginning at the completion of
      fracture reduction until the participant is awake and drinking. Participants will receive
      standard monitoring of oxygen saturation, blood pressure, respiratory rate, apnea, heart
      rate, and rash by the attending nurse and physician every 5 minutes as per the usual standard
      of care. The usual standard of care also includes monitoring post-anesthetic for the presence
      of known idiosyncratic effects of ketamine that include vomiting, seizure, headache,
      emergence reaction, and hypersensitivity. The RA will obtain this information from the
      nursing record at discharge and based on consensus-based Canadian recommendations.
      Immediately prior to discharge, the RA will also record the duration of stay in the ED,
      parental, patient, and physician satisfaction with PSA using a 5-item Likert scale, and nasal
      irritation
    
  