
    
      1. All children presenting to Texas Children's Hospital with a primary spontaneous
           pneumothorax will be potentially eligible for the study.

        2. After the diagnosis has been made and initial medical therapy has been initiated, the
           patients will be identified and parents or legal guardian approached by the staff
           surgeon for consent to participate in the study. The attending pediatric surgeon or
           surgical fellow will discuss the trial with all eligible patients and their families.

        3. Written, informed consent will be obtained by the research nurse coordinator, a
           pediatric surgical fellow, or an attending pediatric surgeon.

        4. Once enrolled, the patients will be randomized to primary surgery: Video-Assisted
           Thoracoscopic Surgery (VATS), blebectomy and mechanical pleurodesis, versus initial
           nonoperative treatment.

        5. Prior to initiating the study, the randomization sequence will be computer-generated by
           an independent statistician using a permuted block random allocation scheme with a block
           size of 4,6. The randomization sequence will be maintained securely within the
           randomization module in REDCap (Research electronic data capture), and it will be
           accessed only after enrollment has occurred and inclusion criteria are verified by the
           admitting staff surgeon. The participants and the surgeons will not be blinded to group
           assignment.

        6. Primary Surgery Group. Patients randomized to the primary surgical intervention group
           will undergo VATS, apical blebectomy and mechanical pleurodesis during the initial
           hospital admission by the admitting staff surgeon. The general principles of the
           surgical technique consist of a 3-port thoracoscopic approach, stapled blebectomy,
           apical mechanical pleurodesis, and placement of chest tube . Variations of this
           technique will be at the discretion of the surgeon.

        7. Initial non-operative management group. Those randomized to the control group will be
           admitted and their chest tube or percutaneous drainage catheter managed according to
           standard protocol. This consists of a minimum of 48 hours of Pleur-Evac suction and
           daily chest radiographs. The drainage tube is then placed to water seal when resolution
           of the pneumothorax is documented by x-ray, as well as absence of an air leak. If there
           are no clinical or radiographic changes after a water seal period, the chest tube is
           then removed. A post-removal chest radiograph is obtained and the patient is discharged
           if clinical and radiographic criteria are met. "Rescue" VATS/ blebectomy/pleurodesis
           will be performed in those managed initially nonoperatively who meet criteria for
           surgery thereafter (i.e. develop a persistent air leak after drainage tube placement). A
           persistent air leak will be defined as bubbling of air in the Pleur-Evac water chamber
           upon eliciting positive pressure lasting >4 days, noted and documented in progress note
           by attending physician. If recurrence is identified in the control group, it will be
           managed operatively, as per current clinical practice, with VATS/
           blebectomy/pleurodesis.

        8. Discharge Criteria. Discharge criteria include being afebrile for 24 hours, normal
           oxygen saturation with no oxygen requirement, benign physical exam, unchanged or
           improved post-removal chest radiograph, ability to tolerate regular diet and ambulate,
           and pain well controlled on oral pain medication.

        9. Discharge Instructions. A discussion will take place between the surgical team and the
           family prior to discharge in order to review standardized discharge instructions. These
           will address an understanding by the patient and family of the signs and symptoms of
           recurrent pneumothorax as well as specific follow up appointments and the scheduled
           phone follow-up thereafter. For patients who have had primary surgery, specific
           postoperative instructions will be given according to current clinical practice.

       10. Follow-up. Follow-up will be the same for both groups and will take place at 2-3 weeks
           after hospital discharge (per standard of care), with subsequent telephone interviews at
           3 months, 6 months and 12 months.

       11. The primary outcome regarding effectiveness of primary VATS will be the overall
           recurrence rate at 12 months. Secondary outcomes include surgical complication rate,
           cumulative hospital length of stay (total number of hospital days during study period),
           time to resumption of usual activities, and direct variable hospital costs. The
           recurrence rate is defined as the proportion of patients with recurrent ipsilateral
           pneumothorax during the follow-up period. Complications to be assessed include surgical
           site infection, persistent air leak (> 4 days), and prolonged need for chest tube (as
           quantified by number of chest tube days). Standard National Surgical Quality Improvement
           Program (NSQIP) definitions of these outcomes will be utilized. The time to resumption
           of usual activities will be adjudicated at the time of the post-op follow up visit or by
           means of a phone interview at 2-3 weeks postoperatively. The longest time period to
           resumption all usual activities will be ascertained from patient questionnaires
           addressing return to school date, level of pre- and post-illness activity, and daily
           activity log kept by the patient or their parent. Post-operative quality of life will be
           assessed at 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months by telephone administration of The PedsQL
           Measurement Model for the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory, a widely-used and
           validated tool.
    
  