
    
      BACKGROUND

      Sarcoidosis is a multi-systemic granulomatous disease. The lungs, thoracic lymph nodes, the
      skin and the eyes are the most commonly affected organs. Most patients with sarcoidosis
      present with respiratory symptoms. Sarcoid uveitis is usually suspected when ocular
      inflammation is found in conjunction with suggestive serological and radiological studies.
      Currently, the diagnosis of sarcoidosis requires the demonstration of non-caseating
      granulomas on biopsy; but even this is not always diagnostic; more sensitive and specific
      noninvasive tools are needed.

      Ophthalmic involvement has been reported in as many as 40% of patients with sarcoidosis, but
      most series report ophthalmic findings in approximately 25% of patients who develop chronic,
      systemic sarcoidosis. Uveitis associated with sarcoidosis can be very diverse, including:
      acute non-granulomatous or chronic granulomatous iridocyclitis, vitritis, retinal vasculitis,
      choroiditis with choroidal granulomas and papillitis secondary to optic nerve granulomas; and
      it can cause ocular morbidity due to a high incidence of glaucoma and cataracts. Other
      ophthalmic findings include lacrimal gland enlargement, secondary Sjogren's disease,
      scleritis, orbital gland involvement, secondary proliferative retinopathy, subretinal
      neovascularization, and optic neuropathy.

      To better evaluate and diagnose patients, we also need to improve our ability to predict
      susceptibility and prognosis, especially among African-Americans. Current epidemiologic
      studies of sarcoidosis indicate that in the United States, African Americans have about a
      threefold higher age-adjusted annual incidence, 35.5/100,000, compared with Caucasians,
      10.9/100,000. In addition, African Americans with chronic sarcoidosis are more likely to
      develop ocular manifestations than whites. The study of ocular sarcoidosis is important
      because it is a leading inflammatory cause of blindness and ocular morbidity. In large
      surveys of patients with uveitis, approximately 5% of patients were found to have ocular
      sarcoidosis, and approximately 10% of these patients become blind in at least one eye.

      AIMS:

      AIM 1: CLINICAL ANALYSIS:

      Documentation of:

        1. Clinical features of sarcoidosis associated uveitis

        2. Chronological association of ocular disease to histopathologic diagnosis of sarcoidos

        3. Family history of sarcoidosis

        4. Previous therapies and response

        5. Ocular status compared with systemic disease status, current and historical
           Environmental exposure history

      AIM 2: IMMUNOLOGICAL ANALYSIS:

      One of the goals of this study is to determine the diagnostically important cytokines in
      biopsy-proven ocular sarcoidosis.

      The chemokine profile of the Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells and Broncho-Alveolar Lavage
      Fluid (BALF) of pulmonary sarcoidosis patients has been reported and many cytokines have been
      implicated in the pathogenesis of this disease.

        1. Serum Level for

           A. TNF alpha

           B. MIP-1 alpha

           C. IL-8

           D. IL-2

           E. TGF Beta

           F. INF gamma

        2. Immunophenotyping of whole blood cells and BALF by flow cytometry

           Focus on:

           A. T cell sub-typing (examples: CD4, CD8)

           B. NK cell sub-typing (examples:CD56, KIR)

        3. TLRs sub-typing

      AIM 3: GENETIC ANALYSIS:

      Serum analysis for HLA Class I and II typing

      A cohort of 100 patients with biopsy-proven sarcoidosis will be recruited from the Uveitis
      and Ocular Immunology Clinic at the National Eye Institute and the Pulmonary Clinic at the
      National Heart Lung and Blood Institute.

      FUTURE AIMS:

      We aim to characterize the TLR activation profile in patients with ocular sarcoidosis, and
      compare them to patients with pulmonary sarcoidosis and normal volunteers. Using this
      immuno-genetic classification scheme, in conjunction with HLA typing, we hope to develop
      novel diagnostic and/or prognostic criteria for sarcoidosis. In addition, the TLR activation
      profile may allow risk stratification for different sarcoidosis phenotypes.

      METHODS:

      A cohort of 100 patients with biopsy-proven sarcoidosis will be recruited from the Uveitis
      and Ocular Immunology Clinic at the National Eye Institute and the Pulmonary Clinic at the
      National Heart Lung and Blood Institute. After obtaining informed consent, the patients will
      be invited to participate in the study. After appropriate enrollment, they will undergo the
      following

        1. Completion of a questionnaire, with medical, social and demographic data

        2. A complete ophthalmologic examination

        3. Baseline serologic analysis

        4. Baseline serum analysis for immunologic analysis

        5. HLA-Typing

        6. Patients who are quiescent will be seen at baseline with a second visit at 1 year

        7. Patients who are active will be treated appropriately, by their referring
           ophthalmologist or on a treatment protocol at the National Eye Institute
    
  