
    
      The international recommendations indicate that the first line of treatment for patients <65
      years old and with no significant comorbidities (fit patients) the known regime of FCR with
      recommendation of category 1 and later bendamustine with antiCD20 or ibrutinib. For patients
      >65 years old or not fit for intensive treatment it is recommended chlorambucil with
      obinutuzumab, monotherapy with ibrutinib, bendamustine with antiCD20 or chlorambucil with
      another antiCD20 like rituximab or ofatumumab. In case of patients with high-risk alterations
      of relapse due to positive MRD at the end of the treatment it is recommended a maintenance
      schedule with lenalidomide.

      The antibodies against CD20 have shown through the years its activity in diverse alterations
      of B-cells. Rituximab was approved in 1998 for B-cells Non-Hodgkin lymphomas including CLL.
      Currently there are new anti-CD20 with more activity than rituximab. One of them is
      obinutuzumab which, by the monoclonal antibody engineering shows a greater affinity to the
      union of the epitope CD20 generating increased cellular cytotoxicity.

      Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK), generates signaling cascades for the cell survival by the
      NF-KB and MAP kinases way, which leads to the transduction of the B cell receptor (BCR).
      Ibrutinib is a molecule that inhibits BTK inducing apoptosis in the B cells being currently
      used in the diverse mature B cell neoplasms.

      Another therapeutic target is the BCL-2 protein (B-cell lymphoma 2) which is a key regulator
      in the apoptotic and it's compromised in the B cell neoplasms. Venetoclax is a mimetic drug
      to BH3 that blocks the function of BCL-2.

      Based in the old and new drugs described in CLL, there is a great number of combinations that
      can be applied in the different phases of the disease as well as by risk stages and physical
      state of the patient. Before this scenario diverse CLL study groups proposes the strategy of
      sequencing in three phases (triple T) trying to prevent the development of leukemic
      subclones, minimize the use of chemotherapy that generates secondary mutations in CLL and
      other neoplasms. These type of treatment counts with the advantage of: 1) being available for
      patients physically fit or not due to the a limited toxicity of the drugs, 2) applying in an
      out-of-hospital environment and 3) adjusting the treatment according to the response to
      generate an effective cost in the new drugs. Thus, it is proposed the cytoreduction
      sequencing for 1 to 2 cycles, induction for 6 to 12 months and the MRD maintenance that could
      go from one year up to undefined with ibrutinib, obinutuzumab and venetoclax in that order.
    
  