
    
      Recently, a EUS-guided through-the-needle microforceps device (Moray Micro Forceps, US
      Endoscopy, Mentor, Ohio, United States), witch can be passed through the lumen of a 19-gauge
      FNA needle, has been introduced as a novel approach for PCLs tissue acquisition. It has been
      shown that this device can drastically changed the diagnosis, providing diagnoses otherwise
      not suggested by cytology or cyst fluid CEA levels. The possibility of obtaining histological
      specimens from the cyst wall with this microforceps may change the management os PCLs, by
      obtening enough material for supplementary immunohistochemical analysis, allowing for even
      more accurate histological diagnosis, and in the case of IPMNs, possibly histological
      subtyping. The aims of this study is to assess: 1) the increment in diagnostic yield, by
      using this device, when compared to standard evaluation with cross-sectional imaging, EUS-FNA
      with cyst fluid analysis, 2) to evaluate the technical success, clinical success and safety,
      3) Finally inter-observer accuracy in the assessment of PCLs using the different methods will
      be mesure, by the participation of all the endosonographers of Argentina, in the context of
      the annual EUS meeting.

      • MATERIALS AND METHODS Study design and Setting: It is multicenter, prospective,
      interventional, non-controlled or randomized and double blind study, performed at the
      Institute of Gastroenterology and Advanced Endoscopy - IGEA (Bahía Blanca, Argentina), in
      conjunction with five high volume centers of all over Argentina (La Plata, Buenos Aires x 2,
      Neuquen and Mendoza), with patients included from July 2019 to July 2020. The study protocol
      and consent form has been approved by the institutional review board, will be registered at
      ClinicalTrials.gov and will be conducted according to the declaration of Helsinki. Written
      informed consent will be obtained from all subjects. No financial support will be received
      from the manufacturer of the microforceps, and none of the authors have any conflicts of
      interest. Data collection: Patient demographics, clinical history, cross-sectional imaging
      and EUS cyst findings like number of cysts, location, size and features (unilocular/septated,
      mural nodules, thickened wall, communication with pancreatic duct, dilated pancreatic duct
      and solid component) will be review. Fluid characteristics (viscosity, color, volume),
      amylase, glucose, CEA level and citology will be analyzed. The CEA level will be classified
      as <5, 6-192, >192 ng/mL and glucose level as > 50 and ≤ 50 mg/dl. ( ) EUS-FNA type of needle
      used, biopsy route (stomach/duodenum) and number of passes will be recorded as well as TTNB
      number of biopsies. Adverse events, technical and clinical success of EUS-FNA and TTNB will
      be recorded. Results of both procedures will be expressed in terms of cyst histotype, grade
      of dysplasia and mucinous vs. nonmucinous. Finally surgery result and follow up (12 month)
      will be used as gold standards. Follow-up data will be obtained from clinical encounters
      and/or telephone calls. Adverse events will be recorded per published American Society for
      Gastrointestinal Endoscopy criteria. Intervention: EUS-TTNB procedure technique. All
      procedures will be performed in a hospital-based interventional endoscopy suite, under
      intravenous sedation in a standardized manner and under antibiotics prophylactic. In cases of
      intracystic bleeding or impossibility of emptying the cyst, antibiotic therapy will be
      prolonged for 5 days. An endosonographer of each institution will perform the EUS procedures,
      but all the endosonographers of Argentina will analyze the results. EUS procedures will be
      performed with a linear echo-endoscope (EG-3870 UTK - Pentax, Tokyo, Japan; Hitachi Medical
      Systems, Tokyo, Japan). Cysts morphology will be recorded as was previously described and
      then punctured under Doppler guidance by using a 19-gauge EUS-FNA needle (Expect needle;
      Boston Scientific, Marlborough, Mass or EchoTip Ultra needle; Cook Medical, Bloomington,
      Ind). The stylet will be removed and the through-the-needle microbiopsy forceps (Moray; US
      Endoscopy, Mentor, Ohio, USA), with a sheath diameter of 0.8 mm and a jaw opening width of
      4.3 mm, will be inserted through the needle into the cystic lumen. Microbiopsies will be
      obtained from the cyst wall randomly and from mural nodules or septae when observed. The open
      jaws of the forceps will be pushed gently onto the cyst wall, closed and pulled back to cause
      visible tenting. Two "bites" per pass of the microforceps will be obtained. Then the forceps
      will be removed, leaving the needle tip inside the cyst, the specimen will be placed in
      formalin vials and the forceps will be generously washed with normal saline solution before
      repeat biopsy. In the absence of intracystic bleeding, the procedure will be repeated 2
      times, based on previous information with this device, or until 2 visible specimens are
      obtained. After completion of biopsies, the cyst fluid will be completely aspirated and sent
      for biochemistry (CEA, amylase, glucose) and cytology analyses, as was previously mentioned.
      If the cyst fluid is scarce, analysis of CEA concentration will be preferred over cytology.
      If a mural nodule is visualized on EUS, it will be accessed separately by using the 19-gauge
      needle for EUS-FNA cytology. No on-site cytopathological examination will be performed and
      all specimens will be evaluated by experienced gastrointestinal cytopathologists.
      Microbiopsies will be fixed immediately in 10% formalin solution and send to be stained with
      standard hematoxylin and eosin (H and E) and supplementary immunohistochemical (IHC) staining
      when indicated. After the procedure, patients will be observed for 2 hours in the recovery
      room before being discharged.

      Definitions: Technical success will be defined as successful puncture of the pancreatic cyst
      with the 19-gauge needle under EUS guidance, advance the microforceps into the cyst, and
      successful tissue acquisition, that will be confirmed by gross visualization of the specimen
      from the jaws of the forceps. Clinical success will be defined as the ability to obtain a
      histopathological diagnosis of the PCL, by cytological or histological evaluation, using the
      microforceps biopsies. TTNB specimen diagnostic accuracy will be calculated at 3 different
      diagnostic levels: 1) Provide a specific diagnosis of the cyst histotype based on the
      characteristics of the epithelium and/or the cells composing the cyst wall. 2) Define the
      grade of dysplasia. 3) Differentiate mucinous versus nonmucinous cysts based on: The presence
      of a mucinous epithelium with cytoplasmic mucin and the presence of colloid-like
      extracellular mucin. The TTNB sampling diagnostic reliability (sensitivity and specificity)
      will be assessed by the evaluation of the correlation between the TTNB sampling results and
      surgical specimens (Gold Standard) in patients who underwent surgery or 12 months follow up
      in case of non-surgical PCL. Cysts with characteristics consistent with mucinous pancreatic
      cystic (mucinous epithelium with cytoplasmic mucin and/or colloid-like extracellular mucin)
      on FNA cytology, microforceps histology and/or surgical histology (when available) will be
      determined as mucinous pancreatic cystic. Otherwise, a final diagnosis will be determined,
      based on available cross-section imaging, EUS characterization, cyst fluid markers (CEA≥ 192
      ng/mL and glucose ≤ 50) and stable appearance on 12 months follow-up. Cyst fluid CEA will be
      used to initially categorize the lesion as likely non-mucinous (CEA< 192 ng/mL), likely
      mucinous (CEA≥ 192 ng/mL) or inconclusive (between 6 and 191 ng/mL). Adverse events (AEs)
      will be defined and classified according to American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy
      guidelines. Interobserver Agreement: It was mentioned before that diagnostic evaluation of
      PCLs can be challenging, requiring a combination of different methods, that many of them may
      have a low sensitivity and specificity, being dependent most of the time, on the subjective
      interpretation of the operator, which can be very difficult sometimes and experience
      dependent. The increment in diagnostic yield of a new method is appreciated as the result of
      the comparison of the new and previous methods accuracy. It is rational to understand that,
      if the method accuracy is experience dependent, this difference between methods accuracy will
      be less in more experience work groups. So when the increment in diagnostic yield of a new
      procedure is been analyzed it is important to ensure that the results can be apply to most of
      the practitioners (external validity/inter-observer agreement) and not only one group of work
      since it will only reflect the experience of that group (internal validity/ intra-observer
      agreement). For that outcome is that inter-observer agreement will be evaluated in the
      context of the Argentinian annual EUS meeting, where different cases will be presented to all
      the endosonographers of Argentina. Cases will be presented in 3 stages where a diagnostic
      assessment will have to be made in each stage. Initially (1st stage) patient's demographic
      data (sex, age), clinical history and images (CT, MRI, ultrasound) will be shown. Then (2nd
      stage) EUS images and videos will be presented and finally (3rd stage) the cyst fluid
      analysis results biochemistry (CEA, glucose, amylase) and cytology will be reviewed. Only 10
      cases will be analyzed, during the meeting, due to time limitation, and agreement will be
      continue beeing evaluated using an online platform where cases will be presented using the
      same methodology. An external assistant to the protocol will analyze all the result and the
      different institutes will provide the cases, in a double blind manner, where neither the
      participating physician nor the operators will know the final results (TTNB or surgery).

      Statistical analysis: Summary data will be expressed as mean +/- standard deviation (SD), or
      median and range for continuous variables and as number with percentage for categorical
      variables. Fisher o Chi-square test for categorical variables and the t test for continuous
      variables will be performed when indicated. The sensitivity, specificity, predictive values
      and accuracy of TTNB will be calculated with the 95% Confidence Interval (95% CI). To examine
      inter-observer agreement, kappa values will be calculated. Kappa coefficients below 0.4
      indicate "poor agreement," values between 0.4 and 0.8 represent "moderate to good agreement,"
      and values greater than 0.8 indicate "excellent agreement." A P value < 0.05 will be
      considered to be statistically significant. All the statistical analysis will be performed
      using SPSS software suite v.22.
    
  