
    
      Orally administered ingredients can have positive effects on skin characteristics by
      modulating the internal factors leading to the changes associated with photoageing. Thus, the
      use of food ingredients and supplements that claim to reduce the risk of skin disorders or
      alleviate skin ageing is increasing.

      Between these ingredients, polyphenols obtained from botanical extracts has been used for
      cosmetic applications, including Pycnogenol®, a French Maritime Pine Bark extract (FMPBE).
      showing photoprotective effect against UV-light induced skin damages, and an improvement in
      hydratation and elasticity of skin in human clinical trials. In another clinical trial,
      treatment with a different FMPBE called Flavangenol®, significantly decreased skin photo-aged
      scores. Other human intervention studies with oral administration of polyphenol extracts of
      different origins such as citrus extract (NutroxSun®), red orange fruit extract (Red Orange
      Complex®), Polypodium leucotomos and Pomegranate extracts (PPmix® and Fernblock®) have
      demonstrated beneficials effects of these supplements on improvement of skin characteristics.

      The results of the studies cited above suggest that oral administration of polyphenols rich
      extracts and especially of FMPBE is a promising approach for nutritional photoprotection of
      skin, reducing photoageing.

      Nevertheless, it must be taken into account that most of these studies have been done with a
      low number of subjects, with combination with other ingredients and/or without placebo group.
      Thus, well designed clinical trials with a correct volunteer's number are required to obtain
      robust results about the effects of FMPBE on skin ageing.

      Dérivés Résiniques et Terpéniques (DRT) is a company that has developed and commercialize
      Oligopin®, a polyphenol extract derived from French maritime pine bark. Oligopin® is
      characterized by a practical absence of tannins ( < 1%) and a high content in low molecular
      weight oligomeric procyanidins (OPC > 70%; dimers about 20%), a distinctive feature of other
      proanthocyanidin-rich extracts such as Pycnogenol® which contained about 5% of dimers.

      Furthermore, although the insoluble products in water are low in both products, lower and
      more adequate concentrations are present in Oligopin® (Oligopin ® typically 2 to 4% to a
      maximum at 5% versus Pycnogenol®: 6% - 8.1%).

      The degree of polymerization of OPC can determine its absorption across cell membranes and,
      as it has been observed in rats, only a certain OPC of a lower degree of polymerization is
      absorbed during transit in the gut. Consequently, the effect of FMPB extract could be
      determined, in part, by the quality of its OPC.

      The hypothesis of the present study is that circulating metabolic fraction of Oligopin® might
      exert beneficial actions on collagen metabolism, which is directly linked to skin strength
      and elasticity.

      In consequence, the daily consumption of Oligopin® will exert beneficial effects on skin
      ageing through the modulation of the proteins involved in the metabolism of collagen in
      humans.

      The main objective of the study is to determine the beneficial effects of Oligopin® on skin
      aging, through the improvement of skin elasticity in participants with photo-aging.

      The secondary objectives of the study are:

        -  To evaluate the effects of Oligopin® on skin aging through the measurement of wrinkles,
           spots, skin hydration and subepidermal band.

        -  To evaluate the effects of Oligopin® on the dynamics of collagen and elastin through the
           determination of different biomarkers in serum and the expression of genes in peripheral
           blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs).

        -  To discover new biomarkers of the effects of Oligopin® through transcriptomic analysis
           in PBMCs and serum metabolomic analysis.

        -  To characterize the metabolites of Oligopin® (MFO) in plasma.

        -  To establish potential correlations between specific metabolites of MFO and the
           beneficial effects of Oligopin® on the skin, as well as between serum biomarkers and
           PBMC.

        -  To evaluate the ability of the MFO to modulate the dynamics of collagen through the use
           of cellular models of human fibroblasts.

      In an initial phase, an acute postprandial study will be carried out with 20 of the 60
      volunteers with the consumption of 700 mg of Oligopin® in a single day, with the aim of
      obtaining the MFO. With MFO, the mechanisms by which Oligopin® exerts the beneficial effects
      on skin aging will be studied through in vitro studies with cellular models. The 60
      participants will participate in the second phase of the study, which will be randomly
      divided into two groups of 30 participants, depending on whether they consume a 100 mg
      Oligopin® capsule or a placebo capsule, with the same appearance as the Oligopin® capsule but
      will not contain the botanical extract. In this second phase, participants will consume one
      capsule each day for a total of 6 weeks.

      During the study there will be 5 visits, one of selection (V0), one of the first phase of the
      study (V1; week 1) and 3 visits of the second phase of the study (V2, V3 and V4; weeks 2, 3
      and 4).
    
  