
    
      The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has resulted in close to 10,000,000 reported
      cases worldwide, including more than 2,000,000 aggregated reported cases and 120,000 deaths
      in the United States. Initial efforts to address the COVID-19 pandemic were aimed at testing
      symptomatic individuals, implementing stay-in-place orders, and at increasing hospital
      capacity to meet surge demands. While the US continues to confront the current crisis, we
      must plan for the future by putting in place tools to enhance our ability to conduct
      effective screening, containment, and case management.

      Widespread COVID-19 testing is needed to safely and effectively reopen schools and businesses
      across the US. However, currently approved testing options require reagents that are limited
      in supply, severely hindering scalability. Emerging evidence indicates that saliva testing
      with the option of at-home sample collection can accurately identify COVID-19 viral
      infection. Additional diagnostic testing options will continue to increase patient access.
      Moreover, this approach provides an option for the easy, safe and convenient collection of
      samples required for testing without traveling to a doctor's office, hospital, or testing
      site. Collection by the patient also reduces exposure of health care workers to the virus and
      preserves limited personal protective equipment.

      With access to expanded testing, health systems and universities will need to test
      alternative methods to manage COVID-19 spread while balancing program effectiveness,
      feasibility, costs, and scalability. Insights from the field of behavioral economics offer
      promise for designing and sustaining these kinds of policies. Specifically, research has
      demonstrated that an opt-out framed recruitment strategy compared to a conventional opt-in
      strategy can improve enrollment and adherence to behavioral interventions.

      For these reasons, the investigators propose to evaluate the implementation of a COVID-19
      screening program that uses saliva-based testing and to test approaches to improve program
      enrollment.
    
  