
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      Robotic devices for lower-limb rehabilitation have been mainly tested in neurologically
      injured patients. Up to now, clinical studies using robotic training in orthopedic conditions
      are few. A pilot study was carried out at INAIL Physical Rehabilitation Center of Volterra
      using ARBOT, a prototypal robotic system for ankle rehabilitation. This device has been
      developed by IIT - Italian Institute of Technology and it consists of a two-degree-of-freedom
      electromechanical platform which is able to perform most of the exercises foreseen by the
      standard rehabilitation programs. By virtue of its innovative motion system and control
      architecture, ARBOT integrates multiple rehabilitation equipment functions, performing also
      special exercise programs such as elastic and fluid-dynamic resistance.

      ARBOT allows training according to programmed sequences, in order to promote range of
      movement, muscular function and proprioceptive recovery. Exercises can be performed with or
      without bearing weight. Moreover, ARBOT is a powerful evaluation instrument for
      physiotherapists in order to verify and record the results of rehabilitative intervention.

      The primary aim of this trial was to determine the effectiveness, safety and tolerability of
      robot-assisted rehabilitation using ARBOT in patients with ankle dysfunction resulting from
      work related ankle fractures, compared with conventional rehabilitation programs. Secondary
      objectives was to investigate correlations among physical and disability parameters, to
      collect data in order to define further study protocols and improve ARBOT's performance and
      ergonomics, and ultimately to evaluate patient satisfaction with respect to robot assisted
      rehabilitation programs.

      METHODS:

      Thirty-two patients with work related injuries resulting in ankle and/or hindfoot fractures
      and subsequent to the immobilization phase was enrolled in an open randomized controlled
      trial over a 30 month period. Each participant was randomly allocated to experimental or
      control group and received a 4-week rehabilitation program (20 sessions, for 5 days/week from
      admission to discharge in the Rehabilitation Centre) and weekly robotic and clinical
      assessments.

      Subjects in the experimental group were treated using ARBOT with passive, active and active
      assisted range-of-motion exercises, resistive exercises in isometric, isotonic, isokinetic,
      elastic and fluid-dynamic conditions, and proprioceptive training. Control subjects were
      assisted by a physiotherapist during range of motion recovery exercises and performed
      resistive and proprioceptive training using Biodex System 3 dynamometer and ProKin PK254
      mobile electronic platform.

      The assessment sessions included measurements of dorsiflexion ROM, isometric and isokinetic
      plantar-flexion torque and proprioceptive performance with ARBOT and 2 minutes walking and
      timed stair climbing test, LEFS-Lower Extremity Functional Scale and AOFAS-Ankle-Hindfoot
      Scale.

      Site monitoring of the study has been conducted according to the standard ISO 14155.
    
  