
    
      Rationale: Distress, including depression, anxiety, and chronic stress, is common among
      patients with cardiovascular disease. This reduces their quality of life and worsens their
      prognosis. A structured mindfulness training programme, such as the 8-week mindfulness-based
      stress reduction (MBSR) course, may reduce distress, improve quality of life, support a
      healthy lifestyle and modify cardiovascular risks. The aim of this randomised controlled
      trial is to determine whether MBSR improves the quality of life in patients with
      atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.

      Objective: The primary objective is the effect of MBSR on quality of life. Secondary
      objectives are the effects of MBSR on mental health, mindfulness, and cardiovascular risk
      factors, and the cost-effectiveness of MBSR.

      Study design: Multicenter Torgerson preference randomised controlled trial. Complemented with
      qualitative research in a maximum of 12 patients in the intervention arm.

      Study population: Patients with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (i.e. coronary artery
      disease, ischemic heart failure, and peripheral artery disease).

      Intervention: The intervention group will receive an 8-week MBSR programme in addition to
      treatment as usual (TAU+MBSR), while the control group will receive only treatment as usual
      (TAU).

      Main study parameters: The primary outcome is the change of scores on the SF-36 scale, which
      is an instrument for measuring quality of life. Secondary outcomes are depression and anxiety
      (HADS questionnaire), stress (PSS-10 questionnaire), mindfulness (FFMQ-SF questionnaire),
      smoking, BMI, blood pressure, heart rate, plasma lipids and HbA1c, hair cortisol, quality of
      life measured by EQ-5D-5L questionnaire, health care costs, and non-health care costs.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks: Participation in this trial is not associated with
      additional risks compared to treatment as usual. MBSR is proven to be safe and is widely
      accepted for patients with a variety of conditions as well as for healthy persons. The burden
      of participation (i.e. time investment and extra examinations) will be compensated by the
      possible benefits. MBSR is already successfully used for the treatment of a variety of
      physical and mental conditions, including chronic pain, cancer, anxiety, depression and
      burnout. As a substantial number of patients with cardiovascular disease experience distress,
      mindfulness could be an effective intervention for this population as well. The American
      Heart Association recently stated that meditation, as it is a low-cost and low-risk
      intervention, may be considered as an adjunct to current cardiovascular management. However,
      further research on the effects of mindfulness is warranted and should preferably consist of
      randomised, adequately powered studies with use of a control group.
    
  