
    
      Study Design: A prospective, multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled,
      adaptive sample size, two-treatment parallel, pivotal clinical study.

      Protocol-eligible subjects will be randomized in a 2:1 allocation to receive either the
      active MuReva Phototherapy System or sham control. Both the subjects and clinician evaluating
      the patients will be blinded to the treatment assignments. The sham device will be placed in
      the patient's mouth and operated in the same manner as the active device, but not deliver any
      therapy.

      Subjects will begin device treatment sessions on the first day of chemoradiotherapy (CRT)
      treatment immediately prior to radiation treatment (RT) and will continue to receive once
      daily treatments prior to RT with their assigned device for 5 days per week for the duration
      of their CRT treatment (approximately 6 to 8 weeks, for a total of 30 to 40 device sessions
      depending on the standard of care regimen for the type of cancer). Each device treatment
      session will last 5 minutes. Light therapy parameters for the MuReva Phototherapy System will
      be as follows for all subjects receiving active light therapy: mouthpiece 660nm, 2-8 J/cm2,
      irradiance < 75mW/cm2. Subjects who stay on CRT treatment past 6 weeks will continue to
      receive treatment with their assigned device up through 8 total weeks of treatment (for a
      maximum total of 40 device sessions). In addition, all subjects, regardless of randomization,
      will be kept on standard oral care, oral hygiene and oral pain protocols.

      All subjects will visit the study site once during the Screening period (Days -28 to 1) an
      anticipated 30 to 40 times during the treatment period (i.e., 5 days during each of the 6-8
      CRT treatment weeks) and for one 2-week post RT follow-up visit. Weekly, subjects will be
      evaluated for QOL, pain, OM and for device safety. At the conclusion of the final CRT session
      and evaluation, each subject will complete a user validation survey. There will be one 2-week
      post RT follow-up visit.
    
  