
    
      a. Historical background The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates that
      there are currently 29 million people with diabetes and 86 million people with pre-diabetes
      in the U.S. One in 10 Americans has diabetes now, and, if current trends continue, 1 in 3
      Americans will have diabetes by 2050. This chronic disease significantly impacts both quality
      of life and rapidly rising national healthcare costs. The estimated cost of diabetes in the
      U.S. in 2014 was $265 billion with $176 billion in direct medical costs and $89 billion is
      indirect medical costs (disability, work loss, premature mortality). Medical expenses for
      people with diabetes are 2.3 times higher than for people without diabetes.

      Food insecurity, defined as limited access to nutritious food due to cost, has been
      associated with increased prevalence of diabetes and worse diabetes control. Food insecurity
      may worsen diabetes by decreasing consumption of fresh fruits and vegetables and increasing
      consumption of inexpensive, calorie-dense food, and which in turn leads to greater Hemoglobin
      A1c, an indicator of hyperglycemia, over time.

      c. Rationale behind the proposed research, and potential benefits to participants and/or
      society

      Approximately 20% of diabetes patients report food insecurity, a number that increases to
      over 25% among those with the worst metabolic control.5 The prevalence of food insecurity is
      also 20% in the MGH Population we surveyed (data not yet published). Hyperglycemia is
      particularly responsive to dietary changes,8 yet few interventions have attempted to address
      food insecurity in diabetes care. Prior studies have examined the impact of the Supplemental
      Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP, formerly the Food Stamp Program), but have not found
      important improvements in diabetes outcomes for participants9. This may be because
      neighborhood access to produce and other high quality food is low for many SNAP participants,
      or because making healthy food choices is difficult in resource-constrained environments.
      Additionally, recent sociological work has shown that expecting low-income women to cook
      healthy meals for their families induces a significant burden, and the burden of these
      expectations may drive less healthy food choices. Additionally, while significant time is
      needed for healthy food preparation, low-income patients often face limited leisure time, and
      multiple competing demands for both time and financial resources. Alternatively, direct
      provision of healthy foods was incidentally noted to improve diabetes outcomes in a prior
      randomized controlled trial, but this study was not conducted with the goal of addressing
      food insecurity.

      In this study, we propose to test whether home delivery of freshly prepared meals
      specifically tailored to the needs of diabetes patients improves their dietary quality. We
      hypothesize that the delivery of the meals will help them eat more healthily and improve the
      food security of participants. Secondary outcomes in this pilot study will be weight and
      metabolic control, along with psychological aspects of diabetes care.

      Aim 1: To evaluate the effectiveness of receiving Community Servings meals on dietary quality
      for food insecure diabetes patients with severe hyperglycemia (HbA1c > 8.0%) H1. Primary
      outcome. Healthy Eating Index 2010 (HEI) score: We hypothesize that the CS group will
      demonstrate greater improvements in dietary quality, as assessed by HEI score, at 12 weeks,
      compared with usual care. The sample size of 50 provides 80% power to detect a 5 point
      difference between the CS and usual care groups, assuming an 11 point standard deviation and
      accounting for a 10% drop-out rate.

      H1b. Secondary exploratory outcomes. Medical outcomes: We hypothesize that compared with
      usual care, CS group participants will improve HbA1c, blood pressure, weight, and lipids from
      baseline at the end of the intervention.

      H1c. Behavioral and psychosocial outcomes: Because meal provision will reduce stress related
      to procuring healthy meals, and free up household resources that would otherwise be spent on
      food, we hypothesize that compared with usual care, the CS groups will have greater
      improvements from baseline in patient-reported outcomes of diabetes distress and material
      need security.

      Aim 2: To evaluate the feasibility of providing meals and patient experience with the CS
      program, particularly focusing on factors that determine acceptability, continuation, and
      scalability We will use a mixed methods approach using participant structured interviews and
      surveys to assess engagement and satisfaction with the program, and participant interviews or
      focus groups to compare responders and non-responders. We will also collect quantitative
      indicators of feasibility and implementation such as percent of meals delivered and consumed,
      enrollment and persistence with the program, and logistical issues in order to plan for a
      future full-scale intervention.
    
  