
    
      Primary Objective:

      To explore sex- and gender differences in:

        1. the prevalence of (clinically relevant clusters) of PFS

        2. the incidence of (clinically relevant clusters) of PFS

           Secondary Objectives:

           To explore sex- and gender differences in:

        3. factors associated with the development of PFS ('risk factors')

        4. factors that predict the course of PFS ('prognostic factors')

        5. factors that reveal the impact of PFS on daily life

        6. help seeking behavior

        7. health care use (consultations for PFS and consultation frequency, diagnostic tests,
           diagnoses, treatment, and referrals) among those who sought care.

      Design:

      For this study a mixed-methods approach will be used, combining quantitative and qualitative
      study designs.

      The first step is to set-up a prospective population-based cohort study with a 2-year
      follow-up based on annual self-administered questionnaires. Eligible participants will be
      invited by general practices in a well-defined region: the municipality of Coevorden.

      Electronic medical record data (extracted from the Huisartsen Informatie Systeem, HIS) will
      be matched with outcomes of the questionnaire, by a trusted third party (TTP).

      A sample of female (n=200) and male (n=200) subjects with and without PFS will be invited for
      physical examination to assess pelvic floor disorders and pelvic floor muscle function (sub
      study 1).

      A sample of patients with PFS will be invited for a qualitative study consisting of a
      semi-structured interview on help seeking behavior, including barriers and facilitators,
      preferences and satisfaction (sub study 2).

      Procedures:

      In the upcoming period before the baseline questionnaire the study will be given attention by
      flyers/posters in the waiting room of the participating practices and local press.

      Eligible persons will receive an information letter, with informed consent form attached,
      from their GP about the cohort study.

      Informed consent:

      People can provide informed consent by sending a signed informed consent form to the
      coordinating investigator using the pre-stamped and self-addressed envelope included.

      Subjects will be asked to fill in the informed consent form for

        1. participation in the cohort study (i.e. filling in the questionnaire),

        2. permission to collect medical GP record data

        3. permission to be approached for future sub-studies

           Filling in the questionnaire:

           After providing informed consent, participants will receive an e-mail including the
           website of the questionnaire and their unique personal code for filling in the
           questionnaire.

           When subjects have not finished the questionnaire within 2 weeks, they will receive an
           automatically generated reminder by e-mail. When 1 week after the e-mail reminder, the
           subject has not finished the questionnaire, a second reminder by SMS will be sent. If a
           subject will not respond to these reminders, he/she will be considered as nonresponder
           (baseline) or lost to follow up.

           The questionnaire consists of 11 parts for women and 10 parts for men, with a filling in
           time of approximately 45-60 minutes. Subjects may interrupt completing the questionnaire
           and continue it later on. In the online version there will be a button that enables
           completing the questionnaire in another time (details on the questionnaire can be found
           in the Methods section of this protocol). The questions in the online questionnaire will
           have audio support, to stimulate participation and prevent drop-out of participants with
           low literacy.

           Subjects, who do not have access to the internet can use a laptop of the research team,
           made available in the local general practice (in a private room). Subjects who indicated
           that they want to fill in a paper version of the questionnaire will receive a paper
           version at their home address including a pre-stamped and self-addressed envelope. The
           paper questionnaires (provided only with the subject identification code) will be
           entered into the online RoQua system by the coordinating researcher or research
           assistant.

           In case participants need support with filling in the questionnaires, such support is
           provided through the research team in the municipality of Coevorden. For this, medical
           students (males and females) with different native languages will be deployed. Due to
           the privacy sensitive nature of the study, we actively discourage participants to ask
           support from their peers or family.

           Invitation and procedure for sub-studies Eligible participants (see information on
           sub-studies), who provided informed consent for receiving information on sub-studies,
           will receive a participant information leaflet for the specific sub-study.

           Sub study 1 physical examination When participants want to participate they fill in the
           reply form and send it to the research team. A member of the research team will schedule
           an appointment for the physical examination. The participant and a member of the study
           team will sign informed consent face to face before the start of the physical
           examination.

           Sub study 2 interview When participants want to participate they fill in the informed
           consent form and send it to the research team. A member of the research team will
           schedule an appointment for the interview.

           Follow-up:

           Participants who completed the baseline questionnaire will be invited after 1 year and
           after 2 years to participate in the follow-up questionnaire rounds.

           Data:

           1. List with potential participants (key file) In order to invite subjects (after
           informed consent), to send reminders to the subjects, and to eventually connect the
           questionnaire database with the medical record data, this data file contains information
           about sex, name, date of birth, address, postal code, place, email-address, and
           telephone number, and the RoQua ID number. Furthermore, preference of way of filling in
           the questionnaire (online or paper, with or without guidance), and permission to collect
           medical GP record data, and permission to be approached for future sub-studies will be
           included in this data file.

           A subject identification code will be made for each subject. This code is not based on
           patient initials and birth-date. The data file is safeguarded by the coordinating
           investigator and the research assistant that is part of the research team, and will be
           stored in a separate place apart from other files, without access from outside. A
           password will be needed for entering this key file.

           2a. Data file with personal data in MedoQ In order to connect subjects to the
           questionnaire database, and to send reminders to the subjects, this data file contains
           information about sex, name, email-address, telephone number, a unique RoQua ID number
           and the subject identification number.

           This system with personal data will be filled in by predefined research members (i.e.
           the coordinating researcher and research assistant of the study) and access to the
           system is restricted to those predefined research members. Next to a login account, the
           system is secured by Google Authenticator. The predefined research members have
           restricted options, such as filling in the personal data and inviting subjects for
           filling in the questionnaire.

           2b. Questionnaire database by RoQua RoQua will be used to collect and store data
           generated from the questionnaires. Data are stored on RoQua-servers under the management
           of 'het Centrum voor Informatie Technologie (CIT)' of the RuG. The database is not
           directly accessible for the researcher, but will be made available to the researcher
           according to the approved Research Data management plan. Data will not be anonymized,
           but pseudonymized as it is necessary to trace data to an individual subject. This
           procedure will be performed by a Trusted Third Party (ZorgTTP).

           3. Medical data GPs Medical data will be collected through the electronic medical
           records (Huisarts Informatie Systeem, HIS) systems used by the different general
           practices. Data from those HIS systems will be collected via VIPLive and transformed by
           Calculus/Proigia in order to generate a generic structure of the data. The structured
           data will then be returned to VIPLive and will be sent to ZorgTTP for pseudomization.
           The pseudonymized data are sent to the AHON (Academisch Huisarts Ontwikkel Netwerk)
           database. The time scale for medical record review is 5 years prior to baseline
           measurement up to the end of follow-up in the cohort.

           4. Research database The different databases (questionnaire database from RoQua and a
           subset of the AHON database) can be connected via the unique pseudomization codes
           provided by ZorgTTP, eventually resulting in a secured research database. This raw data
           file will be locked for editing after closure of the study. Data cleaning and processing
           will be executed using syntaxes in program SPSS.

           Monitoring and Quality Assurance:

           As this study is with negligible risks a monitor from the University Medical Center
           Groningen (UMCG) will monitor the study.

           Statistical analysis:

           Primary study parameter(s):

           To identify distinct classes of patients with clinically relevant clusters of PFS we
           will perform Latent Class Analyses (LCA). LCA is a type of cluster analysis used to
           group patients into k number of unique categories, where, within each category patients
           are most similar to each other regarding PFS, and between the categories patients are
           most different. The prevalence and incidence of those clinically relevant clusters of
           PFS will be calculated.

           To explore whether sex- and gender-differences are present, we will perform most of the
           analyses separately for sex (male and female subjects). The main reason for this is that
           the questionnaires to measure PFS among women (female subjects) and men (male subjects)
           are different to each other.

           Secondary study parameter(s):

           Univariate analyses will be performed to assess which parameters will be used in the
           multivariable regression-analyses. In addition to those univariate parameters,
           parameters known from literature will be added to the regression models.

           Multivariable regression-analyses will be used to assess which factors are associated
           with cluster membership. We aim to distinguish factors associated with the development
           of PFS ('risk factors'), factors that predict the course of PFS ('prognostic factors'),
           factors that reveal the impact of PFS on daily life, and explore sex and gender
           differences.

           To determine which factors are potential risk factors, a subsample consisting of
           participants without PFS at baseline will be selected.

           Multivariable regression-analyses will be used to identify baseline factors that are
           associated with the development of PFS at follow-up measurements. To determine which
           factors are prognostic factors, a subsample consisting of participants reporting PFS at
           baseline will be selected. Subsequently, a predictive model will be made to assess which
           characteristics are associated to the course of (clusters of PFS) during follow-up. To
           explore whether sex- and gender-differences are present, we will perform most of the
           analyses separately for sex (male and female subjects). The main reason for this is that
           the questionnaires to measure PFS among women (female subjects) and men (male subjects)
           are different to each other. We would introduce bias if we would use the complete set of
           data and add sex as interaction term in the regression analyses. To explore the
           influence of gender-specific variables, we will add the gender identity variable and
           gender role variables in the regression analyses.

           Variables will be entered into the model using the ''enter'' method of regression (ie,
           all variables are forced into the model simultaneously, without making a decision about
           the order in which the variables are entered.
    
  