
    
      Lack of adherence to medications is an identifiable and growing problem in the United States
      and can result in disease progression, disease complications, treatment failure, a lower
      quality of life, and increased morbidity and mortality. Medication-related problems and
      medication nonadherence have been estimated to cost $177 billion annually in total direct and
      indirect U.S. health care costs. Moreover, medication adherence rates are poor for
      individuals diagnosed with chronic conditions such as diabetes, depression, and
      schizophrenia, which require long-term therapy. Recent publications have estimated that
      nearly 50% of patients in the U.S. being treated for chronic conditions are non-adherent to
      their medication regimens. Although increased medication adherence may lead to increased
      spending on drug therapy, it is associated with greatly reduced total health care costs and
      usage, and better patient outcomes.

      Persons diagnosed with serious mental illness (SMI) such as schizophrenia and bipolar
      disorder are at higher risk than the general population for medication nonadherence,
      cardiovascular mortality, and medical co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension,
      dyslipidemia, obesity, nicotine dependence, and coronary heart disease. Poor adherence to
      complex medication regimens, decreased access to care, and uncoordinated care between
      psychiatry and medical care teams, have been identified as key contributors to the
      disparities experienced by this patient population.

      The United States healthcare system is complex and healthcare is fragmented, particularly for
      those with serious mental illness who are often prescribed multiple medications from numerous
      providers. One unifying piece of information that is of critical importance for optimizing
      patient care is the patient medication list. Unfortunately, appropriate medication
      reconciliation to obtain the correct medication list and information about medication
      adherence is a complex and imperfect process. Using patient pharmacy records, electronic
      health record (EHR), and patient interviews, discrepancies have been found with over one
      third of patients upon hospital admission. Therefore, it can be expected that most
      polypharmacy patients (defined as taking five or more medications) have errors in their
      medical record.

      National and world health associations have identified several opportunities for health
      professionals to provide services that aim to increase medication adherence and decrease
      medication related problems. Several of the recommendations emphasize the use of coordinated
      multidisciplinary efforts to provide patients with the most access to care and the highest
      quality education about their medications. Pharmacists are among the most accessible health
      care professionals and have specialized training to identify, prevent, and resolve
      drug-related problems (DRPs). As medication experts, pharmacists are important members of the
      multidisciplinary team and are uniquely positioned to impact medication-related health
      outcomes through accurate medication reconciliation, comprehensive mediation reviews (CMR),
      and interventions to improve medication safety and adherence.

      An objective measure of what medications patients are actually taking would enable healthcare
      teams to better identify and tailor interventions to each specific patient situation. Using a
      novel therapeutic drug monitoring assay and empirical clinical decision support tool, Sano
      has shown that errors in patient medication lists are prevalent and poorly reflect patient
      adherence to the intended medication regimen and actual medication exposure. For example, in
      a cohort of psychiatry patients, only 37% were fully adherent to all medications in their
      treatment regimen and roughly one in five medications detected was not in the medical record.
      We anticipate that when medication reconciliation is performed by a pharmacist using Sano's
      clinical decision support tool, medication adherence will improve and more drug therapy
      problems will be identified and resolved. As a result, we expect to see an improvement in
      patient outcomes and a reduction in healthcare spending (i.e. post-hospitalization unplanned
      healthcare utilization).
    
  