
    
      The study will last 36 months. The questionnaire for the assessment of physical health and
      medical conditions risk factors, as well as the manual concerning the procedures for
      screening and assessment of medical comorbidity, will be developed during the first three
      months of the study. The recruitment and assessment of all subjects will be completed within
      the first semester of the third year.

      The analysis of data collected will be completed in the second semester of the third year.

      PROCEDURES AND ASSESSMENT TOOLS In all subjects a blood sample of 20 ml will be withdrawn
      from a peripheral vein for genetic analyses.

        1. Evaluation of aspects related to the disease. For all patients a clinical form will be
           filled in with data on age and type of disease onset, course of the disease and
           treatments. All available sources of information (patient, family, medical records and
           mental health workers) will be used to complete the form.

           The Premorbid Adjustment Scale (PAS) will be used to assess premorbid adjustment. It
           evaluates the achieved level of functioning before the onset of schizophrenia in four
           areas (social accessibility/isolation, peer relationships, ability to function outside
           the nuclear family, and capacity to form intimate social - sexual ties) during 4 periods
           of subject's life (childhood; early adolescence; late adolescence; adulthood), as well
           as the highest achieved global level of functioning. It comprises 26 items with a score
           ranging from 0 (healthiest end of the adjustment range) to 6 (indicating the least
           healthy end).

           General psychopathology and positive symptoms will be evaluated using the Positive and
           Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS).

           Negative symptoms will be assessed using the Brief Negative Symptom Scale (BNSS). This
           scale includes 13 items and assesses 5 domains of negative symptoms: anhedonia,
           asociality, avolition, blunted affect and alogia, as well as a control item, not
           included in the negative domains, "Distress". For all items of the 5 domains higher
           scores are associated with greater impairment/presence of symptoms, while for the item
           Distress the highest score is associated with reduction or absence of negative emotions.

           Depressive symptoms will be investigated using the Calgary Depression Rating Scale
           (CDRS), a rating scale designed to assess the level of depression in people with
           schizophrenia. It includes 9 items (depression; hopelessness; self depreciation; guilty
           ideas of reference; pathological guilt; morning depression; early wakening; suicide;
           observed depression) with a score ranging from 0 (absent) to 3 (severe).

           The possible presence of extrapyramidal symptoms, whose assessment is required to
           exclude that the observed negative symptoms are secondary to them, will be verified by
           means of the St. Hans Rating Scale (SHRS), a multidimensional rating scale comprising
           four subscales: hyperkinesias, parkinsonism, akathisia and dystonia. Each subscale
           includes one or more items with a score ranging from 0 (absent) to 6 (severe).

           Neurocognitive functions will be evaluated by means of the Measurement and Treatment
           Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (MATRICS) Consensus Cognitive Battery
           (MCCB). The battery includes tests for the assessment of seven distinct cognitive
           domains: a) processing speed, b) attention/vigilance, c) working memory, d) verbal
           learning, e) visual learning, f) social cognition and g) reasoning and problem solving.

           The assessment of social cognition, partly included in the MCCB, will be completed using
           the Facial Emotion Identification Test and a theory of mind test The Awareness of Social
           Inference Test (TASIT). In the Facial Emotion Identification Test (FEIT), 55 faces are
           presented on a screen; the subject has to choose the facial emotion expressed by each
           face among 7 possibilities (anger, disgust, neutral, happiness, surprise, fear,
           sadness). The TASIT includes three sections: 1) Emotion Evaluation Test, that examines
           the ability to recognize basic emotions shown by other people, in which 28 vignettes are
           presented to the subject who has to choose the emotion expressed by a target actor from
           a multiple-choice array (surprise, happiness, anger, sadness, anxiety, disgust,
           neutral); 2) Test of Social Inference (Minimal), that evaluates the ability to perceive
           social inferences, specifically those involving the use of sarcasm; 15 vignettes are
           presented and the subject has to answer, for each vignette, four questions regarding,
           respectively, what one of the actors was "doing", what was he/she trying to "say", what
           was he/she "thinking" and what was he/she "feeling"; 3) Test of Social Inference
           (Enriched), that evaluates the ability to perceive social inferences involving lying and
           using sarcasm; 16 vignettes are presented and the same questions of the second section
           are asked.

        2. Assessment of personal resources The evaluation of physical health status will be
           carried out through the application of a standardized protocol developed by the unit N.
           5 of Naples.

      The assessment of coping style will be made by means of the Coping Orientation to Problems
      Experienced inventory - Brief, including 28 items, divided into 14 scales: positive
      reframing, self-distraction, expression, use of instrumental support, active coping, denial,
      religion, humor, behavioral disengagement, use of emotional support, substance use,
      acceptance, planning, self-blame. The tool aims to capture a wide range of coping strategies
      in real life situations.

      The evaluation of self-esteem will be carried out using the Self-Esteem Rating Scale (SERS),
      which assesses different aspects of the self-esteem, such as feeling socially and
      self-competent, being worth of respect, feeling intelligent and able to solve problems. SERS
      is composed of 40 items, with ratings on a 7-point Likert scale.

      The recovery style will be evaluated using the Recovery Style Questionnaire. This
      self-administered instrument consists of 39 items that refer to the construct of continuity,
      ownership, responsibility, curiosity, education, help-seeking, blame, cause, optimism,
      impact, fear, liking and satisfaction. For each of them the person is categorized as sealer
      or integrator.

      Resilience will be evaluated through the Resilience Scale for Adults (RSA). The RSA is a
      scale that provides a multidimensional assessment of resilience general characteristics. It
      includes 33 items that examine intra-and inter-personal protective factors thought to
      facilitate adaptation when facing psychosocial adversity. Factor analysis showed six factors:
      a) personal competence, b) positive perception of the future, c) social competence, d),
      personal structure, and) family cohesion, f) social resources.

      The relationship with mental health services will be evaluated with the Service Engagement
      Scale (SES), which includes 16 items grouped into 4 subscales: a) availability, b)
      cooperation c) help seeking d) adherence to treatment. The person is given a score on a
      4-point Likert scale. c) Evaluation of factors related to the context. For the evaluation of
      subject's family social - economic status the Social Economic Status will be used. The SES is
      based on: a) education and b) type of work. The educational level is measured on a 7-level
      scale (1=elementary school, 7=post-degree/specialization courses) and the type of work is
      rated on a 9-level scale (1=laborer, 9=high level managerial positions). To calculate the
      index the education level and the type of work of each parent is weighted.

      The amount of social policies expenditure and the unemployment rate in the geographical
      macro-area (Northeast, Northwest, Central, South and Islands) will be taken from the latest
      Italian National Institute of Statistic (ISTAT) tables. The availability of a disability
      pension, and access to family and social incentives will be investigated through a social -
      demographic questionnaire developed ad hoc with which data on sex, age, marital status,
      schooling, housing, and luxuries habits will be also collected. For the evaluation of the
      social network the Social Network Questionnaire (SNQ) will be used. It is a self-administered
      questionnaire that evaluates the structural and qualitative aspects of the social network. It
      includes 15 items, grouped into 4 factors: a) quality and frequency of social contacts; b)
      practical social support; c) emotional support, d) quality of an intimate relationship. Each
      item is rated on a scale from 1 "never" to 4 "always". The evaluation of the stigma
      associated with mental illness will be carried out using two instruments: the Internalized
      Stigma of Mental Illness (ISMI), which will be administered to all patients and evaluates the
      experience of stigma and internalized self-rejection, and the Perceived Devaluation and
      Discrimination Scale (PDD), which measures the perceived stigma, i.e., the attitudes of the
      general population with respect to mental disorders, which will be administered to all
      subjects. The ISMI is a scale that includes 29 items and 5 subscales for self-assessment of
      subjective experience of stigma. Each item is rated on a 4-level Likert scale, where higher
      scores indicate greater levels of internalized stigma. The PDD includes 12 items, each of
      whom is rated on a 5-level Likert scale, with higher scores indicating greater stigma.

      d) Assessment of functional capacity and real-life functioning The functional capacity will
      be evaluated using the short version of the Performance-based Skills Assessment, University
      of California, San Diego (UCSD) , a performance-based instrument that investigates two areas:
      Financial Skills (counting money, counting change and paying bills) and Communication Skills
      (to dial a telephone number for emergency, for information, dial a telephone number from
      memory; to reschedule an appointment by telephone; to understand and to remember the
      instructions on a Medical Doctor Appointment Letter). Individual real-life functioning will
      be assessed by the Specific Level of Function Scale (SLOF), a hybrid instrument that explores
      many aspects of functioning and is based on judgments by a caregiver/operator (or the direct
      observation) of behavior and functioning of patients. It consists of 43 items and includes
      the following domains: a) physical efficiency; b) skills in self-care; c) interpersonal
      relationships; d) social acceptability; e) community activities (e.g., shopping, using public
      transportation); f) working abilities. The scale that assesses "Personal and Social
      Functioning" (PSF) will be also used; it evaluates the areas of self-care, socially useful
      activities, personal and social relationships and disturbing and aggressive behaviors.

      GENETIC ASSOCIATION ANALYSES WITH THE PHENOTYPES OF INTEREST The Naples research unit n. 6
      will perform an association study between selected putative schizophrenia genes and specific
      psychometric, neurophysiological and neurocognitive schizophrenia endophenotypes; moreover,
      the research unit will search for de novo copy-number variations (CNV) as putative risk
      factors for schizophrenia or schizophrenia endophenotypes and for de novo protein-altering
      mutations that may contribute to the genetic component of schizophrenia endophenotypes.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS OF DATA To identify the factors that affect most real-life functioning
      of people diagnosed with schizophrenia multiple regression statistical models will be used.
      Real-life functioning and functional capacity indices will be defined as dependent variables.
      The three blocks of variables, i.e. disease-related variable, personal resources and
      context-related variables, will be the independent variables or predictors. structural
      equation model (SEM), that according to some authors is robust against the problem of
      multicollinearity occurring in a regression model when there is a linear correlation among
      the independent variables, will be used. This analysis allows to draw assumptions on the
      causality between the variables and, based on path analysis o identify potential factors
      mediating and moderating the relationships between dependent and independent variables. The
      explored models will be subsequently tested with confirmatory analyses.

      Estimated sample size for this analysis is of at least 5 independent observations for each
      index in the model. Therefore, by including in the model: 3 demographic indices (age, sex and
      education), 15 variables related to the disease (PANSS-general and PANSS-positive subscale
      scores, 2 negative symptom domains derived from BNSS, 6 cognitive domains from the MCCB, 4
      indices of social cognition, derived from the specific section of the MCCB, TASIT and FEIT,
      the total score for depression on the Calgary scale), 36 indices related to the personal
      resources (6 factors of Resilience, 14 Coping factors, 13 Recovery styles factors, 1 score
      for Self-Esteem, 1 index of relationship with mental health services, 1 physical health
      index) and 10 related to the context (1 index of economic status, 5 indices of financial
      opportunities and work/family and social incentives, 2 stigma indices, 2 social network
      factors), for a total of 64 indices, it is estimated that an appropriate sample of patients
      will be 64x5=320 subjects.

      The effects of dichotomous variables (eg, gender) and ordinal (eg, social class) will be
      assessed with one- or multiple-way analyses of variance. The analyses will be conducted using
      the Statistical Package for Social Science (SPSS).
    
  