
    
      Since December 2019, Wuhan has successively found multiple cases of patients with pneumonia
      infected by a novel coronavirus. With the spread of the epidemic, other cases in China and
      abroad have also found such cases. As of 24:00 on February 1, 2020, a total of 14,380
      confirmed cases were reported in China, of which there were 2110 severe cases and 304 death
      cases. At present, there is no effective treatment for pneumonia in the clinic against new
      coronavirus infection, especially severe and critical cases. Therefore, it is of great
      significance to explore more active and effective therapeutic approach to severe pneumonia
      patients infected with 2019-nCoV.

      Human and animal studies have shown that after infection with coronavirus, the rapid
      replication of the virus in the body and the subsequent inflammatory response cause damage to
      alveolar epithelial cells and capillary endothelial cells, causing diffuse interstitial and
      alveolar edema, and pulmonary function. Impaired, leading to acute hypoxic respiratory
      insufficiency. The National Health and Medical Commission recently released the "New
      Coronavirus Infected Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Plan (Trial Version 5)", which pointed
      out that the new type of coronavirus severe pneumonia usually has difficulty breathing after
      one week, and the severe cases quickly progress to acute respiratory distress syndrome,
      Septic shock and metabolic acidosis that is difficult to correct. It can be seen that the key
      to the treatment of new coronavirus severe pneumonia is to inhibit the super-inflammatory
      immune response caused by the virus, thereby reducing the damage of alveolar epithelial cells
      and capillary endothelial cells, and then repairing the structure and function of lung
      tissue.

      Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are one of the most studied and important adult stem cells. A
      large amount of evidence shows that MSCs can migrate to and return to damaged tissues, exert
      strong anti-inflammatory and immune regulatory functions, promote the regeneration and repair
      of damaged tissues, resist apoptosis and inhibit tissue fibrosis, and reduce tissue damage.
      Many studies have shown that the anti-inflammatory effects of MSCs can significantly reduce
      virus-induced lung injury and mortality in mice. Studies have shown that MSCs can
      significantly reduce acute lung injury in mice caused by H9N2 and H5N1 viruses by reducing
      the levels of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines and reducing the recruitment of
      inflammatory cells into the lungs. Compared with MSCs from other sources, human umbilical
      cord-derived MSCs (umbilical cord MSCs, UC-MSCs) have been widely used because of their
      convenient collection, no ethical controversy, low immunogenicity, fast self-renewal and
      strong proliferation ability Research on the treatment of various diseases. Early research in
      this laboratory used UC-MSCs to intervene in endotoxin (LPS) -induced acute lung injury in
      mice, and confirmed that UC-MSCs can significantly reduce inflammatory cell infiltration in
      lung tissue, reduce inflammation in lung tissue, and significantly improve lung The structure
      and function of tissues protect mouse lung tissue from endotoxin-induced damage.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate efficiency and safety of UC-MSCs in treating
      severe pneumonia patients infected with 2019-nCoV. This trial will recruit 48 patients. 24
      patients received i.v. transfusion one round (4 times) of 5.0*10E6 cells/kg of UC-MSCs as the
      treated group, all of them received the conventional treatment. In addition, the equal 24
      patients received conventional treatment were used as control group. The respiratory
      function, pulmonary inflammation, clinical symptoms, pulmonary imaging, side effects, 28-days
      mortality, immunological characteristics (immune cells, inflammatory factors, etc.) will be
      evaluated during the 90 days to 96 weeks follow up.
    
  