
    
      Osteopontin (OPN) is one of integrin-binding N-linked glycoproteins, which is produced by
      activated mononuclear cells and is linked to increasing evidence about the role of OPN in
      vascular calcification[1].

      Recent clinical studies have shown that vascular calcification is a pathological process
      leading to mechanical rigidity and stiffness of vascular wall, endothelial dysfunction,
      development and accelerating atherosclerosis even in the absence of established
      cardiovascular (CV) disease . Ectopic calcification is explained by several mutually
      counteracting molecular mechanisms, i.e. oxidative stress, microvascular inflammation, immune
      cell-to-cell cooperation, accumulation of lipids and extracellular proteins, vascular
      reparative systems, and metabolic disorders All these processes are under tight regulation of
      vitamin D, parathyroid hormone-related peptides (fibroblast growth factor, transcription
      factor Sox2, beta-catenin, etc) and matricellular proteins such as OPN. [2].

      OPN was found to have relation with vascular calcification, atherosclerosis, and CV disease
      associated with severe vascular remodelling including hypertension, chronic kidney disease,
      diabetes mellitus . In this context, OPN is a promising biomarker of vascular remodelling
      closely related to inflammation intensity, glucose level and pro-thrombotic state with
      promising predictive value for CV events [3].

      It is a matricellular protein that was first identified in 1995 by Heingard et al. as
      sialoprotein derived from bovine bone matrix . During the last decade a number of studies
      analysed the role of OPN in the pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy. This proposed
      association needs confirmation and detailed description by further research [4].

      At first, OPN has been reported to be highly expressed in the tubular epithelium of the renal
      cortex and in glomeruli in rat and mouse models of diabetic nephropathy [5]. This was
      associated with extensive macrophage accumulation in the kidney interstitium indicating that
      OPN upregulation and macrophage recruitment may play a role in the tubulo-interstitial injury
      in diabetic nephropathy [6]. Consistently, OPN/mice are protected from diabetes-induced
      albuminuria and renal damage, possibly by modulating podocyte signaling and motility [7]. In
      humans, plasma OPN levels are independently associated with presence and severity of diabetic
      nephropathy [8] Compelling evidence in the literature provides interesting clues about a link
      between the rennin-angiotensin system (RAS) and OPN in diabetic kidney disease.
      Diabetes-induced OPN expression and macrophage accumulation in the kidney interstitium of
      diabetic rats are significantly ameliorated after treatment with the long acting ACE
      inhibitor [9]. Showing that treatment with ramipril for nine month improves creatinine
      clearance rate and decreases urinary protein excretion, systolic blood pressure, development
      of glomerulosclerosis, tubulo-interstitial fibrosis and inflammatory cell infiltration in a
      diabetics. Of note, all these effects of ACE inhibition were associated with markedly
      suppressed OPN expression, suggesting that blockade of the RAS by ramipril may confer
      renoprotection by decreasing OPN secretion in diabetic nephropathy [10]. Liver X receptors
      (LXRs) have been identified as important lipid-dependent regulators of glucose metabolism and
      immune functions in leukocytes [11]. Synthetic LXR ligands can inhibit cytokine-induced OPN
      expression in macrophages [12]. Tachibana and colleges recently observed decreased urinary
      albumin excretion and substantially attenuated macrophage infiltration, mesangial matrix
      accumulation and interstitial fibrosis in streptozotocin-induced diabetics following
      administration of the LXR agonist T0901317. Notably, this was paralleled by diminished OPN
      expression in the kidney cortex indicating that inhibition of renal OPN by LXR activation may
      provide a potential therapeutical approach for diabetic nephropathy [13].

      Osteopontin (OPN) is a multifunctional protein expressed by several different cell types,
      although the bone is known to be a major source [14].The exact excretion pathway of OPN from
      the body is not known. OPN is involved in a number of physiological and pathological
      conditions, including (1), urinary stones (2), wound healing (3), chronic inflammatory and
      autoimmune diseases (4), obesity-related chronic inflammation, and insulin resistance.
      However, OPN was originally found in bone and shown to regulate the formation and
      calcification of bone tissue. [15].

      Notably, OPN has also been linked to vascular remodelling and calcification, especially in
      diabetic arteries, and has been shown to associate with diabetic retinopathy and nephropathy
      in patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D), as well as cardiovascular disease (CVD) events in
      diabetic subjects with history of long standing diabetes. [16]
    
  