
    
      The prevalence of childhood obesity (defined by body mass index, BMI greater than or equal to
      95th age-sex specific percentile, CDC, 2000) in the United States has plateaued in the last
      decade, but the prevalence of more severe degrees of obesity continues to increase,
      especially among some minority groups including American Indians and Alaskan Natives. The
      purpose of this protocol is to examine the role of adverse prenatal and early-life risk
      exposures, both biological and environmental, that contribute to the development of
      overweight and obesity in children and increase the risk for associated complications such as
      type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. This longitudinal observational study will enroll
      primarily American Indian/Alaskan Native pregnant women and their offspring, a population
      with a high prevalence of obesity and diabetes. Pregnant mothers 18 years or older and
      receiving prenatal care at the Phoenix Indian Medical Center (PIMC) will be eligible if they
      agree to the study procedures and plan to follow up for at least 3 years postpartum for
      themselves and their offspring. Women, who are unable to consent, are incarcerated, have
      non-viable fetuses, or planned pregnancy termination will be excluded. Enrolled participants
      will be followed through pregnancy, delivery, and 6 years postpartum, and their offspring
      will be followed until their 18th birthday. The primary objective of the study is to explore
      the associations of maternal risk measures including prepregnant BMI, gestational weight
      gain, and glycaemia with body size, body composition, biochemical measures, and
      neuro-cognitive development in the offspring. Family and environmental risk variables that
      contribute to obesity and associated metabolic risk will also be assessed. The primary
      outcomes include body size and adiposity measures in the offspring: birth weight, age-sex
      adjusted weight for length up to 24 months of age, age-sex adjusted BMI at 2-18 years, and
      infant body composition (fat mass and fat free mass). During pregnancy, mothers will have 3
      visits, and following delivery, they will have 4 visits under the current protocol at 6-12
      weeks postpartum, 1 year, 2 years, and 4-5 years postpartum. These visits will include
      maternal medical history, dietary history, physical activity and sleep patterns, and
      screening questionnaires for perceived stress and depression. We will assess gestational
      weight gain and post-pregnancy weight retention. Biochemical tests include periodic measures
      of glycemia (fasting plasma glucose, oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), glycated
      hemoglobin), lipids, renal function, and epigenetics. Mothers will be encouraged to breast
      feed and follow other recommended post-partum practices. The offspring will be examined at
      birth and will have 4 additional visits within the first year of life at 6-12 weeks, 4
      months, 6 months and 12 months, then at 18 and 24 months, and at 3 years. Thereafter they
      will be scheduled for comprehensive research visits (major visits) at 4-5 years, 6-9 years,
      10-13 years and 14-17 years. The major visits include detailed medical history,
      anthropometry, developmental assessment, laboratory tests, and ultrasound examination for
      subcutaneous and visceral fat. Medical records will be reviewed to assess other health
      problems, inter-current illnesses, hospitalizations, and immunizations.
    
  