
    
      This study will compare the efficacy of treating Carpal tunnel Syndrome with the Dynasplint®
      Systems device as compared to a non-treatment control group utilizing a randomized,
      controlled, cross-over study design. The dependant variables in this study are each patient's
      score on a Levine-Katz disability and pain scale test, and the change in nerve conduction of
      the median nerve that was tested upon diagnosis. The independent variables will include three
      different patient groups separated by randomization. The first group of subjects (selected
      randomly) will be fit with a therapeutic, functional Carpal Tunnel Dynasplint® versus the
      second, control patients will not be treated with dynamic splinting for the first sixty (60)
      days. After the initial sixty (60) days, the original control patients will be fit with a
      functional Carpal Tunnel Dynasplint® system and this will allow examiner to evaluate for
      further variance between subject groups, allowing the third group to be a Cross-Over group.

      The METHODS for this multi-centered study include recruiting patients from multiple hand
      surgeons and neurologists and these patients will have been diagnosed with following the
      physicians' physical examination and a nerve conduction test of the median nerve. The
      subjects then will be briefed on this study and sign an informed consent as required by the
      IRB before participating. Subjects who do consent will then be given the Levine-Katz
      disability and pain scale test, and prior to being fit with the Carpal Tunnel Dynasplint®
      Subjects will be taught how to use a Carpal Tunnel Dynasplint® properly and after being fit
      with the Carpal Tunnel Dynasplint® each subject will be required to complete a weekly report
      showing compliance to the wearing and treatment schedule, and they must attend regular,
      monthly examinations by the referring physician. After the initial sixty (60) days in the
      study each subject will repeat the three lead conduction test of the median nerve.

      Control subjects at this point will be fit with the Carpal Tunnel Dynasplint® systems
      becoming Cross-Over subjects and their final nerve conduction test will be administered after
      they have worn the Carpal Tunnel Dynasplint® system for sixty (60) days. Upon discharge from
      this study all subjects will also retake the Levine-Katz disability and pain scale test.

      Eighty (80) SUBJECTS will be recruited following diagnosis of CTS (using nerve conduction
      testing of the median nerve for differential diagnosis) and group assignment will be
      determined through randomization following each patient's completion of the informed consent
      required by the IRB. All patients randomly selected to start in the experimental group will
      be fit with functional Carpal Tunnel Dynasplint® and the control group subjects will not be
      fit until after sixty (60) days. When they are ultimately fit, they will then be categorized
      as "Cross-Over" subjects to measure continued variance between all groups.

      The DURATION for patients enrolled in this study will be sixty (60) days for the experimental
      subjects and the control subjects will spend their first sixty (60) days as a control role
      without treatment. However, following sixty days the initial control subjects but then they
      will be refit with a functional Carpal Tunnel Dynasplint® as a "Cross-Over" subject for an
      additional sixty (60) days, which makes the control subjects duration in this study 120 days.
    
  