
    
      Almost half of all new sexually transmitted infections (STIs) occur in young people aged
      15-24.1 The vast majority (88%) consists of chlamydia (CT), gonorrhea (GC), human papilloma
      virus (HPV), and trichomoniasis.1 Additionally, the Centers for Disease Control and
      Prevention (CDC) reported that young people aged 15-24 accounted for 7,297 new HIV diagnoses
      in 2008, 17.7% of all new diagnoses for the year.2 Inner-city, sexually active adolescents
      are exceptionally vulnerable to contracting HIV and STIs.3 In 2008, the Bronx had the highest
      proportion of AIDS cases of any borough in New York City.5 For Bronx females aged 15 to 19,
      the CT infection case rate was 7,621 per 100,000 and 812 per 100,000 for GC, the highest in
      this age group in New York City.4 The infection rate among young men aged 15-19 in the Bronx
      is also the highest in New York City: the case rate was 2,092 for CT and 458 for GC.4

      Based on its concern about adolescent HIV risk, the CDC changed the HIV testing paradigm by
      recommending routine HIV testing for all adolescents. It also recommended routine HIV
      screening for all patients seeking STI testing and treatment at STI clinics.6 However,
      universal STI screening in adolescents is not routine in other medical settings, even though
      most STIs are asymptomatic and therefore undiagnosed. We believe that screening youth for HIV
      provides an opportunity to screen for STIs as well, and that testing should be combined with
      harm reduction interventions. This project will evaluate the efficacy of Project AWARE in
      diagnosing, treating, and preventing HIV and STI infections in a Bronx Emergency Department
      (ED).

      This proposal is based on eight years of research and experience developing and testing a
      successful ED-based multimedia program for HIV prevention.7 The first four years focused on
      developing videos that educated adult ED patients and encouraged them to be tested for HIV.
      Project BRIEF-A has achieved high acceptance (95%) for adult HIV testing and has linked 85%
      of HIV+ patients into specialized medical care.8,9 The last 4 years developed Project
      BRIEF-T, an efficient, youth-friendly, theory-based harm reduction video intervention for
      teens.10 It delivered different short video interventions to youth based on their stage of
      change. Results are promising: Project BRIEF-T was effective in moving youth to the next
      stage of change in their intentions to use condoms. We propose in this application to test
      Project AWARE, which will add universal STI testing to Project BRIEF-T, and evaluate the
      effects of the theory-based video intervention on condom use at 4, 8, and 12 months
      post-testing.

      Project AWARE will be evaluated using a three group randomized trial. Group 1, the control,
      will be the current standard of care, consenting video and testing for HIV alone (HIV-T).
      Group 2 will add routine STI testing for CT and GC, (STI/HIV-T). Group 3, in addition to
      combined STI/HIV testing, will add a behavioral video encouraging safer sex, which is chosen
      for participants based on their answers to a brief measure on stage of change (STI/HIV-PLUS).
      Comparing Group 1 to Group 2 will identify the number of new STI infections identified
      through routine testing to establish whether routine screening successfully identified a
      substantial number of new cases over and above routine care. Comparing Group 1 to Group 3
      will identify whether the addition of the Stages of Change intervention significantly
      increases condom use among teens.

      Specific Aims:

        1. To compare the efficacy of the three study arms and to test for significant differences
           at the 4 month follow up in order to provide information to programs concerning
           efficient use of resources.

        2. To study the persistence of the intervention effects over time between 4 and 12 months
           on the primary outcome as well as to examine the intervention effect on condom use
           intentions, condom self-efficacy, and condom outcome expectancy and reduce sexual risk
           behavior, at each follow up time point.

        3. To estimate the prevalence of STIs at baseline.

      The project is explicitly translational. If Project AWARE efficiently identifies and treats
      asymptomatic HIV and STIs, and successfully reduces subsequent sexual risk behavior among
      teens, it can be implemented in EDs at relatively low cost. Given the new emphasis in the
      U.S. on efficient preventive care, this project can provide an exemplary portable
      intervention tool that can reach many high risk youth with asymptomatic STIs and HIV who do
      not access routine primary care. The study's results might also contribute to the development
      of new screening policies to incorporate multiple STIs into existing HIV screening.
    
  