
    
      Parkinson's Disease (PD) is after Alzheimers disease (AD) the most common neurodegenerative
      disease with a prevalence of 1% of the population over 60 years of age. The cardinal symptoms
      are motoric and are believed to be caused by depletion of dopamine in the brain with severe
      depletion in the striatum. In addition to the motor impairments, there are several non-motor
      functions also affected, where cognitive decline and dementia are among the most common
      problems. Some claim that up to 75% of the total PD population will eventually develop
      dementia. Prior to dementia, milder cognitive problems are common and already at the time of
      diagnosis up to 42.5% of patients with PD are affected by decline in different cognitive
      functions. Early cognitive deficits seen is inhibition, shifting, working memory and
      planning, but a cognitive profile of visuospatial decline, semantic fluency and episodic
      memory has been connected to Parkinson's Disease Dementia (PDD). The occurrence of
      Lewy-bodies and Alzheimer type brain pathology is common in PDD but dopamine depletion has
      also been connected to cognitive decline in healthy elderly and in PD.

      Although prescription of dementia medication in PD most likely has increased during the last
      decade there are limited evidence of treatment effects . This particular patient group is
      already burdened by polypharmacy and therefore investigating non-pharmacological
      interventions is of crucial importance. A recent systematic review of cognitive intervention
      studies in PD suggests that there is evidence of clinically meaningful improvements in
      overall cognition and moderate to large effect sizes on measures of working memory,
      processing speed and executive functions. Another review on the topic suggested that the
      results are promising, at least in the immediate or short term for some cognitive domains,
      but due to inconsistencies between studies and lack of methodological salience there are
      still a lot of questions unanswered. Baseline factors such as cognitive functioning, Hoehn
      and Yahr stage, premorbid intelligence all can have contributing effects on individual
      differences in training gain. Therefore it is important to thoroughly investigate baseline
      characteristics.

      In the future, studies need to include more participants, be hypothesis driven and include
      more detail of the cognitive profile, training intervention and outcome measures.

      One approach to cognitive training that has received a lot of attention and critique is
      process-based cognitive training, such as training focusing on working memory (WM) and
      executive functions (EF). The purpose of the process based approach is to strengthen general
      cognitive processes important to global cognitive functioning. WM and EF play central roles
      in several different functions such as episodic memory, reading comprehension and problem
      solving to mention a few. Research has also shown that WM and EF is negatively affected both
      in normal and pathological aging, such as PD.

      Training of executive functioning and working memory have gained some promising results in
      healthy adults, showing improvements in working memory and executive functioning but there is
      also an indication of broader generalizations of training gain. Previously the effect of
      process-based updating training in healthy young and older individuals has been studied.
      Results showed that a period of updating training increased Blood Oxygen Level Dependent
      (BOLD) activity in striatum related to increased cognitive performance in both groups. Also a
      corresponding effect of training on dopaminergic neurotransmission was detected.

      In the light of the dopamine dysfunction in PD, with negative effects on both motoric and
      cognitive function it is of interest to study if a non-invasive, non-pharmacological
      intervention can lead to better updating function with increased dopamine levels in patients
      with PD. The iPARK study is a double blinded randomized controlled trial that will examine
      the effect of a web-based cognitive training program with focus on updating training.

      The primary question asked will be if updating training will improve the ability to update
      contents in working memory and also if there will be improvements in other cognitive
      functions such as psychomotor speed, working memory, executive functions and episodic memory.
      Further the aim is to investigate if there will be improvements in self-perceived everyday
      cognitive function and psychological health as well as if the effects seen will be sustained
      over a period of four months. Baseline factors will be investigated to see if they have a
      modulating effect on training. Further the iPARK trial will determine if a web-based training
      performed at home without active supervision is a feasible approach in this particular
      patient group. Compliance, adherence and expectations will be measured systematically.
    
  