
    
      Respiratory problems are one of the major issues to deal with in preterm newborns.

      Because of the immaturity of respiratory mechanisms and structures, the use of supporting
      devices is often necessary. These include both conventional mechanical ventilation (MV)
      techniques, which require the use of an endotracheal tube, as well as non-invasive
      ventilation (NIV) techniques that use softer ventilator-patient interfaces. Increasing
      attention is payed to the latter ones as less aggressive and associated with better outcomes
      both in terms of mortality and short and long-term complications, such as bronchopulmonary
      dysplasia (BPD).

      Nasal intermittent positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) is a NIV technique in which newborn
      airways are kept open between two pressure levels: peak inspiratory pressure (PIP) and
      positive end expiratory pressure (PEEP). The frequency and duration of each phase are defined
      by setting the inspiratory and expiratory times or the ventilation rate.

      This technique has already shown its superiority in terms of reduced duration of MV, reduced
      necessity of intubation, decreased failure of extubating and reduced prevalence of BPD if
      compared with non-invasive techniques based on continuous pressure support, such as
      continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP). Recent meta-analyses of studies where NIPPV has
      been used as an alternative to CPAP following extubation show that it reduces need for
      re-ventilation and air leaks but without any reduction in BPD: there is insufficient evidence
      to recommend NIPPV as primary mode of respiratory support in the delivery room.

      It should be specified that the ventilation rate on NIPPV does not reflect the real
      respiratory rate (RR) of the newborn, as the ventilator supplies the PIP regardless of
      newborn respiratory efforts. To reproduce a more physiological and gentle ventilation new
      devices able to detect newborn respiratory efforts and consequently supply a PIP have been
      developed to synchronize the ventilation rate with RR of the newborn.

      The devices used for synchronization can identify newborn respiratory effort by detecting
      variation in flow or pressure. While in MV the exact beginning of inspiration can be detected
      through a continuous monitoring of pressure or through the precise interception of
      inspiratory and expiratory flow some difficulties occur in NIV where, as a consequence of the
      impossibility to detect expiratory flow, the moment of the exact beginning of spontaneous
      inspiration is hard to identify.

      Recently, a new type of NIV ventilator equipped with a pressure sensor has been put on the
      market. The software of this ventilator is able to calculate the flow according to the
      pressure variations of the circuit and to capture the flow variations induced by spontaneous
      breathing allowing a synchronization of the flow with the patient's respiratory acts.

      The use of a synchronized NIV technique would allow a more physiological respiratory support,
      reducing respiratory fatigue and improving newborn compliance. Despite these premises, the
      diffusion of synchronized NIPPV in neonatal intensive care units (NICUs) and works on its
      efficacy are limited.

      Some authors have already demonstrated the benefits of using a synchronized NIV technique in
      terms of extubating success rate, BPD prevalence and mortality and neurocognitive
      development. Synchronized NIPPV (SNIPPV) seems more effective than NIPPV and NCPAP in
      reducing need for intubation in respiratory distress syndrome (RDS), in improving the success
      of extubation and in treating apnea of prematurity, with a reassuring absence of relevant
      side effects. Synchronised NIPPV delivered through a ventilator can reduce extubation failure
      but may not confer long-term advantages such as reduction in BPD. Other reported advantageous
      aspects of SNIPPV include improved thoraco-abdominal synchrony, reduced work of breathing
      (WOB) and reduced need of intubation.

      It has already been shown that SNIPPV is more effective than NIPPV and CPAP in reducing the
      number of desaturations and apnoea in preterm infants undergoing CPAP treatment for
      prematurity apnoea. However, the effectiveness of SNIPPV compared to NIPPV in preterm infants
      with respiratory distress is still not completely clear.

      Our study protocol was designed to evaluate the short-term effects of SNIPPV vs NIPPV on the
      major cardio-respiratory variables, trying to identify the best ventilation modality for
      preterm newborns at their first approach to NIV ventilation support, on the bases of
      cardio-respiratory events reduction and fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) request.

      NUMBER OF PATIENTS The number of patients to be enrolled is calculated based on a predicted
      difference of 30% in cardio-respiratory events between the two ventilation modalities.
      Assuming a mean of 5 and a SD of 1.5 events/hour (based on available literature data), the
      number of patients to be enrolled is 30, to obtain an 80% power and a significance threshold
      of 0.05.

      STUDY DESIGN The decision to use a NIV support is based on clinical evaluation. At starting
      of NIV, eligible patients will be allocated to one of the two arms (NIPPV or SNIPPV) by block
      randomization. A custom software will be used to obtain a casual sequence to randomize
      patients in both arms, creating a balance between patients needing NIV as first intention or
      after extubating.

      After 2 hours of stabilization (stabilization phase) in NIV, enrolled patients will be
      alternatively ventilated with 2 different techniques for 2 time frame of 4 hours each.

      In case of needing surfactant, the stabilization phase will be 4 hours after its
      administration.

      Infants will be kept supine throughout the study. During the whole study duration (including
      stabilization phase) all patients will be continuously monitored with a multiparametric
      monitor, recording also data from the ventilator. The first hour of each NIPPV/SNIPPV phase
      will be considered as wash-out phase and named "adaptation phase": data recorded during this
      phase are excluded from the analysis. Milk meals will be administered during the adaptation
      phase.

      Pain and compliance scales will be filled in by nurses every 60 minutes. EGA values will be
      recorded at the end of the stabilization phase, at the end of Phase A (first NIV modality)
      and Phase B (second NIV modality).

      Patients will considered drop out of the study in case of:

        1. NIV failure criteria: FiO2 > 40%, pH < 7.2, pCO2 > 65mmHg, ≥ 3 episodes of desaturations
           (transcutaneous O2 saturation (SatO2 TC) < 80%) per hour, ≥ 3 episodes of apnea (> 20 s)
           and/or bradycardia (heart rate (HR) < 80 beats per minute (bpm)) per hour, Silverman
           score >6. Necrotizing enterocolitis, bowel perforation, and hemodynamic instability as
           indications of NIV failure

        2. Air leak syndrome (i.e. pneumothorax)

        3. Needing of invasive procedures during the study

        4. Needing of surfactant during the study

        5. Development of hemodynamic instability or surgical problems during the study

        6. Death Data obtained from dropouts (patients who drop out of the study) will be analyzed
           separately.

      After 8 hours of study, each patient will be ventilated with the best NIV modality according
      to clinical data and cardio-respiratory parameters observed during the study.

      MONITORING Nurse staff will continuously monitor patients to avoid biases due to device wrong
      positioning

      DATA

      For each patient enrolled the following variables will be collected:

        -  ANAMNESTIC VARIABLES:

        -  Gestational age at birth

        -  Birth weight

        -  Delivery type

        -  APGAR at 1/5 minutes (and 10 minutes if available)

        -  Presence of intrauterine growth restriction

        -  Maternal administration of magnesium sulphate

        -  Steroid prenatal prophylaxis (number of doses)

        -  Intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis (if indicated)

        -  Presence of intraamniotic infection and administration of intrapartum antibiotic therapy

        -  CLINICAL VARIABLES

        -  Surfactant administration (time and number of doses)

        -  Type and duration of MV previously administered (if any)

        -  Type and duration of NIV previously administered (if any)

        -  Corrected GA at enrolling

        -  Caffeine doses administered (if any)

        -  Neonatal Pain Scale score

        -  CARDIO-RESPIRATORY VARIABLES

        -  FiO2 to maintain SatO2 TC 90-94% (as weighted mean)

        -  NIV failure and endotracheal intubation

        -  Number of cardiorespiratory events, defined as episodes of apnea lasting more than 20
           seconds or over 5 seconds if followed by desaturation or bradycardia and/or episodes of
           desaturation with blood oxygen saturation below 80% for 4 sec. or more and/or episodes
           of bradycardia with heart rate below 80 bpm

        -  OTHER POLYGRAPH VARIABLES (continuous monitoring)

        -  Heart rate

        -  Respiratory rate

        -  SatO2 TC

        -  Thoracic impedance

        -  From ventilator: trigger, pressure, flow

        -  Pressure in ventilator circuit

        -  LABORATORISTIC VARIABLES

        -  EGA values at the end of stabilization phase, Phase A and Phase B

      RESULTS INTERPRETATION The main result will be the difference in cardio-respiratory events
      during SNIPPV versus NIPPV.

      Tolerance to each of the two NIV modalities will be evaluated by evaluating the number of
      failure episodes and of cardio-respiratory events and analysing the scores for individual
      compliance and pain. The individual need for oxygen under the two modalities of NIV will be
      evaluated as a known risk factor for premature retinopathy and various other complications.

      STATISTICAL ANLYSES Descriptive variables will be analyzed in function of their distribution.
      T student test or Mann Whitney U test in case of continuous variables (if normally or not
      normally distributed respectively) and chi-squared or fisher test for qualitative ones. All
      test will be two-sided with a significance threshold of 0.05.

      EXPECTED RESULTS Identifying the best NIV modality for preterm newborns at their first
      approach to NIV ventilation support, on the bases of cardio-respiratory events reduction and
      fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) request.
    
  