
    
      The expected duration of this study is 36 months (24 months accrual period and 12 month
      follow up period). Enrollment into the screening or treatment phase of the study will be
      stopped when the actual subject numbers have been achieved.

      This single arm single institution, open label, prospective, phase II trial will evaluate the
      efficacy and safety of oral 600mg/daily in 28 day cycles of ribociclib in advanced
      well-differentiated liposarcoma (WDL) and de-differentiated liposarcoma (DDL) patients.
      Number of patients in the study will reflect the reconciliation between statistical
      requirements and incidence.

      Treatment will continue until disease progression, development of unacceptable toxicity,
      noncompliance or withdrawal of consent by the patient or investigator decision.

      All screening requirements must be completed within 28 days of the visit (except for CDK4/6
      amplification and pRb, p16 and cyclin D staining status which may be completed in advance).
      Patients will be examined on cycle 1 day-1 and every 2 weeks, including complete blood count
      (CBC) and chemistry, for the first 8 weeks of treatment, and thereafter every month until
      disease progression. CT/MRI imaging (contrast) will be performed every 8 weeks for response
      evaluation. Clinical benefit as well as individual categories of response (complete response
      (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD) and progressive disease (PD) will be
      determined using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1 (RECIST). Response duration
      endpoints, including PFS, PFS at 12 weeks and OS will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier
      method. Toxicity (AEs) will be recorded using the NCI- Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse
      Effects v 4.03 (NCI-CTCAE). Screening procedures will include quantitative analysis of CDK4
      gene copy number using FISH, immunostaining for p16 and cyclin D1 all using formalin fixed
      paraffin embedded (FFPE) tissue sections. In addition tumor DNA, extracted from FFPE tissue
      (after choosing optimal area by a Pathologist), will be submitted to a next generation
      sequencing analysis ("ion ampliseq" cancer panel v2©) for a later exploratory analysis.
    
  