
    
      Background: Bipolar disorder is associated with significant personal and societal costs, and
      represents a substantial burden to the VA. Medical conditions, notably cardiovascular disease
      (CVD), are substantial contributors to increased morbidity and mortality in patients with
      bipolar disorder, in part because of behavioral and treatment factors. Despite the existence
      of effective medications for managing CVD-related risk factors (e.g., hypertension,
      hyperlipidemia, diabetes, obesity), outcomes for these conditions remain suboptimal among
      patients with bipolar disorder.

      Objectives: The immediate objective of this study is to determine whether a manual-based
      Chronic Care Model (CCM) intervention compared to usual VA care improves control of
      intermediate physiological measures that represent risk factors of CVD for veterans with
      bipolar disorder. We hypothesize that, within 12 months of the intervention initiation,
      patients receiving the CCM intervention will be more likely to demonstrate improved control
      of CVD-related risk factors (blood pressure, fasting cholesterol) and report improved
      physical health-related quality of life.

      Methods: This is a prospective, randomized, controlled, single-blind, single-site behavioral
      intervention trial of adult patients with a diagnosis of bipolar disorder receiving care in
      the VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System. Up to 300 subjects will be enrolled, of which 150 will be
      randomized to receive the intervention and 150 will receive usual VA care. All subjects will
      complete a baseline clinical assessment and then subsequent follow-up assessments at 3, 6,
      12, and 24 months. The intervention's three core components will be implemented by a nurse
      Care Manager and include: 1) self-management behavioral sessions for patients addressing the
      reduction of CVD risk factors through symptom control and behavior change based on Social
      Cognitive Theory, 2) care management to promote patient behavior change and coordinate care,
      and 3) implementation of practice guidelines for providers on management of CVD risk factors
      in patients with bipolar disorder. Medical and psychiatric care, including medications, will
      continue to be provided by the patient's usual providers. Usual VA care will be enhanced and
      consist of guideline implementation and general patient education (attention control), but
      will not include self-management sessions or Care Manager contacts. Primary clinical outcomes
      include changes in cholesterol, and health-related quality of life (SF-12 physical health
      summary score). Linear regression models will be used to determine the effect of the
      intervention on each outcome. Mediators of treatment effect including symptoms and health
      behaviors will also be assessed.
    
  