
    
      The proposed research is the first evaluation of the implementation of Mobile Diabetes
      Education Teams (MDETs) in Canada. This intervention will support primary care providers
      (PCPs) by offering a diabetes education team (one registered nurse [RN] and one registered
      dietitian [RD]) one to four times a month, based on patient volume, at various primary care
      sites to assist in and share the care and management of patients with diabetes. This
      intervention is in collaboration with the Mississauga Halton Local Health Integration Network
      (MH LHIN) and will be hosted by Trillium Diabetes Management Centre and Halton Diabetes
      Program. Each hosting site received permanent operational funding for half a diabetes
      education team (salary support) from the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-term Care
      (MHLTC) under the new Ontario Diabetes Strategy.

      The rationale for incorporating MDETs in primary care was guided by the extensive literature
      on the underuse and low referral to diabetes education programs (DEPs), where diabetes
      self-management education is primarily offered. Low utilization is due to low PCP referral
      rates to these services, as well as numerous systematic and operational barriers for both
      PCPs and patients. Consequently, the majority of Canadians are receiving diabetes care solely
      from their PCPs, who have expressed barriers to caring for diabetes patients and are
      providing sub-optimal care as they are not consistently adhering to clinical practice
      guidelines. As a result, MHLTC is investing millions of dollars in expanding and aligning
      current programs to increase access to team-based care.

      The objective of this research is to evaluate a structural redesign in how the investigators
      deliver diabetes care and self-management education using a collaborative approach between
      PCPs and DEPs guided by the Chronic Care Model as a conceptual framework. The purpose of this
      research is twofold: 1) to evaluate the effects of MDET intervention on: (i) patient clinical
      outcomes; (ii) quality of care patients receive from PCPs; (iii) PCPs' referral to and their
      patients' utilization of DEPs; and 2) to assess the implementation processes of the MDET
      intervention and the degree of collaboration and team functioning between PCPs and the MDET
      members across primary care sites. A mixed-methods approach is proposed over a three year
      period.

      Patients will be referred to the MDET by PCPs. The MDET will meet with patients for two hours
      (one hour with the RN and one hour with the RD) to assess the level of diabetes knowledge,
      diabetes self-care and lifestyle habits; this data will be used to develop patient treatment
      priorities and action care plans. Three 30 minute follow-up visits with the MDET will be
      carried out over a one-year period for all patients where patient action plans are reviewed,
      discussed and potentially revised. A communication tool has been developed to better
      facilitate communication of patient information between PCPs and MDETs. Case conferences will
      be conducted when major changes are to be made to the patient's treatment plan after a
      patient's visit. Accordingly, PCPs and educators are collaboratively managing patient care.

      A cluster-randomized trial stepped wedge design will be used to ensure all sites will
      eventually receive the intervention, while still facilitating the comparison of change within
      individuals and between study groups across time points that is attributed to the
      intervention. The inclusion criteria for reviewing patient medical records are patients who
      are over 18 years of age, have type 2 diabetes, and have an HbA1c of greater than 8%. Twenty
      unique patient chart extractions will be performed at 0, 6, 12, 18, 24 months from 12 primary
      care sites to collect patient care processes and patient clinical outcome data (for a total
      of 1,200 patient charts). Characteristics of interprofessional collaboration between PCPs and
      the MDET will be assessed at each practice site at the end of one year. To assess the
      implementation of the MDET across sites, qualitative process data, such as in-depth
      interviews with patients, PCPs and the MDETs, and MDETs' field notes and debriefing sessions
      will be analyzed.

      MDETs will strengthen and formalize links between primary care providers and diabetes
      education programs within the community, increase patient access to diabetes self-management
      education and support, and potentially improve patient experience and clinical outcomes
      through enhanced coordination and integration of care. This study is timely and relevant as
      DEPs and local PCPs are starting to integrate services across Canada; thus, our research will
      provide the evidence necessary to inform practice of such a model. If results are promising,
      this model can be extended to direct how those with impaired glucose tolerance and
      gestational diabetes/post-gestational diabetes; and as a result, diabetes prevention,
      management and care are delivered, and can greatly reduce the burden of diabetes in Canada.
    
  