
    
      Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) is a major, yet poorly understood cardiovascular health risk
      that occurs in as many as 24% of males and 9% of females within the US population. OSA can
      participate in both the initiation and progression of several cardiovascular diseases
      including sudden death, hypertension, arrhythmias, myocardial ischemia and stroke.

      Many of the adverse cardiovascular consequences of OSA are thought to be associated with a
      diminished cardiac vagal activity, as parasympathetic cardiac vagal activity is typically
      cardio-protective. Intranasal administration of oxytocin has been shown to significantly
      increase parasympathetic and decrease sympathetic cardiac control. In this research study,
      the effect oxytocin has on changes in heart rate or other Polysomnography (PSG) measures in a
      group of patients that have recently been diagnosed with OSA will be examined.

      OSA is typically diagnosed through a polysomnography, a comprehensive recording of the
      biophysiological changes that occur during sleep. The PSG monitors many body functions
      including brain (EEG), eye movements (EOG), muscle activity or skeletal muscle activation
      (EMG) and heart rhythm (ECG) during sleep, respiratory airflow, respiratory effort, pulse
      oximetry etc.

      In this research study, subjects who have recently been diagnosed with OSA will undergo two
      research study PSGs. Before the first study PSG, subjects will be randomized to receive
      either Oxytocin (40 IU) or placebo, in a blinded manner, prior to beginning the test. The PSG
      will then continue as usual, and subject data pertaining to the PSG will be gathered.
      Subjects will then return within 4 weeks for a second research PSG, where one hour before the
      test they will receive the opposite intervention that they did not received during the first
      research PSG study. Data measurements will be re-measured and compared between the two PSGs.
    
  