
    
      Research background Somatic Symptom Disorder (SSD; DSM-5) is one of the most prevalent
      disorders encountered in primary care settings (1). Typically in SSD, distressing somatic
      complaints are accompanied by abnormal thoughts, feelings, and behaviors, emphasizing the
      role of psychological factors. The experience of somatic symptoms is commonly associated with
      high levels of impairment in quality of life, psychological distress or increased healthcare
      utilization (2). In addition, SSD has been associated with an elevated risk for chronic
      manifestation and comorbid mental disorders, work loss or early retirement (3). Although
      cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) is the best evidenced psychological treatment for SSD,
      effect sizes are rather moderate or even small (4). Therefore the question of how to develop
      more effective treatment protocols for SSD arises.

      Difficulties in emotional processing and expression have been demonstrated with patients with
      SSD in several studies (5). Importantly though, there are indications that an emotion focus
      in treatment increases the possibility of symptom reduction for patients with SSD (6). In
      addition, many patients with SSD have experienced stressful/traumatic life events (7). Hence,
      another potential reason for the limited effect of CBT for SSD may be that these traumas have
      not been adequately addressed in treatment.

      Emotional Awareness and Expression Therapy (EAET) is an affect-focused psychodynamic form of
      psychotherapy, that has an explicit focus on emotional processing and resolving attachment
      trauma (8). There is a promising research support for EAET for treating SSD related
      disorders, where it has been shown to be more effective than CBT in two randomized controlled
      trials where fibromyalgia and chronic musculoskeletal pain were targeted, respectively
      (9,10).

      Many of today's models of psychotherapy has been tested as guided self-help via the Internet
      (11). This is a cost-effective, scalable form of psychotherapy delivery. While there exists
      promising evidence that Internet-based affect-focused psychodynamic therapy is effective in
      the treatment of depression and anxiety disorders (12,13), there are no published studies on
      EAET in the format of guided self-help delivered via the Internet.

      Preliminary results from a pilot study on Internet-based EAET However, our own group very
      recently completed a (yet unpublished) pilot trial of Internet based EAET (I-EAET), with an
      explicit focus on emotional processing using expressive writing. The project was approved by
      the Swedish Ethical Review Authority (Dnr 2019-03317). We included 52 patients with SSD who
      took part of a nine-week program based on EAET. Details of the I-EAET intervention are
      described in the Methods sections below. A large within-group reduction in somatic symptoms
      (PHQ-15) was observed (Cohen's d = 1.12; 95% CI: 0.77-1.46). Small to moderate magnitude
      reductions in anxiety (GAD-7), depression (PHQ-9), trauma related symptoms (PCL-5), and
      dysfunctional emotional processing (EPS25) occurred. Almost one-quarter of the sample (23.1%)
      achieved a 50% or greater reduction in somatic symptoms. The treatment also significantly
      increased patient's ability to take part in social and family life (Sheehan Disability
      Scale). The results were maintained at a four month follow-up. While the results are to be
      interpreted carefully, the effects seem promising. Further research studies on I-EAET using
      randomized controlled trials are warranted.

      This research proposal is about testing the effects of I-EAET in the treatment of SSD,
      compared to a waiting-list control condition, using a randomized controlled trial. The long
      term goal is to develop an intervention that can increase treatment optimization in SSD.

      Research questions

      a) Can Internet-delivered EAET with an explicit focus on expressive writing decrease bodily
      symptoms and pain, depression, anxiety and insomnia symptoms, among patients with SSD, as
      compared to a control condition? b) Is symptom reduction throughout treatment of SSD
      associated with an increase in emotional processing? c) Are the effects maintained at a
      4-month- and 12-month follow-up?

      Methods The I-EAET intervention was developed as part of the pilot trial, conducted during
      late 2019. It is primarily based on Howard Schubiner's book "Unlearn your pain" (14). The
      I-EAET intervention includes 1) a psychoeducational component on the brain and the nervous
      system, 2) self-compassion training using meditation techniques, 3) awareness practice on the
      relationship between trauma, emotions and bodily symptoms, 4) emotional processing using
      expressive writing exercises, and 5) adaptive interpersonal communication in situations that
      might trigger pain symptoms. The treatment will last 10 weeks. A secure web-platform (the KI
      e-Health Core Facility) will be used to provide the treatment via the Internet. Every week
      the participant in the treatment reads a text consisting of 10-20 pages. The text specifies
      the theme for the week (i.e. self-compassion) and the home-work assignments to be conducted
      during the week. Typically, the participants do a daily meditation exercise for 10-15 minutes
      and an expressive writing assignment for 15-30 minutes. In the daily meditation exercises the
      participant learn to observe self-critical thoughts and to notice that these thoughts
      sometimes is anger turned at oneself. Using these meditation exercises, the participants
      learns to develop a compassionate voice instead of their self-critical one. In the written
      assignments, usually a stressful or traumatic life event is targeted where emotions are
      processed in a prespecified order. Emotions tied to these situations are often anger, guilt
      about anger, sadness and love.

      When the participants have done the homework for the week, they send it to their designated
      psychologist and get written feedback.

      Randomized controlled trial of Internet-based EAET for SSD The main purpose of this study is
      to conduct a Randomised Controlled Trial (RCT) where we evaluate an internet administrated
      version of Emotional Awareness and Expression Therapy (I-EAET) in the treatment of Somatic
      Symptom Disorder (SSD). We will include 160 patients with SSD that will be randomized to
      taking part of the Internet based treatment for ten weeks (80 patients) or a waiting list
      control condition (80 patients). A between-subject design will be used. Self-report measures
      of symptom level and mechanisms of change will be conducted weekly for the primary outcome
      measures (PHQ-15, BPI-4) and the process measure (EPS-25). The other self-report measures
      will be conducted before, after treatment and at follow up at 4-month and 12.

      Feedback on content, process and potential caveats will be collected using surveys and
      written evaluations from the participants at post-treatment. Linear mixed models will be used
      to investigate trajectories of change in symptoms and processes.

      Time plan January 2021: Recruitment, screening procedure and diagnostic interviews February
      2021: Treatment start + Pre-treatment measures conducted April 2021: Treatment ends +
      Post-treatment measures conducted September 2021: Four-month follow-up + Treatment offered to
      patients on waiting-list April 2022: Twelve-month follow-up measures

      Significance An EAET intervention conducted through the Internet, with a strong focus on
      emotional processing using expressive writing could potentially increase treatment
      optimization in SSD and offer a new potential treatment avenue. Furthermore, although several
      theoretical models of SSD exist, the field lacks solid empirical results from treatment
      trials, where the analyses of mechanisms of change are conducted using state-of-the-art
      methods. Such analyses could help to pinpoint the relation between symptom change and
      emotional processing throughout different phases of treatment.

      Ethical considerations Given that the treatment manual in our studies has not been evaluated
      before, special considerations will be given to adverse effects. As weekly symptom measures
      will be conducted, we will be able to monitor patients closely for any potential
      deterioration that will need to be handled. Medical experts will be available for
      consultation throughout the treatment periods. Adverse events of treatment will also be
      monitored by using the Negative Effects Questionnaire (NEQ).
    
  