
    
      Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) is a leading cause of hospital-associated
      gastrointestinal illness, associated with significant morbidity and mortality and has a high
      burden on health-care system. The incidence of CDI has increased to epidemic proportion
      worldwide over the past decade. Community-acquired CDI, elderly and hospitalized patients
      receiving antibiotics are the main group at risk for developing CDI 1.

      Currently, the first-line treatment for C. difficile-associated diarrhea includes cessation
      of the antibiotic implicated in the development of CDI, treatment with metronidazole or
      vancomycin and recently Fidaxomicin which is yet to be available in Hong Kong2. However,
      disease recurrence is an increasing problem and 20% to 60% of patients experience at least
      one recurrence within a few weeks of completion of antibiotic treatment. Moreover, an
      increasing number of patients who require life-saving emergency colectomy experience
      persistent CDI after surgery. Until recently, an effective treatment against recurrent CDI is
      not available. Generally, repeated and extended courses of vancomycin are prescribed3.

      Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) defined as infusion of feces from healthy donors to
      affected subjects has attracted great interest in recent years and is now recommended as the
      most effective therapy for CDI not responding to standard therapies 4. Systematic reviews of
      prospective trials, case series and one randomized controlled trial have shown an overall
      cure rate of close to 100% 5, 6. More than 50% of patients stated they would have FMT as
      their preferred first treatment option if CDI were to recur 7.

      While FMT has been proven to be effective in refractory CDI, the role of FMT as first-line
      therapy in a subset of patients with severe CDI, or high risk features for severe CDI has not
      been studied. These are generally patients in whom the risk of colectomy and mortality is
      exceedingly high. In addition, the mechanism of FMT in CDI is not completely clear, and
      limited data are available on the effects of FMT on the microbiota post FMT. It has been
      suggested that CDI results in deficiencies in fecal flora composition, particularly of
      Bacteroides and Firmicutes, and these deficiencies in the microbiota facilitate colonization
      with C. difficile. Microarray analysis in small number of subjects has shown a major shift in
      the patients' microbiota after donor-feces infusion toward that of the donors8. The
      experimental tools required for in depth analysis of the intestinal microbiota are now
      becoming available. This study aims to investigate the efficacy of FMT as first line therapy
      in patients with moderate to severe CDI and to assess changes in the fecal microbiota after
      FMT using pyrosequencing techniques.
    
  