
    
      Data collected prior to surgery will include patients' past medical history, hemoglobin
      concentration, INR, MCV, gender, age and weight.

      Immediately prior to surgery, but after induction of anesthesia, subjects will have another
      complete blood count drawn to assess preoperative hemoglobin/hematocrit concentrations. This
      is customarily done to establish a baseline. During surgery patient's core temperature,
      hemoglobin, hematocrit levels, estimated blood loss, Central Venous Pressure, blood pressure,
      heart rate, cell saver, the amount of irrigation fluid, colloid, crystalloid, blood and blood
      products will be recorded hourly throughout surgery. All of the data collection described is
      standard in these types of cases.

      Patients will be transfused allogenic blood if hemoglobin levels fall below 8.0 g/dL or
      patients present with clinical signs/symptoms of hypovolemia (hypotension, tachycardia). Data
      collection concerning allogenic blood transfusion will include intraoperative transfusion
      rate, volume of transfused units per patient and transfusion index. Surgical intervention
      data regarding the extent of the surgical procedure will be collected: the number of curves,
      the curve magnitude, type of instrumentation required, the number of levels fused and the
      fluoroscopy time. The placement and type of wound drains and their .respective outputs will
      be noted. Preoperative and postoperative curve magnitude will be documented as well as
      instrumentation used to facilitate curve correction. The number of levels fused will be
      documented.

      Hemoglobin and hematocrit levels will be noted at several intervals post operatively (24
      hours, 48 hours and last result prior to discharge) and further transfusion requirement will
      be recorded. The length of Intensive Care Unit stay and the length of hospital stay will be
      noted. Regarding surgical procedure all patients will be operated on by the same surgical
      team, under standardized anesthesia, total intravenous anesthesia (TIVA), and postoperative
      analgesia. Data will be expressed as percentages or as a mean +/- SD. T-test analysis will be
      used for comparison for quantitative variables and a p value < 0.05 will be considered
      statistically significant
    
  