
    
      Severely malnourished children who present with an acute illness have a high risk of
      mortality. Severe malnutrition is associated with intestinal inflammation and changes in the
      fecal microbiome ('dysbiosis'). Apart from in the large intestine, dysbiosis is also present
      in the small (upper) intestine, where increased bacterial density and altered microbial
      composition can contribute to intestinal inflammation and intestinal dysfunction which may
      ultimately contribute to the development of sepsis and death. The bacterial density and
      composition in the small intestine can be altered using antibiotics. However, apart from side
      effects, antibiotic use contributes to the development of antibiotic resistance, which is
      very common in hospitalized malnourished patients and can pose a threat to both individual
      and public health. In addition to intestinal dysbiosis and intestinal inflammation, children
      with severe malnutrition suffer from impaired exocrine pancreatic and hepatobiliary function,
      which are important for nutrient digestion and absorption to aid their recovery.

      One previous pilot trial showed that treating children with severe malnutrition with
      pancreatic enzymes led to a reduction in mortality. The investigators hypothesize that
      supplementing these enzymes exogenously to severely malnourished children will improve their
      clinical outcome by reducing dysbiosis, intestinal inflammation and sepsis.

      The objective of this study is to determine whether treating ill severely malnourished
      children with pancreatic enzymes or bile acids is safe and improves mortality. The
      investigators will conduct a double blind, randomized clinical trial in a 2x2 factorial
      design in hospitalized severely malnourished children. Participants will be treated with
      pediatric formulations of pancreatic enzymes, bile acids, both or placebo for 21 days.
      Participants will be followed up daily during their hospital stay and on day 21 and 60 after
      enrollment.

      This trial will be conducted in three stages to allow for careful interim evaluations to
      assess safety and study progress. After the first and second stage, interim analyses assess
      safety and likelihood of benefit before enrolling the full sample size to assess mortality as
      the primary outcome. Secondary outcomes include adverse events, length of hospital stay and
      growth. Exploratory outcomes will examine intestinal and systemic inflammation and metabolic
      changes to examine mechanisms affected by the interventions, and costs.

      Two sub-studies will be conducted. In Kenya and Bangladesh, daily blood gases, lactate and
      biochemistry for the first 5 days to assess early clinical progress. In Malawi and Uganda,
      hydrogen breath testing will be used to evaluate impact on upper small intestinal bacterial
      overgrowth.

      Overall, this trial will determine whether a non-antibiotic, bactericidal intervention given
      in additional to standard of care management reduces mortality in acutely ill severely
      malnourished children.
    
  