
    
      Design: U.S.-based, single-center, randomized controlled trial

      Background: Hospitalized medical patients have an increased risk of venous thromboembolism
      (VTE) across the continuum of care (from before admission to after discharge). In the APEX
      Trial of 7513 hospitalized patients with acute medical illness, reduced mobility, and risk
      factors for VTE, extended-duration post-discharge thromboprophylaxis with oral betrixaban for
      35 to 42 days reduced the frequency of asymptomatic proximal deep venous thrombosis (DVT),
      symptomatic proximal or distal DVT, symptomatic nonfatal pulmonary embolism (PE), or
      VTE-related death by 24% in the overall study population compared with 10-14 days of
      enoxaparin. The integration of oral betrixaban with a computerized decision support (CDS)
      tool has the potential to increase the appropriate prescription of extended-duration
      post-discharge thromboprophylaxis in high-risk patients hospitalized with medical illness.

      Study Design: 400-patient U.S.-based single-center Quality Improvement Initiative in the form
      of a randomized controlled trial focused on the feasibility of implementation of this
      electronic alert-based CDS (EPIC BPA) (Figure 1). The allocation ratio will be 1:1 for an
      electronic alert-based CDS (EPIC BPA) notification versus no notification.

      Study Population: Patients are eligible if they are ≥40 years of age, are hospitalized for
      acute medical illness (heart failure, respiratory failure, infectious disease, rheumatic
      disease, or ischemic stroke), have reduced mobility, and have one additional risk factor for
      VTE:

        1. Age ≥60

        2. Prior VTE

        3. History of cancer

      Eligible patients are not prescribed thromboprophylaxis at hospital discharge.

      Intervention: An EPIC Electronic Health Record (EHR) Best Practice Advisory (BPA) will
      identify patients hospitalized with medical illness who are not ordered for
      extended-duration, post-discharge thromboprophylaxis 48 hours after admission. A first
      on-screen electronic alert will provide the clinician with the opportunity to consider
      extended-duration, post-discharge thromboprophylaxis and start any required processes for
      prior authorization or medication coverage. A second on-screen electronic alert will be
      issued if extended-duration, post-discharge thromboprophylaxis has still not been ordered
      that again notifies the provider about the increased risk for VTE after discharge and
      indication for thromboprophylaxis.

      Primary Efficacy Outcome: Prescription of extended-duration post-discharge
      thromboprophylaxis. Investigators will review the order entry section of the Electronic
      Health Record (EPIC) to make this determination.

      Secondary Efficacy Outcome: Frequency of symptomatic VTE at 90 days from randomization.
      Investigators will review the notes and diagnostic testing sections of the Electronic Health
      Record (EPIC) to make this determination. The proposed study will not be powered to show a
      difference in clinical events, such as symptomatic VTE, with the electronic alert-based CDS
      but will provide estimates from which to plan a possible subsequent multi-center trial.

      Primary Safety Outcome: Major bleeding (as defined by the ISTH bleeding classification
      system) at 90 days from randomization. Investigators will review the notes and diagnostic
      testing sections of the Electronic Health Record (EPIC) to make this determination. The
      proposed study will not be powered to show a difference in clinical events, such as bleeding,
      with the electronic alert-based CDS but will provide estimates from which to plan a possible
      subsequent multi-center trial.

      Follow-Up: Follow-up will consist of Electronic Health Record review at 90 days from
      randomization.
    
  