
    
      Chronically elevated pulmonary pressures do not immediately result in right ventricular
      failure. During the initial period of exposure, the RV adapts to the increased afterload by
      altering its metabolism and morphology so as to meet the increased work requirement. Several,
      interconnected adaptive mechanisms have been proposed, including myocyte hypertrophy, a
      switch in the primary fuel used for ATP generation, increased angiogenesis, and decreased
      production of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species. While adaptation is initially successful
      in many cases, it is temporary, and after an uncertain period of time, the ventricle begins
      to fail. This transition from a compensated to decompensated state is difficult to predict
      clinically, and patients with different etiologies of CPOS progress to overt RV failure over
      significantly different time periods. This variability hinders the implementation of
      treatments that are tailored to a specific disease stage. As right heart failure is the
      primary outcome determinant in patients with pulmonary hypertension, understanding the major
      mediators of RV compensation, failure and recovery is essential to improving patient
      survival. Recently, there have been significant advances in the ability to assess RV function
      in vivo using functional imaging techniques, including positron emission tomography (PET) and
      cardiac MRI (CMR). CMR is an established and validated method of precisely defining cardiac
      structure and function, and new PET protocols have been developed that measure glucose
      utilization, oxygen consumption, apoptosis and angiogenesis. Importantly, the in vivo nature
      of PET and CMR allow for the non-invasive collection of detailed structural, metabolic and
      physiologic data on the performance of the RV5. When taken in combination with established
      echocardiographic evaluation, these new platforms allow in-depth analysis of cardiac
      structure and function without the need for invasive procedures. In order to maximize the
      potential of these techniques, however, a molecular imaging target needs to be identified so
      as to allow physicians to detect the transition from a compensated to decompensated state.
      Such a marker has not yet been reported
    
  