
    
      Summary of the Research Proposal

      Purpose:

      The purpose of this pilot study is to determine the feasibility and effectiveness of a
      COVID-19 screening program at YVR for WestJet passengers.

      Hypothesis:

      SARS-CoV-2 infection can be effectively screened using point-of-care rapid antigen assays.

      Justification:

      Passengers are required to wear masks and physically distance while traveling by air.
      However, the majority of general public is still worried about the potential risk of
      contracting COVID-19 on airplanes, especially during long flights. The investigators want to
      develop methods and strategies to quickly screen for SARS-CoV-2 infection, prior to boarding
      flights.

      Objectives:

        1. To develop and deploy a management algorithm for COVID-19 screening at YVR that will
           involve the use of point-of-care rapid test device.

        2. To evaluate the acceptability of such screening algorithm and determine the costs of
           deploying the program.

      Research Design:

      Study Population: Working in collaboration with WestJet the investigators will invite all
      passengers meeting Inclusion/Exclusion on outbound flights from YVR Airport to participate in
      this study.

      Phase 1: The investigators will work with YVR and WestJet to enroll 200 subjects into the
      study. For this initial phase the investigators are looking to determine the rate of
      positivity in the cohort. This initial phase is needed to evaluate the feasibility of this
      pilot program and to refine the initial management algorithm. Health Canada-approved Panbio
      Covid-19 Ag Rapid Test Device by Abbott Rapid Diagnostics (approved for Lab-based test and
      Point of care test on 2020-10-05) will be uses in Phase 1.

      Phase 2: Strategies for achieving higher-throughput will be determined after completion of
      Phase 1. In phase 2, the investigators will continue to work with YVR and WestJet to enroll
      700 subjects into the study. Phase 2 will further assess the efficiency of the COVID-19
      screening and passenger management algorithm.

      The study is purposefully designed to be as minimally invasive to the passengers' travel plan
      as possible.

      Statistical Analysis:

      • When the investigators aggregate the data for analysis, basic statistics will be used to
      determine mean, variance, standard deviation, and positivity rate...etc.
    
  