
    
      Haemorrhoidectomy (excision of haemorrhoids) is the procedure of choice for grade 3 & 4
      symptomatic haemorrhoids. The standard technique in the UK (open Milligan-Morgan) is to
      excise the haemorrhoids under general anaesthetic (typically using electrocautery) leaving
      raw areas in anal canal. As a result, patients often experience significant post operative
      pain which can impact on patient function for weeks following surgery. This would be
      considered as the gold standard for the operative treatment for haemorrhoids. Due to the
      difficult post operative recovery of this procedure, alternative techniques for performing
      haemorrhoidectomy have been explored. One approach, which is gaining some popularity, is
      stapled haemorrhoidectomy [1]. In this technique, a circular stapling device is used to
      excise proximal mucosa in order to disconnect the haemorrhoidal blood supply and to pull up
      the haemorrhoidal mass. The edges of the excised mucosa are simultaneously closed with a row
      of staples. In a recent meta-analysis of 29 randomised controlled trials including 2056
      patients, stapled haemorrhoidectomy was associated with reduced postoperative pain and
      reduction in return to activity by nearly 12 days in comparison to open haemorrhoidectomy
      [2]. Although postoperative complication rates were similar, stapled haemorrhoidectomy was
      associated with significantly more recurrences in the longer term (relative risk 2.29). The
      stapled haemorrhoidectomy technique has not gained universal acceptance. This may be related
      to the cost and availability of stapling devices in many centres.

      Unlike specialized stapling devices, lasers are widely available in the operating theatre and
      are used in many operations to cauterise tissue. The resulting burn is superficial in
      comparison to electrocautery. Consequently, lasers have been used to perform open
      haemorrhoidectomy with the expectation of reducing post operative pain. However, randomised
      trials comparing the use of lasers versus cold scalpel for open haemorrhoidectomy have shown
      no significant differences in post operative pain [3]. Although, the laser appears to offer
      no advantage in open haemorrhoidal procedures, an alternative technique for laser
      haemorrhoidectomy has been developed by Peter Thompson from Laser Haemorrhoid Centre in
      Phoenix, Arizona. In this alternative technique, a laser is used to seal the raw mucosal
      edges after excision of the piles. In common with stapled haemorrhoidectomy, the mucosa is
      sealed closed rather than left open. Consequently, patients appear to experience markedly
      less post operative pain. The technique is also simple and quick with a shallow learning
      curve. Due to the speed and relative comfort of the procedure, patients may be routinely
      operated on using sedation and local anaesthetic, rather than full general anaesthetic which
      is standard practice for most haemorrhoidectomies.

      Over the last 2 years,the investigators have performed laser haemorrhoidectomy for 60
      patients. The age range was 32 to 81 years .The ratio for male: female was 31:29. All were
      done under local anaesthesia with sedation except one (1.6%) which was converted to general
      anaesthesia. All patients except 2 (3.5%) were discharged within two hours of operation. One
      was delayed due to administration of general anaesthesia and the second one was admitted for
      post operative bleeding and was actively observed for three days, after which he was
      discharged. There were four re-admissions (6.6%), two had post operative oedema & two had
      oedema and pain. All of them were actively observed and discharged later. Four patients
      (6.6%) also developed chronic anal fissures post operatively, two of them healed with six
      weeks course of Glyceryl Tri Nitrate (GTN) cream and the other two are on conservative
      management for non-healing fissures.

      The investigators wish to objectively determine whether laser closed haemorrhoidectomy is
      associated with significantly less post operative pain and an earlier return to function in
      comparison to the Milligan-Morgan Haemorrhoidectomy which is the standard procedure performed
      across the trust.
    
  