
    
      Articular involvement is the most frequent extra-intestinal manifestation of inflammatory
      bowel diseases (IBD), frequently follows a course that is independent of the course of
      intestinal involvement, and its diagnosis mainly relies on clinical evidence and imaging
      data, because laboratory assessments are rarely useful. More in details, IBD-related
      arthropathy is one of a group of inflammatory arthritides, known as seronegative
      spondyloarthropathies, that also includes idiopathic ankylosing spondylitis, reactive
      arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and undifferentiated seronegative spondyloarthropathies, all
      of which are classified on the basis of peripheral arthritis (asymmetrical, predominantly in
      the lower extremities) and/or inflammatory spinal involvement in IBD patients using the
      well-known criteria of the European Spondyloarthropathy Study Group. IBD-related
      spondyloarthropathy is mainly characterised by axial involvement (including inflammatory back
      pain, isolated sacroiliitis and ankylosing spondylitis) but may also be associated with
      peripheral symptoms (i.e peripheral arthritis, dactylitis and enthesopathy, such as Achilles
      tendinitis, plantar fasciitis, and chest wall pain). In particular, inflammatory back pain
      (IBP) is characterised by an insidious onset, improves after exercise but not with rest, and
      is associated with morning stiffness. It may also present as pain during the second half of
      the night and/or alternating buttock pain. Up to now, several criteria sets have been
      proposed to define IBP. Firstly, the Calin criteria set was developed in 1977 and has since
      then been most widely used for defining IBP. The Calin criteria set has no entry criteria and
      is not based on standardized questions. Studies conducted in various populations have
      confirmed a high sensitivity for the Calin criteria, but shown much lower specificity than
      that reported in the original study. Berlin criteria for IBP were derived from a controlled
      study, including patients with ankylosing spondylitis and mechanical low back pain, who all
      had chronic low back pain. Berlin criteria are applicable only to those patients with chronic
      low back pain (>3 months) and age younger than <50 years old. This criteria set yielded a
      sensitivity of 70% and a specificity of 81% if at least two of the four following criteria
      were met: morning stiffness of >30-min duration, improvement in back pain with exercise but
      not with rest, awakening because of back pain during the second half of the night only, and
      alternating buttock pain. Assessment of Spondyloarthritis International Society (ASAS) has
      just recently published new criteria for classification of IBP. These were based on the
      expert judgment of the rheumatologist as the "gold standard" for diagnosing IBP in patients
      with chronic back pain of unknown origin. These new candidate IBP criteria administered by
      the interviewing clinician included the domains "improvement with exercise," "nocturnal
      pain," "age at onset <40 years," and "no improvement with rest." They were then validated in
      a distinct cohort of patients presenting to the rheumatologist with new-onset back pain and
      were shown to have a sensitivity of 79.6% and specificity of 72.4%. Celiac disease (CD) is an
      autoimmune systemic disease having among its clinical manifestations frequent symptoms common
      to rheumatologic diseases, such as musculoskeletal pain, asthenia, and cognitive fatigue.
      Recently, it has been reported that a consistent percentage of the general population
      consider themselves to be suffering from problems caused by wheat and/or gluten ingestion,
      even though they do not have CD or wheat allergy. This clinical condition has been named
      Non-Celiac Gluten Sensitivity' (NCGS). In a previous paper the investigators suggested the
      term 'Non-Celiac Wheat Sensitivity' (NCWS), since it is not known what component of wheat
      causes the symptoms in NCGS patients, and the investigators also showed that these patients
      had a high frequency of coexistent multiple food hypersensitivity. The clinical picture of
      NCWS is characterized by combined gastrointestinal (bloating, abdominal pain, diarrhea and/or
      constipation, nausea, epigastric pain, gastroesophageal reflux, aphthous stomatitis) and
      extra-intestinal or systemic manifestations (headache, depression, anxiety, 'foggy mind,'
      tiredness, dermatitis or skin rash, fibromyalgia-like joint/muscle pain, leg or arm numbness,
      and anemia). NCWS lacks of specific diagnostic tests, being its diagnosis essentially of
      exclusion. Many patients affected with CD and NCWS complain of IBP-like symptoms, which
      significantly affect the patients' quality of life and generally improve, together with the
      other clinical manifestations of the diseases, during a gluten-free diet (GFD). Therefore,
      the aims of the present study are to investigate 1) the effect of a GFD in IBP patients,
      randomly assigned to receive standard therapy for IBP or standard therapy for IBP plus GFD,
      for a period of at least one year, and 2) the prevalence of IBP in CD and in NCWS patients.
    
  