
    
      Managing pain in postoperative patients presents challenges in striking a balance between
      achieving adequate pain control and over-prescribing opioids that have the potential to
      contribute to the opioid epidemic. There are no clear guidelines informing postoperative
      opioid prescribing in obstetrics and gynecology. A recent study by As-Sanie et al.
      demonstrated that gynecologists at a large academic medical center prescribe twice the amount
      of opioids than the average patient uses after hysterectomy.1 Similarly, a study completed at
      Vanderbilt University Medical Center showed that obstetricians were overprescribing narcotics
      to patients after cesarean deliveries.2

      In addition to rates of opioid prescribing, other factors affect postoperative opioid
      consumption, including individual patient measures of anxiety, depression, and self-reported
      pain scores prior to surgery. Preoperative Fibromyalgia symptom scores, STAIT state anxiety
      scores and NRS pain expectations are independent predictors for morphine consumption
      following hysterectomy.

      There is a pressing need to better understand the factors that impact opioid use in women who
      undergo gynecologic surgery in order to mitigate the over-use of opioids for pain control
      upon discharge from the hospital.

      Aims:

        1. Understand the factors that impact opioid use for pain management in gynecologic surgery
           patients after discharge.

             1. Is opioid consumption during the immediate postoperative recovery phase associated
                with consumption after discharge?

             2. Are variables that are known to be associated with opioid consumption, also
                associated with opioid consumption after discharge?

             3. Are there factors which we can use to predict opioid consumption in postoperative
                patients?

        2. Develop a model that incorporates individual patient baseline measures (e.g. anxiety,
           fibromyalgia score, inpatient narcotic consumption) to predict the amount of opioids
           needed following discharge.
    
  