
    
      Sugar-sweetened beverages (SSBs) significantly contribute to sugar and calorie intakes, and
      their consumption is associated with metabolic disease. Sweetened beverages also account for
      the majority of pediatric caffeine consumption. It is well-established that habitual caffeine
      use leads to dependence in adults and evidence for sugar dependence has been documented.
      However, caffeine and/or sugar dependence related to sweetened beverage consumption has not
      been evaluated, and determinants of their consumption among youth are severely understudied.
      It is critical to elucidate whether they may be physiologically or psychologically dependent
      on these beverages, particularly SSBs, which contain both caffeine and sugar.

      The purpose of this study is to conduct a pilot study where caffeinated SSB's are replaced
      with caffeinated SSBs provided by the study team (control) or with caffeine-free and
      unsweetened alternatives (also provided by the study team) for 2 weeks, among children who
      habitually consume caffeinated SSBs.

      Lowering SSB consumption is a central component of lifestyle behavior change aimed at
      preventing and managing obesity, yet effective reduction of SSB intakes has been met with
      many challenges. While their palatability, accessibility, publicity, affordability, and
      social acceptability contribute to frequent and sustained SSB consumption, their caffeine and
      sugar content may further encourage continued intake. Although adverse health consequences of
      excessive SSB consumption are well documented, the extent to which their pleasant taste (due
      primarily to their sugar content) and post-ingestive effects (due to their sugar and/or
      caffeine content) positively reinforce consumption among children has not been elucidated.
      This is particularly important to study among children from low-income and minority
      backgrounds, as these children have the highest rates of SSB intake and the highest
      prevalence of obesity.

      Specific Aims and Hypotheses:

        1. Examine the feasibility of an intervention to remove caffeinated SSB from the child
           diet. We hypothesize that caffeinated SSB avoidance will be feasible among children, but
           that compliance will be lowest among those assigned to sparkling water, devoid of both
           caffeine and sugar. Compliance with beverage assignments will be assessed using daily
           online questionnaires and weekly dietary recalls.

        2. Explore the extent to which caffeinated SSB removal induces withdrawal symptoms. We
           hypothesize that replacement of caffeinated SSBs with caffeine-free SSBs, or sparkling
           water will induce withdrawal symptoms compared to control (usual caffeinated SSB
           consumption). Participants will complete a child-adapted version of the validated
           Caffeine Withdrawal Symptoms Questionnaire (CWSQ) at baseline and daily (online) during
           the intervention.
    
  