
    
      Subjects: Age ≥ 18 years with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer that have relapsed or
      progressed on or after taxanes and trastuzumab-based therapy. Subjects must have histologic
      or cytologic confirmation of the HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer. Evidence of
      measurable or evaluable metastatic disease is required.

      Primary objective:

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination of T-DM1 and
           non-pegylated liposomal doxorubicin in metastatic breast cancer (mBC) patients
           previously treated with taxanes and trastuzumab-based therapy.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To determine the efficacy of the combination of T-DM1 and non-pegylated liposomal
           doxorubicin, defined by the overall response rate (ORR), clinical benefit rate (CBR),
           number of progressions and number and reasons for deaths.

        -  To assess the safety profile of the combination of T-DM1 and non-pegylated liposomal
           doxorubicin, defined by all toxicities reported during the study.

        -  To evaluate the cardiac safety of the combination of T-DM1 and non-pegylated liposomal
           doxorubicin measured by LVEF as assessed by echocardiography, cardiac troponin I and
           B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels.

        -  To evaluate the potential role of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in the
           predisposition for developing cardiotoxicity.

        -  To analyze the pharmacokinetics (PK) profile of T-DM1 and its metabolites and
           non-pegylated liposomal doxorubicin.

      Type of study: This is a prospective dose-finding, multicenter and open-label phase I
      clinical trial.

      Treatment: Trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) will be administered at a fixed dose of 3.6 mg/kg IV
      on Day 1 every 3 weeks and three cohorts of patients with three different dose levels of
      conventional non-pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (45 mg/m2, 50 mg/m2 and 60 mg/m2) IV on Day
      1 in cycles of 21 days each are planned.
    
  