
    
      Inflammation and injuries to transplanted organs during the immediate post-operative period
      may be linked to early organ dysfunction and higher rates of transplant rejection in the
      recipient. Currently, mRNA expression of proinflammatory genes in donor tissues is thought to
      be a risk factor for early organ transplant dysfunction, increased expression of the
      recipients cell-mediated immunity genes, and organ rejection. The purpose of this study is to
      test the association between proinflammatory mRNA expression in donor samples and subsequent
      development of early organ dysfunction in kidney, lung, and liver transplant recipients. This
      study will also test the effects of proinflammatory mediators expressed in the transplanted
      organ pre- and post-reperfusion on organ rejection and genes expressed in cell mediated
      immune responses. This will be achieved by identifying the proinflammatory immune responses
      and their mechanisms.

      This study will consist of up to 11 study visits over a period of 2 years. The baseline visit
      will occur 24 hours prior to organ transplantation. Follow-up visits will occur daily for
      Days 1 to 3 (for lung transplant recipients only) and on Day 7, Week 6, and Months 3, 6, 9,
      12, 18, and 24 post-transplant. At the baseline visit, a physical exam, medical history,
      demographics, vital signs measurements, blood collection, and collection of donor tissue
      sample will occur. For most or all other study visits, medication and adverse events tracking
      and blood collection will occur. Depending on the transplant type, participants will undergo
      the following procedures:

        -  Heart: Participants will undergo a heart biopsy that is part of standard clinical care
           following a heart transplant. An echocardiogram and an electrocardiogram will occur at
           most visits.

        -  Kidney: Renal biopsies will be performed 1 hour after reperfusion at the time of
           surgery. Urine collection will occur at most visits.

        -  Liver: Liver biopsies will be performed at the time of procurement and within 1 hour of
           reperfusion.

        -  Lung: Participants will undergo bronchoalveolar lavage that is part of standard clinical
           care following a lung transplant. A chest x-ray, an arterial blood gas test, a pulmonary
           function test, and 6-minute walking test will occur at some visits.
    
  