
    
      Definition of aims, eligibility of patients and data flow

      In August 2009 a steering committee was appointed and its first meeting took place in Berlin.
      Here the aims of the registry were defined as follows: 1) To generate detailed insight into
      which therapies are being conducted. 2) To document the natural history of patients and
      follow it over years after diagnosis. 3) To follow imaging data of giant aneurysms over years
      after diagnosis, whether treated conservatively or not. 4) To expand the register into
      several disciplines (by inviting neuroradiologic and neurologic centers to join) and
      internationally.

      Inclusion criteria are a) the diagnosis of a giant intracranial aneurysm by CT, MRI or
      regular angiography, b) age 18 years and older and c) informed consent. There are no
      exclusion criteria. If a patient is not able to give informed consent due to his or her
      clinical situation, the legal representative of the patient (e.g. family member) will be
      informed and asked to sign the consent form on behalf of the patient.

      Patients are recruited consecutively in responsibility of each center. In addition to the
      prospective part there is a retrospective part in which patients are included that were
      admitted after January 2006. Data are gathered at admission, discharge and 1/3/5 years after
      discharge. Starting from February 2010 a 9-month pilot phase was conducted in order to
      identify and correct possible problems of data acquisition.

      Development of a study protocol

      Relevant variables were discussed on the basis of existing literature on giant intracranial
      aneurysms. All variables were chosen so that they can be determined in a routine clinical
      context even in small centers with minimal technical equipment. Data collection was decided
      to be carried out using a modular structure, consisting of a basic module and additional
      modules for specific research questions.

      The steering committee decided on the content of a mandatory basic data collection for all
      centers. This basic module was designed to keep the amount of variables at a minimum so that
      data collection can be conducted as safely and quickly as possible by physicians of all
      disciplines. It focuses on the clinical course between initial presentation and discharge but
      also includes data on patient history, such as risk factors and possible prior aneurysm
      therapy. A neurological examination of cranial nerve functions, motor capability and speech
      is conducted initially, at discharge and during 3 mandatory follow-up examinations. At each
      examination the patients' physical condition is recorded using internationally accepted and
      reliable grading systems. The investigator is asked to not only record a clinical diagnosis,
      such as epileptic seizure or incidental finding, but also use imaging data to produce a
      radiological diagnosis and characterize the aneurysm regarding its location, size, shape and
      structure. The mode of therapy is documented choosing between conservative, surgical and
      endovascular options and combinations thereof. Possible complications are recorded as well as
      radiologic results of intervention.

      Each center is given the option to take part in additional extra modules, which serve as a
      basis for spin-off projects resulting from the discussion within the study group. This
      comprises for example an imaging module to lead to a better understanding of how giant
      intracranial aneurysms develop over time. It will monitor changes in aneurysm configuration
      and flow dynamics using 3D-imaging data. A cost module will integrate data on treatment
      expenses making it possible to compare the costs of each mode of therapy.

      An external review of the study protocol was conducted to ensure high methodological quality
      and wide acceptance of the results. For this purpose a preliminary working report was
      forwarded to 4 independent experts in the field of neurovascular research. The reviewers were
      asked to comment on the appropriateness of the methods, the practicability of our variables
      and the coverage of relevant aspects of giant intracranial aneurysm care. The comments of the
      external reviewers were gathered and discussed within the steering committee. Based on the
      recommendations of the external reviewers, a final revision of the study protocol took place.

      Primary hypothesis, study outcome and statistical analyses

      The primary hypothesis of the study is that conservative, endovascular and surgical therapy
      result in equal aneurysm rupture rates. Therefore primary outcome will be aneurysm rupture
      rate at 5 years of follow up.

      The sample size calculation is based on the estimated 5-year cumulative rupture rates for
      patients with unruptured giant aneurysm given in the ISUIA-Trial. According to their results
      we assume a 5-year rupture rate of 0.30 irrespective of which specific treatment is applied.
      Because of a lack of data on special rupture rates regarding patients treated with the three
      considered methods, sample size calculation was done for one proportion based on precision
      analysis. Consequently, a two-sided 95% confidence interval with a width equal to 0.10 is
      achieved by a sample size of 320 patients. For the outcomes death or rupture the
      corresponding survival functions with 95% confidence intervals will be estimated by the
      Kaplan-Meier method. The null-hypotheses of equal survival curves for two treatment groups
      will be tested by the Log-Rank test. With documented dates of rupture events the sample size
      of 320 calculated above is sufficient to detect moderate effects of possible predictors for
      rupture by Cox proportional hazards regression within a secondary analysis. Furthermore we
      can model the logit of rupture after 5 years by binary logistic regression detecting possible
      moderate to considerable effects of predictors. Therapy (conventional, surgery or
      endovascular) will be the main factor of interest for both multivariable analyses.

      Patient recruitment / Data storage / Quality assurance

      In 2008 patient recruitment began at the Charité Berlin, one year later data from other
      centers were included as well, initially only in Germany, later on throughout Europe and
      Japan. Patient data are stored using pseudonyms. Centers can either use a fax-based data
      inclusion form or a web-based entry form. All data are stored at the Charité - Berlin. For
      quality assurance a monitoring visit to the 7 most-including centers was conducted in 2013.
    
  