
    
      Methods Study design and centres This is a prospective, cohort, multi-centre study, to be
      conducted at King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Centre, (KFSH & RC), Riyadh (the
      primary center for this study), and King Fahad Medical City. The study has been approved by
      KFSH&RC Office of Research Affairs representing the institutional review board (IRB).
      Collaborating centers will submit their IRB prior joining the study.

      Subjects:

      Sample Size Sample size has been calculated using Raosoft website based on the total surgical
      patients who receive PN support on monthly bases, which is 20 patients per month, and the
      duration of the data collection is expected to elapse 6 months. This makes the field
      population represented by 120 patients. According to a previous study that assessed need for
      bolus of electrolytes, 7% of the eligible patients are expected to have the outcome. Allowing
      for 5% margin of error and 95% confidence level the target sample size will be 55 patients
      from KFSH&RC and 33 from King Fahad Medical City (KFMC).

      Protocol Surgical patients starting PN will be screened for the inclusion and exclusion
      criteria by the investigators of the study. Eligible patients will be asked to sign a consent
      form.

      All patients will start PN after normalization of the following electrolytes potassium,
      magnesium, and phosphorus according to standard. Premixed PN formula, Olimel N9E will be
      started at a rate of 45 mL per hour for all patients on day 1 of PN support. After the
      routine assessment by pharmacists, the PN rate will be increased at an increment of 10 mL per
      hour on daily basis, representing the target goal of protein of 2 gm per kg according to the
      ideal body weight (IBW) , is achieved. Patients enrolled in the study will be followed while
      on PN support until cessation of PN or after 30 days of support have elapsed.

      All patients will get their potassium, magnesium, and phosphorus levels assessed daily in the
      morning for the first 7 days of PN initiation. After the first week of PN support,
      electrolytes will be assessed at a minimum of three times a week thereafter while on PN. High
      electrolyte levels that develop on the following day of their respective low levels and
      corrected with bolus will not be considered as induced by PN.

      Patients who develop hyperphosphatemia, hypermagnesemia, hyperkalaemia will get their PN
      stopped immediately and replaced with dextrose 10% water solution to run at 50 mL per hour
      till 21:00.Premixed PN will commence again at the same rate of the corresponding day.
      Patients who develop a second episode of any hyperphosphatemia, hypermagnesemia, or
      hyperkalaemia on the preceding day obtained from a blood sample will be shifted to the
      compounded PN.
    
  