
    
      All patients presented for endoscopic removal of difficult colonic polyps will be eligible
      for the study based on inclusion and exclusion criteria. All procedures will be explained by
      the Investigator and all subjects undergoing treatment will review and sign the study
      Informed Consent prior to the procedure. Each subject will be randomly assigned to two
      groups, Group 1 and Group 2, and according to the assignment, the LumenR Retractor will be
      used or not during the procedure.

      Patient preparation, including intravenous sedation, will be the same for both Groups.

      Group 1: A traditional pediatric colonoscope will be advanced into the colon and endoscopic
      removal of the polyp will be performed.

      Group 2: A traditional pediatric colonoscope with a modified overtube preloaded over the
      endoscope will be advanced into the colon. After the polyp is reached, the overtube will be
      advanced forward and expanded around the polyp. Endoscopic removal of the polyp with the use
      of commercially available graspers and biopsy forceps inserted through the overtube working
      channels will be performed.

      At the conclusion of each procedure, the size of the polyp, total procedure time, amount of
      CO2 used for colonic insufflation, amount of fluid used for submucosal injection, and any
      complications, including bleeding and perforation, will be recorded. At the end of the
      procedure, if necessary, the resulting mucosal defect after lesion removal will be closed
      with endoscopic clips or endoscopic suturing device.

      After completion of procedure, all subjects will be recovered according to standard recovery
      room protocol and then discharged home or admitted to hospital if necessary. Subjects will be
      followed at 24 hours, and 10 days post treatment and any complications post endoscopic
      removal of the polyp will be recorded. At 3 months post treatment, all subjects will have
      repeat colonoscopy to evaluate post polypectomy site and remove any residual polypoid tissue
      found.
    
  