
    
      One out of three homeless men and nearly one quarter of all homeless adults are Veterans.
      This translates to almost 200,000 Veterans being homeless on any given night. The Department
      of Veteran Affairs (VA) is a major service provider to homeless persons and has developed
      several very successful and innovative programs that have been effective in securing housing,
      economic stability and needed services for these men and women. However, despite these
      efforts in many communities, Veterans are not accessing these services despite aggressive
      outreach and state-of-the art programming. The investigators are conducting a prospective
      randomized controlled trial to test the hypothesis that a personalized health assessment
      linked to community outreach is more likely to both engage the homeless Veteran in a primary
      care based chronic disease management model and to sustain that care and associated behavior
      changes necessary to exit homelessness. The key questions to be addressed in this study are:
      (1) Will a community-based health-oriented outreach increase health seeking behavior in the
      intervention group?; (2) can initial engagement be sustained in a continuity care model in
      this population?; (3) will this intervention facilitate changes/improvements in health
      seeking behavior that include participation in substance abuse treatment care, compliance
      with mental health care, and enrollment in VA-based employment/financial support programs?;
      and (4) can this intervention impact chronic disease management of key cardiovascular risk
      indicators that disproportionately affect homeless persons?; and (5) do any observed changes
      correlate with serial behavioral measures and qualitative assessments?

      The investigators' working hypothesis is that a targeted outreach to homeless persons that
      capitalizes on either established or newly realized physical health concerns to affect both
      health seeking behavior and sustained behavior change. It is grounded in two complementary
      behavioral models: the Behavioral Model for Vulnerable Populations and the body of research
      describing intrinsic versus extrinsic motivators for sustained behavior change.

      Two hundred and eighty homeless Veterans will be randomized to receive either a personalized
      health assessment based outreach or usual care (social work/housing focused) outreach.
      Baseline assessments will include demographics, medical, mental health and substance use
      co-morbidities, pre-intervention health seeking behavior, readiness for behavior change
      (URICA), motivation for health care. Serial assessments at months 1, and 6 will assess
      evolving readiness and motivation as well as changes in their homeless status (sheltering,
      employment/income, etc.) Actual utilization of services will be assessed using the CPRS
      electronic medical records.
    
  