
    
      Aims & Hypotheses

      The aims of this pilot case series of individual Schema-mode Therapy for Anorexia Nervosa
      (iST-AN) are:

        1. To test the potential efficacy of iST-AN treatment, including

             1. exploring optimal length of treatment

             2. refining the iST-AN treatment manual

        2. To test recruitment and retention in iST-AN treatment

        3. To explore hypotheses relating to self-criticism, body shame & change in strength of
           modes.

      We anticipate that treatment with iST-AN will result in adequate recruitment and a high level
      of retention in treatment. We hypothesise that treatment with iST-AN will result in
      significant change in eating disorder symptoms, quality of life (QoL) and body mass index
      (BMI). We hypothesise that improved symptoms, QoL and BMI will correlate with reduced
      self-criticism, reduced body shame and reduced strength of maladaptive coping modes.

      Methods Population & Recruitment Our intention is to recruit a broadly representative
      population of adults with moderate-severe, treatment resistant or co-morbid Anorexia Nervosa
      (AN). Outpatients will be recruited from The Cullen Centre, Edinburgh, Scotland. Recruitment
      will occur from routine referrals and we anticipate recruiting 10-15 cases over a 12 month
      period.

      Assessment Procedures

      Stage 1 - Screening:

      Any patient referred to the service who may fulfil the inclusion criteria, is eligible for
      screening, including those on waiting lists at the start of the recruitment period. Every
      patient identified for screening will be allocated a unique identification number prior to
      screening, by the data manager. Screening will be carried out by the study therapist by
      telephone or face-to-face, to supplement the referral information. This will be guided by the
      study screening questionnaire. Self-report BMI, age, and history of previous schema therapy
      treatment, will be established using the screening questionnaire. If screen positive, the
      potential participant is offered an eligibility assessment appointment during the screening
      call, and sent a patient information sheet about the study and schema therapy, along with a
      letter confirming the assessment appointment.

      Stage 2 - Eligibility and clinical assessment appointment:

      The eligibility assessment will be combined with a standard clinical assessment, carried out
      by the study therapist and colleagues, according to local protocols. The study therapist will
      complete the eligibility questionnaire and assessments. The Eating Disorders Examination
      (edition 17.0D), the 5 diagnostic items, will be used to make valid DSM-V underweight eating
      disorder diagnoses. The MINI structured diagnostic interview and the self-report Personality
      Belief Questionnaire (PBQ) will be used to define co-morbidity for psychotic disorders,
      alcohol or drug dependence or misuse, personality disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder,
      other anxiety disorders and depressive disorders. A standard clinical assessment will screen
      for possible learning disability or Autistic Spectrum Disorder. The potential participant is
      given an opportunity at this appointment to ask any questions about the study.

      Following this appointment the eligibility information is reviewed. Participants are
      contacted by phone within one week to offer entry to the study or advice regarding the local
      treatment service if they are ineligible for the study or choose to not participate. This
      will be confirmed by letter.

      Stage 3 - Informed consent & baseline assessments appointment:

      Any further questions will be addressed at this appointment prior to obtaining informed
      consent. Demographic and treatment history information will be gathered by the study
      therapist using a bespoke study questionnaire. This includes assessment of: duration of
      eating disorder; previous therapy for eating disorder; lowest ever BMI; relationship status;
      employment status; and current medication. The participant will also be given time at this
      appointment to complete the battery of baseline outcome questionnaires, with the therapist
      available for clarification if required. The option of completing the questionnaires at home
      will be available if preferred.

      Treatment Patients will be treated using a manualised but flexible treatment protocol.
      Engaging people with anorexia nervosa in treatment is notoriously difficult. The value people
      with anorexia nervosa attach to their disorder, combined with difficulties trusting others
      and over-controlling behaviour, means that a flexible individualised treatment approach is
      likely to enhance engagement. A 60 session protocol will be used over an 18 month period,
      moving flexibly through five phases of treatment, guided by the psychological formulation:
      phase 1 - assessment, engagement & stabilisation; phase 2 - developing trust & understanding;
      phase 3 - developing awareness & acceptance; phase 4 - testing change & strengthening the
      healthy mode; phase 5 - consolidating change. A follow-up period of 6 months, with 5 further
      monthly sessions, will promote self-efficacy and further consolidate change. A total
      treatment package of 65 sessions will be offered, over 24 months. Some therapy sessions will
      be audio recorded for quality assurance and supervision purposes.

      Medical and psychiatric risk management will continue as per local service protocols. Should
      inpatient care be required, patients will be retained in the trial if an admission is limited
      to less than 8 weeks, with admissions recorded for reporting in results. Patients who lose
      capacity to consent to participation in the trial, who are admitted for longer than 8 weeks
      or require use of the mental health act, will be withdrawn from the trial and further
      treatment will be determined by local protocols. Treatment with medication and dietetic
      treatment will continue as per local service protocols and recorded for reporting in results.
      These measures will ensure any significant additional treatment beyond iST-AN is reported
      clearly within our results and that no patient is denied any locally available adjunctive
      treatment alongside the psychological therapy.

      Data Management and Analysis An assistant psychologist from Edinburgh eating disorder
      services will be the data manager, with the support of the Scottish Mental Health Research
      Network (SMHRN). A unique identification number will be allocated sequentially to each
      patient entering the screening process. All outcome measures will be collected at baseline,
      6, 12, 18 and 24 months, with the exception of the SMI, to be collected at baseline and 24
      months only, due to the length of this questionnaire.

      Questionnaire packs will be provided electronically by the data manager, alongside a system
      of reminders sent two weeks prior to the set data point. Participants will be encouraged to
      complete questionnaires on paper at the clinic, but will have the option to complete these at
      home or online at www.surveymonkey.com. The Treating clinicians will ensure completion of
      outcome measures and passing this information to the data manager. The anonymised data with a
      unique identification number, will be managed and stored on the password-secured IT systems
      of the University of Edinburgh.

      Analyses will be conducted using the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences, version 21
      (SPSS v21). We will describe the numbers of patients screened, recruited and retained in
      treatment. Using the intention to treat principle, repeated measure linear mixed-model
      analyses (LMM) will be used to assess efficacy on each of our measures of outcome: symptoms,
      weight gain and quality of life. The pattern of change will be examined to explore whether a
      65 session treatment package appears too long or too short. We will also explore our
      hypotheses that reduced self-criticism, reduced body shame and reduced strength of
      maladaptive coping modes will be correlated with positive outcomes, using multivariate
      analysis of variance (MANOVA).

      Timeline

        1. Ethics approval: Feb-Mar 2015

        2. Local R&D approval: Mar-Apr 2015

        3. Recruitment: Jan 2016- Jan 2017

        4. Completion of data collection: Jan 2019

        5. Completion of analysis: May 2019

        6. Grant submission for multi-centre RCT of iST-AN: By Dec 2018

        7. Submission for publication: By Dec 2018
    
  