
    
      Lateral epicondylitis (LE); It is one of the most common lesions of the upper limb,
      originating from the wrist and wrist extensor muscles, characterized by pain in the lateral
      epicondyle and extensor muscle surface of the forearm. LE was first described by Runge in
      1873 and was named tennis elbow by Morris in 1882. It is thought that the cause of LE is
      caused by repetitive stresses, direct traumas, repetitive contractions, degeneration, micro
      tears, immature repair and tendinosis at the adhesion of the extensor carpi radialis brevis
      and extensor digitorum communis muscles. It is mostly seen in 4-6 decades. More dominant
      upper limb is affected. Its annual incidence has been determined between 1-3%. It has been
      shown that it can cause a significant loss of labor due to pain in patients.

      The Mulligan Concept is a new approach in Manual Therapy. It was started to be developed by
      New Zealand physiotherapist Brian Mulligan in the 1980s, and its popularity and awareness has
      increased in the last 10 years. The concept-specific techniques called NAGS, SNAGS and MWMs
      are applied safely and effectively in musculoskeletal-nervous system diseases. The concept is
      suitable for biomechanics, arthrokinematic kinesiological principles, which are the common
      knowledge of the known Manual Therapy approaches, and techniques and application principles
      are important with other approaches. show differences.

      Manual therapy and forearm extensor muscle strengthening are used together with MWM
      (mobilization with movement) technique. MWM eliminates elbow pain by reducing abnormal
      facilitations and creates some tactile and compressive stimuli in soft tissue. Afferent nerve
      activity results in these tactile and compressive stimuli inhibiting spinal cord neurons.
      Force is applied at long load at low load. Increases the harmony and mobility of connective
      tissue layers.

      Mulligan concept; It can be defined as a combination of passive mobilization concepts such as
      Kaltenborn, Maitland Cyriax, and active methods such as Pilates, PNF and Kinetic Control. The
      distinctive feature of this approach is that, when the right case is chosen, the pain can be
      achieved, functional gains can be achieved in a very short time and in the long term.

      Postisometric reconstruction: muscle energy technique (MET) is a manual therapy that uses
      muscle's own energy in the form of mild isometric contractions to relax and lengthen muscles
      through autogenic or mutual inhibition. Compared to static stretching, a passive technique in
      which the therapist does all the work, MET is an active technique in which the patient is
      also an active participant. BAT is based on the concepts of Autogenic Inhibition and Mutual
      Inhibition. If a maximum contraction of the muscle is followed by the stretching of the same
      muscle, Autogenic Inhibition is known as MET, and if the opposite muscle following a maximum
      contraction of the muscle is stretched, it is known as Mutual Inhibition MET.

      The manipulative treatment acts directly on the joint structures and creates a nociceptive
      afferent stimulation by providing physiological effect on the central nervous system. Such
      findings emphasize the appropriateness of the local movements of mobilization. Such a
      mechanism may include intranoral circulation, axoplasmic flow, or neural connective tissue
      viscoelasticity. However, an increasing number of studies have shown that passive joint
      movements can activate many areas.

      Exercise programs are the most common physiotherapy treatments for LE. There are many studies
      examining the effects of exercise programs in LE. Stretching and strengthening exercises are
      at the core of the exercise program. Because the tendon should not only be strengthened, it
      should be flexible. Home exercises should usually be done once or twice a day.
    
  