
    
      The SCAAR registry

      The SCAAR registry was established in 1999 and is a part of the national SWEDEHEART registry.
      The registry gathers data on all consecutive patients from all hospitals that perform
      coronary angiography and PCI in Sweden. The information about clinical characteristics and
      procedural details is entered into the registry immediately after the procedure by the PCI
      physician after the review of clinical information. SCAAR is independent of commercial
      funding and is sponsored by the Swedish Health Authorities only. The technology has been
      developed and administered by the Uppsala Clinical Research Center, Uppsala, Sweden. Since
      2001, it has a web-based case-report platform with automatic data surveillance.

      Study population

      The study population consisted of all consecutive patients that underwent coronary
      angiography or PCI in Sweden who were registered between 2005 to 2012 in Swedish Coronary
      Angiography and Angioplasty Registry (SCAAR).

      Definitions

      The investigators defined CTO as 100% luminal diameter stenosis and the absence of antegrade
      flow known or assumed to be ≥3 months duration. Coronary artery disease (CAD) was defined as
      a luminal narrowing ≥50% on angiography. Procedural success after PCI treatment of the
      coronary lesion is defined as residual stenosis < 50%, decreased grade of stenosis after
      intervention by at least 20%, TIMI flow ≥ II and no serious complications.

      Study cohort

      The study was based on patients who underwent diagnostic coronary angiography and were
      registered in SCAAR during the period 2005 to January 2012. Only patients who were diagnosed
      with significant coronary artery disease were included in the analyses. A CTO patient was
      identified based on the available information about the percentage of luminal stenosis at the
      level of coronary segments that was introduced in 2005. From this date onwards, the
      information derived from a diagnostic coronary angiogram can also be used to determine if a
      coronary segment was totally occluded. In order to differentiate between acute and chronic
      occlusions, we excluded patients who underwent a procedure for ACS in whom the 100% occlusion
      was located in the same coronary artery as the culprit vessel. Furthermore, we excluded
      patients who underwent a procedure in the same vessel within the previous 3 months. The
      patients with previous coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery were excluded from
      analysis as the patency of the graft could not be determined.

      Validation

      Validation of the CTO definition was performed in a subgroup of 955 patients from one
      university hospital (Sahlgrenska University Hospital) and from three county hospitals (Norra
      Älvsborgs Hospital, Borås Hospital, Skövde Hospital). This subgroup represents 5.7% of all
      identified CTO patients in SCAAR in the study period. The patients were randomly selected by
      means of random number generator. The validation procedure was conducted by a panel
      consisting of five experienced interventional cardiologists. The panelists examined
      individual coronary angiograms according to a monitoring plan defined in advance. Each
      angiogram was evaluated in regard to whether the patient had previous CABG, whether the
      treated occlusion was ≥3 months old and whether 100% segmental stenosis on angiogram was an
      occlusion ≥3 months old. The results from the validation procedure were then compared to the
      data entered in SCAAR.

      Statistical analysis

      Differences in baseline characteristics between the groups were tested with the χ2 test for
      categorical variables while Mann-Whitney U test and Kruskal-Wallis test were used for
      comparison of continuous non-normally distributed variables. Shapiro-Wilks test was used as a
      test for normal distribution. Statistical significance was defined as a P-value <0.05. The
      primary outcome was all-cause mortality. Unadjusted survival was examined using a
      Kaplan-Meier survival curve and the log-rank test. To evaluate the association between
      presence of CTO and mortality, multivariable-adjusted hazard ratios (HR) were calculated
      using Cox proportional-hazards regression models. All tests were two-sided. The potential
      confounders such as; age, gender, diabete, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, smoking status,
      previous PCI, previous MI, extent of CAD, indication, puncture site, any complication,
      primary treatment decision, were all entered into the model. We prespecified six subgroup
      analyses for the following patient categories: indication for angiography and PCI (stable
      angina, UA/non-STEMI, STEMI and other) severity of CAD (one-, two-, three-vessel and left
      main disease) age, gender, diabetes and calendar year. The possible effect modification of
      CTO on risk of dying in the subgroups was analyzed by means of interaction test. Age was
      examined in the interaction with CTO both as a continuous as well as factorial variable
      consisting of four different age groups namely <59, 60-69, 70-79 and >80 years. The
      assumption of proportional hazards for each covariate was reviewed separately by the means of
      log-minus-log survival plots and by formal test based on scaled Schoenfeld residuals.
      Possible multicollinearity between the variables in the model was assessed by calculation of
      variance inflation factor. The database was scrutinized for missing data. A number of
      variables listed above were associated with missing data. In addition to the complete case
      analysis, we applied multiple imputation method to estimate the missing data and performed
      Cox proportional hazards regression with the imputed data set under the assumption that
      missing data are missing at random. The imputation protocol consisted of the chain-equation
      method with a predictive-mean matching algorithm using the same covariates as in the main
      analysis with 20 imputed data sets with addition of cumulative hazard and event indicator.
      Cumulative hazard was estimated with the Nelson-Aalen's test. Due to hierarchical structure
      of SCAAR with clustering of patients within hospitals causing violation of assumption of
      independency between the patients, we applied multilevel modeling with shared frailty Cox
      proportional-hazards regression to adjust for the clustering effect. This was the primary
      model. The secondary model was based on complete-case analysis. All analyses were performed
      using Stata software (version 13.1, StataCorp, College Station, Texas, USA). The imputation
      procedure and subsequent Cox proportional hazards regression estimation was performed
      according to the Rubin's protocol.
    
  