
    
      Background:

      Women with HDP need ongoing care in the postpartum and inter-pregnancy period. HDP, including
      preeclampsia (PEC) and gestational hypertension (GHTN), complicate up to 10% of all
      pregnancies and are associated with immediate and long-term cardiovascular morbidity and
      mortality. HDP increase lifelong risk for chronic hypertension, diabetes, ischemic heart
      disease, stroke, and heart failure. Black women have a higher incidence of HDP and have a
      disproportionately higher morbidity and mortality compared to non-black women. The American
      College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) and the American Heart Association (AHA)
      emphasize the postpartum period as an important opportunity to identify and intervene upon
      women at high-risk for future cardiovascular disease (CVD).

      However, current postpartum practices inadequately address transitions of care for women with
      HDP. A significant proportion of women with HDP do not see a preventative care provider
      (primary care, cardiology) in the months after delivery. Black women are particularly
      vulnerable to being lost to follow-up after complicated pregnancy. The HSM program is an
      innovative, patient-centered program that monitors postpartum blood pressure remotely using a
      text-based interface. It is supported by the Way to Health platform. HSM improves blood
      pressure management in the two weeks after delivery and eliminates racial disparities in
      blood pressure ascertainment during that time. However, enrollment in HSM did not improve
      follow-up in the year after delivery, with less than 1/3 of women having a preventative care
      visit. Poor follow-up is likely multifactorial, but may be driven by inadequate patient
      counseling in the postpartum period. Among women enrolled in HSM, only 21% of women were
      counseled on follow-up with primary care and only 4% were counseled on CVD risk at their
      postpartum visits based on chart review.

      Nudges are effective for changing medical decision-making and improving clinical outcomes.
      Nudges utilize concepts from behavioral economics to subtly change the decision-making
      environment to facilitate evidence-based care and can be delivered to patients, providers, or
      both. Examples of nudges include electronic prompts to order cancer screening and electronic
      defaults that guide ordering practices. Nudges are low cost, scalable using Electronic
      Medical Record (EMR) systems, and improve rates of preventative services including influenza
      vaccination, referral to mammography, and statin prescription for CVD prevention.

      Design:

      This study will use a randomized, controlled superiority trial to evaluate a hospital-wide
      initiative to improve counseling for postpartum women who experienced HDP during their
      pregnancy or in the immediate postpartum period.

      Hypotheses:

        1. The investigators hypothesize that the prompt will increase the proportion of women
           counseled on transitioning care to a primary care provider or cardiologist after
           pregnancy (primary outcome).

        2. The investigators hypothesize that the provider nudge will increase the proportion of
           women attending a preventative care visit within 6 months of delivery as assessed by
           chart review and patient surveys.

      The HSM daily log generated through the Way to Health platform will be used to generate lists
      of patients who are eligible for the study. For each eligible woman, the date of and
      obstetric care provider for her postpartum visit will be recorded within 3 weeks of delivery.

      Patients will then be randomly assigned to a control group with no intervention (usual care
      through HSM) or the intervention group (physician nudge) using simple 1:1 randomization
      through the Way to Health Platform. If a woman is randomized to the intervention arm, her
      obstetric care provider for her postpartum visit will receive a staff message in Epic (Penn
      Chart) that the provider's patient has an upcoming postpartum visit. The message will be sent
      1 week before the scheduled visit. The message will have patient-specific information
      including hypertensive diagnosis, blood pressure medication(s), gestational diabetes
      diagnosis, and primary care provider as listed in the Epic banner. The message will also have
      dot phrases for recommended counseling and contact information for University of Pennsylvania
      Health System (UPHS) primary care and cardiology providers. There will be a dot phrase
      recommending follow-up with primary care or cardiology; counseling on risk of future CVD; and
      recommending aspirin in a future pregnancy.

      A web-based survey will be distributed to all women in the study 6 months after delivery
      through the Way to Health platform. The survey will assess attendance at a preventative care
      visit, social determinants of health, health status, and insurance status after delivery.

      Demographic characteristics, medical and obstetric history, hypertensive disorder, laboratory
      test results (platelet count, creatinine, liver function tests, urine protein, total
      cholesterol, triglycerides, LDL-C, HDL-C, glucose, hemoglobin A1c), blood pressure
      measurements, height, weight, and office visits within 6 months of delivery will be
      abstracted from the EMR. Detailed chart abstraction will be performed regarding counseling at
      the postpartum visit and additional office visits within 6 months of delivery focusing on 1)
      health maintenance 2) hypertension, or 3) cardiovascular risk reduction. Two reviewers will
      assess counseling at each visit. The investigators will obtain data on obstetric care
      providers including level (resident physician, attending physician, nurse practitioner,
      physician assistant, or certified nurse midwife), gender, and years in practice from publicly
      available databases or websites online.
    
  