
    
      Perioperative cognitive trajectories (Perioperative neurocognitive disorders [pNCDs]) are
      described with formal cognitive testing (neurocognitive test battery). Definitions are based
      on current nomenclature recommendations (Evered et al.) according to DSM-V criteria including
      a multi-component cognitive test battery comparing baseline and postoperative follow-up
      testing of patients with cognitive test performance of non-surgical control groups.Cognitive
      concern and functional ability are described with items from questionnaires, e.g. IQCODE,
      MMQ, GDS, ADL/IADL and others specific to the respective study design.

      Repeated cognitive testing with a battery of computerized neuropsychological tests (Cambridge
      Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery [CANTAB®]) and non computerized (paper based)tests
      (e.g. trailmaking test, Grooved pegboard test, Stroop color word interference test, animal
      naming test, etc.) are performed at preoperative baseline, after 5-7 days and at three months
      follow up, 1 year, 2 years and 5 years follow-up according to the study design of the
      registered studies.

      Different calculation methods will be applied to the cognitive test data, primarily the
      dichotomousapproach established by Rasmussen et al. in the International Study on
      postoperative cognitive deficits (ISPOCD). This calculation method defines POCD as a reliable
      change in pre- and postoperative cognitive performance (difference scores) of each individual
      in the surgical patients cohort as compared to the changes in a non-surgical control group
      (reliable change index in either a composite score including cognitive test parameters from
      all tests in the cognitive test battery or in at least two of the chosen cognitive test
      parameters). Additional calculation methods like "g-factor", "GCP" and arbitrary definitions
      e.g. "20.20- rule" will be used for detailed methodologic evaluation.

      In a subproject we plan to describe domain-specific changes in formal cognitive testing over
      the registered surgical cohorts. Analyses will be performed in joint evaluation with
      Cambridge Cognition. The analyses aim to :

        1. Describe cognitive change based on raw cognitive data from the applied cognitive test
           battery (computerized tests with CANTAB eclipse, CANTAB research suite, CANTAB connect
           and non-computerized tests)

        2. Identify clinical factors (e.g., existing diagnoses, biomarkers, medications) predictive
           of cognitive decline following surgery

        3. Identify the level of pre-surgery cognitive impairment that is predictive of risk for
           cognitive decline following surgery

        4. Identify the cognitive domains most sensitive to neuropsychological change following
           surgery

        5. Facilitate the use of data collected from non-surgical controls as normative material
           for future studies in the research area.
    
  