
    
      Peripheral vascular disease (PVD) is a common disease of the elderly, resulting in the
      compromise of blood flow to the lower limbs. As a consequence of impaired tissue perfusion,
      PAD patients can experience pain, diminished exercise capacity, and tissue loss, with some
      ultimately requiring amputation. Globally, lower extremity peripheral artery disease is the
      third leading cause of atherosclerotic cardiovascular morbidity, affecting over 200 million
      individuals worldwide. Peripheral vascular disease is becoming more prevalent with the
      increase of incidence with age and a globally aging population. In 2010, it was estimated
      that the number of people living with peripheral artery disease increased by 23.5% in the
      last decade. The economic burden of PVD is significant. In the United States alone, PVD
      accounts for over $20 billion in annual healthcare related costs. Specifically, non-healing
      wounds represent a significant portion of this expenditure at more than $3 billion per year.

      The demand for the development of an effective method to characterize the viability of PVD
      wounds has resulted in the emergence of several innovative techniques. Commonly used
      diagnostic methods are ankle-brachial index (ABI), pulse volume recordings, duplex
      ultrasonography, venous plethysmography, angiography by X-ray, computed tomography, and
      magnetic resonance imaging. However, many of these techniques lack the ability to triage and
      adequately determine the viability of the wound. Ankle brachial index (ABI) is one of the
      most common screening techniques used to establish the presence of PVD, but it lacks
      sensitivity in creating sensitive and specific categorization of wounds as viable or
      non-viable. ABI gives an indication of a hemodynamically significant obstruction, but does
      not measure blood flow directly. Doppler ultrasound is another common method that can measure
      arterial blood flow, however some groups suggest that the femoral artery blood flow may not
      be an accurate hemodynamic indication of muscle ischemia. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy is
      also a new technique that has been validated in its application to assess PVD. Novel magnetic
      imaging sequences such as PIVOT (Perfusion, Intravascular Venous Oxygen Saturation) combine
      Blood Oxygen Level Dependent (BOLD) MRI and Arterial Spin Labeling (ASL) to comprehensively
      assess the tissue. Despite the strengths that many MRI techniques promise, clinical use
      limitations remain due to the high costs and availability of resources.

      Peripheral vascular disease-induced lower extremity wounds have inadequate perfusion.
      Currently, there are three major approaches to improve vascular perfusion to the area:
      medical management, open surgery, and endovascular surgery. Medical management consists of
      lifestyle modification and management of associated risk factors such as smoking, diabetes
      mellitus, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, and hypercoagulability. While advances have been made
      in the medical management of lower extremity ischemia-induced wounds, large arterial
      revascularization remains the current standard of care. Open bypass surgery is often employed
      to bypass stenotic arteries and improve perfusion to lower extremity wounds. Over the last
      two decades, endovascular intervention has emerged as an additional therapy as it is
      minimally invasive and may have lower associated morbidity and mortality. In addition to
      improved perfusion of lower extremity wounds by medical management of surgical intervention,
      local wound care is required to expedite the healing process and prevent infection.

      However, there remains a need for effective triage technologies to help clinicians decide
      whether surgical management is needed. This would allow for early determination of surgical
      versus conservative management and inpatient versus outpatient management. If surgery is
      required, patient functional outcomes are improved if it takes place earlier. As well,
      inpatient management of surgical patients is extremely costly. Outpatient management of
      patients with peripheral vascular wounds that do not require surgery would significantly
      reduce the costs associated with surgical intervention.

      Near-infrared point spectroscopy (NIRS) non-invasively measures flow, concentration, and
      oxygenation of hemoglobin in arterioles, capillaries, and venules several centimeters deep in
      tissue. NIRS is safe and comfortable for patients and is well-suited to measure markers of
      viability in peripheral vascular disease wounds, including tissue perfusion, oxygenation and
      hemoglobin. To date, studies have demonstrated the validity of NIRS technology in patients
      with peripheral arterial disease. The Multi spectrum infrared device (MSID) represents an
      important evolution of existing NIRS imaging devices, which were designed for the clinical
      environment. The MSID has become a commercial device produced by KENT imaging (Calgary,
      Canada) after several animal and clinical trials have validated its use. The MSID is a new
      generation of NIR imaging devices with enhanced portability and functionality. The MSID is
      able to monitor many variables, such as cytochrome oxidase as a marker of tissue oxygen
      utilization, oxygen saturation, perfusion and methemoglobin as a marker of free radical
      injury. The advantage of the MSID is its capacity to account for skin colour. Melanin absorbs
      light and attenuates the amount of NIR light received by the camera. The Kent imaging device
      has unique mathematical algorithms to account for melanin content of the skin. In many
      previous studies done with NIRS technology in PVD wounds, melanin content was not considered
      to be a factor as patients demographic was predominantly Caucasian. However, in many
      multicultural cities where there is a wide variability in patient melanin content, melanin
      corrections in NIRS imaging are very important.

      Using this new and clinically applicable NIRS technology designed for PVD, this study seeks
      to identify viable from non-viable wounds and to determine the severity of wound in assessing
      for vascular intervention indication. This technology is well-suited for use in a wound
      patient population as the measurements times are short and movement of subjects is not an
      issue. As such, this project intends to apply novel technology that has the capacity to
      quickly assess wounds as a complication of PVD.
    
  