
    
      Iodinated contrast media (CM) has been widely used for various diagnostic and therapeutic
      interventions. Coronary angiography and contrast enhanced computed tomography are
      representative medical procedure in which CM administration is necessary, and their usage are
      recently extended. Also, U.S sales of medical imaging CM has been increased.

      Although iodinated CM has useful role in many medical procedures, CM is well known for its
      renal side effect, contrast induced acute kidney injury (CI-AKI). CI-AKI is one of the
      leading cause of iatrogenic acute kidney injury (AKI). Moreover, CI-AKI is known to be an
      independent risk factor for short- and long term morbidity and mortality. Considering the
      current rising incidence of CI-AKI, its prevention has been an important issue.

      The incidence of CI-AKI is below 5% and up to 25% according to presence of risk factors such
      as renal failure, diabetes mellitus, heart failure, old age and concomitant use of
      nephrotoxic medications. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is an established risk factor for
      CI-AKI and therefore several guidelines recommend prophylaxis for CI-AKI when patients with
      creatinine clearance (CrCl) below 60mL/min receives CM administration. In those guidelines,
      it is generally recommend that high risk patients should receive isotonic crystalloid
      solution and be considered for taking N-acetylcysteine, although there are still debates on
      its benefit.

      Several clinical studies have compared 0.9% saline and sodium bicarbonate solution for their
      effectiveness on CI-AKI prevention, and no superiority was shown in using sodium bicarbonate
      solution. Hence, most organization currently use 0.9% saline for CI-AKI prophylaxis due to
      its wide availability.

      However, several studies showed that 0.9% saline has supra-physiologic dose of chloride and
      induces metabolic acidosis which contributes renal vasoconstriction and impairment of
      estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). Double blind, randomized clinical human study
      proved that these problems are less pronounced with the use of balanced salt solution, which
      has physiologic level of chloride and neutral pH. Also, recent prospective pilot study
      suggested that using chloride restrictive solutions, rather than using chloride rich
      solutions, for fluid resuscitation in critically ill patients can reduce AKI. Considering the
      above findings, few large scale cohort studies and randomized controlled trials are ongoing
      to prove preventive effect of balanced salt solution for AKI over 0.9% saline.

      In conclusion, as stated above, use of 0.9% saline for CI-AKI prophylaxis might have limited
      benefit only by volume expansion. Considering its components, additional physiologic
      advantage by using balanced salt solution could be achieved. In order to assess this
      hypothesis, the investigators planned a multicenter prospective randomized controlled
      open-label trial comparing balanced salt solution and 0.9% saline to prevent CI-AKI.

      The primary end-point of this study is event of CI-AKI, which is defined by relative (≥25%)
      or fixed (≥0.5mg/dL) increase in serum creatinine from baseline value assessed at 48 hours
      after CM use. The secondary end-point are decrease in eGFR of more than 50% from the baseline
      eGFR within 48 hours and initiation of dialysis and mortality, after 1 or 6 month from CM
      exposure. For this purpose, at least 830 subjects would be required for each group when type
      I error rate is 2.5% and type II error is 20%, given 20% drop-out rate during the study
      period.
    
  