
    
      For people with epilepsy (PwE) refractory to anti-seizure medication sometimes the
      non-invasive presurgical evaluation using ElectroEncephaloGram (EEG) recorded directly from
      the scalp is not sufficient to delineate the epileptogenic zone and to identificate the
      eloquent cortex. In these cases, an invasive approach using intracranial
      electroencephalography (iEEG) is needed Subdural electrodes are used frequently in the
      presurgical evaluation of patients who are candidates for epilepsy surgery. Electrodes placed
      directly on the surface of the cortex provide a signal with a much higher resolution than
      that provided from scalp electrodes, and have a much clear view of small loci of activity
      which is difficult to see on the scalp.

      Subdural electrodes allow not only the localization of abnormal epileptic tissue but also the
      localization of adjacent normal functions. Therefore, the precise anatomical localization of
      the electrodes on the patient's brain plays a key role in the definition of the epileptogenic
      zone or in the mapping of eloquent cortex.

      From a clinical point of view, the accurate localization of the anatomical boundaries of the
      epileptogenic zone allows to exclude eloquent areas, avoid deficits to patient and minimize
      brain volume resection.

      The localization of these electrodes is generally obtained by matching the locations of the
      electrodes with the brain anatomy of the patient. Commonly, a pre-implant magnetic resonance
      image (MRI) is co-registered to a post-implant computed tomography scan (CT) because MRI
      offers higher brain tissue contrast, while CT supports electrodes localization , even if CT
      images are affected by metal artifacts.

      Various dedicated software tools that support pre-surgical evaluation are currently available
      as Matlab-based packages or open source softwares, also with graphical user interfaces. They
      mainly provide MRI-CT co-registration and offer only basic features for recognition of ECoG
      electrodes from CT scans. Most dedicated softwares segment the electrodes via simple image
      thresholding and allow manual interaction to correct the data. Manual methods are very time
      consuming,user-dependent and prone to inaccuracy. On the other hand, the mere CT image
      thresholding method is not able to recognize all the electrodes and to completely exclude
      other metallic objects, such as wires, tooth filings, intracranial clips, splinters,
      stitches, hearing aids or intracranial stents. Hence, manual intervention is often required
      to adjust the data. For example, the ALICE tool considers the volume of segmented clusters to
      identify the electrodes, but turned out to be unable to exclude other objects with comparable
      volumes (e.g. wire clusters).

      The aim of this project is to develop a novel, robust, automated method to recognize ECoG
      electrodes in CT volumes. It consists of metal artifacts removal from CT volumes,
      identification of groups/arrays of metal objects within the skull and shape analysis of
      detected objects to achieve ECoG electrodes localization.The proposed approach could be
      easily integrated in existing tools.
    
  