
    
      The sitting or prone positions are used for posterior fossa surgery. Although the sitting
      position may cause significant complications such as including hemodynamic instability,
      venous air embolism, paradoxical air embolism (PAE), pneumocephalus, peripheral neuropathy,
      quadriplegia and macroglossia, it also provides optimum access to midline lesions in
      posterior fossa and cervical spine, improves blood and cerebral spinal fluid drainage,
      decreases intracranial pressure, lowers airway pressure, and improves access to the
      endotracheal tube and ability to observe the face for signs of cranial nerves stimulations.
      The sitting position has not been only used in neurosurgery, it has been also used in the
      shoulder surgery. The sitting position related hypotension may reduce the cerebral perfusion
      pressure, therefore may cause cerebral ischemia. The sitting position related cerebral
      ischemia has been shown in the shoulder surgery.

      The non invasive cerebral oxymetry (INVOS-Covidien) has been used to measure cerebral oxygen
      saturation. Some studies has been done to investigate whether the sitting position cause
      cerebral desaturation or not in the shoulder surgery by non invasive cerebral oxymetry. The
      study results are controversial.

      It has been investigated that the effect of the prone position on the cerebral oxygenation in
      the spine surgery and the investigators found that the prone position may increase cerebral
      oxygenation.

      However, all studies have been done in patients without intracranial pathology. We speculate
      that due to the sitting position reduces the intracranial pressure, it may improve the
      cerebral oxygenation in the patients have intracranial pathology. Therefore we will compare
      the sitting and the prone positions effects on the cerebral oxygenation in patients
      undergoing posterior fossa tumour surgery by non invasive cerebral oxymetry.

      Method: 62 patients have posterior fossa tumour will include the study. Patients will divide
      to 2 groups according to the surgical position, the prone (n=31) or the sitting (n=31).
      Patients heart rate, mean blood pressure (MAP), cerebral oxygen saturation (SctO2),
      peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2), BIS values will record before the induction of
      anesthesia. Five minutes after the standard anesthesia induction all values will record and
      it will accept as a baseline. After that all these parameters will record in each 3 minutes
      until the beginning of surgery. Mean while, more than 5 % reduction in SctO2 and more than 20
      % reduction in SctO2 and/or MAP will record. As well as, if the SctO2 reduces than 55 and 60
      %, it will record.
    
  