
    
      This is a study of SBRT in combination with nivolumab and BMS-986253, a monoclonal antibody
      (mAb) against human interleukin-8 (IL-8), conducted in humans with advanced solid tumors.
      This study will evaluate the safety profile, tolerability and preliminary efficacy of SBRT in
      combination with BMS-986253 and nivolumab in participants with advanced solid tumors and
      detectable levels of IL-8 in the serum. The study will be conducted in 2 parts.

      Part 1 will evaluate the safety, tolerability of different doses of SBRT in combination with
      nivolumab (480 mg) and BMS-986253 (2400mg) every 2 weeks (Q2W) in participants with advanced
      solid tumors and detectable levels of IL-8 in the serum. This phase will begin with a cohort
      of participants who will receive a 2,400 mg flat dose of BMS-986253 Q2W combined with 480 mg
      flat dose of nivolumab Q4W along with SBRT (the dose is dependent on the irradiating organ).

      Part 2 will assess preliminary efficacy of SBRT in combination with nivolumab and BMS-986253
      in participants with advanced/metastatic/unresectable melanoma and RCC who progressed on
      anti-PD-(L)1 therapy and have detectable levels of IL-8 in the serum.

      This study aims to determine that safe doses will be found using ablative doses of SBRT with
      concurrent IO agents. Additional safety, tolerability and preliminary efficacy information in
      specific patient population will be gathered. Twenty participants with anti-PD-(L)1
      refractory advanced/unresectable/metastatic melanoma and RCC and with serum IL-8 above the
      lower limit of quantitation (LLOQ) will be enrolled into efficacy phase.

      This proposal is intended to incorporate SBRT as a direct therapeutic which is in contrast
      with other proposals evaluating response at distant sites after isolated metastasis
      radiation. With this intent, the results of this study will be directly applicable to
      potential expansion cohorts and ongoing clinical need.
    
  