
    
      Patients undergoing neurosurgical operations are at risk of inadequate intravascular volume
      for several reasons. The appropriate fluid management in neurosurgery is a challenge.
      Goal-directed therapy has been shown to improve the outcome of patients undergoing major
      surgery. Current knowledge regarding effect of fluid management on patient-orientated
      outcomes in neurosurgery is limited.

      This study is designed as a pilot study with two parallel groups. Patients scheduled to
      planned brain surgery at the University Hospital Brno will be screened whether they meet the
      inclusion criteria. After obtaining informed consent, the patient will be randomized to one
      of the study arms.

      In one arm (STANDARD) standard monitoring of vital signs will be introduced. During the
      operation, perioperative fluid therapy and administration of vasoactive agents will depend
      entirely at the discretion of the attending anaesthetist. Postoperative therapy will be fully
      controlled and will depend on the decision of the attending physician. In the second arm
      (GDT), a non-invasive hemodynamic monitor STARLINK™SV will be introduced in addition to
      standard monitoring. In this arm, basal infusion with crystalloid balanced solution will be
      initiated. Additional boluses of fluids will be administered based on haemodynamic
      monitoring. The primary outcome of the study is a proportion of patients with serious adverse
      event (SAE). Incidence of SAEs will be compared between study groups. SAE will be defined as
      unsatisfactory brain tissue relaxation at the end of operation and any intervention for brain
      oedema postoperatively.

      The secondary outcome is to compare proportion of patients with postoperative complications
      in both groups and length of ICU and hospital stay.

      This study will enroll 34 patients in total, 17 in each group. After completion of enrolment
      of patients the statistical analysis will be performed.
    
  