
    
      Sudden cardiac death (SCD) is a major clinical problem, responsible for 400,000 deaths
      annually in the US(2) Ventricular fibrillation/ventricular tachycardia (VF/VT) is the most
      common arrhythmia associated with SCD(3). ICD implantation is the only preventive treatment,
      and clinical trials have clearly established the efficacy of ICD placement for both primary
      and secondary prevention of SCD(4). Since 1996, ICD implantation has increased dramatically,
      from 20,000 per year, to 200,000 implanted per year in the US.

      Patients are likely to experience varying degrees of psychological, social and physical
      adjustment both leading up to and following ICD implant. Poor quality of life and depression
      are common in patients with ICD(5). Anxiety is particularly common, with approximately 24 -
      87% of ICD recipients experiencing increased symptoms of anxiety after implantation and
      diagnostic rates for clinically significant anxiety disorders ranging from 13-38%(6). The
      occurrence of ICD shocks is generally faulted for this psychological distress, but its causal
      influence is confounded by the presence of a life threatening medical condition. Depressive
      symptoms are reported in 24-33% of ICD patients(7). ICD shock related fears are universal and
      may be the most pervasive psychosocial adjustment challenge ICD patients face.

      The literature suggests that ICD recipient QOL is not as high as that among recipients of
      more benign cardiac devices such as pacemakers. Concerns about ICD shocks and the negative
      effect of ICDs on patients' sense of control, social interactions, driving, sexuality,
      capacity to work, and ability to engage in leisure activities appear to adversely influence
      ICD recipients' perception of health and well being(8).

      Support groups are a popular adjunctive treatment for ICD patients because they provide an
      efficient conduit for patient education spanning the biopsychosocial domains.(9) The active
      ingredients of support groups probably centre on the universality of many patient concerns
      and the sharing of information and strategies to deal effectively with these concerns.
      Dickerson et al found that ICD recipients and their support persons coped with traumatic
      experience of sudden cardiac death by using story telling in the support group to work
      through the anxiety and place the event into a manageable explanation(10). Clinical nurse
      specialist (CNS) - facilitated support group are beneficial if offered, especially if they
      contact the ICD recipients early during hospitalization and making them aware of this
      resource(11).
    
  