
    
      Community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) is a common serious infection and a leading cause of
      hospitalisation in children. Knowledge about the underlying pathogen is a major unmet
      clinical need, particularly in CAP caused by Mycoplasma pneumoniae (Mp). Timely and reliable
      identification is critical for initiating effective and tailored antimicrobial treatment.
      However, determining the causative pathogen of childhood CAP is complicated by the low yield
      of blood cultures and difficulty obtaining specimens from the lower respiratory tract of
      children. Therefore, clinicians attempt to detect potential pathogens in upper respiratory
      tract (URT) specimens, knowing that children carry viruses and bacteria in their URT that may
      or may not be causative for the current pneumonia episode. Consequently, the interpretation
      of diagnostic tests performed with URT specimens is limited and may lead to unnecessary
      antimicrobial prescriptions.

      The hurdle in differentiating infection from carriage was documented recently for Mp, a
      frequently reported pathogen underlying CAP in children worldwide (up to 20-40% during
      epidemics). Current diagnostic tests, including polymerase chain reaction (PCR) of URT
      specimens or serology, do not reliable differentiate between Mp infection and carriage. Mp is
      found in the URT in up to 56% of healthy children. These findings challenge recent
      epidemiological data indicating Mp as the most common bacterial cause of CAP, in up to 23% of
      hospitalized U.S. children aged 10-17 years. A ≥4-fold increase in IgG antibody levels is
      still considered the "gold standard" for diagnosing M. pneumoniae infection, but has low
      sensitivity when e.g. compared with IgM seroconversion and/or a 2-fold IgM increase. In fact,
      such a definition is also not helpful in acute clinical management, as it requires acute and
      convalescent sera.

      Circulating antigen-specific B cell responses have been investigated in vaccine studies and
      demonstrated to be more rapid and shorter lived than antibody responses. After exposure,
      antigen-specific B cells proliferate and differentiate into antibody-secreting cells (ASCs)
      and memory B cells. ASCs transiently circulate in the peripheral blood in the first days
      after an antigen encounter. In a recent observational pilot study of children with CAP and
      healthy controls, we showed that the detection of Mp-specific immunoglobulin (Ig) M ASCs by
      enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISpot) assay re-classified 15% of PCR-positive and 12% of
      IgM-seropositive study participants (https://doi.org/10.1164/rccm.201904-0860LE). Thus, the
      measurement of specific IgM ASCs by ELISpot assay is an innovative, minimally invasive, and
      rapid test method that optimises diagnosis of Mp CAP in children.

      In view of these promising first results, the aim of this study is to establish the diagnosis
      of Mp infection by the measurement of Mp-specific ASCs by ELISpot in CAP patients enroled in
      the randomised placebo-controlled multi-centre effectiveness trial of adjunct betamethasone
      therapy (KIDS-STEP study, Protocol ID: NCT03474991).
    
  