
    
      This study will evaluate the cardiac function in fetuses with specific conditions before,
      during, and after fetal interventions using an automated myocardial performance index. It is
      hypothesized that automated MPI can used to diagnosis and predict fetal cardiac dysfunction
      in fetal surgeries.

      Ultrasound examination, including Doppler assessment, has served an axial rule in diagnosis
      and management of complex maternal-fetal conditions. Sonographic findings have been
      indicative of prognosis and have guided intervention at particular situations including
      intrauterine growth restriction and fetal alloimmunization. As researchers continue to
      investigate various sonographic parameters that would identify fetuses at increased risk of
      adverse outcomes, which would warrant intervention, fetal cardiac function has substantially
      attracted attention as a potential predictor of fetal status; subtle cardiac dysfunction may
      reflect functional adaptation to fetal insult.

      Myocardial performance index (MPI) is a Doppler derived sonographic tool that is used to
      assess global fetal cardiac function. Higher MPI values have been proven to indicate
      ventricular dysfunction. Several studies have adopted the use of MPI as a part of fetal
      echocardiography, either to study normal values among fetal population or to assess fetal
      cardiac dysfunction in high risk pregnancy and in response to fetal intervention. Initial
      results have correlated MPI to adverse outcomes particularly in the presence of maternal and
      fetal disorders.

      Fetal surgery is a unique stressful situation in which fetal cardiac function presents a
      critical aspect. In part, because underlying indications are commonly associated with
      clinically relevant myocardial dysfunction e.g. twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome (TTTS),
      congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH), neural tube defect (NTD) and lower urinary tract
      obstruction (LUTO). Moreover, surgery itself may be associated with significant fetal cardiac
      compromise. Therefore, perioperative (before, during and after the procedures) MPI may
      present a predictive parameter of fetal and neonatal outcomes in these high risk surgeries.
    
  