
    
      Overall Study Design

      This is a single centre open label, non-randomized, non-placebo phase 1 clinical trial to
      establish the safety and tolerability compound 451238 in combination with radiotherapy in
      patients with soft tissue sarcomas (STS). STS patients receiving radiotherapy to a tumour
      deposit above the diaphragm in the thorax, trunk or extremity, will receive radiotherapy.
      This study will recruit 12 patients and run as a fixed dose trial. Patients will continue on
      the treatment regimen unless they progress, suffer unacceptable toxicities, or withdraw from
      the trial.

      Treatment Regimen

      A maximum of 12 patients will be recruited. The safety and tolerabilty will be assessed in
      the first 3+3 patients with expansion to 12 patients as tolerated. A minimum gap of 2 weeks
      will be left between treatment of the first and second patient (with the combination of RT)
      to mitigate against multiple patients suffering acute toxicity. Patients will be followed for
      a minimum of 11 weeks from the initiation of radiotherapy with combined compound 451238 for
      the purposes of acute toxicity monitoring. Late toxicity monitoring will commence from 11
      weeks + one day from initiation of radiotherapy with combined compound 451238 and continue
      until disease progression or initiation of new anti-cancer therapy.

      Safety Follow-up - 30 Days

      All patients will be required to attend a safety follow-up visit 30 days after the last dose
      of compound 451238 or before the initiation of a new anti-cancer treatment, whichever comes
      first.

      Extended Safety Follow-up - 90 Days

      Given the potential risk for delayed toxicities, an extended safety follow-up visit must be
      performed up to 90 days after the last dose of compound 451238 administration. The extended
      safety follow-up will be performed either via a site visit or via a telephone call with
      subsequent site visit requested in case any concerns noted during the telephone call. All AEs
      and SAEs that occur prior to the safety follow-up visit should be reported as described in
      the trial protocol. After the safety follow-up any unresolved AEs at the patient's last visit
      should be followed up for as long as medically indicated, but without further recording in
      the CRF.

      Follow-up

      Patients who discontinue trial treatment for any reason other than disease progression will
      move into the follow-up phase and will be assessed every 12 weeks by MRI or radiologic
      imaging to monitor disease status. Every effort will be made to collect information regarding
      disease status until the start of new anti-cancer therapy, disease progression, death,
      withdrawal or end of the study. Information regarding post-study anticancer treatment will be
      collected if new treatment is initiated.

      Survival Follow-up

      Once a patient experiences confirmed PD or starts a new anti-cancer therapy, the patient
      moves into the survival follow-up phase and will be followed up every 12 weeks to determine
      their disease status. This will be done by reviewing their medical notes and/or contacting
      the patient and/or General Practitioner directly. Patients will remain on this follow-up
      until death, withdrawal of consent, or the end of the study, whichever occurs first.
    
  