
    
      By January 2015, oncology care providers will be expected to craft Survivorship Care Plans
      (SCPs) for all individuals ending active treatment for cancer; however, there is a lack of
      systematic study of the impact survivorship planning has on patients, providers, or
      healthcare systems. The Polaris Oncology Survivorship Transition (POST) program is a
      web-based system that incorporates recommendations from the Institute of Medicine (IOM) and
      American College of Surgeons (ACS) to assist with cancer survivorship planning. It is a
      patient-centered approach that integrates input from both the treating oncology team and the
      patient. Phase 1 built and iteratively modified (N=25) the POST system and Phase 2 will test
      whether the SCPs impact patient and provider outcomes using a single blind, randomized
      controlled trial (RCT). Breast cancer patients (n=230) transitioning out of active treatment
      will be recruited and randomly assigned to receive Treatment as Usual (n=115) or the POST
      (n=115). All participants will be assessed at 1, 3, and 6 months by a research assistant
      blind to baseline status and group assignment. Primary outcomes will include quality of life,
      mechanisms of action such as confidence in entering survivorship, and other outcomes such as
      (1) depression and anxiety, (2) adherence to medical and behavioral health recommendations,
      (3) health care utilization, and (4) patient and provider satisfaction with the POST
      system.The POST will innovate the clinical setting through being the first system to produce
      computer generated tailored survivorship plans fully reflecting IOM recommendations and the
      new ACS 2015 requirements; incorporating information from both the oncology provider and the
      patient; featuring readily available "plug in" for two-way electronic health record
      integration; providing dynamic, electronic referrals for specialized support services; and
      facilitating care coordination between the oncologist and PCP. This study's impact will be
      significant. If hypotheses are confirmed, clear scientific evidence will exist for supporting
      survivorship care planning into oncology clinical practice. If hypotheses are disconfirmed,
      important lessons will guide future directions for care planning, including whether failure
      to affect outcomes was due to failure to impact several hypothesized mechanisms of action.
    
  