
    
      Currently available electrophysiological approaches are limited in their ability to identify
      the majority of patients with CAD and LV dysfunction that succumb to sudden cardiac death
      (SCD). Half of the patients developing SCD are not inducible at electrophysiological testing
      underscoring the need for new ways to identify substrates leading to arrhythmic death. Viable
      chronically dysfunctional with reduced resting flow, or hibernating myocardium, not amenable
      to revascularization appears to be a major risk factor for subsequent cardiac death and is
      present in up to 60% of patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy. Cause specific mortality data
      is limited but appears to be arrhythmic rather than from fatal myocardial infarction or
      progressive heart failure. Revascularization improves survival but most patients with
      hibernating myocardium are managed medically due to prohibitive procedural risks or technical
      limitations. Basic studies in swine with hibernating myocardium demonstrate SCD arising from
      VT/VF in the absence of myocardial scar or heart failure. The central hypothesis of this
      proposal is that the presence of hibernating myocardium as opposed to scar identifies a large
      subset of patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy that are at high risk for SCD. We further
      hypothesize that this risk is related to inhomogeneity in sympathetic innervation arising
      from chronic repetitive ischemia. PAREPET is a prospective observational study that will
      enroll patients with coronary disease, Class I-III heart failure and an ejection fraction
      ≤35%. Using positron emission tomography (PET), the frequency and amount of hibernating
      myocardium will be quantified in patients that are not candidates for coronary
      revascularization. Three Specific Aims are proposed. Aim 1 will determine whether imaging the
      mismatch between viability (preserved 18F-2-deoxyglucose) and reduced resting flow (13NH3)
      can predict an increased risk of SCD (or ICD discharge for VT/VF as a surrogate end-point) in
      hibernating myocardium. Aim 2 will image norepinephrine uptake using 11C-hydroxyephedrine to
      determine whether inhomogeneity in myocardial sympathetic innervation predicts SCD risk
      better than viability testing. Aim 3 will identify whether the substrate identified by PET is
      stable after an aborted SCD event by evaluating temporal changes in function, viability and
      sympathetic innervation in patients with an ICD. Our long-term objective is to develop better
      approaches to identify patients with CAD who are most likely to benefit from primary
      prevention of SCD with placement an ICD.
    
  