
    
      This is a prospective, single blinded randomised clinical study, designed to provide data on
      the heterologous prime boost use of AZD1222 and rAd26-S, to be administered one after the
      other interchangeably. This study aims to explore the immunogenicity and safety of combining
      these 2 different adenovirus vector vaccines in the prevention of coronavirus disease 2019
      (COVID-19).

      Participants will be healthy adults ≥ 18 years of age.

      This is a parallel group treatment study with 2 groups and single blinded (participant
      blinded).

      Participants will be randomised (1:1) to one of the following groups:

        -  Group A: 1 intramuscular (IM) injection AZD1222 on Day 1 followed by rAd26-S on Day 29
           of the study.

        -  Group B: 1 IM injection of rAd26-S on Day 1 followed by AZD1222 on Day 29.

      All participants will remain on study for 6 months (180 days) following the first
      vaccination.

      Immunogenicity will be assessed for the duration of the study, including serologic
      quantification of severe acute respiratory syndrome-coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) antigen
      specific antibody levels and antibody seroconversion rate, neutralising antibody assays.

      Safety will be assessed for the duration of the study as follows:

        -  Solicited adverse events (AEs; local and systemic) will be assessed for 7 days following
           each vaccination (Day 1 through Day 7 for first vaccination and Day 29 through Day 35
           for second vaccination).

        -  Unsolicited AEs will be recorded for 29 days following each vaccination (ie, until Day
           29 following the first vaccination and Day 57 following the second vaccination).

        -  Serious adverse events (SAEs) will be recorded from signing of the informed consent form
           through Day 180. However, the safety endpoint for SAEs will be assessed after the first
           vaccination.

        -  Adverse events of special interest (AESIs) will be recorded from first vaccination
           through Day 180.

      This study is going to be conducted in the United Arab Emirates. An appropriate number of
      participants will be screened to achieve approximately 100 evaluable participants.
    
  