
    
      Although many schizophrenia patients currently take oral antipsychotic medications, it is
      estimated that up to 75% of them have difficulty adhering to the daily oral regimen.
      Long-acting injectable formulations may eliminate the need for daily medication and enhance
      patient compliance with the treatment regimen. This is an open-label (all people involved
      know the identity of the intervention), randomized (study drug assigned by chance) study of a
      formulation of risperidone (coated microspheres) injected into the muscle at 2 week intervals
      over 104 weeks in stable patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder, who are
      being treated with oral risperidone, olanzapine, or other conventional antipsychotic agents.
      A comparator group will receive tablets of quetiapine to be taken 2 or 3 times daily,
      depending on the optimal dosage. In countries where aripiprazole is available, aripiprazole
      was also included in a descriptive manner. Reasons for switching symptomatically stable
      patients from their current antipsychotic treatment include insufficient effectiveness of the
      medication on symptoms, adverse events, or a patient's request. The principal measure of
      effectiveness of the drug is the time to relapse. Assessments of effectiveness also include:
      Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), which measures the symptoms of schizophrenia;
      overall severity of illness measured by the Clinical Global Impression subscale (CGI-S);
      patient's condition measured by the Clinical Global Impression condition subscale (CGI-C);
      quality of life assessed by the SF-12 survey. Safety evaluations include incidence of adverse
      events, Extrapyramidal Symptoms Rating Scale (ESRS), clinical laboratory tests (biochemistry,
      haematology, and urinalysis), and vital signs (pulse, blood pressure). The study hypothesis
      is that treatment with long-acting risperidone injected intramuscularly every 2 weeks
      provides better effectiveness than quetiapine, as measured by time to relapse, in patients
      with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder. Risperidone injections 25mg biweekly for 104
      weeks, increasing or decreasing (increments of 12.5mg) at investigator's discretion.
      Risperidone tablets (2mg daily for 2 days) for patients starting on risperidone. Quetiapine
      and Aripiprazole used according to package insert.
    
  