
    
      o Participants will be seen and assessed for the study every 6 (+/-1) months. Follow-up for
      routine clinical care will be dictated by the physician. Clinical information relevant to the
      MDS diagnosis is entered such as IPSS, IPSS-R, treatments received and responses. Transfusion
      dependence is recorded. Relevant laboratories such as ferritin, LDH, CBC etc are entered q 6
      months. Hospitalizations, bleeding and infections are recorded.

      Dates and causes of death are documented Dates of leukaemia transformation are documented.
      Patients undergoing allogeneic stem cell transplant are documented with date of transplant.

      QOL is assessed every 6 months:

      QOL instruments are QLQ-C30, QUALMS, EQ-5D and global fatigue scale

      Disability, frailty, comorbidity and physical performance is recorded on a yearly basis
      Disability scale is the Lawton Brody SIADL scale Frailty is measured using the Rockwood
      clinical frailty scale The comorbidity elements necessary to calculate the Charlson
      comorbidity scale and the MDS-CI of Della Porta et al. are recorded Physical performance
      tests are grip strength, 10x stand sit test and the 4 meter walk test

      Investigators will continue to enroll new patients throughout this study period of 6 years,
      but the plan (funding permitting) is to continue this registry indefinitely, with later
      questions to be addressed.

        -  Monitoring and auditing data are completed every quarter by a dedicated national
           registry project manager.

        -  Monthly data checks are completed to compare data entered into the registry against
           predefined rules for range or consistency with other data fields in the registry.

        -  Standard Operating Procedures to address registry operations and analysis activities,
           such as patient recruitment and data collection has been created and posted
           electronically in the database for all sites.

        -  Plan of 25% drop off from death has been assumed due to conversion to AML or non
           leukemia death and 5% from lost of follow up loss to follow up. This is with the purpose
           to address situations where variables are reported as missing, unavailable,
           "non-reported," uninterpreted, or considered missing because of data inconsistency or
           out-of-range.

        -  Participant's results will be summarized descriptively as a whole and by province. KM
           survival curves will be generated and compared using the log-rank test. Univariate and
           multivariate cox proportional hazard nodel of overall survival will be performed to
           detect significant association with baseline covariates and time-dependent covariates
           such as frailty, comorbidity and QOL scores using Statistical Analysis Software (SAS)
           PHREG procedure.
    
  