
    
      Study Tools AND/ OR procedure

      The patients were subjected to the following:

      Clinical parameters:

      Complete history taking and thorough clinical examination

        1. Laboratory parameters:

        2. CBC with differential counts.

        3. Reticulocytic count.

        4. Blood film for shistocytes.

        5. Serum ferritin and transferrin saturation.

        6. D dimer.

        7. Liver function tests, kidney function tests, electrolytes.

        8. ESR.

        9. CRP.

       10. LDH.

       11. Viral markers (HCV Ab, HBsV AG, HIV Ab).

       12. ADAM'S 13 assays.

       13. Serum soluble CD 25.

      Other investigations:

        1. Chest X ray.

        2. Pelviabdominal US.

        3. CT chest.

        4. ECG.

        5. Echocardiography

      The patients will be divided into three groups, each group formed of 5 patients with severe
      COVID-19 or on mechanical ventilator receiving standard of care All the groups matched
      regarding age, sex and the severity of the disease.

      Group I:

      Will receive exchange transfusion by venesection of 500cc blood with good replacement of one
      unit packed washed RBCs daily for 3 days according to daily clinical and investigational
      follow up

      Group II Will receive IV methylene blue 1 mg/kg IV over 30 minutes with 200 CC plasma from
      convalescent matching single patient by plasma extractor machine for 3 days according to
      daily clinical and investigational follow up.

      Group III Will receive exchange transfusion by venesection of 500cc blood with good
      replacement of one unit packed washed RBCs and IV methylene blue 1 mg/kg IV over 30 minutes
      with 200 CC plasma from convalescent matching single patient by plasma extractor machine for
      3 days according to daily clinical and investigational follow up.

      N.B.: Convalescent plasma and regular blood will be taken from ministry of health after
      administrative approval All groups will receive

        1. Low dose anticoagulant (LMWH 1 mg/kg/day).

        2. Steroid (methyl prednisone 1 mg/ kg IV daily and according to patients' condition and
           presence of complications like hemophagocytosis).

        3. All allergic precautions if needed like antihistaminics , epinephrine and steroid.

      Close monitoring for:

        1. Allergic reactions.

        2. ECG changes daily.

        3. Volume overload.

        4. Complications of other comorbidities like DM or HTN.

        5. Liver function and kidney function and organ dysfunction daily.

      Terms of discontinuation:

      Deterioration of clinical condition or organ functions.
    
  