
    
      Pectus excavatum is a relatively common congenital deformity of the chest wall with an
      incidence of approximately 1 in every 300 births. They find that they have difficulty keeping
      up with their peers when playing aerobic sports. Furthermore, these patients, already
      embarrassed by their deformity, will avoid situations where they have to take their shirt off
      in front of other children, again contributing to less participation in school and team
      activities. Some patients may exhibit depression by withdrawing from activities with their
      peers and a declining quality of schoolwork. Most pectus patients have a typical geriatric or
      pectus posture that includes thoracic kyphosis, forward sloping shoulders and anterior pelvic
      tilt. A sedentary lifestyle may aggravate this posture, and the poor posture depresses the
      sternum even further. For this reason, the authors recommend an aggressive pectus posture
      exercise and breathing program.

      Based on the hypothesis that the chest wall is still bendable during adolescence and that the
      sternum and costal ribs can be reshaped in a normal position with the external suppressor
      applied on the deformity, the vacuum bell, an orthosis, has been used in the conservative
      treatment of PE. It is the center of attention as it is an alternative method to surgery for
      patients.It is thought that by strengthening muscle strength and tone with exercise training,
      the severity of chest wall deformities can be reduced or at least prevented from progressing.
      It is stated that a good cosmetic appearance can be provided by exercise training especially
      by creating a large muscle mass on the anterior chest wall. In the single case study
      conducted by Canavan and Cahalin (Canavan and Cahalin, 2000) on the effect of exercise
      training, after 8 weeks of exercise training, the pectus severity index changed by 60% (50
      millimeter decreased from 20 millimeter), and during recreational activities and shoulder
      pain was not found. Therefore, the investigators aimed to investigate the effectiveness of
      exercise therapy in addition to vacuum bell therapy.
    
  