
    
      The use of ultrasound in diagnosis and treatment of patients has been well-established for
      many decades. The use of thoracic ultrasonography is a fairly new and rapidly evolving field.
      The interface between the ultrasound probe and chest wall can produce artifacts that can be
      useful in diagnosing a pneumothorax. In one prospective study the utility of ultrasound was
      compared to chest X-ray and CT-scan by trauma surgeon (1). Their results demonstrate that
      ultrasound was more sensitive than chest X-ray to identify early pneumothorax. The study also
      demonstrated that 63% of pneumothoraxes diagnosed were occult and would have been later
      diagnosed on CT chest. In these critical situations where is subtle pneumothorax can be
      missed, a bedside ultrasound has been proven to accelerate the diagnosis and thus treatment.
      Similarly another prospective study noted that up to 76% of all traumatic pneumothoraxes were
      missed by standard AP chest X-ray, when interpreted by trauma team (2). This number was
      significantly higher than a retrospective study in which 55% of pneumothoraxes were missed on
      AP chest films reviewed by radiologist (3). The sensitivity of ultrasound in detecting
      pneumothorax has been demonstrated in multiple studies to be similar to CT-scan, which is
      considered to be gold standard for the detection of pneumothorax (4, 5).

      Visualization of normal pleural lung sliding is itself sufficient to exclude pneumothorax ,
      if lung sliding is not present the finding of B lines( vertical lines), which usually
      originate from the lung parenchyma will also exclude the possibility of pneumothorax at the
      interspace in question, since the lung parenchyma cannot be visualized if there is air
      interposed between the pleura and the lung.

      Endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) is considered an integral component of diagnosis of
      indeterminate mediastinal lymph nodes, masses and peripheral pulmonary nodules. EBUS is
      minimally invasive, safe and highly accurate (6). According to current estimates that
      incidence if complications associated with EBUS is between 1-1.5% (6, 7). Major complications
      are associated with needle aspirations. The incidence of pneumothorax was found to be 3.3% in
      one retrospective analysis (8), with 31% of patients requiring chest tube eventually for
      treatment of pneumothorax. Post-procedure chest-X-rays are commonly performed to rule out
      pneumothorax. Based on current data chest-X-rays are considered suboptimal for diagnosis of
      pneumothorax and can also expose patients to undue radiation.

      The EBUS probe contains a small ultrasound through which ultrasound images of various
      structure i.e. lymph nodes, ventricles, pulmonary vasculature can be visualized. Ruling out
      pneumothorax via lung ultrasound using EBUS probe has never been described. If this is
      possible, it avoids the need of obtaining post-procedure Chest-X-rays thus decreasing the
      dose of radiation exposure and prevent time delays for the arrival of chest-x-rays.

      In this study we will demonstrate the feasibility of using the transducer of the EBUS
      Bronchoscope to perform bedside lung ultrasound to rule out pneumothorax.
    
  