
    
      Background:

        -  Methylation-mediated silencing of genes is an epigenetic mechanism implicated in
           carcinogenesis; agents that inhibit this mechanism are of clinical interest because of
           their potential to re-activate silenced tumor suppressor genes. Two DNA hypomethylating
           nucleosides, 5-azacytidine (azacytidine) and 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (decitabine) have
           been approved by the FDA for the treatment of patients with myelodysplastic syndromes
           and certain leukemias.

        -  The nucleoside analog 5-aza-4 -thio-2 -deoxycytidine (Aza-TdC) is incorporated into DNA,
           where it engages the active site of DNA methyltransferase I (DNMT1), a maintenance
           methyltransferase that contributes to the hypermethylation and silencing of tumor
           suppressor genes. DNMT1 can become trapped in a covalent complex with DNA, thus
           depleting free enzyme and inhibiting the normal maintenance methylation of CpG sites,
           resulting in reactivation of tumor suppressor genes.

        -  Data suggest a correlation between Aza-TdC activity in solid tumor xenograft models and
           decreased levels of DNMT1.

        -  Aza-TdC offers an improvement over traditional DNA methyltransferase inhibitors by
           virtue of a higher incorporation rate into DNA at lower levels of cytotoxicity; Aza-TdC
           has greater antitumor activity than another recently developed DNMT1 inhibitor, TdCyd,
           in some solid tumor xenograft models. Treatment with Aza-TdC is anticipated to result in
           the inhibition of tumor growth due to DNMT1 depletion at oral doses that are well
           tolerated in extended dosing schedules.

      Primary Objective:

      -To establish the safety, tolerability, and MTD of oral Aza-TdC administered daily for 5 days
      a week for 2 weeks, with one week off, q 21-day cycles, to patients with refractory solid
      tumors

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To determine the pharmacokinetics of oral Aza-TdC

        -  To document preliminary evidence of Aza-TdC activity

        -  To determine effect of study treatment on re-expression of select genes silenced by
           methylation in circulating tumor cells

        -  To determine the effects of Aza-TdC on DNA damage response (DDR) signaling and on
           genome-wide DNA methylation in tumor biopsy tissue

      Exploratory Objective:

        -  To determine the effects of Aza-TdC on global RNA expression and on levels of DNMT1,
           DNMT3a, DNMT3b, and other select proteins in tumor biopsy tissue

        -  To examine genomic alterations in circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) that may be associated
           with Aza-TdC response or resistance

      Eligibility:

      -Patients greater than or eqaul to 18 years of age must have histologically documented solid
      tumors whose disease has progressed on standard therapy or for which there is no available
      standard therapy

      Study Design:

        -  Aza-TdC will be administered orally once a day for 5 days of each week for 2 weeks, with
           one week off, in 21-day cycles.

        -  The trial will follow an accelerated titration design, changing to a traditional 3+3
           dose escalation design (3-6 patients per cohort) once specified toxicity criteria are
           met. Intrapatient dose escalation will be allowed.

        -  Blood samples will be obtained for pharmacokinetic analysis and to isolate circulating
           tumor cells to assess re-expression of genes silenced by methylation.

        -  Up to 21 patients will be accrued to a PD expansion cohort at the MTD to further assess
           pharmacodynamic endpoints in tumor and blood.
    
  