
    
      SOCRATES is a non-randomized, multisite, single-arm, open-label, global post-market
      observational data collection per standard of care. While generally of prospective design, a
      limited retrospective element is allowed for the inclusion of patients for a short period of
      10 days after their index procedure.

      SOCRATES intends to enroll a number of subjects that will support the analysis of all the
      individual PMCF Plans. An average of approximately 100 subjects per year and site on a
      continuous basis is expected but may vary depending on the needs of individual PMCF Plans. As
      long as SOCRATES is active, there is no upper limit to the total number of subjects that may
      be enrolled, and enrollment will be driven by the need to support sample sizes of individual
      PMCF plans for given products/product groupings supported by SOCRATES.

      SOCRATES is designed to be a continuous effort after the data collection commences without a
      predefined closure timepoint. Data collection and enrollment may be stopped, restarted or
      finalized per Sponsor discretion.

      The expected duration of SOCRATES participation for a subject is dependent on

        -  the specific lifetime of the device (e.g. the battery usage for pulse generators or
           continued active use of leads for CRM devices) or

        -  the necessary timeframe to adequately assess safety and performance of the device based
           on the residual risk assessed for each device in the associated PMCF plan. Timeframes
           might e.g. spread from 7 days to one year post procedure for EP. The maximum duration
           per enrolled subject will consequently vary.

      For BSC implantable devices subjects are intended to be followed for the entire time of being
      implanted with a BSC device to allow data collection over the lifetime of the device(s) as
      required by applicable regulations. A maximum duration per enrolled subject is not defined,
      unless locally required. In case a local maximum duration is enforced subjects may be
      consented again and re-enrolled for continued participation if they are still in scope for
      SOCRATES. Sites shall ensure continuous data collection without any gaps in case a
      re-enrollment becomes applicable. Data sets for re-enrolled subjects will be handled as if
      the subject was continuously enrolled. This process will ensure to meet the requirement of
      MDR for device manufacturers to collect data over the lifetime of the devices.
    
  