
    
      Nearly 1 in 10 adults over 65 years have aortic valve stenosis (AS), defined as an
      obstruction of blood flow across the aortic valve.(Faggiano, Antonini-Canterin et al. 2006)
      AS is a life-threatening disease, and one whose incidence increases with age. Natural history
      studies suggest that the long-term survival among patients with severe AS is unfavorable,
      even among patients who are asymptomatic, with event-free survival for AS being 64% at
      1-year, 36% at 2-years, 12% at 4-years, and 3% at 6-years.(Rosenhek, Zilberszac et al. 2010)
      Until recently surgery has been the gold standard approach for treatment for severe AS.
      Recently, a less invasive approach, transcathether aortic valve replacement (TAVR) has
      emerged as a viable treatment alternative, including among those previously not thought of as
      suitable candidates for surgery. Unlike its surgical counterpart that utilizes
      cardiopulmonary bypass and direct vision by a cardiothoracic surgeon, TAVR is performed (by a
      surgeon in conjunction with an interventional cardiologist) by threading a wire mesh valve
      through a catheter using fluoroscopy while the heart is still beating. Concern regarding
      broader adoption of TAVR often revolves around the higher stroke rate relative to surgery
      (5.5% vs. 2.4%, p = 0.04).(Leon, Smith et al. 2010) Much of the risk associated with
      neurologic injuries (whether stroke, neurocognitive deficits or silent infarcts) revolves
      around embolically-generated sources, including: threading a guidewire across diseased
      vessels, removal of the native valve, or insertion/expansion of the new valve.(Miller,
      Blackstone et al. 2012) Among 47 patients studied by Miller within a neurologic sub-study of
      the PARTNER Trial, there were 49 (n=31 TAVR, 16 AVR) neurologic events (defined as a
      transient ischemic attack or stroke).(Miller, Blackstone et al. 2012) In a recent review
      article, Daneault cited risk of post-procedural cerebral infarcts within 5-7 days (using
      Diffusion-weighted MRI) of 38-47% with standard aortic valve surgery vs. 68-84% with
      TAVR.(Daneault, Kirtane et al. 2011) Given the growing interest and anticipated broadening of
      indications for TAVR in and outside of the United States, it is increasingly important to
      develop a sound methodological approach for evaluating the safety and effectiveness of this
      emerging treatment modality. In the absence of such information, it is impossible for a
      patient or clinician to estimate the likelihood for developing a neurologic injury subsequent
      to TAVR. Additionally, linkage of processes of care with embolism detection (through
      transcranial Doppler) would provide evidence to support targeted quality improvement efforts.
      Such a strategy has been useful in prior studies applied to coronary artery bypass grafting
      (CABG) surgery.(Groom, Quinn et al. 2009) Indeed, early studies evaluating TAVR have found
      periods of the TAVR procedure which may be more prone to the generation of embolic debris,
      although they have used varied methodological approaches. Importantly, the relationship
      between these emboli and development of neurobehavioral or ischemic lesions has not been
      explored in this setting.

      The overlap between sleep disorders and stroke is an emerging field. Sleep apnea is a serious
      medical condition that is very common after stroke, affecting over half of acute ischemic
      stroke patients. (Broadley, Jorgensen et al. 2007) Recently, sleep apnea has been recognized
      as an independent risk factor for stroke. (Munoz, Martinez-Vila et al. 2006; Redline,
      Gottlieb et al. 2010; Yaggi, Kernan et al. 2005) Furthermore, sleep apnea has been identified
      as an important predictor of both poor functional outcome and death following stroke.
      (Sahlin, Sandberg et al. 2008; Turkington, Allgar et al. 2004) There remains controversy over
      whether OSA predates stroke, whether stroke predates sleep apnea, and whether stroke
      exacerbates sleep apnea severity. To answer the questions definitely, sleep apnea testing
      would have to be performed just prior to and again after stroke. Because stroke is typically
      unpredictable, this has been logistically challenging to pursue. The current study however
      provides a rare opportunity to study patients for sleep-disordered breathing just prior to
      and after a type of procedure that has an association with acute cerebral infarction
      identified on MRI. (Kalert, Knipp et al. 2010) Within this context, we seek to determine the
      feasibility of assessing neurologic injuries subsequent to TAVR. Such a model has been
      applied previously by the principal investigator to assess and improve neurologic outcomes
      for other cardiac surgical procedures.(Groom, Quinn et al. 2009) We shall assess patients
      during the following intervals: pre-procedure, within 72-96 hours post-procedure, and 3
      months post-procedure (see Appendix). Case videos will be established to assist in
      identifying and associating emboli (using transcranial Doppler) and processes of clinical
      care during the TAVR procedure. Neurologic injury will be assessed in the following ways:
      stroke (neurologic exam, NIH Stroke Scale), silent infarcts (diffusion-weighted MRI,
      diffusion-tensor imaging), and neurobehavioral deficits (a battery of neuropsychological
      tests). Secondly, we will investigate changes in the apnea-hypopnea index (AHI), a measure of
      sleep-disordered breathing, before vs after surgery between those subjects who develop
      post-operative acute brain infarction and those who do not. We hypothesize that subjects who
      develop acute brain infarction will have an increase in AHI between baseline and post-op
      measurements compared with those subjects who do not develop acute brain infarction. A
      research coordinator will coordinate the testing.
    
  