
    
      Pain is a powerful motivator of behavior and it is more than the perception of nociceptive
      input. It is a complex experience that comprises different components: sensory
      discriminative, emotional-motivational and cognitive components. In chronic pain, a negative
      hedonic shift has been proposed that is characterized by disproportionally increased
      emotional-motivational compared to sensory-discriminative pain components. Such a negative
      hedonic shift is mirrored in a high comorbidity of chronic pain with affective disorders like
      depression and anxiety. However, the neurobiological mechanisms underlying such a negative
      hedonic shift i remain elusive. Animal work suggests an involvement of neuroinflammation,
      caused by chronic pain, which in turn is related to impaired release of the neurotransmitter
      dopamine. In line with this observation, impaired dopamine functioning has been described in
      chronic pain. Importantly, dopamine acts also as a neuromodulator, regulating functional
      connectivity between brain regions. Therefore, dysfunctional dopamine in chronic pain,
      possibly caused by neuroinflammation, might lead to altered functional connectivity.
      Correspondingly, altered functional connectivity in fronto-striatal brain networks has been
      shown to be predictive of transition from subacute to chronic pain. The aim of this study is
      to investigate the psychobiological mechanisms underlying the negative hedonic shift in
      chronic pain with a focus on the causal role of neuroinflammation (substudy 1) and the role
      of dopamine (substudy 2) in functional connectivity of fronto-striatal brain networks and
      their relation to heightened emotional-motivational pain processing.

      A potential benefit of the study will be an increase in our knowledge on mechanisms of the
      development and maintenance of chronic pain in humans with a focus on emotional-motivational
      processes, deemed to be of very high relevance in this context. Importantly, by implementing
      and testing a novel conceptual framework, the results will be relevant not only to pain
      research but also to a broader neuroscientific community, because the expected results also
      relate to affective and motivational processes in other diseases (e.g. depression, anxiety,
      Parkinson's disease). The proposed project offers novel avenues to pain treatment based on
      pharmacological and psychological mechanisms-based approach instead of being
      symptoms-oriented as most available pain treatments at the moment.

      This study entails more than minimal risks and burdens for participants, because both
      substudies incorporate the intake of drugs. However, both substudies comprise only low doses
      and/or single doses. Low-dose naltrexone (LDN) will be administered in substudy 1 for 12
      weeks in chronic pain patients with fibromyalgia to down-regulate microglial activation.
      Previous studies indicated only very few side-effects. In substudy 2, patients with
      fibromyalgia and healthy participants will receive a single dose of the dopamine agonist
      bromocriptine (1.25 mg, p.o.) or a placebo in separate testing sessions. Healthy participants
      will receive in an additional testing session a single dose of the dopamine antagonist
      amisulpride (400 mg, p.o.). Both drugs have been repeatedly used in research with the same
      dosages with no or very few side effects. The methods that will be used in the experimental
      testing sessions are within the range of standard procedures in pain research and
      experimental psychology and are frequently used in healthy participants and patients.
      Experimental pain stimulation will be adjusted to individual pain sensitivity, rendering the
      applied stimulation tolerable. Magnetic resonance imaging, including spectroscopy, will be
      performed without a contrast medium. Peripheral venous blood sampling will be performed by an
      expert medical professional. The risk of unauthorized data access or unwanted identification
      of participants will be minimized by the use of restricted access to data and facilities,
      lockable cabinets, and password protected computers.

      Sub-study 1:

      The sample will be divided into two groups, one receiving low dose naltrexone (LDN), the
      other placebo for 12 weeks. Before and after this 12 week pharmacological intervention, each
      patient will undergo a MRI testing session at Balgrist Campus, Balgrist Hospital Zürich. A
      placebocontrolled design is chosen here in addition to the pre-/post-pharmacological
      intervention comparison, because microglia activation has been investigated only a few times
      in chronic pain patients so far and due to unknown possible natural variation in microglia
      activation.

      Written consent will be obtained from each participant after explaining the purpose and the
      course of the experiment. At the beginning of each testing session, pain assessments will be
      performed, which include assessment of participants' individual heat pain threshold and
      tolerance. After this assessment, a blood sample will be taken to assess the erythrocyte
      sedimentation rate (ESR), after which participants will be positioned inside the MRI scanner
      for magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) and to acquire fMRI (functional magnetic resonance
      imaging) images while participants will perform a behavioral discrimination task and an
      avoidance task to assess sensory-discriminative and emotional-motivational pain components.
      After completion of these tasks, resting state fMRI will be performed followed by a
      structural fMRI acquisition. Further, participants will be asked to complete some
      questionnaires. In addition, some trait questionnaires will be filled out during the first
      testing session. The duration of each of MRI testing session will be 2.5-3h.

      Sub-study 2:

      The sample consists of fibromyalgia patients and age- and sex-matched healthy controls. While
      healthy controls undergo three testing sessions to assess the effects of a dopamine receptor
      antagonist and agonist in comparison to placebo, fibromyalgia patients do only two testing
      sessions assessing only the effects of a dopamine agonist in comparison to a placebo, because
      for these patients the presence of a hypodopaminergic state is assumed. Thus, each session
      comprises the intake of a single dose of a drug or placebo and MRI scanning. Healthy controls
      will take in amisulpride (dopamine receptor antagonist), bromocriptine (dopamine receptor
      agonist), and placebo and fibromyalgia patients bromocriptine and placebo in a
      counterbalanced order. At the beginning of the first session, written consent will be
      obtained from the participants after explaining them the purpose and the course of the
      experiment. After intake of the capsules containing drug/placebo, there will be a waiting
      period to reach the peak plasma concentration of the drugs during MRI scanning. During this
      waiting period, participants will fill out some questionnaires. Before the MRI scanning, in
      each testing session, pain assessments will be performed, which includes assessment of
      participants individual heat pain threshold and tolerance. This will be followed by taking a
      blood sample to determine the plasma concentration of the drug after which participants will
      be positioned inside the MRI scanner. During MRI scanning, participants will perform a
      behavioral discrimination task and an avoidance task to assess sensory-discriminative and
      emotional-motivational pain components. After completion of these tasks, resting state fMRI
      will be performed followed by a structural MRI acquisition for obtaining anatomical images.
      The duration for each testing session is 2.5-3h.

      Sample sizes for substudy 1 and 2 are based on a priori sample size calculations using
      G*Power 3.1 with a desired medium effect size f= 0.25, alpha = 0.05, beta= 0.95, repeated
      measures ANOVA within-between subject designs, and an attrition rate of 10%. Outcome
      variables will be analyzed in separate mixed model analyses for ANOVA designs with
      appropriate within- and between-subject factors. Associations of primary endpoints with
      questionnaire scores (secondary outcomes) will be analyzed using Pearson- or Spearman
      correlation coefficients, where appropriate. Significance levels will be set to 5%, adjusted
      with false discovery rate for multiple testing. Effect sizes will be calculated in terms of
      generalized eta-squared (ηG2) and Cohen's d. Spectroscopy data will be analyzed using a
      linear combination model. Concentrations of MI, Cho, and NAA (N-Acetyl Aspartate) will be
      computed using peak height relative to creatine (Cr) and compared using mixed model analyses
      for ANOVA designs. Images from fMRI analysis of each participant will undergo standard
      preprocessing (including high-pass filtering, motion correction, spatial smoothing) and will
      be entered into a voxel-wise analysis using a general linear model to estimate the effects of
      pharmacological interventions on pain-related brain activity related to
      emotional-motivational and sensory-discriminative pain responses. For all brain analyses, a
      voxel-threshold of p<0.01 and a cluster threshold for spatial extent of p<0.05 will be
      employed.

      Within this study, pharmacological interventions, psychophysical methods, and magnetic
      resonance imaging will be utilized to investigate the neurobiological mechanisms involved in
      a negative hedonic shift in chronic pain. Low dose naltrexone will transiently down-regulate
      neuroinflammation in chronic pain patients. Pharmacological interventions (amisulpride and
      bromocriptine) will only cause a transient manipulation of dopaminergic system in both
      healthy controls and fibromyalgia patients. The pharmacological interventions proposed in the
      current study does not have a clinical intervention value, instead they are only used for the
      purpose of investigating psychobiological mechanisms underlying chronic pain. Psychophysical
      methods will allow the investigators to dissociate the emotional-motivational component of
      pain from its sensory discriminant component. Magnetic resonance imaging will allow the
      investigators to investigate brain responses and neuroinflammation in relation to chronic
      pain. Based on these methods, the investigators will get insights on the role of dopamine and
      fronto-striatal connectivity in regulating the emotional component of pain in chronic pain.
      The usage of the pharmacological interventions in this study hold more than minimal risks for
      the participants, but according to previous research studies, in which the same dosage of
      these pharmacologic drugs were used, only minimal side-effects have been observed (see above
      "Risk/Benefit Assessment"). Psychophysical methods and pharmacological interventions based on
      experimental psychology and pain research will be used in this study. These methods have been
      shown to be successful in investigating the different aspects of pain perception and
      modulation of pain perception. The methods used are in the standard range of methods from
      human pain research and experimental psychology. The expected results will form the basis for
      the development of novel mechanism-based pain therapies.
    
  