
    
      Background: Burnout during residency years, in particular training to obtain a medical
      specialty, has been well recognized. Often, burnout has been associated with poor sleep
      quality and negative affectivity, such as depression. However, aspects of positive emotion
      that have been linked to improved physical and mental health, such as trait forgiveness (TF),
      have been poorly explored.

      For instance, according to statistics, depression in residents is as high as twenty-five
      percent, while residents' suffering from depression with resident burnout (defined as an
      occupational related syndrome of emotional exhaustion and low sense of professional
      accomplishment) is as high as seventy-six percent. In fact, first-year residents, with a
      sense of high well-being, experience great level of burnout and depression by the end of
      their first year. ( www.aafp.org, Yi M.S. et al. , 2007 ; Shanafelt T.D. et al. ,2002 ;
      Richman J.A. et. al. , 1992)

      There are two specific aims my collaborators and I are focusing on in in this two-phase
      study:

      Specific Aim 1: To explore the impact of work burnout on cognitive performance and
      psychological functioning in medical residents. Mounting evidence points towards the
      conclusion that work burnout can have a negative effect on psychological functioning in
      medical residents. We will test the working hypothesis that work burnout will be associated
      with poor cognitive performance, poor sleep quality, and high negative affectivity. Our
      approach is to use self-reported cognitive impairment and cognitive performance tasks
      designed to measure three basic processes underlying executive control: (i) updating, (ii)
      inhibition, and (iii) switching. Negative affective symptoms will be measured using validated
      psychometric scales for depression (Beck Depressive Inventory; BDI), anxiety (State-Trait
      Anxiety Inventory; STAI), and anger (State-Trait Anger Expression Inventory-2; STAEI-2).
      Sleep quality will be assessed via the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI).

      Specific Aim 2 - To examine the impact of an 8-week computer based resilience training
      intervention on work burnout, cognitive performance, and affectivity in medical residents.
      Our approach will be to test the impact of this intervention through a SmartPhone (e.g
      Android Phone or Iphone) application, emWave software, which will be provided to all our
      subjects. emWave is a tool that reduces stress by allowing individuals to be less reactive,
      think clearly, and make good decisions, especially under pressure. Fifty medical residents
      with high burnout symptoms will be randomized to receive an 8-week intervention (INT; n=25)
      or sham control (CON; n=25).
    
  