
    
      Adequate, needs-oriented psycho-oncological care contributes to reducing the burden on cancer
      patients and their families and to improving the quality of life of all those affected. In
      order to ensure patient-oriented psycho-oncological care, it is necessary to allocate
      psychologically burdened patients and patients in need of care to psycho-oncology by means of
      screening.

      Within the framework of this multicenter study (Hannover, Leipzig and Dresden), a newly
      designed training of nursing staff ("OptiScreen training") on mental stress and
      psycho-oncological care is intended to increase the precise identification of mentally
      stressed patients in need of treatment, to increase the allocation of these patients to
      psycho-oncology and to improve interdisciplinary cooperation.

      Aims of the study:

        1. targeted, needs-based allocation to psycho-oncology

        2. increasing the acceptance of psycho-oncological screening by patients* and treatment
           team

        3. increase of patient competence and satisfaction

        4. increasing the acceptance of psycho-oncological treatment by patients and treatment team
           In summary, the findings of this multi-center study should contribute to the improvement
           of interdisciplinary cooperation, improve the demand-oriented and targeted allocation of
           psychologically burdened patients to psycho-oncological care and thus develop a "best
           practice model" of an interdisciplinary care algorithm.

      Methodology

      The study will include inpatients from the visceral oncology centers at the three sites who
      have the necessary cognitive, physical and linguistic abilities. The study is divided into 2
      phases:

      Phase 1: Survey of the current status For this purpose, N = 300 patients* in the visceral
      oncology centers are interviewed with a questionnaire during the inpatient stay (t0) and
      three months later (t1).

      The data collected will include psychological stress, disease management/treatment, quality
      of life and treatment satisfaction of persons with oncological diseases. In addition, the
      needs for information and support, the practicability as well as the allocation to
      psycho-oncological care and its utilization will be surveyed.

      Execution of the "OptiScreen training": special psycho-oncological training of the nursing
      staff for basic knowledge about the experience of psychological stress as well as diagnostics
      of psychosocial stress will take place after the completion of phase 1.

      Phase 2: survey after the OptiScreen training Analogous to phase 1, N = 600 patients* in the
      visceral oncology centers are interviewed during the inpatient stay (t0) and three months
      later (t1).
    
  