
    
      Brenner FIT is a family-based pediatric weight management clinic for youth 2-18 years old
      referred by a physician for overweight or obesity. By Design is an adult (>18yrs) weight loss
      clinic that includes tailored dietary and physical activity behavioral counseling. The
      preliminary data suggest that most adolescent youth who enroll in Brenner FIT have at least
      one adult caregiver who is eligible and would benefit from enrollment in By Design
      Essentials.

      Participants will be randomized into 1 of 3 groups. This include Brenner FIT standard care,
      Brenner FIT standard care+ By Design Essentials, or Dyad Plus.

      Brenner FIT Standard: After referral, families attend an orientation, in which they are then
      scheduled for an initial introductory 2-hour intake group session and cooking class; these
      occur within 2-4 weeks of the orientation. Monthly 1-hour long visits with the dietitian,
      counselor, and physical activity specialist are held for 6 months, in which the child and
      caregiver see the pediatrician. During the 6 months of treatment, they attend 4 group
      classes, choosing from topics such as meal planning, physical activity, and parenting.
      Specialized visits with the physical activity specialist or dietician are scheduled as
      pertinent issues arise. Clinic visits include individualized goal setting (for behaviors
      family/clinician have agreed to address), healthy eating and physical activity education, and
      behavioral counseling to implement changes at home.

      By Design Essentials: A dietitian provides each participant with a detailed program manual
      that describes the prescribed diet. The dietitian utilizes standard behavioral techniques to
      promote lifestyle behavior changes that enable participants to implement and maintain
      behaviors necessary to adhere to the dietary prescription. Participants also receive a
      standard exercise program designed to promote exercise energy expenditure of approximately
      600 kilocalories*/week. The exercise prescription includes resistance training for 2 days per
      week and aerobic training for 3 days per week, to meet a 600 kilocalories*/week expenditure
      goal. Behaviorists meet with participants to provide individual and group-based counseling to
      learn the skills necessary to adopt the prescribed dietary pattern and exercise plans. Group
      sessions will be delivered consecutively over 6 months (20 total; 1.5 hours each).

      Dyad Plus (combination of Brenner FIT and By Design Essentials):This will include all
      components of the standard Brenner FIT program and By Design Essentials. In addition, group
      sessions, one-on-one parent/child communication sessions, joint goal setting/tracking, and
      home environment assessment. Dyads will attend 6 meetings that will last approximately 1 hour
      each.
    
  