
    
      Although Parkinson's disease (PD) has been mainly viewed as a movement disorder, the
      pathophysiology of declined motor function incorporates impairments of multiple systems,
      including sensory, motor and cognitive pathways. Specifically, it has been demonstrated that
      cognitive function may play an essential role in motor function for individuals with PD.
      Cognitive dysfunction involving set-shifting and attentional control has been found to be
      associated with movement slowness in performing a finger sequence task and freezing of gait.
      Furthermore, a recent rodent model indicates that cognitive dysfunction may occur prior to
      the onset of motor symptoms. Similarly human studies show that 25-30% individuals with PD
      exhibit cognitive impairments at the time of diagnosis. The overall evidence suggests that
      cognitive dysfunction may contribute to degraded motor function in PD. Interestingly, several
      studies demonstrate that aerobic exercise and resistance training can improve cognitive
      function in individuals with PD, indicating a tight interplay between motor and cognitive
      function. Targeting cognitive function by incorporating cognitive training into physical
      rehabilitation may be important for people with PD. Although there is mounting evidence for
      the benefits of physical exercise in PD, few studies investigate whether combining cognitive
      training with physical exercise can provide additional benefits than physical exercise alone.
      Thus, the purpose of this pilot study is to investigate the effect of SMARTfit training, a
      novel technology that provides an opportunity to combine physical training with cognitive
      training, in individuals with PD. The hypothesis is that SMARTfit training will promote
      greater motor and cognition improvements than conventional physical training. To test the
      above hypothesis, ten individuals with mild PD will receive both SMARTfit training and
      conventional physical training in a counterbalanced order with a washout period. For each
      training program, participants will receive a 1-hour training session 3 times per week for 8
      weeks. The changes in disease biomarkers before and after training will also be explored.
    
  