
    
      Data source The Italian VATS Group Database is a validated, risk-adjusted, prospective,
      outcomes-based program with 50 participating hospitals in Italy. The VATS Group Database
      collects data on different variables on a standardized data form: patient demographics
      informations, surgical interventions, medical history, cancer staging and outcome. Patients'
      outcomes are reviewed and records are updated the first time at 30 days after surgery, then
      at 180 days. Next update is recorded at 6 months from surgery and every 6 months for the
      first 2 years of follow-up, and annually thereafter. The VATS Group Database implements
      rigorous quality assurance and safety procedures to maintain a high level of accuracy and
      security of data.

      The study has been approved by hospital ethics committee. The current analysis was reviewed
      and approved for scientific merit and feasibility by the VATS Group Scientific Committee and
      presented at the annual VATS Group meeting.

      Patient population and study design Study population consisted of patients who received
      intended VATS lobectomy as the primary procedure for NSCLC at VATS Group participating
      centres and included in the VATS Group database between January 2014 and January 2020. We
      excluded all patients with incomplete clinical, intraoperative and postoperative data. Data
      entered from centers sporadically (less than 10 cases per year) were also excluded.

      In order to analyse the factors related to lenght of stay, the study design provides a
      comparison between two groups of patients: the first group, identified as "LOS ≤ 4" including
      all patient disharged within 4 days after surgery, while the second group, called "LOS > 4"
      including all cases discharged after the fourth postoperative day.

      Covariates We compared selected clinical variables to analyse the presence of a possible
      association with lenght of stay: data were divided into preoperative, intraoperative and
      postoperative.

      Furthermore, three groups were made according to the number of cases entered by the different
      centers and considered as a possible influential variable: group A (less than 50 cases),
      group B (number of cases between 51 and 100) and group C (above 100 patients).

      Statistical Analysis Patient baseline demographic and comorbidity variables were analyzed
      using frequencies and proportions for categorical variables and means, standard deviations
      (SDs), medians and interquartile ranges (IQR) for continuous variables.

      The comparisons between groups (LOS ≤ 4 vs LOS > 4) categories were made by the following
      tests: Student t-test for continuous variables with approximately normal distribution,
      non-parametric Wilcoxon Mann Whitney test for other numerical variables and for categorical
      variables Pearson's chi-square test or Fisher's exact test in the case of low-volume
      categories were adopted.

      To investigate the factors independently associated with the hospital stay outcome we used
      simple logistic regression models with the variables of interest, and a simplified multiple
      model with a stepwise backward procedure to obtain a more parsimonious model that contained
      only the significant factors. Covariates of interest were patients' demographics, co-
      morbidities, hospital lobectomy volume , operative features, pain relief techniques, type of
      surcial approach. A significance level of 0.2 was required to enter the model and a level of
      0.05 was required to remain in the model. Adjusted odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence
      intervals (95% CIs) were presented. All P-values are two sided with statistical significance
      evaluated at the 0.05 α level. All tests were performed with Stata 13.0 statistical software
      (Stata Corp, College Station, TX).
    
  