
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the maximum-tolerated dose of external-beam radiotherapy delivered as a
           tumor boost in patients who have undergone prior transurethral bladder resection for
           muscle-invasive carcinoma of the bladder.

      Secondary

        -  To document progression-free survival and overall survival of these patients.

        -  To evaluate patterns of recurrence and bladder preservation rates following
           dose-escalated radiotherapy in these patients.

        -  To determine the impact of acute and late toxicity on quality of life in these patients.

        -  To assess the use of gold seeds for tumor boost delineation in these patients.

        -  To evaluate the use of virtual cystoscopy tumor localization in these patients.

        -  To assess coverage of the phase II radiotherapy boost volume on the daily cone-beam
           images.

        -  To assess coverage of the phase III radiotherapy volume on cone-beam images with
           selected adaptive strategy.

        -  To evaluate the use of diffusion-weighted MRI (dwMRI) scans in assessing response to
           radiotherapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      Patients undergo a rigid cystoscopy and gold-seed insertion, if clinically appropriate.
      Approximately 3-5 seeds are inserted into the bladder wall to demarcate the maximum extent of
      visible tumor or tumor bed via a customized introducer. All patients undergo 3-dimensional
      conformal radiotherapy once daily, 5 days per week during weeks 1 and 4-7 and once daily, 4-6
      days per week during weeks 2 and 3, using a combination of image-guided radiotherapy
      techniques and a partial bladder radiotherapy boost.

      Patients complete quality-of-life questionnaire QOL-30 at baseline, 1 and 3 months, and then
      annually after completion of study treatment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4, 8, and 12 weeks, every 6
      months for 3 years, and then annually for 2 years.
    
  