
    
      Preeclampsia (PE) complicates from 5 to 10% of pregnancies and it is a number one cause of
      maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality worldwide. Nevertheless, a specific and highly
      effective therapy of this disorder does not exist. As illustrated by therapeutic efficacy of
      anti-digoxin antibody (DIGIBIND) in preeclampsia, endogenous digitalis-like sodium pump
      ligands play an important role in the pathogenesis of this syndrome. Previously, we
      demonstrated that levels of endogenous bufadienolide Na/KATPase inhibitors are elevated in
      patients with PE, and that antibody to marinobufagenin lower blood pressure in rats with
      pregnancy-induced hypertension and ex vivo reverse inhibition of the Na/K-ATPase from
      erythrocytes from patients with PE. Most recently, we developed three anti-MBG monoclonal
      antibodies which in lower blood pressure in several rat experimental models.

      We are proposing a pilot proof-of concept study aimed to demonstrate that MBG is target for
      DIGIBIND in preeclampsia. If successful, this trial will provide basis for the development of
      a clinically-usable anti-MBG monoclonal antibody. We hypothesize that in patients with
      preeclampsia DIGIBIND induces vasorelaxation due to blockade of circulating MBG. The specific
      aims of the study are to demonstrate that isolated perfused preeclamptic placentae ex vivo
      release MBG at concentration sufficient to induce vasoconstriction that DIGIBIND reverses
      vasoconstriction induced by placental perfusate, and that vasorelaxant effect of DIGIBIND is
      due to blockade of MBG.

      The study population will be pregnant women (18-50 years), 34-39 weeks of fetal gestational
      age with preeclampsia The primary outcome of the study variable will be the difference in the
      vascular tone in isolated perfused cotyledons. The secondary outcomes will be: (i) the degree
      of MBG binding to DIGIBIND at different time points following DIGIBIND administration, (ii)
      the effect of DIGIBIND on the activity of Na/K-ATPase in erythrocytes, and (iii) the ex vivo
      effect of DIGIBIND on the vascular tone in the isolated placental lobes.
    
  