
    
      The role of therapeutic vitamin D supplementation in asymptomatic individuals with vitamin-D
      deficiency and COVID-19 is not known. Immune-modulatory effect of vitamin D is likely to be
      observed at 25(OH)D levels which are considered higher than that required for normal bone
      metabolism.[6] An earlier SARS-CoV-2 negativity may have significant public health benefits
      in limiting the spread of the disease. Therefore, we hypothesise that high dose vitamin D
      supplementation in patients with COVID-19 and vitamin D deficiency may lead to SARS-CoV-2
      negativity in greater proportions of patients associated with decrease in serological markers
      of inflammation.

      Methods: Consecutive individuals with SARS-CoV-2 infection who were mildly symptomatic or
      asymptomatic with or without co-morbidities (hypertension, diabetes mellitus, chronic
      obstructive airway disease, chronic liver disease) admitted to tertiary care hospital in
      north India were invited for the study. A written consent was obtained from all patients
      included in the study and protocol was approved by the Institute Ethics Committee.

      Patients with vitamin D deficiency defined as 25 (OH)D level<20 ng/ml were randomized to
      receive daily 60,000IU of cholecalciferol (5 ml oral solution in nano droplet form) for seven
      days in the "intervention arm" or to receive a single dose of 60,000 IU vitamin D
      supplementation at admission in the "control arm". Patients unable to take oral
      supplementation like those requiring invasive ventilation were excluded. Subsequently,
      25(OH)D levels were assessed at day 7 and a weekly supplementation of 60,000IU provided to
      those with 25(OH)D >50 ng/ml or continued on daily vitamin D 60,000 IU supplementation for
      another seven days in participants with 25 (OH)D<50ng/ml (day-14) in the intervention arm. No
      vitamin D supplementation was provided in the control arm other than the initial dose at
      hospital admission.

      25 (OH)D, serum calcium, phosphorus, fibrinogen , d-dimer, C-reactive protein, procalcitonin,
      renal and liver function tests were performed periodically up till day-21 or virus
      negativity, whichever occurred earlier. Oro-pharyngeal swabs were obtained for SARS-CoV-2 RNA
      detection at day-5, 7, 10, 14, 18 and 21 and detection was performed by real-time polymerase
      chain reaction (RT-PCR), CFX-96 IVD, Bio-Rad. 25 (OH)D was analysed by
      electrochemiluminescence immunoassay (ECLIA) (Roche Cobas E 801 Analyzer; Roche Diagnostics),
      using the kit supplied by the same manufacturer (Elecsys Total Vitamin D, version 2.0). Serum
      calcium (N, 8.5-10.2 mg/dl) and C-reactive protein (N, 0-5 mg/l) were processed by ECLIA
      method using Roche Cobas 8000, Roche Diagnostics. D dimer (N, 0-240 ng/ml) & fibrinogen (N,
      2-4g/l) were analyzed using Stago Compact/ Stago STA R model, Diagnostica Stago, Inc, USA
      respectively.
    
  