
    
      Eligible women for elective cesarean section admitted to the Labor and Delivery Unit of
      Prentice Women's Hospital will be approached for study participation immediately after the
      routine preanesthetic evaluation. This occurs shortly after admission to the Labor and
      Delivery Unit. Women who agree to participate will give written, informed consent at this
      time.

      Subjects will be prepared preoperatively in the usual fashion with intravenous (IV) access,
      aspiration prophylaxis and intraoperative monitoring. Preincision antibiotics will be given
      and uterotonic medications will be used as per usual practice after delivery.

      The anesthesiologist will perform a spinal anesthetic per routine with the subject in the
      sitting position using sterile technique at the L3-4 interspace (± one vertebral interspace).
      The spinal anesthetic will consist of 12 mg of hyperbaric bupivacaine + 15 μg fentanyl + 150
      μg of morphine. The subject will be placed supine with left lateral tilt to alleviate
      aortocaval compression. Cesarean section will commence after adequate anesthesia is assured
      to a T4 sensory level to pinprick. Vasopressors and IV fluids will be administered at the
      anesthesiologist's discretion per usual practice.

      At the time of delivery, subjects will be randomized to one of two groups using a computer
      generated random number table. Randomization will be blocked based on whether the cesarean
      procedure is a primary or a repeat procedure. Randomization assignments will be kept in
      sequentially numbered opaque envelopes. The envelope will be opened by a research nurse who
      will prepare a 20 mL syringe labeled "study drug". The syringe will be given to the
      anesthesiologist blinded to the treatment group who will subsequently administer the study
      drug. Subjects randomized to the treatment group will receive ketamine 10 mg (ketamine 10
      mg/mL) diluted to 20 mL with 0.9% preservative free saline. Subjects randomized to the
      placebo group will receive 20 mL preservative free saline.

      The study drug will be administered into the intravenous line via an infusion pump over 10
      minutes. Five minutes after placebo or drug administration, the anesthesiologist will ask the
      subject if she has nausea, vomiting and pruritus. Nausea and pruritus will be graded as none,
      mild, moderate or severe; and vomiting as present or absent. Any spontaneous complaints of
      psychedelic effects will be noted at this time. Sedation will be assessed via the Richmond
      agitation-sedation scale (RASS [see Appendix 1]).

      Upon completion of the cesarean section, the subject will be transported to the post
      anesthesia recovery unit. Patients will receive ketorolac 30 mg every 6 hours time 4 doses
      beginning shortly after admission to the PACU.

      At 1 h, 4 h, 8 h, 12 h and at 24 h after administration of the study drug, the subject's pain
      will be assessed using the numeric rating scale for pain NRS 0-10 (see Appendix 2). Patients
      may request rescue analgesia if they are experiencing discomfort. The time of first rescue
      analgesia request will be noted, and the NRS will be determined at the time of request for
      rescue analgesia.

      Rescue medication will consist of hydrocodone 10 mg plus acetaminophen 325 mg per os. An
      additional dose of hydrocodone 10 mg plus acetaminophen 325 mg will be provided after 1 hour
      if the pain is not relieved to the subject's satisfaction. These are routine oral analgesic
      medications for postoperative cesarean delivery analgesia. Standard orders will be written
      for monitoring sedation and respiratory rate, and treatment of side effects (nausea,
      vomiting, pruritus and respiratory depression). The total amount of rescue medication will be
      determined for each subject after 24, 48 and 72 hours.

      The presence of nausea, vomiting, and pruritus will be assessed at the same time intervals as
      the NRS for pain: 1 h, 4 h, 8 h, 12 h and 24 h after IV infusion of ketamine or placebo. The
      subjective psychedelic effects of ketamine and morphine will be assessed using a set of
      true/false questions from the LSD and morphine short form of the Addiction Research Center
      Inventory, ARCI (Appendix 3). These questions will be administered verbally by the
      anesthesiologist or researcher blinded to the treatment group upon admission to the PACU and
      at 4 h.

      The following data will be collected in addition to the primary and secondary outcome data:
      maternal age, height, weight, prepregnancy weight, gestational age and IV fluids administered
      during cesarean section. In addition, all intraoperative and postoperative medications will
      be recorded, including those administered for the treatment of side effects listed above.

      Protocol specific analgesia assessment ends 24 hours after administration of the study drug.
      At 72 hours the subject will be asked about her satisfaction with postoperative analgesia
      (100 mm scale, 0 mm = not satisfied at all, 100 mm = very satisfied). One telephone follow-up
      evaluation 2 weeks after delivery will again, assess for satisfaction with analgesia and
      average pain (NRS) since the procedure.
    
  