
    
      Objective: The primary goal of this study is to evaluate whether exposure in big steps is
      more effective than a small step-by-step approach. The secondary goal is to find child,
      parent and therapist factors that possibly relate to the effectiveness of the exposure
      exercises.

      Study design: Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) with two parallel groups (intervention versus
      intervention).

      Study population: Adolescents aged 12 to 17 years with a specific phobia of the
      animal/situational subtype.

      Intervention (if applicable): The intervention will be designed as a CBT, a therapy which has
      proven to be effective in treating specific phobia. The intervention consists of three
      individual sessions, each up to 60 minutes long. Each condition starts with a
      psycho-education session on specific phobias and exposure, during which the participants will
      create a fear hierarchy (from 1 as least fearful to 10 as most fearful). Following this
      session either two exposure-in-big-steps or two exposure-in-small-steps sessions are offered.
      In the big steps exposure condition the adolescent moves in three big steps from bottom to
      top (1-5-10) in their fear hierarchy. In the small steps exposure condition the adolescent
      moves in many small steps from bottom to top in their fear hierarchy, for example from 1 to 2
      to 3 to 4 etc. The intervention will be provided by an experienced mental health
      professional.

      Main study parameters/endpoints (see outcome measures paragraph): The main study parameter
      isseverity of the specific phobia. Secondary study parameters are out-session fear, fearful
      cognitions, bodily tension, avoidance, coping, in-session fear, in-session harm expectancy
      (possible mediator variables), approach behavior and self-efficacy. Tertiary study parameters
      are healthcare costs and quality of life (cost-effectiveness), note: cost-effectiveness is
      assessed for another study. Other study parameters are specific phobiadiagnosis, general
      comorbidity, comorbid anxiety and depression, and demographic variables (possible moderator
      variables); and credibility and expectancy of the treatment, treatment satisfaction,
      treatment integrity and therapeutic alliance (treatment characteristics).
    
  