
    
      Primary Aim:

      To assess the effects of our novel tri combination Activity-Dependent Rehabilitation model
      approach on muscle volume of the lower limbs.

      Secondary Aims:

      i) To better define the mechanisms that contribute to changes in muscle.

      Preliminary data from animal studies have shown increased expression of Activin receptor IIB
      and increased nuclear localization of Smad2 and Smad3 after SCI and that these adverse
      changes are reversed by androgens. Additional studies will examine mRNA levels for myostatin,
      its receptor and its inhibitors (e.g., follistatins) and determine nuclear levels of Smad2
      and Smad3. We will also measure resting energy expenditure to confirm that changes in muscles
      mass correspond to anticipated metabolic effects.

      ii) To evaluate the changes in bone and bone structure with Stand Training with TRT and ES.

      Individuals with SCI not only lose motor and/or sensory function, they experience dramatic
      muscle and bone loss. Locomotor training, an activity-based intervention that engages the
      neuromuscular system below the level of lesion for standing and walking enhances EMG activity
      and has shown modest improvements in muscle without any attenuation in bone density
      [172-177]. Dynamic stand training, an important component of locomotor training, provides
      sensory feedback related to standing and bilateral weight bearing, resulting in bilateral
      muscle activation via central pathways through the spinal cord [161,178-181]. Thus, the stand
      retraining component provides a physiologically relevant multi-muscle activation through
      central pathways, dynamic gravity opposed loading of the legs and additional task specific
      activation of the muscles [161,162,179]. Functional electrical stimulation is a method of
      exercise that has been employed in the SCI population and has demonstrated success in
      improving muscle, with less conclusive evidence for its effect on bone albeit there has been
      speculation that although slowing or preventing bone loss may be feasible after SCI,
      reversing such bone loss (i.e. restoring bone) is not possible, although the evidence is
      primarily from applying FES to single muscles [151,171]. TRT has been shown to offer a
      logical, efficacious, and cost-effective intervention to, in part, counteract these untoward
      body composition, metabolic, and functional sequelae of relative hypogonadism in those with
      chronic SCI [37]. In addition, testosterone alone has been shown to increase muscle mass,
      muscle strength, and bone in androgen-deficient men and older men with low testosterone
      levels [182,183]. The model of compressive loads generated during the combination of stand
      retraining and multi muscle ES will be multi-directional and will increase muscle strength
      and the forces applied to the hip, femur and tibia bones. We anticipate that the model of
      standing plus TRT will increase muscle mass and strength more than standing alone. The
      combination of multi muscle TRT+ES while stand training will further increase muscle strength
      compared to either arm alone, resulting in an increased synergistic response of benefit which
      will surpass the threshold needed to significantly increase bone restoration
      [102,184,185].This novel tri-combination synergistic approach of TRT, ES, and Stand Training
      is being hypothesized to increase muscle mass and strength to a greater extent than that of
      each alone or than that of only two of these interventions. Measurements of muscle torques
      will be obtained to demonstrate a quantifiable relationship between muscle strength and bone
      mass.
    
  