
    
      Ebola virus disease (EVD) in West Africa is spreading rapidly, and there is a critical need
      for a vaccine to prevent EVD. There are two candidate Ebola virus vaccines, the chimpanzee
      adenovirus 3 (ChAd3-EBO Z)-based vaccine and the Vesicular Stomatitis virus
      (VSVdeltaG-ZEBOV)-based vaccine. This study will evaluate both of these vaccines in a
      randomized, double-blind, controlled, 3-arm study in Liberia. Each vaccine will be compared
      against the same active control. Because there are limited data on the safety of these
      vaccines, the initial phase (phase 2) of the study will include the collection of more
      detailed data on safety and will define the immune response elicited by each vaccine in the
      first 600 volunteers. With the decline in new cases of Ebola virus infection the phase 3
      component was no longer deemed to be feasible and, following safety, ethical and FDA
      approve/concurrence, the study was amended to a more robust, 1,500 person phase 2 design.

      With the amendment to only a phasae 3 study the endpoint reverted to the phase 2 endpoint of
      safety and immunogenicity.

      Participants aged 18 year and older will be enrolled at health clinics in Monrovia, Liberia
      over 4 months. A single dose of the assigned agent will be administered. Participants in
      phase 2 will undergo blood draw and assessment of adverse events (AEs) and signs and symptoms
      of Ebola infection at 1 week and 1 month after vaccination, and monthly assessment of AEs and
      signs and symptoms of Ebola thereafter. Participants in phase 3 will undergo monthly
      assessment of AEs and signs and symptoms of Ebola infection after vaccination. All
      participants will be followed for 8 to 12 months.

      This clinical trial to evaluate vaccine efficacy will provide an accurate assessment of the
      benefits and risks associated with each candidate vaccine and inform policy on wider scale
      vaccination in other countries.
    
  