
    
      Total abdominal hysterectomy (TAH) with or without salpingo-oophorectomy is a commonly
      performed major surgical procedure that results in significant postoperative pain.
      Traditionally, this pain has been treated with a multimodal approach which includes opioids,
      often administered via a patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) pump. Common side effects of
      opioids include sedation, nausea, vomiting, constipation, and pruritus. Thus, to overcome
      such undesirable side effects, other approaches to pain management have been explored,
      including post-operative transversus abdominis plane (TAP) blocks. TAP blocks are a popular
      analgesia technique for abdominal surgery with an incision between the sixth thoracic (T10)
      vertebrae and the first lumbar (L1) vertebrae. The block involves infiltration of local
      anesthetic (LA) by an anesthesiologist under direct ultrasound guidance. The anesthetic is
      deposited into a plane between the internal oblique and transversus abdominis muscles, which
      contain thoracolumbar nerves that originate from the T6 to L1 spinal roots. These nerves
      supply sensation to the anterolateral abdominal wall, the area responsible for
      incision-related pain following TAH ± unilateral/bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. TAP blocks
      are a low risk procedure with very rare side-effects including bowel or peritoneum
      perforation, and local anesthetic toxicity. Almost all anesthesiologists are familiar with
      performing such a block, which is routinely done under ultrasound guidance to minimize the
      risk of perforation. Previous studies demonstrate TAP block efficacy in various abdominal
      surgery including hysterectomy, colon resection, Caesarean section, retropubic prostatectomy,
      laparoscopic cholecystectomy, and open appendectomy. While TAP blocks have been shown to
      provide patients with a statistically significant increase in the time to first analgesic
      request, this mean delay is typically less than 3 hours. To overcome the limited duration of
      action, we are proposing the addition of magnesium as an adjunct to the LA solution
      infiltrated in the block. Other regional anesthesia techniques have trialed various adjuncts
      including epinephrine, dexamethasone, clonidine, and recently magnesium. The goal of using
      such adjuncts is to prolong and enhance analgesia, and potentially even decrease total LA
      required. Our study will investigate the use of magnesium as an adjunct to LA in bilateral
      TAP blocks to increase the duration of analgesia. Magnesium is the fourth most abundant
      cation in the body and the second most abundant intracellular cation after potassium. The
      minimum recommended daily intake of magnesium for adults is 0.25 mmol (6 mg)/kg body weight.
      Magnesium is a natural analgesic through antagonism of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. When
      added to LA, magnesium has been shown to improve the quality and duration of analgesia of
      neuraxial, femoral, and brachial plexus blocks. In fact, brachial plexus analgesia has been
      produced with magnesium sulfate (MgSO4) alone. Magnesium as an adjunct to TAP blocks has
      never been previously investigated in any setting, thus we propose a study to specifically
      investigate its potential effects in prolonging analgesia in patients undergoing elective TAH
      ± unilateral or bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. We hypothesize that the quality and duration
      of analgesia can be improved by adding a moderate amount of MgSO4 to the local anesthetic
      used in the TAP blocks.
    
  