
    
      The program evaluation will consist of three components that will employ two research
      methods, qualitative and quantitative.

      Comparative Practice Study (Qualitative) This study will explore how factors related to the
      technology, patients, providers and organizational structures and processes influence the
      adoption and implementation of THC across selected sites (including micro-, meso- and
      macro-systems) in Ontario. Ethnographic study, in-depth semi-structured interviews and
      documentation collection and review will be employed to explore, among other factors, the
      behaviours, communication patterns, workflows and tasks of health care providers and their
      interaction with patients. Interviewees will be selected using purposive sampling.

      Descriptive Study (Quantitative) The patterns of THC use will be evaluated by conducting a
      descriptive study based on the data routinely collected by the Ontario Telemedicine Newtrok
      that tracks all encounters (i.e. telephone calls, remote patient monitoring data
      transmission, face to face visits) between patients and THC providers. A randomly selected
      subset of THC participants/caregivers will also complete validated structured questionnaires
      at up to four time points during program, baseline, one, two, and three months after
      enrollment. These are the Quality of Life Profile Measure (SF12), Quality of Life Preference
      Measure (EQ5D), Telemedicine Perception Questionnaire (TMPQ), Stanford self-efficacy scale
      and Client Satisfaction Questionnaire (CSQ-8). The providers of THC will also be asked to
      complete questionnaires; physicians will be asked to complete Penn State Physician
      Telehomecare Survey, whereas the nurses will be asked to complete a Nurse Satisfaction
      Survey.

      ICES Linkage Study (Quantitative) Primary collected research data will be linked to the
      Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences (ICES) administrative databases. Outcomes (i.e.
      hospitalizations, primary care visits) of patients receiving or have received Telehomecare,
      will be assessed for a period of 6 months prior to enrolment, during the program and for up
      to 6 months after discharge.
    
  