
    
      IBD is becoming increasingly common in Canada, particularly among children, even those whose
      families have recently moved here from countries where IBD is rare. Genetic factors are known
      to make children susceptible to IBD, but the equally important environmental factors are
      unknown. This multi-center network brings together investigators across Canada to understand
      why IBD affects so many Canadian children. We will study all children at the time of IBD
      diagnosis, asking questions about environmental, including dietary, exposures; obtaining
      blood for assessment of genetic risk; and stool for assessment of microorganisms that might
      be important in the development of IBD. The best treatments for specific types of IBD will be
      determined.

      The Network's success will be as much dependent on its ability to re-distribute data, as its
      ability to efficiently and accurately collect it. In order to achieve the Network's goals
      related to improving care and informing clinical practice, it is imperative that the
      Network's raw data set can be rapidly re-formatted and re-presented to first inform and then
      report on (patient focused) clinical and quality indicators at both site and network levels.

      Samples may be stored indefinitely so that, as additional genes, biomarkers, and microbes are
      discovered, their role in intestinal disease can be assessed. The importance of these samples
      increase over time as outcomes of intestinal disease and treatment may be tracked. As
      required in future, research studies proposing to use biobank data and/or samples will be
      submitted to a study committee and the REB (Research Ethics Board) for approval.

      Approximately 2400 participants will be recruited to the Networks Inception Cohort study.
      They will be followed from recruitment until transfer to adult care.

      Participants will be advised during the consent process that, as with any research study,
      they may withdraw at any time by informing a study team member verbally or in writing. A
      withdrawal request may be for all stored samples to be withdrawn, or it may be a request for
      no additional samples to be collected (though already stored specimens may be retained).

      Sample Size and Power Considerations

      The study's sample size is arbitrarily fixed given the national incidence rate, duration of
      recruitment, and selection of participating sites. Based on reported inception case numbers,
      and likely engagement success, we anticipate recruiting approximately 400 to 500 patients per
      year. Thus 1,200 to 1,500 subjects will have at least 18 months of follow-up data within the
      5 year grant period. By the end of year 4 we would anticipate between 800 and 1000 subjects
      have 18-month outcomes, reducing to 400 or 500 by the 3 year mark. The primary analysis,
      within each of the described strata will be a test of proportions, presented as a Relative
      Risk. Current figures would suggest 60% of the study cohort will have Crohn's disease (CD),
      and of those 20% L1, 20% L2, 50% L3, and 10% isolated L4b. Approximately 20% of CD patients
      are exposed to anti-TNF within 12 months. Information from ongoing studies suggest at least
      60% of patients are in a sustained clinical remission by 12 months. The minimum RR (effect
      size) we will be able to demonstrate in any analysis based on the network cohort, and the
      confidence (power) we can have in that estimation, will depend on the number of exposed
      subjects (cases) within the strata of interest and the anticipated outcome frequency in the
      unexposed subjects.

      Environmental Exposure Assessment

      We are systematically assessing environmental factors that have previously been associated
      with Inflammatory Bowel Disease in the literature and factors that are hypothesized to be
      associated with Inflammatory Bowel Disease based on knowledge of pathophysiology. All
      patients will complete the comprehensive questionnaire at least once during the duration of
      follow-up. The questionnaires will be internet-based and completed by the patient with
      parental assistance either at home or in the clinic.

      We will assess the effect of environmental exposures on the following outcomes: type,
      location and extent of disease at diagnosis (2); disease severity at diagnosis, and
      subsequent clinical disease course. Disease course will be followed and ultimately classified
      as 'severe', 'indolent', 'continuous sustained clinical remission'. Time to sentinel events
      (such as surgery, commencement of anti-TNF therapy (anti-tumour necrosis factor), development
      of complicating disease behaviour) will also be recorded. We will examine the univariate
      effect of the listed environmental exposures including breastfeeding, antibiotic use, and
      passive smoking exposure on both the baseline phenotype and the subsequent disease course
      strata. Logistic regression models will be constructed to evaluate the potential effect of
      ethnicity (eg. South Asian versus Caucasian) after adjusting for environmental exposures. CD
      (Crohn's Disease) and UC (Ulcerative Colitis) will be studied separately. Risk estimates will
      be expressed as odds ratios with 95% confidence intervals. For sentinel events within 18
      months of diagnosis we will apply semiparametric and nonparametric methods of survival
      analysis, including Cox regression models, to assess firstly the effect of various
      environmental factors stratified by ethnicity, as well as the association of race/ancestry
      after adjusting for environmental risk factors. The potential effect modification of South
      Asian ancestry on Inflammatory Bowel Disease prognosis will be formally assessed. Finally, a
      paired comparison will be attempted examining the effect of a change in exposure status on
      Inflammatory Bowel Disease disease course.

      Dietary Exposure Assessment

      We are using a combination of quantitative dietary assessment utilizing the food frequency
      questionnaire, FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire), (modified for the age of population
      studied) and a qualitative dietary assessment using the modified Canadian Healthy Eating
      Index (HEIC-2009). This approach allows us to test the hypothesis that high caloric intake
      from processed and prepared foods with low glycemic index and high fat content have a
      facilitative effect on the development of Inflammatory Bowel Disease. Moreover, it allows us
      to examine diet-diet interactions, diet-gene interactions, and diet-microbiome interactions.

      FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) content validity and reproducibility will be assessed
      using Pearson correlation coefficients for normally distributed data and Spearman rank
      correlation coefficients where the data are not normally distributed. Caloric intake, dietary
      quality and specific dietary components such as fats/specific fatty acids, sugars, vitamin D
      and antioxidants will be divided into age and gender-specific quartiles from the distribution
      across Inflammatory Bowel Disease cases, based on phenotype (Ulcerative Colitis and Crohn's
      Disease) and disease severity (Pediatric Ulcerative Colitis Activity Index (PUCAI) and
      Pediatric Crohn's Disease Activity Index (PCDAI).) Logistic regression models will be
      developed, adjusting for age at recruitment, gender, ethnicity and additional environmental
      exposures (mutually adjusted for in analyses but updated in accordance with the additional
      data obtained through review of environmental exposure e.g. smoking status, appendectomy,
      tonsillectomy, usage of oral contraceptives, antibiotic use). Risk estimates will be
      expressed as odds ratio (OR) with corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CI) for Crohn's
      Disease and Ulcerative Colitis separately, as well as for Inflammatory Bowel Disease
      combined.

      The National Coordinating Centre Team and Organizational Structure

      The Network's National Coordinating Centre is housed at The Hospital for Sick Children,
      University of Toronto. Information Technology infrastructure and support will be provided by
      the SickKids Research Institute's Research IT Department. Additional 'ad-hoc' resources
      related to IT development/support, legal counsel, bio-statistical assistance will be
      available to the centre as required via the resources of the SickKids Research Institute.

      The National Coordinating Centre is responsible for data-integrity and completeness and
      ensures accountability by sites for full and timely data completeness. Support systems for
      collecting and recording data and encourages 'real-time' data abstraction and direct data
      entry. The Network is utilizing the REDCap (Research Electronic Data Capture) application as
      its primary data-collection platform. REDCap is a secure, web-based application designed to
      support data capture for research studies, providing: 1) an intuitive interface for validated
      data entry; 2) audit trails for tracking data manipulation and export procedures; 3)
      automated export procedures for seamless data download to common statistical packages; and 4)
      procedures for importing data from external sources. Within the data collection platform,
      numerous 'real-time' and 'post hoc' data check procedures will be implemented. Statistics
      concerning 'data-integrity' will be reported to the Executive Committee on a regular and
      frequent basis. The National Coordinating Centre will conduct site-specific staff training at
      the initiation of the study, when new staff are employed, and when any new tools or
      significant study procedures are added to the protocol.

      NETWORK MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE

      The strategic planning and operations of the network (including protocol development,
      finances, development of partnerships) will be overseen by the Network Management Committee.
      The Network Management Committee will give direction and oversight to the Clinical Site
      Directors. Based on lessons learned from other networks, teleconferences involving site
      clinical directors and research coordinators will be held regularly to review progress and
      data. All clinical site directors are included as co-applicants (if not principal applicants)
      on the grant, and will be individually engaged in working groups. The Director of the
      National Coordinating Centre will report directly to the Network's Executive Steering
      Committee, and is responsible for overseeing all functions of the National Coordinating
      Centre. National Coordinating Centre functions will be informed by the Network's Phenotyping
      Committee, Ancillary Studies/Data Access Committee, and IT Innovations Committee. The Ethics
      committee will ensure that Ethical standards are met. The Scientific/Technical Advisory
      Committee (S/TAC) includes Network PIs with biomedical, population health and health services
      research expertise. These will be responsible for development of, respectively, standard
      operating procedures for biologic specimen handling and storage, design and approval of
      translational research initiatives; environmental questionnaires and establishment of linkage
      to provincial administrative databases. The Scientific/Technical Advisory Committee in
      conjunction with the Network Management Committee will develop Terms of Agreement for use of
      biospecimens and data for ancillary research, and for publications. The Scientific/Technical
      Advisory Committee will meet twice yearly with the Network Management Committee.
    
  