
    
      Glomerulonephritis (GN) such as Minimal change disease (MCD), focal segmental
      glomerulosclerosis (FSGS), Membranous nephropathy (MN), and Immunoglobulin A nephropathy
      (IgAN) has quite a common clinical presentation often results in renal insufficiency which
      generates an enormous individual and social economic burden.

      However, the therapeutic options are largely based on clinical and pathological parameters
      and the individual response to therapy or prognosis is uncertain.

      Recently, along with advances in molecular analysis and computational bioinformatics, genomic
      data from human renal biopsies could provide a strong foundation for the future of precision
      medicine in nephrology.

      In response to a request for applications by the Ministry of Health and Welfare of Korea for
      the creation of Clinical Research Registry, a number of universities joined together to
      establish Korean Kidney Biopsy Network (KORNERSTONE).

      Through this Network the investigators hope to understand the fundamental biology of
      glomerulonephritis and aim to bank long-term observational data and corresponding biological
      data including genomic data from kidney tissues, and kidney pathologic data which is
      digitalized This database is archived to a web-based platform to access easily and further
      enrich for researchers.

      ============ <Patient clinical data will be collected as follows>

        1. Blood tests: CBC, Chemistry (Ca, P, Glucose, Total protein, Albumin, Uric acid),
           Electrolyte, Renal function (BUN, Creatinine, eGFR), Liver function (AST, ALT)

        2. Immunologic blood tests: Complement 3, Complement 4, ASO, RF, Cryoglobulin, dsDNA, ANA

        3. Urine tests: Urinalysis, Urine protein, Urine albumin, Urine creatinine

        4. Radiologic tests: Kidney USG, Abdominal-pelvis computed tomography

        5. Pathologic results

        6. Treatment informations: treatment status, drug type, treatment duration

        7. Quality of life questionnaire: Kidney Disease and Quality of Life Short Form survey
           (adults), PedsQL 4.0 Generic Core Scales (pediatrics)

        8. Dietary questionnaire
    
  