
    
      Heavy drinking (defined as 4+/5+ drinks per occasion for women/men) and alcohol use disorder
      (AUD) are a significant public health problem. Modestly effective pharmacological and
      psychosocial treatments for AUD exist, yet some heavy drinking (i.e., relapse) is the most
      common outcome following AUD treatment. Continued development of innovative and efficacious
      interventions that reduce heavy drinking and specifically target risk factors for heavy
      drinking is thus clearly warranted. One novel intervention that has considerable promise for
      reducing heavy drinking is mindfulness-based relapse prevention (MBRP). MBRP is a behavioral
      intervention for substance use disorder that was designed to target experiences of craving
      and other risk factors for heavy drinking. Based on the results of numerous studies, MBRP is
      feasible and efficacious in the treatment of AUD. However the effect sizes of MBRP remain
      small and many individuals struggle with engaging in the mindfulness practices early in
      treatment. There is preliminary evidence that combining a non-invasive form of brain
      stimulation, transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), may improve engagement with
      mindfulness practices and lead to significant reductions in heavy drinking following
      treatment. The goal of the proposed study is to examine the efficacy of a mindfulness + tDCS
      intervention in reducing heavy drinking and impacting hypothesized mechanisms of behavior
      change among individuals with AUD who are interested in reducing their heavy drinking. In the
      proposed study, a research team with complementary expertise in AUD treatment,
      mindfulness-based interventions, brain stimulation, and cognitive neuroscience will combine
      self-report, behavioral, and neurophysiological data collection via electroencephalography
      (EEG) to study the psychological and neurophysiological mechanisms of treatment efficacy
      following a novel, promising intervention that combines brain stimulation with mindfulness
      training. The mindfulness based intervention in combination with active tDCS is hypothesized
      to lead to significant reductions in drinks per drinking day after 8 weeks of treatment and
      these reductions will be maintained up to 2 months following treatment. Further, the effect
      of active tDCS on drinks per drinking day at the 2 month follow-up will be mediated by
      greater mindfulness, greater inhibitory control and reductions in craving and negative affect
      during treatment and at the post-treatment assessment. Approximately 86 individuals meeting
      criteria for AUD will be randomly assigned to 8 sessions of either MBRP combined with active
      tDCS (up to 2.0 milliamp current) or MBRP combined with a sham tDCS (no current) control
      condition. The proposed study will examine the efficacy (Primary Aim) and psychological and
      neurophysiological mechanisms of treatment efficacy using behavioral measures and EEG
      (Secondary Aim). In addition to addressing the question of whether adding active tDCS to MBRP
      enhances efficacy, it will further examine issues of neurophysiological and behavioral
      treatment mechanisms to better inform the design of a future large efficacy trial.
    
  