
    
      Although infant sleep regulation across the first year proceeds well for many infants, for
      many infants that is not the case, and estimates of sleep problems among infants and
      preschoolers range between 25%-33%. Dysregulated infant sleep is predictive of poor parent
      sleep, and chronic sleep disruption can place families in turmoil, with consequences for the
      marital and coparenting relationship. Further, mothers reporting early coparenting distress
      are at risk for personal distress and poor bedtime and nighttime parenting, which in turn
      predicts infant sleep problems and insecure infant attachment. This application proposes a
      randomized clinical trial (RCT) to evaluate the effects of a sleep-enhanced adaptation of an
      evidence-based transition-to-parenting coparenting intervention program [Family Foundations -
      FF). The rationale for this study is twofold. First, recent findings from the PI's Project
      SIESTA (R01HD052809) indicate that poor coparenting at one month post-partum predicts
      persistent infant-parent co-sleeping across the first year, elevated maternal depressive
      symptoms, emotionally unavailable bedtime parenting, and insecure infant-mother attachments.
      Second, whereas FF as originally developed has been successful in improving coparenting,
      marital adjustment, and overall parenting quality, it gives little specific attention to
      coparenting in infant sleep contexts, which SIESTA findings identify as critically important
      to parent and infant outcomes later in the first year. The proposed 3-arm RCT responds to
      these concerns. In one arm, families will experience FF as originally formulated; in the
      second, families will receive an adapted FF that emphasizes coparenting in infant sleep
      contexts; the third arm will serve as controls. Assessments of coparenting and parenting in
      infant sleep contexts, parental adjustment to infant sleep behavior, choices about sleep
      arrangements, infant and parent sleep quality, and infant socio-emotional functioning, will
      serve as outcomes. Our central hypotheses are: (1) Compared to controls, parents in both FF
      groups will report improved overall coparenting and reduced overall distress, but parents in
      the adapted FF group will show greater improvements in coparenting and individual parenting
      in infant sleep contexts, better infant and parent sleep, and better child adjustment; (2)
      early coparenting around infant sleep will be a central mechanism by which both interventions
      exert their effects. This research is foundational to a broader understanding of coparenting
      processes that underlie successful family transitions and contributes to the refinement of a
      successful coparenting program. Study results will be of immediate use to obstetric and
      pediatric services interested in augmenting childbirth education material with information on
      coparenting practices in infant sleep contexts.
    
  