
    
      1. Design

           - This is a randomized, observer-blinded, controlled trial.

        2. Study objectives and hypothesis

           - The aim of this study is to prove the hypothesis that desflurane is safer than
           sevoflurane in terms of the association with postoperative acute kidney injury (AKI)
           after liver resection surgery.

        3. Inclusion and exclusion criteria

             -  Inclusion criteria: Forty adult patients (20 patients in each group) who are
                planned to undergo liver resection surgery are included.

             -  Exclusion criteria: Patients who undergo less invasive liver resection surgery
                under thoracoscopy or laparoscopy are excluded. Patients with chronic kidney
                disease, or allergic to any anesthetic agents used in the study (e.g., desflurane,
                sevoflurane, propofol, remifentanil, rocuronium) are also excluded.

        4. Outcome definition

           - AKI is diagnosed based on RIFLE creatinine criteria within 72 hours postoperatively.
           Serum creatinine is measured preoperatively, on the day of the surgery, and 1st, 2nd,
           and 3rd postoperative days.

        5. Methods

             -  Patients are randomized into 2 groups (Desflurane group and Sevoflurane group)
                depending on the agent administered during anesthesia

             -  For the quantitative analysis for subclinical AKI, urine interleukin-6 (IL-6),
                plasma and urine neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL), serum cystatin
                C, urine liver-type fatty acid-binding protein (L-FABP), urine
                N-acetyl-β-D-Glucosaminidase (NAG), and urine albumin concentration are measured
                preoperatively, on the day of the surgery, and 1st postoperative day.

             -  Demographic data, preoperative medication, past medical history, perioperative data
                related to anesthesia and surgery, and data related to outcome are also sampled.

             -  Postoperative clinical course is followed until the patients are discharged.

             -  Incidence rate of postoperative AKI and biomarkers are compared between the groups.
    
  