
    
      Background:

      Empty Nose Syndrome (ENS) is the term used to describe the condition resulting from over
      resection of nasal turbinate. Symptoms include depression, dysosmia, bleeding, discharge,
      crusting, dryness, dysosmia, and pain.

      Treatment modalities include adjunctive comfort measures (primarily irrigation), mechanical
      measures (Silicon cones, cotton wads) and surgical treatment (alloderm implants, plastipore
      cartilage grafts etc.) We will investigate a new method of treatment for ENS. This will
      involve injection of botulinum toxin type A into the dilator nasalis muscle thus collapsing
      the internal nasal valve to provide added resistance to air flow.

      Objective:

      To evaluate effectiveness of botulinum toxin type A in improving overall quality of life in
      ENS patients.

      Methods:

      ENS patients in this study will receive botulinum toxin type A along with adjunctive
      treatment which will include several measures. First of all, patients will be given a nasal
      rinse bottle and will be instructed to irrigate their noses twice a day as follows:

        -  Irrigate the nose 250cc (about 125cc each side) to clear the mucus.

        -  Stop and gently clear the nose.

        -  Irrigate the nose 250cc (about 125cc each side) once again.

        -  Sit quietly for 10 minutes. No blowing.

        -  Do not blow the nose for 2 hours.

      Patients will be asked to use sesame oil once a day to prevent drying of the nasal mucosa
      with further administration as needed. In addition they will advised to make certain
      lifestyle modifications that will include sleeping with a cool mist humidifier, drinking
      plenty of fluids and engaging in regular physical activity.

      Before and after treatment data will be obtained in the form of a breathing test and patient
      questionnaires that will measure changes in physical and mental health.
    
  