
    
      Purpose: The purpose of this study is to determine if a single class on pelvic floor health
      administered during pregnancy will increase primiparous women's knowledge of pelvic floor
      health, decrease pelvic floor symptoms postpartum, increase the practice of pelvic floor
      muscle exercises, increase satisfaction with their delivery experience, and change their
      preferences and thoughts surrounding various modes of delivery. There are currently no such
      workshops being provided at St. Paul's Hospital in Vancouver BC.

      Hypothesis or Aim: A single 2 hour workshop on pelvic floor health administered during
      pregnancy will improve primiparous women's knowledge of pelvic floor health at 6 weeks
      postpartum compared to a control group who do not participate in the workshop.

      Justification of the Study (Background): The pelvic floor is composed of muscles and
      connective tissue which act to provide support for pelvic organs. Weakness or injury to the
      pelvic floor can result in pelvic floor dysfunction. This includes conditions such as pelvic
      organ prolapse, urinary incontinence, irritative bladder symptoms, fecal incontinence, pelvic
      pain and sexual dysfunction. Maintenance of pelvic floor health is important as diseases of
      the pelvic floor are bothersome, disfiguring and significantly affect quality of life of
      women. Though the prevalence of pelvic floor problems increases with age, it also affects
      women of childbearing age, especially during and after pregnancy. According to Brown et al.,
      the prevalence of urinary incontinence 12 months before pregnancy was 10.8% and this
      increased to 55.9% in the third trimester. At three months postpartum, 30% of women continue
      to have urinary incontinence. Parity has been strongly associated with pelvic floor
      dysfunction later in life. According to Rortveit et al, the risk of pelvic organ prolapse was
      significantly increased in women with 1 (OR 2.8, 95% CI 1.1-7.2), 2 (OR 4.1, 95% CI 1.8-9.5)
      and 3 or more (OR 5.3, 95% CI 2.3-12.3) vaginal deliveries compared with nulliparous women.
      Also, forceps delivery has been associated with an increase in pelvic floor symptoms 5-10
      years after delivery, especially overactive bladder (OR 2.92, 95% CI 1.44-5.93) and prolapse
      (OR 1.95, 95% CI 1.03-3.70).

      Research on pelvic floor health education by the principal investigator showed that with
      improvement of pelvic floor health knowledge, there was also improvement in pelvic floor
      symptoms and quality of life at 3 months after a single workshop. However, introduction of
      pelvic floor health through a workshop would be ideal in the pregnant population, as they are
      a captive audience. This is the time when they employ other interventions to improve their
      health, such as smoking cessation, vitamin supplementation, healthy eating etc. Also, women
      of childbearing age are of the millennial generation. They have more interest in their own
      health and place greater value on quality of life compared to previous generations. Thus they
      are a group of motivated individuals who would implement changes to improve their future
      quality of life if given the appropriate information to encourage this change.

      Despite current evidence demonstrating that the single most important risk factor for
      disruption of pelvic floor health is childbirth, pregnant women are ill-informed about pelvic
      floor health. A survey of health professionals in Swansea, UK, revealed that pelvic floor
      muscle exercises and pelvic floor health received low priority in comparison to other
      antenatal topics discussed by obstetric care providers with their patients. What is perhaps
      even more astounding was the finding that 15% of respondents, which included obstetricians,
      midwives and family physicians, were unable to describe pelvic floor exercises, and most
      health professionals surveyed felt that they had not received adequate training on pelvic
      floor health.

      Canada does not currently have recommendations on patient education regarding pelvic floor
      health during pregnancy. As demonstrated by the audit performed by Ismail et al., even in a
      region where these guidelines exist, the education of pregnant women on this subject is poor.
      Our current standard of practice is to leave pelvic floor education in the hands of obstetric
      care providers. A survey of health professionals in the UK revealed that pelvic floor health
      received low priority in comparison to other topics discussed in the antenatal period.
      Furthermore, most obstetric care providers felt their training in pelvic floor health was
      inadequate. The investigators research project proposes to close the gap between patient
      knowledge and scientific knowledge. There is clear evidence that childbirth is the single
      most important risk factor in future pelvic floor conditions. There is also evidence in
      support of pelvic floor muscle exercises in the antepartum and postpartum period to prevent
      and improve pelvic floor symptoms. The investigators workshop will empower women with
      knowledge and allow them to make informed decisions surrounding childbirth. It will provide
      them with tools to improve their own pelvic floor health. A pelvic floor health workshop in
      the antenatal period is an innovative concept which could lead to better patient care. It may
      be the first step in prevention of future pelvic floor conditions.

      The target population is primiparous women, 20 years or older in their first pregnancy and
      singleton gestation with 100 women being recruited.

      Sampling method: All participants will be randomized to two groups, the random allocation
      lists will be generated by a statistician unassociated with the study using the SAS
      programming language. The allocations will be loaded onto a computer and access by a study
      coordinator interacting with a web-based ORACLE screen. Interactions between the coordinator
      and the system will be logged, including the time and date, a patient identifier (patient
      letter code) and the treatment allocation.
    
  