
    
      The donor gave us blood to make CD19 chimeric receptor trivirus specific T cells in the
      laboratory. These cells were grown and frozen for the subject. To make these special T cells
      they are grown with stimulator cells. Stimulator cells are also made from the donor's blood
      but they are irradiated so that they can no longer grow. Stimulator cells have been infected
      with viruses so that they carry proteins from 3 viruses (CMV, adenovirus, and EBV). These
      cells are cultured with the T cells so that they can learn to see and attack cells infected
      with CMV, EBV and adenovirus.

      To get the CD19 antibody to attach to the surface of the T cell, an antibody gene was
      inserted into the T cell. This is done with a virus called a retrovirus that has been made
      for this study and will carry the antibody gene into the T cell. This virus also helps to
      find the T cells in the blood after injected. Once sufficient numbers of T cells are made,
      the investigators freeze the cells and test them to make sure they kill CD19+ tumors cells
      and cells infected with CMV, EBV and adenovirus. Once testing is completed the cells will be
      ready to give to the subject.

      When the subject enrolls on this study, they will be assigned a dose of CD19 chimeric
      receptor trivirus specific T cells. The subject will be given an injection of cells into the
      vein through an IV line at the assigned dose. The injection will take about 20 minutes.
      Investigators will monitor the subject in the clinic after the injection for up to 3 hours.
      The treatment will be given by the Center for Cell and Gene Therapy at Texas Children's
      Hospital or The Methodist Hospital.

      To learn more about the way the CD19 chimeric receptor trivirus specific T cells are working
      and how long they last in the body, extra blood will be drawn. The total blood drawn during
      this study will not exceed 300 tsp.

      For subjects receiving the CTLs for treatment of their disease: If the subject has stable
      disease (the tumor did not grow) or there is a reduction in the size of the tumor on imaging
      studies or by blood count after the T-cell infusion, the subject can receive up to six
      additional doses of the T cells if they wish. After each T-cell infusion, the subject will be
      monitored.

      Because the subject will have received cells with a new gene in them the subject will be
      followed for a total of 15 years to see if there are any long term side effects of gene
      transfer.
    
  