
    
      Autism spectrum disorders are characterized behaviorally by expressive language and social
      deficits, the performance of stereotypic and repetitive behavior patterns, and abnormal
      cognitive functioning. Children with autism spectrum disorders often do not have known
      anomalies seen on genetic testing. An emerging paradigm suggests that the majority of
      children with autism are displaying a pattern of genetic / environmental interaction that
      make them susceptible to difficulties with detoxification of the heavy metal and chemical
      environment. Children with autism demonstrate increased difficulty with the performance of
      methylation and sulfation required for the elimination of fat soluble chemicals from human
      tissues. These children also commonly display dysfunction of their metalloprotein systems
      necessary for the elimination of heavy metals such as mercury and arsenic from their bodies.

      This study sought to provide 10 children with autism an opportunity to sleep in a clean room
      environment, a hospital room that was modified to remove nearly all traces of particulate
      matter, chemicals, and heavy metals, for a 2 week period while going about their normal
      activities during the day. In the clean room, the children slept on bedding and wore clothes
      that did not release any toxins. This room created a concentration gradient for chemical and
      heavy metal toxins that may have allowed these toxins to leave the children's bodies during
      their stays.

      The children's parents filled out seven rating scales, including the Aberrant Behavior
      Checklist, immediately before and after the 2 week sleeping periods. The children had blood
      samples taken before and after the 2 week sleeping experiences that measured biomarkers of
      metalloprotein (heavy metal elimination) and immune functioning, such as the plasma
      zinc/serum copper ratio and T and B cell subsets. Red blood cell and hair concentrations of
      toxic heavy metals such as mercury, arsenic, and chromium 6, and red blood cell
      concentrations of chemicals implicated in contributing to human pathology, including
      polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), polybrominated diethyl ethers (PBDEs), and phthalates were
      determined before and after the sleeping experiences. These pre and post stay variables were
      statistically compared, and it was hypothesized that the children's red blood cell
      concentrations of toxins would be significantly reduced while their hair concentrations of
      toxins would be significantly increased after their sleeping experiences in the clean room,
      supporting the concept that the clean room promoted the release of heavy metals and chemicals
      from their bodies. This one year study was a proof of concept cohort study.
    
  