
    
      In 2014 the Danish Government introduced a wide-ranging school reform that applies to all
      public schools in Denmark. The reform involved changes in several aspects of the school
      structure and content. In a physical activity promotion perspective, a distinctive feature of
      the school reform is that it has become mandatory to integrate an average of 45 minutes of
      daily physical activity during the regular school day. The overarching objective of the
      PHASAR study is to evaluate the implementation of this ambitious policy-driven physical
      activity promotion initiative and the possible effect on children's level of physical
      activity and overweight. Moreover, by applying improved accelerometry technology, the study
      aims to provide a detailed characterization of physical activity during the children's entire
      day including the school day.

      The evaluation is divided into a quantitative effect evaluation and a combined quantitative
      and qualitative process evaluation. A total of 31 schools were enrolled and 2,683 pairs of
      accelerometers were handed out to school-aged children from 1st to 9th grade in the PHASAR
      study during the 2017/18 school year. The objectively measured physical activity data will be
      compared to repeated cross-sectional data collected in four historical school-based studies
      from 1998-2012. Body mass index data from 2012-2018 will be collected from The Child
      Database, which includes repeated cross-sectional assessments on approximately 100,000
      children annually. In the absence of a control group, interrupted time-series analysis will
      be used to evaluate pre- and post-reform physical activity and body mass index levels and
      trends. A characterization of the school environment relevant for physical activity promotion
      on a political, environmental, organizational and individual level, as well as school
      implementation processes will be conducted to evaluate the implementation process. Data will
      be collected using interviews, surveys, document analyses and observations.

      The PHASAR study provides a rare opportunity to evaluate the effectiveness of a nation-wide
      policy-driven school-based physical activity promotion initiative. The use of objectively
      measured pre- and post-reform physical activity and body mass index data combined with a
      characterization of the school implementation processes regarding the promotion of physical
      activity will provide a comprehensive source of information needed to evaluate the school
      reform.
    
  