
    
      Treatment options for sepsis complicated by ARDS are limited to antimicrobials and supportive
      care (intravenous fluids, vasopressors, mechanical ventilation and renal replacement
      therapy). Recent preliminary evidence suggests that intravenous vitamin C may be the first
      therapy to mitigate the dysregulated cascade of events transforming an infection into sepsis.
      However, definitive practice changing evidence requires a large trial powered to detect a
      plausible, modest, and clinically important difference in mortality.

      The study LOVIT will be conducted simultaneously in Canada (country of coordination), France,
      the United States of America, the United Kingdom and Australia/New Zealand.The data from each
      country will be merged with the aim of reaching 4,000 patients globally (roughly 800 patients
      per country). Thus, in the context of increasing off-label use of vitamin C for sepsis and
      ongoing trials of vitamin C bundled with other pharmacological interventions, this study will
      constitute a rigorous assessment of the effect of vitamin C monotherapy on patient-important
      outcomes. Moreover, the French LOVIT-ARDS, part of LOVIT, will provide additional information
      on the specific subgroup of patients with sepsis and ARDS.

      This is a prospective multicentric randomized controlled trial. Web-based randomization
      system available 24/7. Eligible patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to vitamin C or
      matching placebo. The study will use permuted blocks of undisclosed and variable size and
      stratify randomization by site.

      The study will enroll a total of at least 770 patients. Sites are expected to enroll at least
      1or 2 patients per month. By enrolling 385 evaluable patients per arm, the study will have
      80% power to detect a 10% absolute risk reduction (from 50% to 40%, which corresponds to a
      20% relative risk reduction).

      Follow-up in the study for each patient: daily during ICU stay and telephone follow-up at 6
      months.
    
  