
    
      RESEARCH QUESTIONS

        1. What is the incidence of clinically-important venous thromboembolism (VTE) following
           surgically-repaired, isolated fractures of the tibia, fibula or ankle?

        2. In patients with surgically-repaired, isolated fractures of the tibia, fibula or ankle,
           is simple anticoagulant thromboprophylaxis effective, safe, and cost-effective?

           BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE

           Isolated below-knee fractures are very common injuries seen in all emergency departments
           and general hospitals. Venographic studies suggest that the incidence of overall deep
           vein thrombosis (DVT) following such fractures is in the range of 20-50%. However, the
           prospective studies that have screened patients with these fractures for DVT are few in
           number and have methodologic limitations. In addition, most of the thrombi detected are
           distal and small and, therefore, of uncertain clinical significance. Although patients
           with leg fractures are at risk for symptomatic DVT, PE, and occasionally fatal PE, there
           is a paucity of reliable data about the incidence of, and risk factors for, the
           development of clinically-important VTE following contemporary treatment of these
           fractures.

           Furthermore, data related to thromboprophylaxis in these patients are insufficient to
           recommend prophylaxis, even in patients whose fractures are managed surgically. There is
           considerable variation in the use of prophylaxis for such patients across North America;
           the majority of orthopedic surgeons use no prophylaxis, a small proportion use
           in-hospital prophylaxis only, and an even smaller proportion use therapeutic levels of
           anticoagulation until the patient is fully mobile without a cast. The routine use of
           prophylaxis for patients with below-knee fractures may not be necessary, may be
           associated with adverse effects related to the prophylaxis, and may not be
           cost-effective. A methodologically rigorous study is required to address all of the
           above issues.

           The D-KAF trial will determine the incidence of, and risk factors for,
           clinically-important VTE in patients with isolated fractures of the tibia, fibula or
           ankle, who are managed surgically. At the same time, D-KAF will assess the role, if any,
           of routine thromboprophylaxis in such patients. The study has the potential to
           significantly impact on the care of these patients irrespective of whether the result is
           "positive" or "negative." The use of clinically relevant endpoints will be of great
           importance in the design of future prophylaxis trials in this and other patient groups.

           OBJECTIVES

           Among patients with isolated, lower extremity fractures of the tibia, fibula or ankle,
           treated surgically, to determine:

             1. The incidence of clinically-important VTE over the first 3 months after injury in
                patients receiving usual care (no thromboprophylaxis);

             2. The predictors of clinically-important VTE in usual care patients;

             3. The effectiveness, compared to placebo, of a LMWH, dalteparin, given as 5,000 U
                once daily for up to 14 days, in the prevention of clinically-important VTE;

             4. The safety of this prophylaxis regimen with respect to clinically-important
                bleeding;

             5. The cost-effectiveness of the active intervention;

             6. The predictors of prophylaxis failure (clinically-important VTE and adverse
                events);

             7. The incidence of clinically-important VTE from the time that LMWH is discontinued
                to week 12; this objective seeks to determine if prophylaxis beyond the first 2
                weeks is indicated.

           STUDY DESIGN

           This is a randomized, double-blind, multi-center comparison of the LMWH, dalteparin,
           versus placebo in patients with isolated fractures of the tibia, fibula or ankle, who
           undergo surgical repair. It will assess the epidemiology of VTE following these injuries
           and determine the effectiveness, safety and cost-effectiveness of dalteparin in
           preventing clinically important VTE.

           INTERVENTIONS

           All eligible patients who have provided informed consent, are randomized to receive:

           dalteparin, 5000 anti-Xa units OR saline placebo given once daily by subcutaneous
           injection using identical pre-loaded syringes

             -  The first dose of study drug commences as soon as possible after the fracture and
                always within 72 hours of injury.

             -  Non-study anticoagulant prophylaxis and mechanical prophylaxis (graduated
                compression stockings, pneumatic compression pumps or venous foot pumps) is not
                allowed. Use of aspirin, antiplatelet agents and NSAIDS is discouraged unless the
                indication is for cardiac or stroke prophylaxis, the management of arthritis, or
                short-term postoperative analgesia.

           PATIENT ASSESSMENT

           Baseline Assessment:

           At baseline, each patient has:

             -  History and physical examination

             -  Completion of baseline case report form which summarizes past medical and surgical
                history and details of the current injury and its management

             -  CBC, INR, PTT, creatinine

           Follow-up Assessments:

             -  All inpatients are seen daily to monitor adherence to the protocol as well as
                symptoms and signs of DVT, PE, clinically significant bleeding and other adverse
                events.

             -  If discharged prior to 14 days, patients are taught to self-administer the study
                injections at home by a research nurse. Patients are called at home every 3 days to
                ensure compliance with the study medication and to address any questions or
                concerns related to the study.

             -  All patients are seen in follow-up 14 ± 2 days after injury. At this visit, a
                focussed history and physical examination is performed and a CBC obtained. All
                patients are screened for proximal DVT using bilateral duplex ultrasound
                examination.

             -  Patients with normal DUS have the study medication discontinued and no further DVT
                prophylaxis is given for the remainder of the study period.

             -  All patients receive a telephone follow up at 6 ± 1 week and 3 months ± 1 week
                after randomization to assess their clinical status. They are asked specifically
                about symptoms and signs of DVT and PE, hospitalizations, and co-intervention
                (administration of anticoagulants).

             -  Clinical suspicion of possible DVT or PE during the 3-month study period is
                investigated in a standardized manner using objective diagnostic tests and
                pre-specified diagnostic algorithms.

             -  All patients who develop objectively confirmed DVT or PE, either symptomatic or
                asymptomatic (detected on the day 14 screening ultrasound), are treated with
                full-dose anticoagulation (generally LMWH followed by warfarin) for at least 3
                months.

           OUTCOME MEASURES

           Primary Outcome = Clinically important venous thromboembolism in the two study groups.
           This is a composite outcome measure that includes symptomatic DVT, symptomatic PE, and
           fatal PE during the 3 months following fracture plus asymptomatic proximal DVT at the
           end of the prophylaxis phase.

           Symptomatic DVT: is defined as clinically suspected DVT, confirmed by positive duplex
           ultrasound or venography.

           Symptomatic PE: is defined as clinically suspected PE, confirmed by high probability V/Q
           scan or positive leg imaging for DVT, spiral CT or pulmonary angiogram.

           Fatal PE: as confirmed by autopsy.

           Asymptomatic proximal DVT: by screening ultrasound examination at 14 +2 days.

           Secondary Outcomes:

           Clinically important VTE during the prophylaxis phase (day 1 to discontinuation of study
           medication - this usually corresponds to the end-of-prophylaxis phase DUS or day 14 +
           2).

           Clinically important VTE during the post-prophylaxis phase (usually day 14 to 3 months).

           Bleeding (modified International Bleeding Classification):

           Major - defined as overt bleeding that is life threatening or requires surgical
           intervention, the transfusion of 1 or more units of red blood cells or is associated
           with a drop in hemoglobin of ³ 20 g/L or development of hemarthrosis or compartment
           syndrome.

           Minor - overt bleeding other than that defined as major. Bleeding index: This validated
           measure of bleeding takes into account both change in hematocrit and the amount of blood
           transfused.

           Costs associated with the prophylaxis and with the relevant outcomes.

           ANALYSES

           Baseline characteristics of the two study groups will be compared for patients
           randomized and for those who successfully complete the study using appropriate
           parametric or nonparametric statistics.

           Primary analysis will be based on an intention-to-treat principle and will compare the
           proportion of patients in each group that develop the primary outcome,
           objectively-confirmed, clinically-important VTE, over the 3 month follow-up period,
           using the Yates-corrected chi-square test of two independent proportions.

           Secondary analyses will compare the rates of clinically important VTE for the two study
           phases, the prophylaxis phase (randomization to day 14 + 2) and the post-prophylaxis
           phase (day 14 to 3 months).

           A safety analysis will compare bleeding and other adverse events in the two groups over
           the prophylaxis phase and the entire study period.

           Compliance with the assigned intervention will be compared.

           Cost-effectiveness will be determined prospectively.

           Predictors of thrombosis in patients with lower extremity fractures (from the placebo
           group) and predictors of prophylaxis failures (from the active treatment group) will be
           explored using logistic regression analysis (although we recognize that the number of
           events will likely be low). The factors to be considered include: age, gender, obesity
           (BMI), smoking, varicose veins, oral contraceptive or hormone replacement use, number of
           risk factors, type of fracture, method of fracture treatment, delay to surgery, OR time,
           time after injury to initiation of prophylaxis, compliance, mobility at the end of the
           prophylaxis phase, and fracture complications (including infection, reoperation,
           non-union).

           SAMPLE SIZE ESTIMATION

             1. Assumptions used: a = 0.05 (1-tail), power = 80%, rate of clinically important VTE
                in the control group = 4%; risk reduction with prophylaxis = 75%, yielding a Number
                Needed to Prophylax = 33.

             2. Assuming a 5% post-randomization attrition rate, the estimated sample size will be
                350 patients per group; a total of 700 patients.

             3. A formal, blinded interim analysis will be performed after 500 patients have
                completed follow-up.
    
  