
    
      EPILANG is an open randomized controlled study, in which the final assessment of the children
      (endpoint) will be conducted by professionals blinded to the treatment group.

      Some eligible children will first be screened using the parental questionnaire at 24 months
      corrected age (CA) of the EPIPAGE 2 cohort. Children with language delay, defined as no words
      combination and/or less than 30 words from Mac Arthur CDI - short version, and free of
      exclusion criteria, will be invited to an inclusion visit at 30 months CA, if they are in an
      EPIPAGE 2 centre participating in the EPILANG trial.

      During the inclusion visit, inclusion criteria and the absence of exclusion criteria will be
      checked, data useful for the study will be collected, and the informed consent of the parents
      collected. The child will then be randomized either in the control or the intervention group
      if language delay is still present, defined by a score < 10th percentile at the Mac Arthur
      CDI. Twins, if both included, will be included in the same group, otherwise only the twin
      with a language delay will be randomized.

      The intervention is organized in 15 weekly one-hour sessions with the child, one or both
      parents and a speech therapist recruited and trained for the study. Maximum duration for the
      intervention will be 6 months per child, because some sessions can be missed or delayed.
      Parents' participation will be recorded.

      The usual "wait-and-see" attitude will be provided to the control group, together with basic
      advice to enhance the child's language at home.

      In both groups, audition will be checked by an otolaryngology specialist, following
      professional recommendations, and care will be provided in case of hearing deficit, if
      appropriate.

      At 3 years CA, a neuropsychological evaluation will be performed by trained psychologists for
      both groups, blinded for the allocation group. Behaviour will be evaluated with a validated
      parental questionnaire.

      The analysis will be according to intention to treat.
    
  