
    
      The Objective Visual Quality Analysis System (OQAS) is a new inspection technology used to
      objectively assess the visual quality of the human eye. It can detect the impact of ocular
      refractive system diseases on the objective visual quality of patients. It is currently
      mainly used to assess the progress of cataracts and help selection the timing of surgery has
      achieved good clinical results. Before the emergence of OQAS, the rating of cataracts largely
      relied on the subjective experience of physicians, and OQAS could accurately assess the
      effects of cataracts on the visual quality of the human eye by quantitatively detecting the
      light scattering index (OSI) of the refractive medium of the human eye. The impact provides a
      quantitative evaluation basis for the diagnosis and treatment of cataract and research.
      However, the application of OQAS in cataract surgery effect evaluation and postoperative
      complications management is still lacking. After cataract surgery, although the cloudy lens
      nucleus and cortex have been removed, the original refractive error, vitreous opacity,
      postoperative posterior capsule folds, posterior dysfunction and many other factors may still
      affect the objective of the human eye visual quality, and ordinary visual inspection is
      difficult to find this effect . In addition, preoperative OSI and other indicators of
      cataract, as an exposure factor, may affect the incidence of postoperative complications,
      such as after-cataract, macular edema, etc. It is worthy of further study. The application of
      OQAS can accurately assess the improvement of objective visual quality after cataract
      surgery, and find and remove other factors that affect OSI. In addition, for one of the most
      common complications after cataract surgery-after-onset disorder, there is no uniform rating
      standard in the academic circles, and OQAS can provide objective data for the rating of
      after-onset disorder, so as to provide information on the postoperative complications such as
      late-onset disorder. Provide reference for the management of . The research team intends to
      use OQAS to evaluate and follow up cataract patients before and after surgery, and observe
      the incidence, severity, and treatment effects of postoperative complications such as
      after-cataract, analyze the severity of cataract or after-cataract, and intraocular lens The
      influence of factors such as type, postoperative time, systemic disease on the effect of
      cataract surgery. We will also rate the posterior disorder based on OSI, and examine the
      effects and risks of different grades of posterior disorder after laser capsulotomy and other
      treatments, in order to use OQAS to better guide cataract surgery and postoperative
      complications management.
    
  