
    
      Objective: This cross over design study will be used to determine the influence of elastic
      kinesiology tape on the speed and amplitude of quadriceps activation (anterior thigh) during
      selected resisted and weight bearing exercises.

      Background: Compliant tape, such as KiniseoⓇ Tape (KT), is highly elastic and claimed by the
      manufacturer to mimic skin. It is commonly used by physical therapists and sports medicine
      practitioners to treat musculoskeletal conditions and to enhance physical performance. The
      creators of KT teach a variety of applications techniques to affect the underlying
      musculature. Current theory regarding elastic tape application suggests that if the tape is
      applied over a muscle from the proximal to distal attachments, it will facilitate the
      underlying muscle while applying the tape from distal to proximal will inhibit the
      musculature.1 While studies have investigated the effect of elastic tape on muscle
      activation, few studies to date have compared the direction of application on muscle
      activation.2-7

      Methods and Measures: Healthy subjects between 18-35 years old will be recruited from the
      Upstate Medical University community via email and word of mouth. Potential participants will
      report to the Institute for Human Performance and will be asked to complete all documentation
      including informed consent and a health-screening questionnaire. If eligible, qualified
      participants will perform 2 functional jumping exercises (vertical jump and single-leg triple
      hop for distance) 8 and isokinetic knee flexion and extension at 60 degrees/sec and 120
      degrees/sec using the Biodex System 3 Pro Dynamometer (Biodex Medical Systems, Shirley, NY).
      The Biodex isokinetic machine has been shown to be a reliable and valid source of measuring
      peak torque, position and velocity.9 Surface electromyography (EMG) recordings will be
      collected from the vastus medialis and vastus lateralis during isokinetic testing. Testing
      will occur over four sessions. In the first session, baseline measurements and measurements
      immediately after KT application will be collected. In the second session, the participant
      will be retested after wearing the KT for up to two days (48 hours). This process will be
      repeated one week later during sessions three and four with KT applied in the opposite
      direction of the initial testing condition. KT application direction and the order of
      activities will be randomized for each participant.
    
  