
    
      Interstitial lung diseases (ILDs) are characterized by scarring of lung tissue. Stiffening of
      the lungs leads to reduced transfer of oxygen into the blood, decreased exercise capacity and
      premature death. Around 85% of the ILDs are known as fibrotic ILD (fILD), a form of ILD which
      tends to have worse outcomes than other types of ILD. People with fibrotic ILD often
      experience distressing breathlessness, cough and fatigue; loss of independence and life
      roles; financial strain; and unpleasant treatment side effects.The most common of the fILDs
      is idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), which has an average survival of 3 years from
      diagnosis. Recently, two new treatments have been shown to halve the annual decline in lung
      function in mild to moderate IPF, making it a 'treatable' condition for the first time.
      However, these treatments only slow the decline in lung function; they do not stabilize or
      reverse it, nor do patients experience improved quality of life or breathlessness.

      For people with fILD who have abnormally low oxygen in the blood at rest, long term oxygen
      therapy (LTOT, used ≥18 hours per day) is strongly recommended, based on survival benefits in
      studies of people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). However, for people with
      fILD who have low oxygen levels only during exertion, the role of oxygen therapy is not
      clear.

      Ambulatory oxygen therapy (AOT), defined as the use of oxygen during exercise and activities
      of daily living, has historically been used to improve blood oxygen levels and exercise
      capacity. However, many people with fILD find this treatment difficult to use. Oxygen
      cylinders are heavy and run out quickly, therefore patient burden often exceeds any benefits.
      Portable oxygen concentrators (POCs) are newly available, lighter and rechargeable. However
      there are potential disadvantages to POCs. Generally, they deliver oxygen in pulses, which is
      where oxygen is delivered only when breathing in, and they do not deliver 100% oxygen.
      Doctors often express concerns that POCs cannot meet the demands of people with fILD during
      exercise. Recently it was shown that people with fILD who use a POC have similar blood oxygen
      levels to those who use a cylinder during exercise, suggesting that this might be a useful
      treatment.

      This study will examine the benefits and costs of ambulatory oxygen, delivered using a POC,
      in people with fILD and exertional desaturation. The aim is to compare the impact of AOT vs
      air in people with fILD who have low blood oxygen during exercise, and to compare the
      cost-effectiveness of AOT and air in fILD. A total of 260 people with fILD will be invited to
      participate. The trial will be conducted at four sites in Australia and two sites in Sweden.
      Participants will be randomly allocated into two groups; Group 1 will be administered AOT
      using a POC (AOT group); and Group 2 will be administered sham AOT using an identical POC
      (air group). Participants, health professionals and trial staff will not be aware of which
      POC is being used. The allocated treatment will be delivered for 6 months. Measurements of
      physical activity during daily life, symptoms, exercise capacity and HRQOL will be collected
      at the beginning of the trial, and 3 and 6 months after treatment has commenced. Information
      about use of health care services, both from hospital records and directly from participants
      will also be collected.
    
  