
    
      Introduction High left ventricular filling pressure (LVFP) have been associated with volume
      overload in patients with heart failure and have also been correlated to some extent with
      more severe symptoms and lower survival rates. In a study of more than 1000 patients
      hospitalized with acute decompensated heart failure, those with persistently elevated LVFP
      more than 18 mmHg had increased 1-year mortality compared with those with LVFP less than 16
      mmHg. Investigators have also demonstrated that acute reduction of LVFP with vasodilator
      therapy can improve cardiac function and reduce mortality risk, suggesting that LVFP is an
      appropriate marker of cardiac risk and functional improvement. However, LVFP measurement
      involves invasive catheterization, limiting its clinical use especially in the outpatient
      setting. In advance of new techniques and modality, echocardiography provides some useful
      parameters to assess LVFP, such myocardial tissue Doppler imaging. Many articles had
      documented that peak velocity of early-diastolic trans-mitral inflow velocity divided by
      early-diastolic velocity over mitral annulus was closed correlated with LVFP. However,
      myocardial tissue Doppler only provides the information of regional myocardium, so patients
      with regional wall motion abnormality, such as coronary artery disease, can't be assessed by
      this method without handicap. In addition, conduction disturbance, like bundle branch block,
      also influences the result of myocardial tissue Doppler. For resolving those problems, we
      will design a new global parameter to assess LVFP. In prior study, we disclosed the
      logarithmic relationship between LVFP and left atrial distensibility in acute myocardial
      infarction patient received primary coronary intervention. This time, to extend our
      conclusion to general population received echocardiographic examination is attempted.
      Additionally, we infer that left atrial distensibility which indicates LVFP would influence
      long-term prognosis, including the event rate of cardiovascular event, stroke and death.

      Purpose Left atrial size, particularly left atrial volume, has been recognized as a marker of
      left ventricular diastolic dysfunction. Contrary to flow and tissue Doppler parameters, left
      atrial volume is independent of acute volume load and therefore may provide a more accurate
      assessment of acute and chronic left ventricular dysfunction. In addition, the measurement of
      left atrial volume is lack of some handicaps of tissue Doppler, including regional myocardial
      dysfunction in coronary artery disease and bundle branch block. In recent studies,
      end-systolic left atrial volume (maximal left atrial volume) was useful to predict the risk
      of atrial fibrillation after cardiac surgery. The short-term and long-term prognosis of acute
      myocardial infarction was also associated with left atrial volume. In patients with mitral
      regurgitation, it could be used to reliably estimate the regurgitant volume. Despite
      end-systolic left atrial volume provides prognostic significance in many disease entities,
      left atrium is filling and empty in dynamic cyclic motion, so we speculate that left atrial
      distensibility, defined as the percentage change of left atrial volume between end-systolic
      and end-diastolic phase, has more prognostic power to represent LVFP and to predict the
      prognosis. Based on the phenomenon of that higher LVFP, which will conduct to and stretch
      left atrium in diastolic phase, induces left atrial distension and makes the reduction of
      distensibility between end-systolic and end-diastolic phases, we had proved the logarithmic
      relationship between left atrial distensibility and LVFP.

      Materials and Methods

      Subjects:

      2000 consecutive patients received echocardiographic examinations will be enrolled. The
      exclusion criteria are including (1) patients with prosthetic mitral valves or mitral
      stenosis, (2) rhythm other than sinus rhythm, (3) age more than 18 years-old, (4) inadequate
      image quality, (5) lack of informed consent.

      Traditional echocardiographic measurement and myocardial tissue Doppler:

      All studies are performed by experienced sonographers and reviewed by staff cardiologists
      with advanced training in echocardiography. Left ventricular function is assessed by
      Simpson's method. Mitral regurgitation is graded with color flow imaging. Mitral inflow is
      assessed with pulsed wave Doppler echocardiography form the apical 4-chamber view. The
      Doppler bean is aligned parallel to the direction of flow, and a 1- to 2-mm sample volume is
      placed between the tips of mitral leaflets during diastole. From the mitral inflow profile,
      the E- and A-wave velocity, E-deceleration time, and E/A velocity ration are measured.
      Pulmonary venous flow is recorded with pulsed-wave Doppler with a sample volume placed 1 cm
      into the right upper pulmonary vein. The flow velocities are recorded, and the ratio of
      systolic to diastolic forward flow (S/D ratio) is calculated. Doppler tissue imaging of
      mitral annulus over septal, lateral and inferior borders is also obtained from apical views.
      Diastolic filling is categorized as normal (grade 0), impaired relaxation (grade 1),
      pseudonormalization (grade 2), and restrictive (grade 3) by a combination of transmitral and
      pulmonary flow patterns as validated previously.

      Left atrial volume measurement:

      Left atrial volume is assessed by the biplane area-length method from apical 4- and 2-chamber
      views. The volumes are measured at end-systolic (just before mitral valve opening or the
      largest dimension), pre-atrial contraction (just before P wave), and end-diastolic (the
      smallest dimension or the onset of QRS complex), using the highest frame rate. The left
      atrial outlines at those three phases retrace off-line for three consecutive beats, then
      average. The recesses of the pulmonary veins and the left atrial appendage are excluded. The
      length of left atrium is that of the perpendicular line measured from the middle of the plane
      of the mitral annulus to the superior aspect of the left atrium. The left atrial volume is
      calculated as: 0.85 x 4-chamber area x 2-chamber area ÷ the shorter of the two lengths. The
      volume is indexed for body surface area. Left atrial distensibility is defined as:
      (end-systole left atrial volume - end-diastole left atrial volume) ÷ end-systole left atrial
      volume. Left atrial ejection fraction is calculated as: (pre-atrial contraction volume -
      end-diastole left atrial volume) ÷ pre-atrial contraction volume.

      Follow-up:

      Clinical outcomes are determined 1-year after indexed examination. Follow-up included
      assessment for the occurrence of sudden death, heart failure with hospitalization, atrial
      fibrillation, stroke, and death (both cardiac and non-cardiac) per 3 months by telephone
      interview.

      Interobserver variability:

      In all cases, atrial volume is measured by two observers independently. Interobserver
      variability is calculated as the difference between the values obtained by the tow observers
      divided by the mean.

      Statistical analysis:

      SPSS software is used for statistical analysis. All continuous variables are presented as
      mean ± standard deviation. Comparison of clinical and echocardiographic characteristics is
      performed by chi-square analysis for categorical variables and by Student t test for
      echocardiography and other continuous variables. A p value < 0.05 is considered significant.
      Patients will be subdivided to four quartiles according to left atrial distensibility.
      Unadjusted survival curves are produced using the Kaplan-Meier method. The log-rank test is
      used to compare survival curves. Adjusted survival curves are constructed using variables
      entered into the Cox model set to their mean values in the total population. The hazard ratio
      of low left atrial distensibility will be assessed by comparing quartile to quartile.
    
  