
    
      This Prospective Randomized Clinical Trial will be done in the period from November 2020 -
      October 2021, after approval of our local ethical committee, and based upon written informed
      consent, included sixty cardiac patients, ASA physical statuses III or IV, admitted in CCU
      and SICU, and scheduled for upper endoscopy together with colonoscopy for diagnosis and
      management of acute anemia.

      The study will be performed in the CCU or SICU with the presence of all emergency
      equipment's. The gastroenterologist who performed the colonoscopies will be blinded from the
      type of drugs used for sedation.

      All patients will receive a colonic preparation protocol before the operation, and bowel
      cleansing will be performed, and all patients will be fasting 8 hours before the procedures.

      Anesthesia management:

      After establishment of IV access, standard monitoring will be performed (noninvasive blood
      pressure, ECG, SpO2, and BIS using (Masimo) monitor).

      Nasal cannula for oxygen (6 l/min) will be connected to all patients, then midazolam
      0.03mg/kg IV as a premedication, and fentanyl 1µg/kg IV will be injected to all patients.

      By the means of sealed envelope technique, patients will be randomly divided into two groups:

      Group (E): Received Etomidate 0.2 mg/kg IV over 30 seconds, followed by 0.05 mg/kg IV and
      repeated when needed.

      Group (KE): Received Ketamine 0.5 mg/kg IV over 30 seconds then Etomidate 0.1 mg/kg IV over
      30 seconds, followed by 0.05 mg/kg IV and repeated when needed.

      The additional dose of etomidate will be determined by the anesthesiologist to achieve 4-5
      sedation level of Ramsay Sedation Scale or BIS above 60.

      Complications during procedure will be considered and defined as:

        1. Hypotension: decrease of baseline systolic blood pressure (SBP) >30%, or decrease of
           baseline diastolic blood pressure (DBP) >30%, and this will be treated by phenylephrine
           100-200 µg IV boluses.

        2. Bradycardia: decrease of HR < 50/min, and this will be treated by atropine 0.5 mg IV
           boluses.

        3. Apnea: spontaneous breathing > 30 sec, or SpO2 < 85%, and this will be treated by
           assisted manual ventilation using AMBU bag and face mask.

      During the procedure the level of sedation will be assessed every five minutes after
      administration of anesthetic drugs using Ramsay Sedation Scale (RSS) [18]: (1 = Anxious or
      restless or both, 2 = Cooperative, 3 = Responding to commands, 4 = Brisk response to
      stimulus, 5 = Sluggish response to stimulus, 6 = No response to stimulus), in addition to
      BIS.

      The use of standard monitoring will be continued until the patients were fully awake. At the
      end of the procedure, total etomidate dose, the duration of the procedure, and the recovery
      time of the patients were recorded.

      After full recovery and when the patients are alert enough to express their attitude
      regarding the intra-procedural events, they will be asked to score their level of
      satisfaction during the procedure in terms of recalling any painful or other undesirable
      intra-procedural events.

      Patient's satisfaction level willbe assessed with a Likert five-item scoring system [19]:

      (1 = Not satisfied at all, 2 = slightly satisfied, 3 = somewhat satisfied, 4 = very
      satisfied, and 5 = extremely satisfied).

      Serum cortisol before and 6 hours after the procedure will be estimated in this clinical
      trial to calculate the percentage of suppression in both groups.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Sample size was calculated using: Calculator.net Home / math / sample size calculator. Sample
      size of 30 cases in each group was calculated to have at least an 80% power to detect the
      expected differences between the two groups with respect to the primary goal.

      Group comparison willbe performed between groups E and KE to analyze differences. Mean,
      standard deviation (SD), median, frequency, and percentage (%) will be used in the
      descriptive statistics of the quantitative and qualitative data. Mann-Whitney U test will be
      used in the analysis of quantitative independent data. Chi-square test will be used to
      analyze qualitative independent data, and Fischer's test will be used when chi-square test
      conditions were not met. For comparison of the sedation score data, hemodynamic parameters
      and SpO2 values, the repeated measurement analysis will be used. P value <0.05 will be
      considered statistically significant. SPSS v23.0 program will be used for all the analysis.
    
  