
    
      OBJECTIVES: The primary objectives of the proposed study are to: (1) develop an integrative,
      Internet-based, Veteran-centered behavioral intervention, the Pain EASE program for chronic
      low back pain (CLBP), and (2) examine preliminary efficacy, usability, and satisfaction of
      this intervention in a representative sample of Veterans with CLBP. The primary hypothesis
      states that a clinically meaningful reduction in pain-related functional interference will be
      observed following ten weeks of exposure to the Pain EASE program relative to baseline. The
      secondary hypotheses state that clinically meaningful reductions in ratings of average pain
      intensity on a 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst pain imaginable) numeric rating scale at the ten week
      post-baseline follow-up assessment interval will be observed, in addition to statistically
      significant reductions in fatigue, sleep problems, depressive symptoms, and negative mood at
      the ten week post-baseline assessment. The tertiary hypotheses state that participants will
      report high levels of interest, site usage, and satisfaction.

      RESEARCH DESIGN: A non-randomized pilot study with two phases is proposed to develop and
      evaluate an internet-based behavioral pain self-management program. Phase I will solely
      involve qualitative data collection. Repeated quantitative assessments during Phase II will
      be conducted at baseline and 10-weeks post-baseline.

      METHODOLOGY: A 24-month pilot study with two phases is proposed. During Phase I, the Pain
      EASE program will be developed and feedback from 15 Veterans with CLBP and an Expert Panel of
      pain management clinicians will be used to modify the program. During Phase II, a pilot
      feasibility trial of the Pain EASE program with 55 Veterans with CLBP will be conducted.
      Subjects will be a total of 70 patients receiving care at the VA Connecticut Healthcare
      System (VACHS) who report chronic low back pain. The primary criteria for inclusion are
      constant pain of at least three months duration with at least a moderate level of average
      pain (i.e., scores of 4 or greater on a 0 [no pain] to 10 [worst pain imaginable]) on a
      numerical rating scale of pain and indication of the "preparation", "action", or
      "maintenance" stage of readiness to change on a brief five item staging checklist. All
      patients must have access to a computer with an internet connection. Excluded will be
      patients with life threatening or acute physical illness, current alcohol or substance abuse
      or dependence, current psychosis, suicidal ideation, dementia, and individuals seeking
      surgical pain treatment. All participants will continue to receive their usual care from
      Veterans Health Administration (VHA) providers. During the 10-week therapeutic window, weekly
      telephone calls from research staff will serve to cue and monitor participants' use of the
      Internet program. At ten weeks post-baseline, participants will be formally reassessed.
      Primary and secondary hypotheses involving quantitative data will be analyzed using an
      intent-to-treat principle and will employ t-tests and non-parametric analogs and regression
      analyses.
    
  