
    
      This is a randomized, prospective, multicenter, interventional study.

      After study patients have given written consent they will be randomized either in the
      interventional group with a rehabilitation program or in the control group without
      rehabilitation program. Patients who are randomized in the control group are allowed to
      perform the rehabilitation program 12 months after randomisation. Patients in the
      interventional group will perform structured exercise training on 3 weekdays during a
      12-weeks period. Training will be performed by ergometer and low-impact gymnastic and
      relaxation training.

      All study participants have the following investigations at the beginning of the study and
      after 12 weeks:

        -  Cardiopulmonary exercise testing with spirometry

        -  6-minute walk test

        -  Blood work: BNP, Creatinine, Sodium, Potassium, Urat, Cholesterol (HDL-L and LDL-L)

        -  Validated Heart failure questionnaires (SF-36 and Minnesota Living with heart failure
           questionnaire, German version for Basel, Zürich and Bern) All tests will be repeated as
           clinically indicated in a follow-up visit 12 months after baseline

      Primary outcome is:

      Comparison of peak VO2 at the end of rehabilitation between both groups.

      Secondary outcomes are:

        -  Comparison of 6-min walk test, VE/VCO2 slope, anaerobic threshold and heart rate and
           blood pressure response after rehabilitation between both groups

        -  Changes of 6-min walk test, peak VO2, VE/VCO2 slope, anaerobic threshold and heart rate
           and blood pressure response at the end and 12 months after rehabilitation.

        -  Changes of quality-of-life assessed by validated heart failure questionnaire at the end
           and 12 months after rehabilitation and comparison between both groups.

        -  Changes of levels of brain-natriuretic peptide at the end and 12 months after
           rehabilitation.

        -  Adverse events during rehabilitation including new onset of arrhythmia, admission due to
           worsening heart failure or death.

      The calculated sample size to reach a power of 0.80 is 83 patients in each arm. Patients with
      complex CHD and exercise intolerance are at increased risk for premature death and severe
      cardiac complications including arrhythmia needing treatment, heart failure and circulatory
      failure, pulmonary hemorrhage, pulmonary embolism and endocarditis. Hence, the likelihood of
      major adverse cardiac events during the study phase is considerably high. However, there is
      no evidence of functional worsening by low-level exercise. Smaller studies with patients with
      congenital heart disease and/or pulmonary hypertension did not report safety issues. Although
      sudden cardiac death is one of the leading modes of death in this population, it is extremely
      rare that sudden death occurs during exercise. Cardiac patients who are at specific risk for
      exercise-induced arrhythmia are not included into the study (i.e. patients with hypertrophic
      obstructive cardiomyopathy).
    
  