
    
      Background: Hong Kong is located in subtropical regions with two seasonal peaks of influenza
      transmission. North Hemisphere seasonal influenza vaccine is usually available for
      vaccination by general public starting in October every year before the anticipated winter
      peak starting in December in Hong Kong, and it presumably also provides protection against
      the same prevailing strains during summer peak starting around July of the next year.
      However, influenza vaccines may have poorer efficacy and effectiveness in older adults. The
      investigators hypothesize that in a subtropical or tropical location with prolonged
      circulation of influenza viruses, including the emergence of new strains at different times
      of the year, twice-annual vaccination with the latest available strains could provide the
      best protection.

      Aim: To test the immune profiles over time of older adults following twice-annual influenza
      vaccination against those receiving once-annual influenza vaccination.

      Design and subjects: A 5-year immunogenicity study with a randomized placebo-controlled
      design among 400 older adults aged 70-79 years. The investigators will enroll participants
      from the general community who attend general outpatient clinics for influenza vaccination or
      medical or preventive care visits. Eligible individuals will be randomly allocated in equal
      proportions to two intervention groups (I: once-annual standard inactivated influenza
      vaccine; II: twice-annual standard inactivated influenza vaccine) consisting of ten rounds of
      vaccination as designated by the intervention group before each winter/summer influenza
      season and followed throughout the 5 years. Before each summer influenza season those in
      group II will receive the inactivated influenza vaccine with the southern hemisphere
      formulation and the other group will receive saline placebo. For each round of vaccination
      (or placebo), blood samples for immunological tests will be collected before administration
      and 30 days after administration among all participants, and at 7, 30 and 91 days after
      administration in a subset of 25% of the participants. Acute illnesses among participants
      will be monitored by active surveillance during influenza seasons. The vaccine formulations
      in each round of vaccination will be updated for each season according to WHO
      recommendations.

      Main outcome measures: Antibody titres measured by haemagglutination-inhibition assays, which
      is an established correlate of protection, in addition to other measurements on humoral and
      cell-mediated immune responses in the two intervention groups over 5 years.
    
  