
    
      Overall Research Design. The overarching goal of this study is to gain mechanistic insights
      into maladaptive pain avoidance behavior and risk factors that could provide a pathway for
      OUD in chronic pain patients. We aim to explore the neurophysiological constructs (brain
      oscillations) of the maladaptive pain avoidance behavior. Advancing this knowledge will open
      new opportunities for future clinical interventions to prevent opioid addiction in chronic
      pain patients. Aim-1 is based on a mechanistic framework termed predictive coding, and is
      designed to elicit cue-pain associative learning impairments that form the basis for
      maladaptive pain avoidance behavior in chronic pain patients. Aim-2 is designed to examine
      the influence of OUD related personality traits and risk factors in moderating maladaptive
      pain avoidance behavior. We strongly believe that aim-1 and 2 will aid the development of
      future clinical paradigms for early identification of patients vulnerable to OUD, treatment
      resistance and other psychodynamic factors that increase the risk for poor outcomes. Aim-3
      further enhances the scope of the project by incorporating the study of brain oscillations
      during pain avoidance behavior that could help the development of non-addictive
      neuromodulation based interventions to promote extinction of learned maladaptive pain
      avoidance behavior.

      Subjects. The study will evaluate patients with Complex Regional Pain Syndrome (CRPS) who
      present with central sensitization i.e. allodynia (pain response to a non-painful stimulus)
      and/or hyperalgesia (exaggerated pain response to a nociceptive stimulus), and age/gender
      matched healthy controls. The advantage of the CRPS model of chronic pain is that it is
      common and a common cause of post-injury disability. Additionally, patients typically present
      with an affected and non-affected extremity/site facilitating within-subject comparison.
      Patients will be considered candidates after review of their history, neurological and
      psychological pain assessment. Healthy controls will be recruited through fliers posted
      throughout our campus and by referrals from other studies.

      Sample Size. Sample size is 30 patients and 30 age/gender-matched controls. The sample size
      was chosen based on the recommended power size for cue-based pain modulation studies.

      Study Design. This cross-sectional study will present the participants with an instrumental
      pain avoidance learning task, while we record continuous MEG brain signals, and other
      autonomic measurements. All participants, upon initial screening and enrollment, will report
      to our MEG facility on the day of testing. They will undergo: 1) training to understand the
      task; 2) scalp measurements for head tracking inside the MEG scanner; and 3) actual testing
      in the MEG. A T1-weighted MRI (for anatomical co-registration of MEG data) will be acquired
      separately, if a suitable dataset is not already available.

      Health History and clinical assessments. All patients will complete neuropsychological and
      pain assessments to rate their current pain, disability, fear, anxiety, and depression using
      standardized scales. In addition, we will administer Temperament and Character Inventory
      (TCI) questionnaire to assess the traits for aim-2.

      OUD risk classification:

      The Cleveland Clinic Alcohol and Drug Recovery Center (ADRC) staff has standard procedures to
      determine the risk for OUD based on biological, psychiatric and social risk factors derived
      from health history questionnaires. Each patient enrolled will get an ADRC assessment that
      will include one of three determinations: "Low Risk", "At Risk", or "Substance Use Disorder."
      The risk for OUD will be used as a covariate in our analysis for all aims, as necessary.

      Effects of Drugs. We will convert all medicine dosages that patients currently take to that
      of a representative medicine in class dosage (e.g. pain killers, antidepressants) and then
      use that as a covariate in the analysis, as necessary, to examine drug effects on the
      results.

      Instrumental pain avoidance task. The task will comprise 150 trials (3 runs of 50 trials),
      during which subjects will select a visual cue (out of 2 choices) with the lowest probability
      of receiving a painful stimulus. They start out by trial and error, but will soon learn to
      associate a cue with higher probability of receiving a painful outcome and avoid the cue. At
      least twice during the testing, the pain outcome contingencies of the cues will reverse and
      the subjects will have to adjust accordingly. The probabilities (for receiving a painful
      outcome) associated with each cue will be independent of one another and varied from trial to
      trial probabilistically. Each trial starts with the presentation of the two options (circle
      or square, randomly displayed to the left or right) for 1.8s, during which participants enter
      their decision by pressing the left or right button of the response unit. Inactivity will
      result in the computer randomly selecting a response. After a feedback period of 200ms and an
      anticipatory period of 2s, the fixation point changes from a cross (+) to an asterisk (*)
      displayed for 3s to mark the period during which participants could receive a painful or no
      stimulus. Following a painful stimulus, participants will rate their pain by clicking on a
      computerized visual analog scale (CoVAS, Medoc Inc.) presented on the screen. The next trial
      starts after a jittered inter-trial interval of 3 - 5s. To minimize the effects of
      sensitization/habituation, the painful stimulus will be delivered to a slightly different
      location after each run. Participants will perform a limited practice session with visual
      cues and pain outcome probability different from the test session. During practice, they will
      be carefully instructed about all aspects of the experiment, except the actual probabilities
      of pain. Patient's non-affected extremity will be tested before the affected extremity.

      Experimental pain: For this proposal, a pneumatic pressure pain device (PPD) developed at the
      University of Colorado (Wager lab) will be used. The PPD uses a pneumatic piston to deliver
      pain stimuli, and can be adapted to deliver pain to any part of the body. We propose to use
      either the thumb or the index finger. Prior to experimental task, participants will be tested
      for threshold limits to identify pain stimuli intensity. We will use a stepwise procedure,
      where pressure in the piston will be increased in steps of 1kg/cm (ramp and hold for 1s) from
      lowest possible level to a level where participants pain perception is equal to 8 on a VAS
      (0, no sensation; 10, worst possible pain).

      Electrophysiology/Neurophysiology. Our group has proven success in collecting pain
      event-related electrophysiological recordings from patients, including
      MEG/electroencephalography (MEEG). Here, we will be collecting these data while subjects
      perform the task described above. Simultaneous measurement of scalp MEEG (2400 samples/sec)
      will be performed in a magnetically shielded room (Imedco, Switzerland). The 306-channel MEG
      system (Elekta, Finland) at Cleveland Clinic records both MEG and up to 128 channels of EEG.
      For scalp EEG, international 10-10 electrode placement will be employed. The MEG system has
      additional channels with appropriate gains for recording autonomic measures such as
      electrocardiogram (EKG) and skin conductance responses (SCR) using MEG compatible Ag/AgCl
      electrodes and standard procedures. SCR electrodes will be attached on the thenar and
      hypothenar eminences on the same extremity where pain will be delievered. Patients will be
      evaluated in a seated position. Prior to the experimental session, fiduciary points (nasion,
      right and left auricular), along with head surface points and head position indicator (HPI)
      locations will be tracked on subject's scalp using a Fastrack digitizer (Polhemus, USA) to
      allow for anatomical co-registration with MRI. The HPI tracks the position and orientation of
      the head to account for variance due to movement. Subjects will be monitored inside the MEG
      suite using a surveillance camera. An intercom system allows for communication with the
      subjects. An E-prime stimulus presentation system (Psychology Software Tools, USA) integrated
      with state-of-the-art projector (Panasonic, Japan) will be used to provide cues. Participants
      will undergo 3 - 5 mins of resting state MEEG measurements prior to the task.
    
  