
    
      This study is a prospective, single-institution observational study designed to evaluate
      associations between the pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters (e.g., clearance and exposure) for
      four tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) used to treat chronic phase CML with key clinical
      milestones in CML, as well as associations between TKI PK and medication-induced toxicities
      and medication adherence. The four TKIs to be evaluated in this study include bosutinib,
      dasatinib, imatinib, or nilotinib, while the key clinical milestones for CML include complete
      hematologic response (CHR) at one month, early molecular response (EMR) at 3 months and 6
      months, and major molecular response (MMR) at 9 months and 12 months. A total of 150 subjects
      will be enrolled in the study. The enrolled study subjects will have been prescribed one of
      these four TKIs by a UNC medical oncologist or advanced practice provider for their diagnosed
      chronic phase CML. Research personnel will identify potential research subjects using data
      from the Carolina Data Warehouse, and pharmacy prescription claims data. Research personnel
      will contact patients regarding study participation in-person in clinic or over the telephone
      to receive informed consent.

      For patients who are newly initiated on a TKI, assessment procedures will occur as close to
      monthly time points as possible (baseline, 1,3,6,9 12, 15, etc) with at least 30 days between
      draws for time points at and after 3 months. For the blood collection at 1 month, there will
      be a +/- 2 week window. Each patient will be enrolled in the study for a maximum of 6
      different study visit days, for a total of 12 total months. If a participant changes
      treatment to a new TKI of interest, the participant may be followed for an additional 12
      months. Active participation in the study is expected to last approximately one year for
      these subjects. Subjects may also be identified and enrolled after having already been
      initiated on TKI therapy, in which case, the duration since initiation of their TKI will be
      12 total months and they will enter at the closes study time point. If enrolled subjects
      require a change of therapy, they will restart their participation under the new TKI at
      baseline and be followed for an additional 12 months. Subjects who complete the 12-month
      study duration and subsequently change therapy may continue participation under the new TKI
      and restart their participation at baseline.

      All study visits will align with standard-of-care follow-up appointments such that no
      additional research only visits to the UNCMC are required of the subjects. Up to seventy-two
      hours prior to each visit, one member of the study personnel will telephone (or email, if
      unreachable by telephone) the subject to remind them to take their medication the days prior
      to their study visit, but not the day of their study visit prior to blood sample collections.
      Subjects will also be reminded to record the exact time and date of the two doses prior to
      their study visit date. Subjects may resume their normal TKI dosing regimen after completion
      of the study visit, at the discretion of the treating provider.

      At each clinic visit, the subject will have two blood samples drawn, and will be required to
      complete a series of surveys (Appendices D, E). Each blood sampling will collect
      approximately 4mL of peripheral blood, for a total of approximately 8mL of blood per study
      visit. Each subject will also have an additional 4mL of blood collected once at their first
      study visit for DNA extraction. The first research blood sample will be collected at the
      beginning of the clinic visit alongside the routine blood draws and processed according to
      the procedures listed in Appendix C. Surveys will then be administered during the visit, and
      lab results and clinical data will be collected. Prior to discharge, a final research blood
      sample will be drawn. Phlebotomy will be performed by trained phlebotomists, nurses, or
      physicians in the UNCMC. Blood samples will be processed per protocol by the study personnel
      as trained by PI or co-investigators. A detailed summary of clinic visit procedures can be
      found in Appendices A and B.

      For subjects enrolled on the same day as their first study visit, blood samples will be drawn
      at the end of the study visit. All subsequent study visits will take place as described
      above.
    
  