
    
      This new proposal entitled "The alveolar macrophage pool is a reservoir of HIV" addresses a
      fundamental question; specifically, does the alveolar macrophage pool serve as a reservoir of
      HIV even when peripheral viral suppression is achieved by anti-retroviral therapy (ART) and
      if so, how does this reservoir alter the environment within the alveolar space and impair
      alveolar macrophage immune function? This is a critical question to address as lung
      infections remain the leading cause of death in persons living with HIV even when they are
      adherent to ART. There is compelling experimental evidence that HIV infection inhibits
      anti-oxidant defenses within the alveolar space and causes severe redox stress. Based on
      preliminary data presented in this proposal, the investigators hypothesize that HIV inhibits
      the expression and actions of Nrf2, the master transcription factor that activates the
      anti-oxidant response element (ARE), in part by inducing zinc deficiency in this vulnerable
      microenvironment, and thereby prevents the alveolar epithelium and the alveolar macrophage
      from generating glutathione and other anti-oxidants that are critically required to maintain
      a healthy redox potential within the alveolar space. The investigators further hypothesize
      that as a result of this targeted inhibition of the Nrf2-ARE signaling pathway, HIV promotes
      its own ability to infect alveolar macrophages and accumulate a large pool of intracellular
      pro-virus that produces a large HIV reservoir within the alveolar space. In parallel,
      HIV-induced oxidative stress shifts the alveolar macrophage toward alternative activation (so
      called 'M2 phenotype'). As a consequence, the innate immune capacity of the alveolar
      macrophage is impaired and this not only confers further resistance to clearing the viral
      reservoir but also renders the infected individual susceptible to serious lung infections.
      The investigators will leverage ongoing collaborative clinical studies in HIV-infected
      individuals. As a result, investigators not only have ongoing access to alveolar epithelial
      lining fluid and macrophages from well-defined subsets of HIV-infected individuals, they also
      have the expertise to apply state-of-the-art basic techniques in HIV pathogenesis,
      metabolomics, and redox signaling to test hypotheses. In parallel, the investigators are
      already conducting a prospective clinical trial of dietary zinc and S-adenosylmethionine (a
      thiol anti-oxidant that among its many actions increases the glutathione pool in the alveolar
      space) in HIV-infected individuals with inadequate immunological responses to ART
      (NCT01806870). This unique cohort will form the foundation for a greatly expanded clinical
      trial that will allow the investigators to test the corollary hypothesis that therapeutic
      strategies designed to improve zinc bioavailability and the redox potential within the
      alveolar space can enhance alveolar macrophage innate immune function and significantly
      decrease the HIV reservoir in the lung. This project will produce novel insights into how we
      can target the alveolar macrophage pool to decrease HIV burden as well as improve lung health
      in these vulnerable individuals.
    
  