
    
      The purpose of this study is to explore the impact of pelvic floor manual physical therapy
      techniques during pregnancy on delivery and the impact on the woman's body and function.
      Currently there have not been any studies to our knowledge that have examined this
      relationship and the outcomes for the pregnant patient. The current research that is
      available is on pelvic floor training and perineal massage during pregnancy with positive
      outcomes. Perineal massage is a stretching technique utilized to relax the tissue of the
      perineum (the area between the vaginal opening and anus), and is considered routine physical
      therapy standard of care for pregnant women. Myofascial release of the pelvic floor is a
      specific manual therapy technique to relax the muscles of the pelvic floor which can include
      the superficial perineal area. Pelvic myofascial release is a technique used for both
      pregnant women, and women with chronic pelvic pain. In fact, each component of assessment and
      treatment are routine and standard PT practices (evaluation, manual therapy, exercise,
      education), however this specific manual therapy treatment protocol has not been studied
      during pregnancy to assess the benefits on delivery/recovery. The questions we are looking to
      answer include:

        1. Does pelvic floor PT (physical therapy) during pregnancy decrease the severity of
           perineal trauma during delivery?

        2. Does pelvic floor PT during pregnancy decrease the length of the second stage of labor
           (pushing)?

        3. Does pelvic floor PT during pregnancy decrease the occurrence of emergency C-section?

        4. Does pelvic floor PT during pregnancy decrease the likelihood and/or severity of
           postpartum pelvic pain and pelvic dysfunction? By obtaining these findings, it will
           allow for program design and treatment recommendations within the pregnancy period to
           minimize delivery trauma and risk for the mother.
    
  