
    
      The research questions are the following:

        1. Does low vision rehabilitation reduce reading effort?

        2. If so, does reduced reading effort increase reading activity,

        3. If so, does increased reading activity improve cognitive (memory) functioning?

      The objectives are to:

        -  Evaluate cognitive functioning and memory before, and 6 and 12 months after low vision
           reading rehabilitation using magnification in patients with age-related macular
           degeneration or glaucoma, compared to age-matched visually impaired controls who undergo
           rehabilitation that is NOT related to reading (e.g., mobility)

        -  Correlate participant characteristics with all cognitive outcome variables in order to
           identify potential mediators, moderators or confounders

      Hypotheses:

        -  Measures of reading (subjective and objective effort) will be statistically
           significantly reduced after participants have received strategies and tools to
           facilitate reading.

        -  Measures of reading behaviour will be negatively correlated with measures of reading
           effort (e.g., participants who report less effort will read more, more frequently and
           for longer)

        -  Individuals that demonstrate reduced reading effort/improved reading behaviour will
           demonstrate improved scores on cognitive tests after 6 months of having received
           rehabilitation strategies and tools, compared to those whose reading effort remains high
           or whose reading behaviour remains unchanged. These beneficial effects will be
           maintained after 12 months.

      Methodology

      Study Design: The study utilizes a quasi-experimental approach (nonrandomized, pre-post
      intervention study), an approach frequently used during the evaluation of health
      interventions. Specifically, a 2x3 design (2 groups x 3 time points) will allow for the
      examination of whether cognitive performance will change before and after 6 and 12 months of
      a low vision reading intervention, when comparing low vision patients to age-matched
      controls. Participants will also be audio-recorded throughout several of the tasks to not
      only ensure the highest level of precision when inputting and analyzing data, but will also
      help reduce the overall testing time.
    
  