
    
      Trichloroethylene (TCE) is an industrial solvent used in degreasing, dry cleaning, and
      numerous other medical and industrial processes. It is a ubiquitous environmental contaminant
      of drinking water and is present in many EPA Superfund sites. TCE is a rodent carcinogen but
      its carcinogenicity in humans is unclear. There is some evidence for an elevation in liver
      and kidney cancers and somewhat more convincing evidence of an association with non-Hodgkin
      lymphoma (NHL) in epidemiological studies of occupationally exposed cohorts. Overall, the
      carcinogenicity of TCE and its regulation is a matter of continuing debate despite an
      extensive database of in vitro and in vivo animal studies and several cohort and case-control
      studies. IARC categorizes TCE as a probable human carcinogen. In order to address questions
      about TCE's potential carcinogenicity and mechanism of action in humans, we propose to
      conduct a cross-sectional study of early biologic effect biomarkers of genotoxicity and
      immunotoxicity in 45 workers exposed to greater than 25 ppm TCE, 30 workers exposed to 10-25
      ppm TCE, and 45 unexposed controls in Guangdong Province, China. We will assess TCE exposure
      level quantitatively, collect other exposure information through a questionnaire, collect
      biological samples, and assay a series of biomarkers of susceptibility, intermediate and
      early biologic effects. Our primary goal is to determine if TCE exposure increases
      chromosomal aberrations in peripheral lymphocytes, with a secondary goal of determining if
      TCE alters levels of key cytokines in plasma and changes lymphocyte subset ratios. In
      addition, our collaborators at UC Berkeley will apply a new generation of cytogenetic and
      molecular techniques to study TCE's ability to cause specific types of chromosomal
      aberrations that have been associated with NHL and related hematological malignancies as well
      as the impact of TCE on mRNA expression and the proteome. The work will compliment previous
      and ongoing OEEB studies of populations exposed to TCE and has the potential to make an
      important contribution to what little is known about the early biologic effects of TCE in
      humans.
    
  