
    
      Hypotheses:

        1. Pleural ultrasonography with evaluation, quantification and aspiration of pleural
           effusion allows for improved pre-operative staging and alters decision-making patterns
           for lung cancer patients.

        2. Pleural ultrasonography with evaluation of appropriate diaphragmatic respiratory
           movement can predict post-operative complications in patient undergoing lung cancer
           surgery.

      Objectives:

      The goals of this project within the program are to:

        1. Evaluate the improvement in pre-operative staging with the addition of pre-operative
           pleural ultrasonography for malignant pleural effusion.

        2. Evaluate the ability of pre-operative diaphragmatic ultrasound to predict post-operative
           morbidity following pulmonary surgery.

      Methodology:

      This study will consist of a prospective evaluation of surgeon-performed pleural and
      diaphragmatic ultrasound in the pre-operative evaluation of lung cancer patients. All
      patients being seen in the thoracic surgery pre-operative clinic with the new or presumed
      diagnosis of lung cancer will be approached for prospective enrolment into the study.
      Consented patients will undergo standard history and physical examination by the treating
      thoracic surgeon. During or after the physical examination, PULC will be performed by the
      study investigators.

      Measurements will include: (1) bilateral diaphragmatic excursion during sniffing, (2) pleural
      fluid evaluation in bilateral costophrenic sulci. Should pleural fluid be found on the
      ipsilateral side to the mass (tumor), the fluid will be aspirated under sterile conditions in
      the clinic and sent for cytology analysis. US evaluation will be performed in the upright,
      supine and decubitus position.

      Results will be analyzed using parametric methodology in order to ascertain the additional
      information gained and the change in staging (upstaging) with the addition of PULC to
      standard history and physical examination during the initial evaluation of thoracic surgical
      patients.

      The study will enrol 50 patients. Recruitment will occur at the thoracic outpatient surgical
      clinic at the CHUM. Enrolment is expected at a level of five patients per week and therefore
      the study recruitment is expected to take 2.5 months.

      Impact:

      The potential impact of a positive trial will change the way clinicians evaluate, stage and
      risk stratify patients who are to undergo operative interventions for lung cancer.
    
  