
    
      These 2 parallel randomized controlled trials will use the same inclusion criteria and same
      assessments, but will have some differences in recruitment and program implementation
      periods.

      For the mental health study, women will be recruited and then will initiate a 12-week
      treatment period when they will attend group sessions weekly with a trained counselor.
      Following the treatment period, a brief qualitative assessment will be conducted followed by
      a quantitative follow up of the intervention participants and wait-controls. A maintenance
      period of approximately 4 months will then begin when neither the intervention nor control
      participants will get any additional services from the counselors. Following the maintenance
      period, the intervention and control participants will again be assessed. If the intervention
      is found to be effective, the control counselors will be trained in the intervention and the
      controls will begin to receive the intervention. The original intervention participants,
      having successfully completed the mental health intervention, will then be invited to
      participate in the social-economic intervention. That program will begin within 1-2 months
      after the maintenance period is complete. The social-economic program (VSLA) will last
      approximately 9 months, after which the intervention participants will again be assessed.

      For the VSLA study, eligible women will be recruited and invited to form groups to
      participate in the social-economic program (VSLA). Once eligibility is determined, the time
      to initiation of the VSLA program will be about 1 month. The VSLA program will include 8-10
      weeks of active training with weekly or bi-weekly sessions, followed by a period of program
      implementation when the groups of women will save and make loans. At the end of 9 months, the
      women will complete the VSLA program cycle and get the financial returns on their funds. At
      that time, a brief qualitative assessment will be conducted followed by a quantitative
      assessment with the VSLA participants and controls. After the assessment, the control
      participants will be invited to participate in the VSLA program. All participants will then
      again be assessed when the controls have completed their program, after approximately 9
      months.
    
  