
    
      Paracetamol (acetaminophen) is widely used around the world for mild to moderate pain in all
      age groups. Prescription at the emergency department is very common and some studies suggest
      the use in alternative of Morphine, at least in the renal colic.

      Morphine has also a complex analgesic effect due to inhibition of µ Receptors in the central
      nervous system and in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. Morphine (like other opioids) is
      accepted as a cornerstone of acute pain management in the emergency department. However,
      occurrence of adverse drug reactions is up to 25%, mainly nausea and drowsiness.

      The use of paracetamol in addition to morphine showed in a meta-analysis in the
      post-operative setting an opioid sparing effect of 20% over the first postoperative 24 hours,
      but did not change the incidence of morphine-related adverse effects in the postoperative
      period. An additive effect was showed of the two medicaments in another Study measuring the
      median effective analgesic dose (ED50).

      The purpose of this study is to test the additional effect of paracetamol in combination with
      morphine for analgesia, respectively to test/confirm an opioid sparing effect due to the
      additional use of Paracetamol, as well as the to reduction of adverse drug reactions of
      morphine.

      The study is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled. We randomize
      patients with pain-score >=4 on a pain Scala of 0-10 Points (numeric rating scale) in two
      group, one with paracetamol, one with placebo to investigate the (additive) effect of
      paracetamol in combination with morphine. The treatment team and the patients will be blinded
      to the administration. The study design is outlined to confirm the result of previous studies
      who stated a 20% reduction of morphine doses when combined with paracetamol. Study duration
      for each patient would be 240 min.
    
  