
    
      Justification for undertaking the trial:

      Nowadays, esthetics has become an important aspect of dentistry due to decrease in caries
      prevalence and increase in patients' perception of their teeth appearance. Therefore dentists
      should take into consideration the esthetic needs of the patients during treatment, otherwise
      patient satisfaction will not be achieved with its subsequent influence on patient self
      quality of life and psychological status.

      As a survey concerning patient satisfaction with regard to dental esthetics issues concluded
      that color of the restoration plays a primary role for patient satisfaction, as 89.3% of
      patients were dissatisfied of their dental appearance because of their restorations' color.

      Therefore the use of ceramic crowns has increased substantially in recent years because of
      their superior esthetics and color rendering. In addition to their ability to achieve
      complete patient satisfaction.

      Rationale:

      Achieving good esthetic results especially with the continuous innovations of dental ceramic
      materials is not always easy to achieve and the definitive shade match of porcelain
      restorations to natural dentition remains a challenge to the dental practitioners and
      ceramists. Furthermore patient satisfaction to the final outcome is not always in agreement
      with the clinicians in regard to shade matching decisions.

      Therefore this study will be conducted to evaluate patient satisfaction and shade matching of
      Vita suprinity versus e-max all ceramic crowns in esthetic zone.

      Benefits of the research to the patient:

      Patient will receive a restoration with superior esthetics, shade match and quality.

      It will provide the patient with long-term predictable esthetic restorations As a result of
      unnoticed perfect esthetic restoration, the patient will be psychologically improved.

      Benefits of the research to the clinician:

      Practitioner will have the advantage to assess a new material that can be used in different
      situations for better esthetic outcomes.

      It will improve patient confidence with the dentist. It will improve professional skills of
      the dentist to achieve optimum esthetic results.

      Explanation for choice of comparators:

      The use of IPS e.max Press is well documented in the literatures as successful restoration
      modality. A three-year clinical evaluation of two ceramic crown systems revealed excellent
      color match for the IPS e-max crowns (Alpha for 24 crowns and Bravo for 6 crowns with slight
      shade mismatches). Also patient questionnaire revealed satisfaction with the appearance and
      comfort of their restorations.

      A 2 years prospective clinical observation study reported Alpha scores (greater than 92%)
      indicating no appreciable change in the crowns during the two years of the study.

      Also the clinical performance of lithium disilicate pressable ceramic crowns revealed a
      survival rate of 97.4 % after 5 years and 94.8 % after 8 years as reported by Gehrt et al.,
      (2013).

      Another 2 years clinical evaluation of lithium disilicate based all ceramic crowns revealed
      satisfactory clinical performance, with color match Alpha (85%) at baseline, 80% at 1 year
      recall and 60 % at 2 years recall.

      Research hypothesis:

      There is difference in the clinical performance of Vita Suprinity if compared with Lithium
      disilicate ceramic crown restoration if used in esthetic zone.

      Interventions:

      VITA SUPRINITY: Vita suprinity product Brochure presented a new generation of glass ceramic
      material. With the aid of an innovative manufacturing process, the glass ceramic is enriched
      with approximately 10% zirconia by weight, resulting in the world's first zirconia reinforced
      lithium silicate ceramic (ZLS). The material features a special fine-grained, homogeneous
      structure that provides excellent material quality and consistency, high load capacity and
      long term reliability. Moreover, the material offers natural esthetics with successful
      outcome. Also it offers outstanding processing characteristics, including easy milling and
      polishing.
    
  