
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      The purpose of this protocol is to study the mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of
      locomotor training in hemiplegic patients. The locomotor training will be performed under an
      approved protocol already started at the National Rehabilitation Hospital (NRH). The overall
      goal of the NRH protocol is to determine whether goal-directed, robotic-assisted gait
      training is more effective than conventional gait training for facilitating the recovery of
      stable walking patterns in hemiparetic stroke patients. We will use functional magnetic
      resonance imaging (fMRI) and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to identify changes in
      neural networks involved in performance improvements associated with the locomoter training.
      The relative contribution of somatosensory cortices (SI, SII) to these performance
      improvements has not been studied. SI and SII have key roles in both storing and processing
      sensory information. Activity in the somatosensory cortex is significantly involved in
      controlling sensory input relevant to motor learning in health and disease. For example,
      stroke patients with decreased sensation exhibit less recovery than those with intact
      sensation. Sensory input is thought to play a crucial role in performance improvements
      associated with locomotor learning. Therefore, it is likely that SI and SII activity plays a
      major contributory role in training-dependent locomotor improvement after stroke.
      Electrophysiological measurements can provide important insights into sensorimotor
      integration processes in humans. Indeed, cortical facilitation induced by peripheral nerve
      afferent input is useful to probe sensorimotor interaction in health and disease. The
      specific hypotheses are that performance improvements with locomotor training will be
      associated with: (a) increased sensorimotor integration as expressed by facilitation in MEP
      size induced by peripheral nerve stimulation, and (b) greater processing in somatosensory
      regions, expressed as increased fMRI activation in ipsilesional SI and SII.
    
  