
    
      Untreated cataract - the most common reason for an operation in the world - leads to
      continual decrease in vision, eventually may be the cause of blindness. This condition always
      requires surgical intervention that involves phacoemulsification with intraocular lens
      implantation. The procedure takes short amount of time and is performed using topical
      anaesthesia. Phacoemulsification can be characterised as highly efficient and safe. Besides
      that, it is still not free from burdens to the patient: causing increased stress levels and
      anxiety, discomfort or pain, and other symptoms, as surgery is performed on fully conscious
      and alert patients. Despite, there's lots of research concentrating on patient's quality of
      life, with different health conditions, the subject of patient's experiences during cataract
      surgery hasn't been yet fully investigated and explored.

      The aim of the study will be an assessment of types and intensity of unpleasant experiences
      pre-, intra-, and postoperatively in the patients undergoing cataract surgery, using
      especially designed questionnaire.

      Strategic aim: formulation of algorithm and modification of perioperative approach to patient
      qualified to undergo phacoemulsification procedure.

      The prospective questionnaire data will be collected for 200 adults: women and men, that were
      qualified for cataract surgery in Ophthalmology Department of the Białystok University
      Clinical Hospital, as an elective surgery with patients being qualified based on specific
      qualifying criteria.

      Based on the questionnaire, that have 128 detailed questions, sociodemographic characteristic
      of patients will be created, and they will be divided into two groups (I and II) depending
      whether they are undergoing first or second eye surgery. Juxtaposition of different patients
      experiences and sensations, with their sociodemographic characteristics, as an implication,
      will lead to identification of factors that cause surgical procedure to be described either
      as positive or negative experience. The questionnaire is facilitated also selection of the
      most significant and frequent reasons for dissatisfaction.
    
  