
    
      Overview of Study:

      Camptothecins are a potent class of anticancer drugs that inhibit DNA topoisomerase I.
      Topotecan and irinotecan are two FDA approved second generation congeners currently in
      clinical use, and have a spectrum of activity which includes colorectal, ovarian, and lung
      cancers. Unfortunately, these drugs are hampered by a labile α-hydroxy-δ-lactone
      pharmacophore, which hydrolyzes to yield the inactive carboxylate form of the drug.

      AR-67 (formerly DB-67) (7-t-butyldimethylsilyl-10-hydroxycamptothecin) is a third generation
      analog engineered to be blood stable and highly potent. Its enhanced stability results from
      two factors: (1) AR-67 (formerly DB-67) is highly lipophilic, partitioning into lipid
      bilayers, thus protecting it from hydrolysis in the aqueous milieu of the bloodstream, and
      (2) the 10-hydroxy functionality of the drug effectively ablates the high affinity
      interactions of the carboxylate drug form with albumin, which has been previously shown to
      diminish the levels of the active lactone species in the circulation.

      On the basis of its stability and activity, AR-67 (formerly DB-67) was selected by the
      National Cancer Institute (NCI) for development in the first cycle of the Rapid Access to
      Intervention Development (RAID) program. Data from cycle I, as well as independent data from
      collaborative efforts, revealed impressive in vitro and in vivo antitumor activity,
      particularly in an intracranial glioma model system. Through the continued support of the
      RAID program, the drug has been extensively studied in mice, rats and beagle dogs and the
      pre-clinical MTD has been determined. After extensive investigation of various formulations,
      a Cremophor:ethanol compound has been identified as the most appropriate for the phase I
      study in humans and the GMP grade drug product has been refined and completed. This protocol
      describes the initial phase I study in humans using AR-67 (formerly DB-67).

      Primary Endpoint:

        -  To estimate the MTD and describe the DLT of intravenous AR-67 (formerly DB-67)
           administered once daily for 5 days every 21 days to adults with recurrent or refractory
           solid tumors in which standard therapies are not effective.

      Secondary Endpoints:

        -  To characterize the plasma pharmacokinetics of AR-67 (formerly DB-67) and its
           metabolites after intravenous administration.

        -  To explore the pharmacogenetic effects of polymorphisms in drug metabolism and transport
           mediated by liver enzymes and by efflux or uptake proteins, respectively, and relate
           these polymorphisms to AR-67 (formerly DB-67) pharmacokinetics and toxicity.
    
  