
    
      Background:

      Lung isolation is frequently used in thoracic surgery. The quality of the isolation is
      crucial, especially for video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS). Two techniques are
      principally used to obtain lung isolation: the double lumen tube (DLT) and the bronchial
      blocker (BB).

      The left-sided DLT (L-DLT) is used by the majority of anesthesiologists, as much for left as
      for right thoracic surgeries. The standard right-sided DLT (Rs-DLT) is rarely used since
      positioning its lateral orifice with the origin of the right upper lobe (RUL) can be
      difficult.(1-4) In 2007, the investigators have published their results suggesting an
      enlargement of the lateral orifice of the Rs-DLT.(5) They have demonstrated that the modified
      right-sided double lumen tube (Rm-DLT) remained more frequently in optimal position than the
      Rs-DLT (77% vs. 37%, p=0.0121) and that it was also easier to reposition the tube after
      turning the patient in lateral decubitus (97% vs. 74%, p=0.0109).

      More recently, investigators have demonstrated, with three dimensional reconstruction of
      computed tomography of 106 patients, that angulation between the RUL and the horizontal
      posterior plane varies from -26 to +58°, justifying the modification of the Rs-DLT proposed
      in 2007. (Unpublished data)

      The use of BB for lung isolation is believed to provide a slower and a poorer quality of lung
      collapse (LC) than DLT. Over the years, the investigators have demonstrated an equivalent
      quality of lung collapse between the L-DLT and BB when two apnea periods are used at the
      beginning of one-lung ventilation (OLV). (Unpublished data) Further to complementary
      analysis, investigators have noted a significant difference in time to get complete lung
      collapse between left and right thoracic surgery when using the L-DLT. Time to obtain
      complete lung collapse (CLC) was not different when comparing BB and L-DLT in left thoracic
      surgery.

      The hypothesis to explain these observations is that when the bronchial extremity of the
      L-DLT is inserted into the left main stem bronchus (LMSB), the LMSB and its relative superior
      position, associated to a progressive collapse of the left lung, could induce a dynamic
      obstruction of the distal extremity of the L-DLT lumen, and consequently slowing the lung
      collapse. Investigators have also regularly observed this type of obstruction during
      bronchoscopic examination when positioning the L-DLT.

      In past studies comparing L-DLT to BB, time to get CLC was measured from the beginning of
      OLV. Nevertheless, the interval between this time point and the pleural opening (PO) is
      sometime difficult to control. Technical incidents can prolong this period and induce a bias.
      Furthermore, in the last investigator's protocol, the second period of apnea is done at
      pleural opening. For these reasons, the authors consider that the time to get CLC should be
      measured from the pleural opening since it is the crucial moment for the surgical team.
      Investigators are proposing to evaluate the PO-CLC interval as a primary objective.(6)

      Hypothesis:

      The hypothesis of the proposed study is that the use of the L-DLT will allow for a slower and
      a poorer quality of CLC compared to the ones obtained with the Rm-DLT in left VATS.
    
  