
    
      Ethical consideration:

      This study got the ethics approval from the deanship of scientific research ethical committee
      at University of Jordan. A consent form that contains the study procedures will be prepared
      and signed from all patients.

      Design:

      This will be a single blinded randomized controlled trial study with 2 groups. The treatment
      group will receive the OEP for 8 weeks plus health awareness videos about topics related to
      MS. The control group will receive only the same health awareness videos. The health
      awareness videos will be video-recorded by a health-care provider then sent to all
      participants on weekly basis.

      Participants:

      People with a confirmed diagnosis of MS will be approached via their society and social
      media.

      Procedures:

      This trial will be registered on "clinicaltrials.gov" registry prior to the conduction of the
      study. Patients will be screened for eligibility and interested individuals will be informed
      about the study details and sign the informed consent.

      All participants will be invited to University of Jordan for the baseline and end of program
      assessment. Demographics (age, gender, marital status, educational level) and health-related
      information (weight in kilograms and height in meters to be combined to report BMI in kg/m^2)
      and (caffeine consumption, smoking, present medical history, and Expanded Disability Status
      Scale score) will be gathered before going through the study measurements as baseline
      assessment by a licensed physical therapist (PT). The study measurements include fall
      history, chair balance test, four test balance scale, the Modified Fatigue Impact Scale
      (MFIS), Hand Held Dynamometer (HHD) for quadriceps muscle, Timed-Up and go (TUG), the Falls
      Efficacy Scale-International (FES-I), the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), the Hospital
      Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), the Medical Outcomes Study Short Form 12 (SF-12), and
      the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA).

      Afterward, participants will be randomly allocated to the treatment or control groups using a
      computer-generated software. After 8 weeks, each participant in both groups will be
      reassessed using the same measurements used at the baseline assessment. Follow up questions
      about falls will be asked in 6 and 12 months post-treatment.

      Participants in the treatment group will be visited at their homes each 2 weeks. In the first
      visit, the following steps will be conducted: (1) establish a good working relationship with
      the participant, (2) explain the rationale for the program, (3) prescribe a set of exercises
      from the OEP booklet and encourage the person to become familiar with the instructions for
      each exercise, and (4) if possible, introduce a safe walking plan. Participants in the
      treatment group will progress their exercises each 2 weeks to complete the 4 levels of OEP
      during the 8 weeks according to the instructions of the OEP. The PT will call participants
      weekly to make sure they are doing their exercises and to record any adverse events like
      relapse or falling.

      Participants in the control group will be provided with health awareness videos about topics
      related to MS and inform them to avoid engagement in any exercise programs during the period
      of the study. Participants will be called weekly to make sure they adhere to the
      instructions.
    
  