
    
      Rationale:

      Children with, or at elevated risk for, brain-based developmental disabilities experience
      chronic lifelong functional consequences with new challenges emerging at each stage of
      development. In the preschool years (3-6 years), needs arise from vulnerabilities linked to
      critical and newly emerging cognitive, speech, motor, behavioural and social skills. The
      preschool years are a time of stress for families as young child awaits assessment, or even
      as they receive services for brain-based disorders. Similarly, the system and society
      struggle to meet needs of families in a timely and appropriate manner in the face of
      escalating costs. Given these struggles, there is a need to examine whether a health-coach
      style of intervention coupled with parent education delivered through an online platform can
      be effective in empowering families, by delivering information, providing social (parent to
      parent) supports, and decreasing demand on health and developmental services. This innovation
      provides a significant service re-design in a system at critical point of transition.

      Study objective:

      To evaluate the feasibility and the effectiveness (changes in parent health, developmental
      service utilization and cost effectiveness) of a self-management intervention (including
      developmental coach, online education tools and support network), when compared to usual and
      locally available care in service delivery practices, for parents of preschool children with
      suspected developmental delays.

      Methodology / Study design:

      This is a prospective, two-arm pragmatic randomized controlled trial (RCT) comparing a
      developmental coaching and e-health services intervention plus usual care to the control
      state in which children and their families receive usual and locally available care over an
      18-month time frame. The target population for this novel service delivery model is children
      aged 1.5 to 4.5 years old who are at a high risk for or suspected of having developmental
      delays, that are beginning to manifest impairments in developmental domains (e.g. motor,
      cognitive, speech, social and/or behavioural). In the first year, a technology-supported
      health coach service delivery model will be developed in conjunction with families. A
      feasibility/acceptability pilot study was conducted to ensure that the intervention is
      feasible in the real life context across 4 participating Canadian provinces.

      Participants:

      Eligible children and their families will be recruited to include children who are 1.5 to 4.5
      years at the age at enrolment. Children will be living in four diverse parts of Canada to
      ensure national representation and future scalability: Vancouver; Winnipeg; Montreal and
      Halifax. Participants' postal codes will be analyzed to ensure representation: rural/remote,
      small urban and large urban/metro representation with purposeful sampling as required. From
      the patient population perspective, two different groups that are likely to manifest new
      global developmental delays at this stage will be recruited. They are at high risk for
      brain-based developmental delays, however some will have no delay and others will have mild,
      moderate or severe delays.

      Study procedures: Intervention and control Recruitment begins with family contact. Families
      are contacted via the centre to which they were referred for developmental diagnosis and
      assessment. A member of the clinical team will ask if they are interested to learn more about
      the BRIGHT Coaching study. If interested, the families' contact information will be shared
      with the local research assistant (RA) overseeing the trial. The RA will speak to a parent by
      phone and follow up with an introductory letter by mail explaining the procedures of the
      study, together with the consent form and a self-addressed stamped envelope to return to the
      RA if interested in participating. After 2 weeks, if no consent form is received, the RA will
      call the family once again to determine their interest in participating. Once consent is
      signed, participants will conduct baseline assessments including documentation of their care
      and social networks, and be randomized using a computer-generated algorithm; randomization
      will be stratified by site. The allocation ratio for intervention or control will be 1:1 for
      each site.
    
  