
    
      Study protocol: Prospective study of early contra-lateral liver lobar hypertrophy after
      unilobar Y-90 selective internal radiation therapy (SIRT) in patients with hepatocellular
      carcinoma (HCC)

      All patients scheduled to undergo unilobar (Right or left) SIRT with Y-90 for HCC at the
      Singapore General Hospital or the National Cancer Center Singapore during the study period
      may be enrolled. The target sample size is 25 over 2 years

      Information on baseline demographics and disease staging, as well as pre- and post-treatment
      tumour and liver dimensions would be prospectively obtained.

      The diagnosis of HCC is made based on current accepted diagnostic criteria ie. a
      characteristic appearance on contrast-enhanced quadriphasic CT scan and/or MRI, raised serum
      AFP levels and the presence of known risk factors. The RECIST criteria will be used to
      evaluate tumour response and disease progression at the time of the final volume
      determination.

      Patients scheduled for unilobar SIRT will be consented for the study and enrolled into the
      study.

      Liver volume will be measured at 3 time points.

      CT volumetry will be performed at: 1) prior to treatment; 2) 4 to 6 weeks and 3) 8 to12 weeks
      after SIRT.

      Administration of Y90 SIRT

      This is based on our current institution practice. All patients would be reviewed with
      regards to suitability for Y90 SIRT and given appropriate counselling and advice regarding
      the angiographic procedures and the Y90 SIRT procedure, including potential side-effects. The
      patients undergo baseline blood investigations, typically liver function tests, renal
      function tests as well as full blood counts and coagulation profiles. All prior imaging CT
      and MRI were reviewed. Mapping hepatic angiography and 99mTc-MAA (micro-aggregated albumin)
      injection are performed according to standard technique. Prophylactic coil embolization of
      vessels at risk are performed either at mapping hepatic angiography or at 90Y
      radioembolization, at the discretion of the interventional radiologist. The catheter tip
      position for 99mTc-MAA injection is decided by consensus between the interventional
      radiologist and nuclear medicine physician during mapping hepatic angiography. 99mTc-MAA is
      slowly hand-injected through the indwelling catheter. Patients are subsequently immediately
      transferred to the gamma-camera suite for planar liver-to-lung shunt scintigraphy and
      SPECT/CT of the abdomen. Y90 microspheres treatment is planned by artery-specific SPECT/CT
      partition modelling as described in the literature.

      All treatments are planned by a team of experienced nuclear medicine physicians. Y90 SIRT is
      performed using resin microspheres (SIR-Spheres; Sirtex Medical Ltd.) within 2 weeks of
      mapping hepatic angiography. Catheter tip placement is the same as that for the 99mTc-MAA
      injections. In accordance with our institutional protocol, all patients are observed
      overnight after treatment. They are discharged the following day after Bremsstrahlung planar
      scintigraphy of the lung and SPECT/CT of the abdomen were performed.

      Measurement of liver volume

      Liver volume will be measure at 3 time points. All patients will undergo CT volumetry at
      baseline, 4-6 weeks and 8-12 weeks after SIRT. Multiphasic dynamic contrast-enhanced hepatic
      CT scans are obtained with either a Dual Source CT (Siemens Medical) or Brilliance iCT
      (Philips Medical System). Scans will be obtained using a standard four phase liver protocol
      with a multidetector CT system with at least 64-channel detectors. Contrast medium is
      administered to the patients for acquisition of arterial-phase and portal-venous-phase and
      equilibrium CT images. The CT scanning parameters included collimation of 0.625-1.2mm. The
      reconstructed slice thickness for the scans are 0.8 - 1.5 mm and reconstruction intervals of
      0.4 - 1 mm. Reconstructed CT slices have a matrix size of 512×512 pixels. The images are then
      measured using a commercially available 3D software (Vital's Vitrea Advanced CT Liver
      Oncology package) and manually corrected, reviewed and resected by a single senior
      radiologist to ensure consistency in following the same anatomical landmarks. The software
      allows saving of the work performed in order to allow reviewing and rechecking of the final
      measurements.

      If the patients' pretreatment CT scans were performed at SGH or NCC, they need not undergo
      additional baseline CT scan and volumetry may be performed on these the existing imaging
      data. However, they will need to undergo a baseline CT scan if the pretreatment scan was
      performed outside the campus.

      Subsequently, the patient's will need to undergo 2 follow-up CT scans at 4 to 6 weeks and 8
      to 12 weeks after administration of SIRT.

      Primary outcomes:

        1. The change in volume of the contralateral liver volume from baseline

        2. Change in volume of the ipsilateral liver from baseline

        3. HCC tumor response or progression after treatment according to RECIST criteria.

      Follow-up

      Other than the 2 additional follow-up CT scans, patient's will undergo follow-up as per any
      regular non-study patient who was treated with SIRT.
    
  