
    
      The present study is a secondary analysis of the RAPIT-trial study treating data from
      patients on Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTDS) (Jensen et al., 2016).

      Design Observational study based on data from the RAPIT trial that is a non-blinded,
      multicentre, parallel-group RCT conducted between December 2012-2015, at 10 intensive care
      units (ICUs) in four out of five regions in Denmark.

      Participants Patients were consecutively recruited during the first 18 months of the study.
      We included Danish-speaking adults (≥18 years) who received mechanically ventilated ≥48 hours
      and did not meet the baseline criteria of dementia. We excluded delirious patients unable to
      give informed consent at randomization, or patients, who were enrolled in other studies. A
      total of 386 adult patients were randomized to standard care (SC) plus a nurse-led intensive
      care recovery program or standard care alone after ICU discharge (190 intervention, 196 SC).

      Outcomes In this study, we will describe variations in patients, who experience symptoms of
      PTSD at ICU-discharge, 3 and 12 months after intensive care based on the data collection in
      the RAPIT-trial (Jensen et al., 2016). We will report trial participants' symptoms of PTSD at
      baseline, three months and twelve months after Intensive care using the Harvard Trauma
      Questionnaire (HTQ) supplemented with descriptions of patients' experiences of PTSD. Symptoms
      of anxiety and depression were collected at 3 and 12 months, and utilization of healthcare
      services including mortality were obtained from hospital charts combined with self-reported
      data from patients. We will use descriptive statistical methods to analyze data.

      Symptoms of PTSD by HTQ-IV consisted of 17 items covering three core symptoms corresponding
      to DSM-IV criteria for PTSD: re-experience (5 items), avoidance (7 items), and arousal (5
      items). This was supplemented by four additional items: one functional and three related to
      stress. We used a total score, and a cut-off of ≥40 is categorized as "positive PTSD".
      Symptoms of anxiety and depression were assessed using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression
      Scale (HADS) covering two dimensions: anxiety (7 items) and depression (7 items); subscale
      scores were 0-21 with higher scores reflecting greater psychological distress.
    
  