
    
      Study Site(s), number of subjects and countries planned Approximately 2000, Advanced Non
      Small Cell Lung cancer (aNSCLC) patients who fulfil the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be
      recruited by 10 to 20 investigational sites in Japan.

      Total planned Study period Estimated date of first subject in June , 2015 Estimated date of
      last subject in November , 2015 Estimated date of data base lock December, 2015 Estimated
      date of first subject in for investigation of survival January, 2016 Estimated date of last
      subject in for investigation of survival March, 2016 Estimated date of data base lock for
      investigation of survival March, 2016

      Medicinal Products (type, dose, mode of administration) and concomitant medication Not
      applicable Study Rationale As its benefits in EGFR mutation-positive patients have been
      reported, EGFR-TKI is now recommended by guidelines as standard first-line therapy for EGFR
      mutation-positive patients. Back then when concomitant use of platinum medication and
      3rd-generation cytocidal drug was the standard therapy, treatment was of very poor prognosis,
      8 to 10 months in terms of median overall survival, and a 1-year survival rate of 30% to 35%.
      Then, gefitinib was approved in July 2002. Takano et al. reported that survival among
      patients with EGFR mutation-positive non-small cell lung cancer has been getting longer after
      approval of gefitinib. The overall survival of patients with EGFR mutation-positive non-small
      cell lung cancer was 27.7 months in gefitinib group of Study North East Japan (NEJ) 002
      reported by Inoue et al. in 2013, 34.8 months in gefitinib group of Study West Japan Oncology
      Group (WJOG) 3405 reported by Yoshioka et al. in 2014, 36.3 months in patients receiving
      erlotinib in Study Japan Oncology (JO) 22903 reported by Katakami et al. in 2014, and 46.9
      months in afatinib group and 35.8 months in chemotherapy group of the Japanese subset in
      Study Lux-Lung3 reported by Kato. According to recent reports, overall survival tends to be
      prolonging, but the actual situation and the reason for such tendency has not been revealed.

      Thus, we planned the present study, which clarify the prognosis, patient characteristics and
      treatment regimen of the patients with EGFR mutation positive NSCLC to provide useful
      information in order to promote individualized therapy for the patients with EGFR mutation
      positive NSCLC.

      Study Objectives The primary objective of this study is intended to reveal the
      characteristics of and reality of the treatment and survival among patients with EGFR
      mutation-positive advanced/recurrent non-small cell lung cancer. The primary objective,
      secondary objective and exploratory objective of the study are as follows.

      Primary objective of the study is:

      - To estimate overall survival of the patients

      Secondary objectives of the study are:

        -  To estimate overall survival by patient background

        -  To estimate overall survival by treatment sequence

        -  To calculate treatment time and exposure rate by treatment category (Sum of all
           treatment time for the patients with each treatment category/Sum of all treatment time
           for all patients)

        -  To estimate efficacy of Gefitinib treatment

      Exploratory objectives of the study are:

        -  To explore any factors for which an impact on prognosis among patients

        -  To explore the relationship between treatment sequences and prognosis among patients
           Study Design This is a domestic, multicenter, retrospective and non-interventional
           diagnostic study. The data for the subjects with EGFR mutation-positive
           advanced/recurrent NSCLC will be collected at least 2000 cases from 10 to 20 sites.

      Target subject population The patients with EGFR mutation-positive advanced/recurrent
      non-small cell lung cancer.

      Survey items

        1. Patient characteristics i) Date of NSCLC diagnosis ii) Gender (Male/Female) iii) Age at
           the time of diagnosis iv) Histological type (adenocarcinoma/squamous cell
           carcinoma/large cell carcinoma/others) v) Clinical staging at the initial diagnosis
           (IIIB /IV, post-operative relapse) vi) Performance Status(PS) (0/1/2/3/4), *Eastern
           Cooperative Oncology Group(ECOG) Performance Status vii) Smoking history (Yes/No) viii)
           Smoking exposure(pack year) xi) Type of EGFR mutation x) Distant metastasis organ

        2. Survival status as of the end of December 2014, date of death or date of last follow-up
           of survival. A death with disease progression should be noted in Electronic Data Capture
           (EDC), but not be reported as serious adverse events unless the disease progression is
           greater than anticipated in the natural course of the disease. Survival status as of the
           end of December 2015, date of last follow-up of survival will be investigated.

        3. NSCLC treatment provided for each line of treatment Name of drug category ( (i) EGFR-TKI
           (Gefitinib or other), (ii) Singlet Chemo, (iii) Doublet Chemo, (iv) EGFR-TKI+Chemo) The
           date treatment was commenced The date of last dose PS at the commencement of therapy
           given for each line of treatment *ECOG Performance Status Best response for each therapy
           (based on clinical evaluation) Total numbers of treatment cycle conducted (chemotherapy)
           The date on which Progressive Desease (PD) was confirmed

             -  The date on which PD was evaluated by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
                Tumors（RECIST） (ver1.1)

             -  The date on clinical PD is defined as disease progression met one of the any
                conditions below (Modified from original source)

                  -  Occurrence of clinical symptom by Disease Progression

                  -  Decreasing PS by Disease Progression

                  -  Occurrence of threatening condition in main organ (lymphangiosis
                     carcinomatosa, bone marrow metastasis, carcinomatous meningitis, liver
                     metastasis with liver disorder, etc)

                  -  Aggravation of the lesion in multiple organ with or without the symptom

      Source :Paul A. Bunn EGFR and Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase (ALK) TKI Therapy in Advanced NSCLC:
      Molecular Basis and When and Why to Stop or Change. Molecular Testing for Non-Small Cell Lung
      Cancer: Critical Questions, 2012 Chicago Multidisciplinary Symposium in Thoracic Oncology

      Statistical methods Data collected will be analyzed using a method appropriate for the
      descriptive statistics in epidemiological studies. Patient characteristics will be summarized
      using descriptive statistics. Statistical Analysis Plan (SAP) will be prepared before
      database lock.
    
  