
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To define the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of aflibercept (VEGF Trap) with radiotherapy
      (RT) and concurrent temozolomide (TMZ) when administered in patients with newly-diagnosed
      glioblastoma (GBM) or gliosarcoma.

      II. To define the MTD of aflibercept with adjuvant TMZ administered at 150mg/m2once daily for
      5 days every 28 days in patients with stable or recurrent malignant glioma (MG) after RT.

      III. To define the MTD of aflibercept with adjuvant TMZ administered at 100 mg/m2 once daily
      for 21 days every 28 days in patients with stable or recurrent MG after RT.

      IV. To characterize the safety profile of aflibercept in combination with RT and concomitant
      TMZ in patients with newly-diagnosed GBM.

      V. To characterize the safety profile of aflibercept in combination with adjuvant TMZ in
      patients with stable or recurrent MG after RT.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To characterize the pharmacokinetic profiles of free and bound aflibercept and TMZ in
      these patients

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of aflibercept. Patients are assigned
      to 1 of 3 treatment groups according to prior treatment and diagnosis.

      Group 1 (newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme or gliosarcoma): Patients undergo involved
      field partial brain radiotherapy (RT) once daily, 5 days a week (total of 30 fractions) and
      receive concurrent oral temozolomide (TMZ) once daily for 6 weeks. Beginning 2 weeks after
      the initiation of RT patients also receive aflibercept IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 15 and
      continue until the end of RT. Beginning 4 weeks after completion of radiotherapy, patients
      receive adjuvant oral TMZ once daily on days 1-5. Treatment with adjuvant TMZ repeats every
      28 days for up to 12 courses.

      Group 2 (stable or recurrent malignant glioma): Patients undergo radiotherapy as in group 1.
      Patients receive oral TMZ on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12* courses.
      Patients also receive aflibercept IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 15 beginning on the first day
      of TMZ treatment.

      [Note: *The 12 course maximum includes adjuvant TMZ courses administered prior to
      enrollment.]

      Group 3 (stable or recurrent malignant glioma): Patients undergo radiotherapy as in group 1.
      Patients receive oral TMZ on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 12* courses.
      Patients also receive aflibercept IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 15 beginning on the first day
      of TMZ treatment.

      [Note: *The 12 course maximum includes adjuvant TMZ courses administered prior to
      enrollment.]

      In all groups, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Blood samples are collected periodically for analysis of pharmacokinetics by ELISA. Tumor
      biomarkers and plasma angiogenic peptides are analyzed for correlation with response, and
      tumor MGMT promoter methylation status is determined using methylation-specific PCR.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months.
    
  