
    
      Phase 1: Needs assessment, retrospective cohort study and pre-experimental study

      The concept of needs assessment is based on a previous approach, which aims to implement the
      safety of patient transfers in intensive care units. This should lead to a comprehensive
      understanding of the beneficial and inhibitory conditions as well as potentials for the
      implementation of the intervention in the field (e.g., how different communication models
      competencies can be integrated beyond training into clinical practice; possible options):
      diaries, regular e-mails with tips on practical application, etc.). Observations for the
      ethnographic analyses are recorded in a standardized observation protocol, focus groups and
      interviews are conducted with partially standardized guidelines with at least one person from
      each occupational group in order to gain as comprehensive an impression as possible of
      possible resources and barriers for the implementation of the intervention. The data will
      then be analyzed in terms of content using an inductive approach and used to develop the
      training. Migration background will be considered exploratively in the data collection and
      testing as well as participatory in the app development (i.e. it will be ensured that
      patients and accompanying persons with migration background will also be included in the
      development). Different communication models competencies and tailoring based on the Health
      Action Process Approach (HAPA) will also be integrated into the training. A short manual for
      practical support and written documentation of the training process will be prepared, also to
      avoid failure of implementation. The online training will be offered in the pre-experimental
      study to all professionals at both intervention sites. The aim is to investigate the
      connection between training participation and preventable Adverse Events (pAEs), to observe
      mechanisms of action and to create a basis for the implementation of phase 2. The study has a
      one-group, pre-/post-design. The study includes all specialists (e.g. doctors, nurses,
      midwives, obstetricians) at both locations (full utilization) with a total of N = 140
      participants. Specialists are trained in interdisciplinary groups of 10 to 12 participants.
      All target criteria are shown in Table 4.

      Implementation phase: Research questions, methods, study population and target criteria Stage
      Research question Method Target group/Data source Outcome A What is the prevalence of pAEs?
      Monitoring protocols and routine data Anonymous routine data of the hospital from 2018, Mixed
      Methods study Quality indicators: Reporting according to safe communication, pAEs,
      retrospective cost analyses of pAEs B What are effective interventions to optimize
      communication in everyday hospital life? Updating the status of applications Pubmed,
      PsychInfo, Cochrane Database Overview of effective interventions and effect strengths C What
      is the adherence for equivalent patient safety measures (e.g. hand hygiene)? Questionnaire
      All employees at both intervention sites Adherence to patient safety measures; relationships
      between adherence and quality indicators D What are possible resources and barriers for the
      implementation of an intervention in order to optimize communication in everyday hospital
      life? Ethnographic observation; guideline-based individual and focus group interviews
      Physicians, nursing staff, training assistants, psychologists, midwives Classify resources
      and barriers E What is an appropriate strategy to implement effective interventions to
      optimize communication? Triangulation of results from previous phases Matching of data from
      interviews, focus groups and questionnaires with evidence from the literature Implementation
      strategy, regarding resources and barriers in implementing the intervention to patient safety
      Note: pAEs = preventable adverse events

      Since the aim is to achieve full utilization, no inclusion and exclusion criteria are
      defined. Differences between the measurement times are checked using linear and general mixed
      models, initial values of the first measurement time are taken into account as covariates.
      Clinics are modeled as a fixed effect. For the entire analysis, corresponding confidence
      intervals of 95 % are determined. To calculate the standardized mean difference (SMD) between
      the two measurement points, the non-standardized regression coefficients are standardized to
      the pooled standard deviation of the observed measured values. According to Cohen's
      recommendations, SMDs are interpreted as follows: small effect by SMD = 0.2; medium effect by
      SMD = 0.5; large effect by SMD = 0.8. The odds ratio of binary outcomes is subjected to a
      logit transformation to calculate effect strengths. To check whether the intervention effect
      on the primary target criterion is moderated by external variables, reciprocal interaction
      terms are considered in the model estimation. Continuous moderators are standardized by
      z-transformation. The estimated parameter of the interaction between the z-transformed
      continuous variable and the effect estimator of the group difference thus represents the
      additional intervention effect if the potential moderator increases by a standard deviation.
      Participants are only included in the analysis if they participate in the corresponding
      follow-up online survey and are analyzed according to intention to treat. Differences are
      interpreted as significant when the p-value of a two-sided test is <0.05.

      Phase 2: Quasi-experimental efficacy study

      In Phase 2, the effectiveness of the communication intervention for the target group of women
      giving birth/family members is assessed using the gold standard, i.e. randomized control
      trial (RCT). In each institution, four employees are enabled to train patients and their
      relatives on the short manual developed to teach different communication models competencies.
      When a woman gives birth and her relatives are admitted, they are randomly assigned to a
      training group (IG) or a control group (CG). The pAEs are collected on a person-specific
      basis (anonymized) and coded in parallel. With an alpha error of 0.05 and a power of 80%, a
      sample of N = 352 is necessary (to be analyzed IG: N = 176; CG: N = 176) in order to be able
      to prove an effect of d = 0.3. With an assumed drop-out of 20%, N = 424 participants (to be
      recruited IG: N = 212; CG: N = 212) would have to be recruited (recruitment sample). The
      target criteria are evaluated statistically and clinically as in phase 1. Group differences
      are checked by means of linear and general mixed models, initial values of the first
      measurement point are considered as covariates. Clinics are modelled as fixed effects. For
      the entire analysis, corresponding confidence intervals of 95 % are determined. To calculate
      the standardized mean difference (SMD) between the two measurement points, the
      non-standardized regression coefficients are standardized to the pooled standard deviation of
      the observed measured values. According to Cohen's recommendations, SMDs are interpreted as
      follows: small effect by SMD = 0.2; medium effect by SMD = 0.5; large effect by SMD = 0.8.
      The odds ratio of binary outcomes is subjected to a logit transformation to calculate effect
      strengths. To check whether the primary target criterion is moderated by external variables,
      reciprocal interaction terms are considered in the model estimation. Continuous moderators
      are standardized by z-transformation. The estimated parameter of the interaction between the
      z-transformed continuous variable and the effect estimator of the group difference thus
      represents the additional intervention effect if the potential moderator increases by one
      standard deviation. Participants are only included in the analysis if they participate in the
      corresponding follow-up online survey and are analyzed according to intention to treat.
      Differences are interpreted as significant when the p-value of a two-sided test is <0.05.

      Phase 3: Implementation of the app and case-control study

      From all findings in phases 1 and 2, the digital app will be developed in a participatory and
      theory-driven way. The aim is to determine the extent to which the app supports secure
      communication processes among specialists and patients/relatives in their daily work and thus
      leads to a reduction in pAEs. The app helps users (skilled workers, mothers and relatives) to
      prepare for the interview and to cope with possible problems during the interview.
      Subsequently, a monitoring takes place in which communication with focus on (1) the own role,
      (2) the role of the communication partner as well as (3) the resonance (feeling of the
      uniform understanding) is evaluated. In this way, dyadic self-reported and externally
      reported data are collected and learning from the communication of all participants is
      ensured. Controls form the data of the participants of both intervention arms of the
      preceding RCT study from phase 2 (historical control groups; No-Treatment CG analysis: N =
      176; No-Treatment CG recruited: N = 212; Treatment CG analysis: N = 176; Treatment CG
      recruited: N = 212). This allows a first limited statement about the possible effect of a
      process supporting digital app. With an alpha error of 0.05 and a power of 80%, a sample of N
      = 352 (analysis sample) is required to be able to prove an effect of d = 0.3. Due to the
      historical control group, only N = 176 participants need to be analyzed for the intervention
      group (IG analysis). Assuming a drop-out of 20%, N = 424 participants would have to be
      recruited (recruitment sample). Due to the historical control group only N = 212 participants
      have to be recruited for the intervention group (IGrecruited). The target criteria (primary:
      pAEs; Secondary: pAE costs, different communication models competencies, training-proximal
      outcomes such as outcome expectations, behavioral intention, action and coping planning,
      behavior, self-efficacy expectation, adherence safety culture, perceived safety culture,
      treatment satisfaction; covariates: sociodemographic characteristics incl. migration status)
      are evaluated statistically and clinically as in Phase 1 and 2. Group differences are checked
      by means of linear and general mixed models, initial values of the first measurement point
      are considered as covariates. Clinics are modeled as fixed effects. For the entire analysis,
      corresponding confidence intervals of 95 % are determined. To calculate the standardized mean
      difference (SMD) between the two measurement points, the non-standardized regression
      coefficients are standardized to the pooled standard deviation of the observed measured
      values. According to Cohen's recommendations, SMDs are interpreted as follows: small effect
      by SMD = 0.2; medium effect by SMD = 0.5; large effect by SMD = 0.8. The odds ratio of binary
      outcomes is subjected to a logit transformation to calculate effect strengths. To check
      whether the primary target criterion is moderated by external variables, reciprocal
      interaction terms are considered in the model estimation. Continuous moderators are
      standardized by z-transformation. The estimated parameter of the interaction between the
      z-transformed continuous variable and the effect estimator of the group difference thus
      represents the additional intervention effect if the potential moderator increases by one
      standard deviation. Participants are only included in the analysis if they participate in the
      corresponding follow-up survey and are analyzed according to intention to treat. Differences
      are interpreted as significant when the p-value of a two-sided test is <0.05.
    
  