
    
      Haemodialysis patients need to have two needles inserted into a large surgically altered vein
      (fistula) or surgical vascular graft/shunt for every dialysis session. Some fistulas or
      shunts may be more difficult to insert needles into than others. As such a system of colour
      coding or "traffic lighting" of patients is in place in most units. A "green light" patient
      is easy to "needle" with two needles and the majority of staff within the unit will be able
      to connect the patients to the dialysis machine. A "red light" patient is reserved for the
      more experienced staff within the unit who will often have to be timetabled to work specific
      times so that they are present to connect certain patients to the dialysis machines. "Amber
      light" fistulas lie between these two extremes.

      Ultrasound (US) is routinely used in many hospitals and many dialysis units will have access
      to a machine to assess patients for problems. Indeed central venous line insertions for
      dialysis are now almost always performed under US guidance since two large studies in this
      area in 2002 provided strong evidence that US guided placement significantly reduces
      complications during catheter placement and a reduction in the number of attempts at
      insertion. In addition the National Institute of Clinical Excellence in the UK provided
      evidence that insertion time is quicker although this association was statistically less
      convincing.

      Ultrasound offers the advantage of dynamic imaging without the risks of radiation exposure
      and can be done as an office based procedure using portable equipment.

      Studies in emergency departments and particularly in paediatric care have suggested that US
      guidance can improve the speed and accuracy of cannulation in peripheral veins for
      intravenous access.

      We suggest that US guided cannulation of fistulas might improve the cannulation rate of more
      difficult fistulas and potentially reduce the time required to commence dialysis and the
      number of local complications of cannulation (haematoma/aneurysm/infection).

      To our knowledge US is not used in cannulation guidance in any dialysis units, although most
      units will have access to a machine as above. We therefore propose to perform a randomised
      controlled trial of US guided cannulation of fistulas versus current practice (blind
      cannulation) to assess the effectiveness of US controlled cannulation in a busy dialysis
      unit.
    
  