
    
      Background:

        -  Bevacizumab is a humanized IgG1 monoclonal antibody (MAb) that binds all biologically
           active isoforms of human vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF, or VEGF-A) with high
           affinity (kd = 1.1 nM ). The antibody consists of a human IgG1 framework and the
           antigen-binding complementarity-determining regions from the murine anti-VEGF MAb
           A.4.6.1.

        -  Irinotecan is a semisynthetic derivative of camptothecin that possesses greater aqueous
           solubility, greater in vitro and in vivo activity, and is associated with less severe
           and more predictable toxicity than camptothecin.

        -  We now propose treating patients whose tumors progress on our bevacizumab alone protocol
           with the combination of bevacizumab with irinotecan. We believe that this trial design
           has significant power to detect a true synergistic effect between the two agents given
           that the single agent activity of irinotecan is so low in patients with recurrent
           malignant gliomas (2-5% response rate) and the patients being treated on this trial will
           have tumors that have already progressed through bevacizumab.

      Objective:

        -  To establish data and safety regarding the anti-tumor activity of bevacizumab plus
           irinotecan in patients with recurrent high-grade gliomas that have progressed on
           bevacizumab alone as determined by objective radiographic response rate.

        -  To determine the 6 month progression-free survival of treated patients and to
           characterize the pattern of changes in the number of endothelial progenitor cells over
           time and across patients.

        -  To obtain preliminary data regarding how response to treatment (stable disease or
           radiographic response) effects monthly measurements of quality of life while on study.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients must have been treated on the National Cancer Institute (NCI) trial 06-C-0064;
           bevacizumab alone for recurrent gliomas and now have evidence for tumor progression by
           magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan.

        -  Patients with histologically proven intracranial malignant glioma.

      Design:

      -Patients will be treated with bevacizumab by intravenous injection at a dose of 10mg/kg and
      irinotecan at a dose of 125 mg/m^2 for patients on non-enzyme-inducing anti-epileptic drugs
      (NEIAED) and 340 mg/m^2 for patients on enzyme-inducing anti-epileptic drugs (EIAED) every
      two weeks on a 4-week cycle.
    
  