
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Assess whether a cyclophosphamide-containing combination chemotherapy regimen
      increases progression-free survival compared to a lomustine-containing regimen in children
      with newly diagnosed, average-risk medulloblastoma. II. Determine progression-free and
      overall survival of children treated with craniospinal radiotherapy and local boost
      radiotherapy for a total dose of 5580 cGy followed by adjuvant
      lomustine/cisplatin/vincristine vs. cyclophosphamide/cisplatin/vincristine. III. Determine
      the long-term neurocognitive, endocrinologic, and cardiopulmonary sequelae associated with
      craniospinal radiotherapy, local boost radiotherapy, and adjuvant chemotherapy in these
      children, and determine whether replacement of lomustine with cyclophosphamide alters the
      incidence and degree of sequelae. IV. Determine whether cellular and biologic parameters,
      including tumor molecular genetic analysis, DNA ploidy, mitotic activity markers, and
      immunohistochemical analysis, are correlated with progression-free survival, overall
      survival, and patterns of disease relapse in these patients. V. Evaluate the utility of
      routine magnetic resonance imaging surveillance studies of the head and spine in detecting
      subclinical recurrent disease.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified by participating institution.
      Following surgery, patients are randomized to one of two groups. The first group receives
      craniospinal irradiation followed by a boost to the primary tumor. Beginning within 1 week
      after initiation of radiotherapy, patients receive vincristine weekly for 8 doses. Beginning
      6 weeks after the completion of radiotherapy, patients receive adjuvant
      lomustine/vincristine/cisplatin every 6 weeks for a total of 8 courses. The second group
      receives craniospinal irradiation plus vincristine as above, followed by adjuvant
      cyclophosphamide/vincristine/cisplatin every 6 weeks for a total of 8 courses. Patients are
      followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, then annually.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: It is anticipated that 240-300 patients will be entered over 4 years.
    
  