
    
      1. Background

           ERCP is an advanced procedure which is widely used in the diagnosis and treatment of a
           variety of benign and malignant pancreatobiliary disorders1,2,3,4,5.

           Selective cannulation of the common bile duct (CBD) is the most important and
           challenging step in a biliary endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography6,7.
           However, in the first ERCP, even in experienced hands, biliary cannulation may fail in
           up to 15 % - 35 % of cases when using standard methods alone8.

           Since the first description of the "Vater's papilla" by Abraham Vater in 17209, the
           variability in papillary morphology has been widely recognized10. The use of high
           quality digital images has led to a clear need and desire to create an endoscopic
           classification based on the papilla's morphology. During the last decade, several
           authors have proposed different classifications in order to predict the success of
           cannulation, complications and the need for more advanced cannulation
           techniques11,12,13,14,15. However, all the proposed classifications, with the exception
           of one, fail because they have not been submitted to a validation process. The only
           validated one is the proposed by Haraldsson13, which still has the drawback of not
           incorporating some of the papillary morphologies.

           Given the need, our research group created a new classification (entitled "Viana
           Classification") that not only incorporates more morphologies but was also validated in
           due course.

           Hence, the next step is to explore the potential implications of papillary morphology on
           the success of biliary cannulation, complications resulting from ERCP and the need to
           use rescue techniques (fistulotomy and double-guidewire cannulation) in the event of
           failure of the standard cannulation.

        2. Financial resources

           All participants included in this study will perform ERCP, laboratory tests and other
           complementary diagnostic tests after a duly justified medical prescription (the exact
           same exams that the patient would do if there wasn't this study). Therefore, there are
           no additional costs or consumption of hospital resources.

        3. Ethical considerations

           In this study, participants will be included after informed consent. Anonymity and
           confidentiality will be safeguarded by assigning an individual numeric code. It will
           also be explained the possibility of withdrawing from the study at any time, with the
           guarantee of the total elimination of data. All researchers involved in the study will
           adhere to the Rules of Ethical Conduct and Best Practices in order to comply with the
           precepts of the Declaration of Helsinki, the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine,
           the guidelines of the Council for International Organizations of Medical Sciences and
           the Guide to Good Clinical Practice.

        4. Statistical analysis

           Qualitative variables will be summarized using absolute and relative frequencies, and
           quantitative variables will be summarized using the mean and standard deviation or the
           median and interquartile range, depending on their distribution profiles. The normality
           of the quantitative variables will be assessed using the histogram distribution.

           Relations between categorical variables will be assessed using a chi-square test and
           Fisher´s exact test. Differences between two or more groups of independent non-normally
           distributed quantitative variables will be evaluated using a Kruskal-Wallis test.

           To explain the risk of pancreatitis, a binomial logistic regression model with multiple
           predictors will be performed.

           The null hypothesis will be rejected when the test statistics p-values are less than
           <0.05. Statistical analysis, sample size calculation and graphics will be performed
           using Stata software (StataCorp. 2015. Stata Statistical Software: Release 14. College
           Station, StataCorp LP)

        5. Expected results

      The results from this study will contribute to a better understanding of the influence of
      papillary morphology on cannulation difficulty. In the event of demonstrating that some
      morphologies imply greater difficulty in cannulation, strategies may be created, such as the
      use of ab initio rescue techniques, in order to improve the results of ERCP, namely the
      cannulation rate.
    
  