
    
      Ascites not manageable by diuretic therapy occurs in at least 10% of patients with cirrhosis.
      Two major options for management include intermittent large volume paracentesis (LVP) and
      placement of a transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS). Unfortunately, not all
      patients are candidates for TIPS. Those unable to receive TIPS or transplant are left with
      LVP as the only long-term treatment option. Non-TIPS candidates who are listed for transplant
      require LVP as a bridge to transplant.

      LVP is performed by inserting a non-tunnelled drain, removing ascites fluid via, replacing
      ascites fluid losses >5 litres(L) with albumin, removing the drain. It can be associated with
      pain, bleeding, leakage from the site and frequent hospital visits. In between the drains,
      living with ascites can negatively affect quality of life, particularly the physical
      discomfort and limitation component scales. In addition, patients with tense ascites have
      lower protein intake and are more malnourished than those without. Fluid removal improves
      gastric accommodation.

      Indwelling ascites drains are routinely used in patents with malignant ascites. Data
      evaluating indwelling drains in patients with cirrhosis is limited. One of the reasons that
      this may not have been explored as a therapeutic option is the potential for infection. As
      opposed to malignant ascites, cirrhotic ascites generally has a low protein content, a known
      risk factor for development of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP). From available data,
      infection rates in cirrhotic patients with tunnelled drains, not on antibiotic prophylaxis
      are estimated at 10%. Infection rates on antibiotic prophylaxis would be expected to be
      lower, but this remains unstudied. Other concerns particular to the patient with cirrhosis
      are renal dysfunction and acute kidney injury. Limitation of the amount of ascites that is
      drained to <5L per time and infusion of albumin 8grams(g)/L removed for amounts drained >5L
      has shown benefit in preventing post paracentesis circulatory and renal dysfunction.

      Therefore, as some patients with cirrhosis will be left with intermittent LVP as their only
      option for management, and as this therapy has implications for quality of life (QOL),
      worsening nutritional status and cost, we propose an evaluation of an indwelling tunnelled
      PleurX catheter as an alternative therapeutic option. In this prospective uncontrolled pilot
      study, the hypothesis is that use of indwelling drains with careful monitoring of renal
      function and prophylaxis with antibiotics, will be safe, cost-effective and improve quality
      of life and nutritional status compared to the standard of care.

      METHODS:

      Study design: Prospective uncontrolled interventional pilot study of 12 patients followed for
      3 months.

      Recruitment: Patients will be recruited from Hepatology departments at the University of
      Alberta hospital (UAH) and Royal Alexandra hospital (RAH) in Edmonton. All Hepatologists at
      these sites will be informed of the protocol. If a patient meets inclusion and exclusion
      criteria and is interested in hearing more about the study, the Hepatologist can contact the
      study personnel. Patients will be made aware that their decision to participate in the study
      will not influence their medical care.

      Study Intervention:

      PleurX drain insertion by interventional radiologist

      Outpatient drainage protocol:

      Ascites fluid drainage performed at participant's home via home care nurse 1-3 times per week
      (maximum 3L- with each drain) for 3months. PleurX drain bottles will be used instead of
      urinary drainage bags

      Safety Measures:

      Home care nurses are trained in the use of PleurX drains. Patients will be taught and given
      information about complication monitoring.

      Albumin infusion at 1g/kilogram(kg) as an outpatient when: the serum creatinine increases
      from baseline >26umol/L or by 1.5-2 times (Stage 1 Acute Kidney Injury), or the patient has
      clinical signs of hypovolemia Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP) prophylaxis with
      Norfloxacin 400mg daily Patient counselling on avoidance of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
      drugs (NSAIDs), aminoglycosides, radiologic contrast, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE)
      inhibitors, angiotensin II antagonists, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) where possible

      PROCEDURE & DATA COLLECTION:

      Pre-Intervention (2 weeks prior to drain placement)

      Continued standard of care LVP with albumin replacement, and recording of procedure related
      complications (shunt misplacement, insertion bleeding, pain-10 point scale) Pt to complete
      three-day food record (including 1 day pre-paracentesis, day of paracentesis, and 1 day post
      paracentesis), as well as Council on Nutrition appetite questionnaire (CNAQ, score range 8-40
      where a lower score indicates more problems with appetite).

      Nutritional assessment: Weight (kilograms), height (centimeters), calorie (kilocalories) and
      protein (grams) intake, mid-arm muscle circumference(centimeters), hand-grip strength by
      Jamar hand-grip dynamometer (kilograms) Labs pre-LVP including: urine electrolytes, serum
      complete blood cell (CBC) and differential, prothrombin time(PT), creatinine(Cr),
      electrolytes, alanine transaminase (ALT), aspartate transaminase (AST), Bilirubin, albumin,
      rennin, aldosterone

      Quality of life and symptom questionnaires pre and post paracentesis: Chronic Liver Disease
      Questionnaire (CLDQ). The CLDQ includes 29 symptom questions, scored on a likert scale of 1-7
      (where 1 is all of the time and 7 is none of time), and divided into 6 domains: fatigue,
      activity, emotional function, abdominal symptoms, systemic symptoms, and worry). Edmonton
      Symptom Assessment System-revised version (ESAS-R). The ESAS-R includes 10 symptoms (9
      pre-determined and 1 'other' free text scale), scored on a likert scale 0-10 (where 0 is 'No'
      and 10 is 'Worst possible'). Ascites Symptom Inventory-7 (ASI-7). The ASI-7 includes 7
      symptom questions, scored on a likert scale of 0-4 where 0 is 'does not apply at all' and 4
      is 'very strongly applies'.

      History and physical examination: Demographics, Past Medical History, Medications, History of
      prior ascites fluid infections, other infections, and antibiotic use in the last 6 months,
      Liver disease severity-model for end stage liver disease (MELD, score range 6-40, where a
      higher score indicates higher mortality risk ) score & Child Pugh score (score range 5-15,
      where a higher score indicates worse liver function), Resting blood pressure.

      Day 1-90 (Day 1=drain placement day)

      Adverse event monitoring and patient follow-up:

      Pre-drain insertion abdominal wall ultrasound by the interventional radiologist who will be
      inserting the drain Drain placement associated safety outcomes will be recorded including:
      shunt misplacement, insertion bleeding, pain (10 point scale where 0 is 'no pain' and 10 is
      'worst possible pain') Home care nurse visit assessment with each drain: vital signs,
      documentation of drain function, appearance, fluid drainage, fluid volume, fluid appearance,
      drain site description, patient symptoms.

      Nurses will be asked to contact study personnel in the event of adverse outcomes or new
      patient symptoms Phone call to patient weekly and in person assessment monthly by primary
      investigator (PI): quality of life and symptom questionnaires-CLDQ, ESAS-R, ASI-7, changes in
      cognitive status, medication reassessment, documentation of hospitalizations, and Child
      Pugh/MELD calculation at monthly visit.

      Monthly Nutritional assessment by dietitian-Weight, height, calorie and protein intake via
      3-day food record (completed 1 day pre-drain, 1 day of a drain, and 1 day after a drain),
      mid-arm muscle circumference, hand-grip strength by the Jamar hand-grip dynamometer, CNAQ
      appetite screening tool

      Diagnostic fluid analysis and septic work up if symptoms of SBP (abdominal pain, fever,
      elevated white blood cell count (WBC), sudden onset renal dysfunction or hepatic
      encephalopathy). Drain removal if SBP diagnosed using standard criteria (ascites fluid
      polymorphonuclear cell count ≥ 250 cells/millimetre3). Any removed drains with have the drain
      tip sent for culture and sensitivity

      Labs: Weekly ascites fluid analysis for protein, cell count and diff, culture and sensitivity
      Weekly CBC and differential, PT, Cr, electrolytes, ALT, AST, Bilirubin, albumin via home
      collections or community based lab. Urine electrolytes, Plasma renin & aldosterone monthly

      STUDY EXTENSION OPTION

      At 90 days, all patients that choose to continue with fluid drainage as per the study
      protocol, will be offered the option to continue contributing data to the study for the
      duration of time they have the drain inserted, or until they no longer wish to participate.
      Patients will be made aware that their decision to continue to participate in the study will
      not influence their medical care.

      For patients that agree to continue participating, the initial protocol for drain frequency,
      volume, care, and safety measures will be followed. Data will be collected, including:

      Every 4 weeks by PI or designate: quality of life and symptom questionnaires-CLDQ, ESAS-R,
      ASI-7, changes in cognitive status, medication reassessment, documentation of
      hospitalizations, and Child Pugh/MELD calculation, vital signs, documentation of drain
      function, appearance, drain site description, patient symptoms. Patients will be asked to
      bring in their home drain volume records for review at these visits. Nutritional assessment
      by dietitian-Weight, height, calorie and protein intake via 3-day food record (completed 1
      day pre-drain, 1 day of a drain, and 1 day after a drain), mid-arm muscle circumference,
      hand-grip strength by the Jamar hand-grip dynamometer, CNAQ appetite screening tool.

      Diagnostic fluid analysis and septic work up if symptoms of SBP (abdominal pain, fever,
      elevated WBC, sudden onset renal dysfunction or hepatic encephalopathy) Drain removal if SBP
      diagnosed using standard criteria (ascites fluid polymorphonuclear cell count ≥ 250
      cells/mm3). Any removed drains with have the drain tip sent for culture and sensitivity.

      Labs: Every 1-2 weeks-ascites fluid analysis for protein, cell count and diff, culture and
      sensitivity. Blood for CBC and differential, PT, Cr, electrolytes, AST, Bilirubin, albumin
      Every 4 weeks- blood rennin and aldosterone. Urine electrolytes.
    
  