
    
      A transplant of one's own bone marrow stem cells is part of a standard treatment for MM.
      Because MM comes from the bone marrow, stem-cell products from the bone marrow can have tumor
      cells mixed in them when they are transplanted. This may cause the disease to return after
      transplant. This study will learn about a method of cleaning, or "purging," the MM tumor
      cells from the stem cells by using the bone marrow of a relative.

      Study Drugs:

      Melphalan is designed to damage the DNA (the genetic material) of cells, which may cause
      cancer cells to die.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be given G-CSF twice a
      day through a needle under the skin on Days 1-5 to move stem cells from out of the bone
      marrow and into the blood.

      You will receive melphalan through a needle in your vein over 30 minutes each time on the 2
      days directly before you receive the stem cell transplant.

      Stem Cell Collection, Purging, and Transplantation:

      On Day 5, stem cell collection will begin. You will have a central venous catheter (CVC - a
      sterile, flexible tube) placed into a vein in your chest while you are under local
      anesthesia. Your doctor will explain this procedure to you in more detail, and you will be
      required to sign a separate consent form for this procedure.

      Blood will be removed from your body through the CVC and passed through a machine that
      separates stem cells from the other cells. The stem cells will be frozen for storage, and the
      blood will be returned to your body. This 3-hour process is called apheresis. This process
      will be done 1 time a day for 1-6 days, or until enough stem cells are collected.

      Your stem cells will be placed in a sterile container, where they will grow and multiply with
      donated stem cells from a relative. If there are enough cells after 2 weeks, the cells will
      be transplanted back into the body. If there are not enough cells after the 2 weeks of
      growing with the donor's stem cells, they will be combined with a sample that was set aside
      at your initial collection and then transplanted back into the body.

      Study Visits:

      One (1), 2, and 6 months after the transplant, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for
      routine tests and to check the status of the disease.

      Six (6) months after the transplant, you will also have a bone marrow aspirate/biopsy to
      check the status of the disease.

      Length of Study:

      You will remain on study until 12 months after the transplant. You will be taken off study if
      the disease gets worse or needs further treatment.

      End-of-Treatment Visit:

      Twelve (12) months after the transplant, you will have your end-of-treatment visit. At this
      time, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to check the status of the
           disease.

        -  You will have a bone marrow aspirate/biopsy.

        -  You will have x-rays taken of your bones.

      This is an investigational study. Melphalan is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of MM. While receiving a stem-cell transplant is standard treatment for MM,
      cleaning (purging) the stem-cell product is investigational.

      Up to 25 recipients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson
    
  