
    
      Nephrolithiasis occurs in approximately 1 in 10 individuals in the United States with
      increasing prevalence noted over the past three decades (ref: Worcester E, Coe F.
      Nephrolithiasis. Prim Care Clin Office Pract 35 (2008) 369-391). Recurrence is common -
      occurring in more than 50% of these patients, many of whom require surgical intervention. An
      estimated 5-6 billion dollars a year is spent on the treatment of kidney stones. Symptoms of
      kidney stones include flank pain, blood in the urine, and nausea and vomiting. Beyond acute
      attacks associated with considerable morbidity and cost, recent reports have identified an
      association between kidney stone formation and an increased risk for the development of
      hypertension, chronic kidney disease, end stage renal disease and myocardial infarction.
      Therefore, nephrolithiasis not only impacts socioeconomics but also has broader public health
      implications. Genetic and environmental risk factors have both been linked to nephrolithiasis
      with about 40% of the patients presenting with kidney stones having at least one relative who
      is also a stone former. Genetic variants that are causative of monogenic forms of
      nephrolithiasis have been well defined. However the frequency of these monogenic mutations
      and their presence as predisposing factors of disease is poorly understood within the
      idiopathic stone forming population.

      We recently identified that heterozygous mutations of HOGA1, a gene that is associated with
      the onset of primary hyperoxularia Type III, are also present within the idiopathic stone
      forming population and absent in matched controls. These findings suggest that the presence
      of these mutations could be indicative of an increased risk for kidney stone formation within
      these patients. We therefore propose to; Aim 1: Validate and expand our previous studies to
      define that genetic variations of HOGA1 are a predisposing factor for idiopathic
      calcium-oxalate stone formation, and Aim 2: Mutational analysis of genes involved in kidney
      stone formation for determination of genetics of risk. These clinical studies will identify
      the frequency of known genetic variants associated with monogenic forms of nephrolithiasis
      within idiopathic stone forming populations and associate their presence with heightened
      risk. Patient genomic DNA, blood, clinical data and risk data are available from the Mayo
      Clinic Florida Kidney Stone Registry. Genomic DNA and RNA will be assessed for mutations
      within HOGA1 and their significance as predisposing factors for disease evaluated through
      statistical analysis and compared to environmental factors for risk. Evaluations will also be
      undertaken in control patient samples, identifying that these mutations are specific for
      idiopathic kidney stone formation risk. Furthermore, genetic variants within AGXT, GRHPR,
      HOGA1, CLCN5, OCRL1, SLC3A1, SLC7A9, and APRT will be analyzed for frequency in idiopathic
      nephrolithiasis patients and control patient populations to determine their role as
      predictive genetic markers for idiopathic disease risk.

      This proposed study has the potential to identify genetic variants that are predisposing
      factors for idiopathic kidney stone formation and are predictive of disease risk. These
      studies have relevance to personalized treatment regimens for disease intervention and
      targeted prevention of reoccurrence. Furthermore, the knowledge gained pertaining to genetic
      variants in idiopathic stone formers may lead to the creation of genetic tests for the early
      diagnosis of those patients at higher risk of idiopathic nephrolithiasis.

      Nine hundred idiopathic kidney stone formers and 900 non-kidney stone forming controls will
      be examined for the evaluation of HOGA1 genetic variants. We propose to use the patient
      resources provided by the Kidney Stone Registry and control samples from the Mayo Clinic
      BioBank in Florida. Briefly, for the Kidney Stone Registry, all cases presenting with kidney
      stones are invited to enroll in the Registry. Enrolled patients are approached for data
      abstraction, risk factor questionnaire completion, biospecimen collection (blood and DNA) and
      long-term follow-up. At this time we have over 1500 phenotypically well characterized
      patients enrolled within the registry with approximately 500 new patient enrollments each
      year. For these studies, we will only utilize samples and patient histories from idiopathic
      calcium oxalate stone formers and controls. The PI of this application oversees the running
      of this registry. Controls will be selected from patients who have consented genomic DNA
      samples to the Mayo Clinic Biobank (http://mayoresearch.mayo.edu/mayo/research/biobank/).
      These controls are defined as patients who have a negative personal history of symptomatic
      urolithiasis and no family history of kidney stone formation. Dr. Parker oversees the running
      of the Mayo Clinic BioBank in Florida. Patient records and information will only be available
      to the PI, co-investigator and biostatistician named on this proposal. Phenotypical Analysis:
      Phenotype data will be extracted from patient's medical records. All patients provide
      informed consent to DNA testing and record review under research protocols approved by the
      Mayo Clinic Institutional Review Board. Risk Factor Data Collection: A self-administered
      questionnaire is provided to each patient on their initial visit by the practitioner, is
      provided within the Appendix. Those patients that have consented to be enrolled in the Kidney
      Stone Registry and consented to be included in this study will be our case study group. The
      questionnaire requests patients to provide information pertaining to family history,
      lifestyle and environmental risk factors for kidney stone formation. All questionnaires are
      reviewed by the study coordinator for completeness and accuracy of responses.
    
  