
    
      There is an urgent need for innovative therapies for improving neurorecovery after spinal
      cord injury (SCI). Despite extensive research, clinical advancements, and improved
      rehabilitation strategies, SCI continues to be a significant cause of disability and
      mortality. After a primary impact, the injured spinal cord undergoes multiple secondary
      pathological states that represent an important target in developing neuroprotective
      strategies for treatment of SCI. Even minor improvements in neurological recovery can have
      profound impacts on management of daily activities, secondary health complications, and
      quality of life. Thus, timely and effective strategies are of critical importance for
      positive outcomes after SCI. A number of pharmacological neuroprotective agents have been
      subject to intensive investigation in large, multicenter, prospective randomized controlled
      trials. Despite promising preclinical animal data, the primary outcomes of these clinical
      trials were largely negative. There is thus clear reason for researchers, clinicians, and
      patients to seek alternative therapies to enhance neurorecovery and functional status after
      SCI.

      The scientific premise of this project rests upon accumulating evidence that diet-based
      therapies, such as the ketogenic diet (KD), offer effective neuroprotection against secondary
      injury cascades and improve forelimb motor function in a rat model of SCI and improve upper
      extremity motor function in patients with acute SCI. The KD is a high-fat, low-carbohydrate
      diet designed to mimic the metabolic and biochemical changes that occur during calorie
      restriction, specifically ketosis. Ketone bodies have been shown to exert neuroprotective
      effects by preventing oxidative damage; attenuating neuroinflammation and glutamate
      excitotoxicity; and inhibiting apoptosis in the brain and spinal cord. Because glutamate
      excitotoxicity, inflammation, and induction of apoptotic pathways lead to progressive
      degeneration in the spinal cord shortly after the injury, inhibition of these processes by
      ketone bodies may enhance neurological recovery after an SCI. In support of these hypotheses,
      we recently showed for the first time that, compared with a standard hospital diet (SD), 5
      weeks of KD improved upper extremity motor function in patients with acute SCI. In addition,
      a neuroinflammatory blood protein, fibrinogen, was present at lower levels in the KD serum
      samples than in the SD serum samples. Taken together, our results suggest that a KD may
      induce anti-inflammatory effects in part by reducing fibrinogen, which promotes
      neuroprotection and improved recovery.

      The acute stage post-SCI is also characterized by hyperglycemia, which is strongly associated
      with poor functional outcomes at discharge. These findings support the importance of
      achieving tight glycemic control in acute human SCI to obtain better neurological outcomes.
      Emerging evidence suggests that a KD can also improve the patient's metabolic state and
      maintain normal glycemic levels. In contrast, standard hospital diets have traditionally
      promoted a relatively high carbohydrate nutritional content. Consistent with previous
      findings, we have recently shown that 5 weeks of KD decreased fasting serum glucose levels by
      24 mg/dl whereas levels increased by 0.7 mg/dl in the SD group. These provocative findings
      have led us to our central hypothesis that SCI patients who consume a KD over the first 5
      weeks (average hospital stay) after injury will have better neurological recovery, functional
      independence, and glycemic control than the SCI patients who consume an SD during this
      period.
    
  