
    
      4. RESEARCH DESIGN/METHODS/SUBJECT JUSTIFICATION

        1. General Approach Two hundred and eighty four patients presenting to the endoscopy clinic
           will be offered participation in the study. They will be randomized to either 1 ml of
           sterile water or 1 ml of cherry scented flavoring (Lorann Oils Inc, Lansing MI)
           (identical oil used by our pediatric anesthesiologists for scenting the anesthesia mask
           during the induction phase of general anesthesia). These will be connected to the inline
           oxygen tubing via an Leukens trap with oxygen flowing at 4 liters/ minute rate and
           titrated to maintain a pulse oximetry saturation level of over 90%. The water or
           flavoring will not be nebulized into the oxygen. The oxygen will pass through the
           inactive Leukens trap container and pick up whatever aroma is present. A BIS monitor
           (Aspect Medical Systems Newton MA) will be applied. Data will be recorded at 5 minute
           intervals (BIS scores). The BIS score will not be used to titrate the sedative
           medications since the literature is controversial as to whether a given BIS score is
           consistently considered adequate sedation. Total recovery time (post procedure), BIS
           scores, and sedative doses will be recorded.

             1. Research Objective To determine if the addition of pleasing olfactory stimulation
                can reduce the total dose required for sedatives, decrease the recovery time
                required but maintain the same levels of sedation.

             2. Detail how many groups or arms are in the study and what each receives ' Two groups
                will be used. One will receive inhalation of cherry flavored essential oil and the
                other sterile water.

             3. Randomization Procedures A computer generated block randomized schedule will be
                used. The patients will be randomized the day of the procedure.

        2. Methods and Materials Two hundred and eighty four consecutive patients presenting for
           elective colonoscopy with endoscopist provided sedation (ASA 1 and 2 per NMCP policy)
           will be offered participation in the trial. They will be consented the day of the
           procedure by one of the subinvestigators and randomized to either receive olfactory
           stimulation by cherry flavored oil (via in line aerosol chamber similar to nebulizer
           treatments) or sterile water. A standard volume of 1 ml will be placed in the chamber
           without additional water. A BIS monitor will be placed and BIS scores recorded at time
           zero (prior to sedation) and every 5 minutes during the procedure. The BIS score will
           not be used to titrate sedation rather the clinical parameters used by the endoscopist
           will be used (pulse oximetry, blood pressure, heart rate, clinical level of arousal)
           because it is controversial in the literature using BIS scores to titrate conscious
           sedation. The BIS scores will provide an additional rough estimate as to the equivalence
           of levels of sedation during the procedure. Total doses of medications, BIS scores,
           procedure duration, and recovery duration will be recorded.
    
  