
    
      Acute ankle fractures are one of the leading pathologies disturbing ankle congruence. These
      fractures are extremely common with an incidence of 0.1-0.2% per year. The treatment of acute
      ankle fractures is determined by the classification of the injury based on radiographic
      findings. Operative treatment performing open reduction and internal fixation (ORIF) is the
      standard of care for unstable or dislocated ankle fractures. Anatomical realignment of the
      joint and restoration of ankle stability are the main goals of the operative treatment. Over
      the last decades the improved functional outcome has emphasized the importance of anatomic
      reconstruction. Nevertheless, successful anatomical reduction does not automatically lead to
      favorable clinical outcome. According to several studies, the mid- and long-term outcome
      following operative treatment of acute ankle fractures is often poor even though anatomical
      reconstruction of the joint has been achieved. Residual problems after acute ankle fractures
      include chronic pain, stiffness, recurrent swelling and instability. These problems occur
      despite the operative restoration of ankle congruence. There is growing evidence that the
      poor outcome might be mostly related to occult articular injuries involving cartilage and
      soft tissue damage. These intraarticular disorders have been shown to negatively affect the
      clinical results, but it is difficult to diagnose these intraarticular pathologies by
      physical examination, standard radiography or even CT-scans. In this context, many authors
      have well documented the value of ankle arthroscopy. Ankle arthroscopy is a standard
      minimally invasive technique that allows direct visualization of intraarticular structures
      without arthrotomy or malleolar osteotomy. In the last decades, it has become a safe and
      effective diagnostic and therapeutic procedure. In acute ankle fractures, arthroscopically
      assisted open reduction and internal fixation (AORIF) allows careful examination of the
      chondral aspects as well as the capsular and intraarticular ligaments. If necessary, the
      traumatic intraarticular pathologies can directly be addressed by removing loose bodies and
      ruptured ligaments extending into the joint, performing chondroplasty or micro fracturing if
      necessary. Furthermore, it allows a confirmation of the anatomic reduction without having any
      evidence that a supplementary ankle arthroscopy in acute ankle fracture treatment leads to a
      higher complication rate.

      Until today, there are only two randomized controlled trials evaluating the effect of
      additional ankle arthroscopy. Both studies available comparing ORIF to AORIF included only
      patients with isolated fractures of the distal fibula at the level of the syndesmosis only.
      These are the most simple fractures that are regularly treated operatively. Thodarson et al.
      compared ORIF treatment of distal fibula fractures supplemented with or without ankle
      arthroscopy and found that 8 of 9 patients had articular damage to the talar dome in the
      arthroscopy group. Only minimal arthroscopic treatment was required and no outcome
      differences were noted after a mean follow-up of 21 months. Takao et al. documented an
      osteochondral lesion (OCL) in 74% in the arthroscopic group. In their study, the mean AOFAS
      score was significantly better when patients were treated arthroscopically. Moreover, several
      studies could consistently document, that the intraarticular damage is more pronounced the
      more complex the fracture is. Consequently, one must assume a more distinctive effect of
      arthroscopy in more complex fractures involving two malleoli or more - when compared to
      simple fractures.

      Nevertheless, until now, the vast majority of ankle fractures are managed by open procedures
      only. Still, indications for AORIF are not clearly stated, and the effectiveness of AORIF
      compared with ORIF has not yet been determined for complex ankle fractures where the
      investigators would expect even better results as intraarticular lesions are more common in
      these fracture types. Moreover, the prognostic importance of traumatic articular lesions
      still remains unclear, although several studies suggest such injuries may be the source of
      functional deficits. Nevertheless, this concept seems to be intuitively comprehensible. In
      this context, only a prospective randomized study can sufficiently answer these open
      questions. Therefore, the investigators plan a randomized controlled trial intended to report
      the short-, midterm- and long-term follow-up of patients who underwent operative treatment of
      acute ankle fractures (AO A2, A3, B2, B3, C1-C3) - with and without ankle arthroscopy.
    
  