
    
      Asthmatics particularly obese have major constraints impeding regular physical activity and
      exercise. Indeed, the few studies that have resorted to the option of exercise in asthmatic
      patients also recognized the exacerbation of associated symptoms as a major limitation of
      this approach. Considering the other obstacles that are often involved, such as lack of time
      and motivation, inadequate social support and lack of access to facilities etc, it is
      therefore all the more necessary to design a simple, feasible and carefully tailored
      breathing exercise modality in obese patients with asthma, and to study its impact on the
      improvement of clinico-immunological parameters, lung function and overall quality of life.
      To this end, investigators have developed a safe and feasible light breathing exercise
      program for individuals with asthma based on our previous observations.

      Study Aims & Objectives:

      The investigators' main goal is to apply a well defined simple exercise program that includes
      physical and breathing exercise lessons and evaluate its effects on the improvement of
      clinico-immunological outcome in obese patients with asthma. There are three main objectives
      based on clinic-immunological outcome.

        1. To assess the improvement of asthma control, lung function and airways hyper-reactivity
           after the intervention.

        2. To test if the proposed intervention will result in the improvement of pro-inflammatory
           profiles.

        3. To determine if physical and psychological performances as well as health related
           quality of life are positively impacted by the proposed exercise modality.

      About 200 individuals with asthma will be enrolled in this study and divided into two groups:
      The intervention group and controls. The intervention group will receive standard asthma care
      along with breathing/mild physical exercise. The control group will be the asthmatic patients
      who are not willing to receive the exercise intervention. At study entry, participants will
      undergo a clinical assessment which includes physical exam, asthma control/ quality of life
      questionnaires, pulmonary function tests, and lung inflammation test (Exhaled Nitric Oxide).
      To monitor participants throughout the study, follow up visits will be done at 6, 12, 18 and
      24 weeks after starting the exercise. About 40 ml blood will be collected at baseline
      (pre-exercise) and two different time points (3 and 6 months of post-exercise). The blood
      samples will be used for pro-inflammatory profiles. Duration of the study will be three
      years.
    
  