
    
      The purpose of this study is to investigate the role of a naturally occuring hormone called
      ghrelin on appetite, energy expenditure and immune function in patients with cystic fibrosis.

      Theoretical framework:

      Despite advances in the molecular understanding of the disease, life-expectancy in Cystic
      Fibrosis (CF) remains severely limited. Reduced body-weight is associated with increased
      inflammatory lung damage and is a major predictor of mortality in CF patients. Malnutrition
      is highly prevalent in the CF population and results from both poor food intake and excessive
      energy expenditure. A therapy which improves nutrition may therefore have a significant
      effect on the prognosis of this disease. Ghrelin is the only physiological circulating factor
      that is known to increase food intake. Administration of acylated ghrelin to humans increases
      both hunger and food intake and has been found to increase appetite in chronic disease states
      associated with anorexia and weight loss (such as cancer and chronic renal disease). From
      multiple animal and in vitro human studies, ghrelin also appears to have anti-inflammatory
      properties which would potentially benefit CF patients in whom a chronic inflammatory state
      promotes lung destruction, malnutrition and increases mortality. Ghrelin replacement may
      therefore improve nutrition and decrease the inflammatory burden in CF patients, leading to
      an improvement in life-expectancy. If ghrelin is identified as having an important
      pathophysiological role in CF it may lead to a future study of its efficacy as a therapeutic
      agent.

      Design Methodology: The study has three sections:

        1. a cross sectional study of the levels of blood metabolic signals in participants with
           cystic fibrosis and healthy controls.

        2. a laboratory study of the effect of ghrelin on immune cells extracted from the blood of
           participants with cystic fibrosis and healthy controls

        3. a cross-over interventional study of repeated ghrelin administration in malnourished
           cystic fibrosis patients
    
  