
    
      More than half of world population are H.pylori carriers. The infection is mostly acquired in
      childhood and persists lifelong. A notable risk factor is a lower social and economic status
      during childhood reflecting mostly poor hygienic standard or small and dense living area.
      Newly acquired infections in adulthood are a rarity. The reservoir of H. Pylori is the human
      stomach. H. pylori is considered to be the main pathogen involved in causing benign peptic
      ulcer and functional dyspepsia as well as gastric cancer. The treatment of H. Pylori
      infection is currently complicated by an increase in antimicrobial resistance in different
      parts of the world. Corresponding increase in clarithromycin as well as quinolone and
      metronidazole resistance poses a major clinical problem and calls for a new approach to
      treatment. Under such circumstances there is an emerging trend towards personalized
      eradication therapy. Since H. Pylori infection is an infectious disease its optimal treatment
      should both theoretically and practically be based on the specific characteristics of the
      strain and if possible the host of the infection. The aim of such an approach should be a
      better eradication efficacy.

      Non-bismuth quadruple therapies have been proposed as potential strategies in improving the
      efficacy of first-line treatments. The non-bismuth quadruple therapy in its concomitant
      variant consists of proton pump inhibitor, amoxicillin, nitroimidazole and clarithromycin
      given concurrently twice daily. As a result of concurrent administration this therapy has
      given better results according to some studies in comparison to sequential variants. However,
      this therapy, as well suffers from the aforementioned increase in antibiotic resistance.
      Therefore, the aim of this study was to compare concomitant non-bismuth quadruple therapy
      with a tailored therapy based on antibiotic strain susceptibility testing assuming that
      eradication rate with tailored therapy will be above 90%.
    
  