
    
      Implant supported overdenture can provide better mastication force than complete denture but
      less than the normal teeth . Most of the patient reported that implant supported overdenture
      has many superior features over the conventional complete denture in stability and retention
      Key factors related to successful treatment with overdentures include the number, location,
      and distribution of implants and choice of abutment. While the use of parallel implants that
      are widely distributed is generally desirable for optimal treatment, patients often present
      with challenging anatomical features, insufficient bone volume in all dimensions, and/or
      critical anatomy that precludes ideal placement of dental implants. Some clinicians may
      consider the ideal placement of implants for overdentures as parallel to each other and
      perpendicular to the occlusal plane of the denture Anatomical features associated with
      mandibular or maxillary edentulous ridges can range from straight or rounded to irregular and
      sharp ridges, and variability in bone width may limit potential implant sites for
      overdentures. Factors such as narrow bone volume, the inferior alveolar nerve being anterior
      or superior positioned, extensive bony undercuts, the inferior portion of the maxillary
      sinus, proximity to high-risk vascular structures, or a patient's desire to avoid additional
      surgical procedures may prompt a clinician to angulate a dental implant, which could result
      in the positioning of implants in non-ideal configurations.

      Excessive angulation, increased maintenance and wear of inserts, and difficulty maintaining
      hygiene. Increased angulation may result in greater challenges to inserting and removing the
      prosthesis, which can become difficult for patients who are older and/or have limited
      dexterity. This challenge also can make it hard for patients to properly clean the inside of
      the retentive portion of the stud-style abutment and may increase wear of the retentive
      inserts Resilient Ball attachment most commonly used Ball attachment the simplest of all stud
      attachments which widely used because it is practical, effective, relatively low cost, less
      technique sensitive, ease of handling, minimal chair side time requirements and their
      possible applications with both root and implant-supported prostheses so it is used with
      non-splinted implants in clinical studies, it has been shown that changes in the retention of
      the prostheses occurred frequently. Both decrease and considerable increase in retention
      occurred as a result of attachment abrasion and micro movements during the mastication
      process The ball attachments showed only a few minor, easy manageable complications. Four out
      of 36 attachments gave reason for treatment. Two matrices loosened out of the mandibular
      denture and had to be fastened by adding acrylic resin after 1 and 4 weeks of loading. One
      patrix part of the ball attachment unsettled after 2 days of loading and was refastened. One
      ball attachment matrix lost its retention capacity and had to be reactivated after a period
      of 2 weeks. All these complications occurred in subjects where the implants were not
      perfectly parallel to each other positioned in the mandible. The loading conditions of these
      attachments were therefore not as favorable as for more parallel inserted implants A lack of
      parallelism of the implants creates considerable wear of the rubber rings in a relatively
      short time span.

      Rhein 83, Italy, also has developed Smart Box, which could be used with the OT Equator in
      patients of extreme divergencies among the implants. The Smart Box has an inner tilting
      mechanism that enables a passive insertion with divergent implants up to 50 degrees(159).
    
  