
    
      Lesotho is among countries with the highest HIV prevalence worldwide, with an estimated
      prevalence of HIV among pregnant women of 25.8% in 2013. In April 2013, Lesotho transitioned
      from the WHO "Option A" strategy to implementation of "Option B+" (lifelong ART for all
      HIV-positive women) strategy for PMTCT, in the context of a program that is integrated into
      MCH services. Through this study, the investigators propose to evaluate a package of
      interventions to provide enhanced individualized counseling and community support within a
      coordinated system of training and accountability to optimize the delivery of patient-focused
      services using PHDP principles within the routine PMTCT/MCH program in Lesotho.

      The study will be conducted in 12 health facilities in Maseru district.

      The proposed intervention will focus efforts to improve the effectiveness of existing VHW and
      HIV support organizations (LENASO, M2M) based at the facility and coordination between the
      facility and community. The package includes:

        1. MCH staff, counselors, M2M/LENASO and VHWs meeting regularly to coordinate
           patient-focused and outcome-oriented PMTCT and MCH services to all women, with immediate
           follow-up of defaulters.

        2. Enhanced Positive Health, Dignity, and Prevention (PHDP)-focused counseling and
           skills-building training and job aids to improve the quality and consistency of
           counseling provided by all IMPROVE team members. Such individualized support will
           facilitate self-efficacy, support partner disclosure, provide screening and referral for
           depression, and provide linkages to community-based services.

        3. Increased early community-based counseling and support for all ANC attendees that will
           include 1 to 2 additional home or community visits at 2-7 days and/or 9-14 days after
           first ANC visit, with particular attention to HIV-positive women to minimize immediate
           and early loss to follow-up (LTFU).

      Aim and Objectives: The overall aim of this study is to improve maternal and child health
      outcomes by implementing and evaluating a multidisciplinary "Integrated Management Team to
      Improve Maternal-Child Outcomes (IMPROVE)" intervention to increase overall MCH, ART, and HIV
      service uptake and retention.

      Primary Objectives:

        1. To evaluate the effect of the IMPROVE intervention on retention in HIV care, viral
           suppression, and adherence to ART at 24 months postpartum in a prospective cohort of
           HIV-positive pregnant/postpartum women and their infants compared to a cohort of
           HIV-positive women receiving routine care alone.

        2. To evaluate the effect of the IMPROVE intervention on repeat HIV testing by 24 months
           postpartum in a prospective cohort of HIV-negative pregnant/postpartum women compared to
           a cohort of HIV-negative women receiving routine care alone.

        3. To evaluate the effect of the IMPROVE intervention on targeted MCH health seeking
           behaviors (e.g., facility delivery, child immunization) in both HIV-positive and
           HIV-negative women compared to women receiving routine care alone.

        4. To determine the costs associated with the IMPROVE package of interventions for both
           HIV-positive and HIV-negative women compared to HIV-positive and HIV-negative women
           receiving routine care without the IMPROVE intervention.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To assess additional MCH outcomes (e.g., ANC attendance, infant mortality, maternal
           mortality); other HIV prevention indices (e.g., disclosure, knowledge of partner status,
           identification of discordant couples); unintended pregnancy prevention indices (e.g.,
           use of modern contraceptives, repeat pregnancy, fertility intentions); and other indices
           of HIV care (e.g., timing of infant diagnosis, number of infected infants) among
           HIV-positive and HIV-negative women receiving the IMPROVE intervention versus those
           receiving routine care alone.

        2. To compare depression, experienced stigma, and self-efficacy among both HIV-positive
           (treatment self-efficacy) and HIV-negative women (HIV prevention self-efficacy) in the
           intervention and control facilities.

        3. To compare pregnant/postpartum women's attitudes toward lifelong ART (HIV-positive
           only), acceptability of the IMPROVE intervention (intervention facilities only), and
           satisfaction with PMTCT/MCH services among both HIV-positive and HIV-negative women in
           intervention and control facilities.

        4. To assess HCW, counselor, and VHW attitudes toward the feasibility and acceptability of
           integrating the IMPROVE package in routine services.

        5. To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the IMPROVE intervention on retention in HIV care,
           viral suppression and adherence to ART, HIV retesting, and uptake of family planning and
           child immunizations at 24 months postpartum in a prospective cohort of
           pregnant/postpartum women and their infants compared to a similar cohort of women and
           infants receiving routine care without the IMPROVE intervention.

      Hypotheses:

        1. HIV-positive women in facilities with IMPROVE versus routine care will have higher
           adherence and retention in HIV care.

        2. HIV-negative women in facilities receiving the IMPROVE intervention will have an
           increase in HIV re-testing in the postpartum period.

        3. HIV-positive and HIV-negative women in facilities with IMPROVE versus routine care will
           show improvement in health seeking behavior, leading to improved maternal and infant
           outcomes.

        4. The IMPROVE intervention is a cost-effective approach to improve health outcomes among
           HIV-positive and HIV -negative pregnant/postpartum women and their infants.

      Data gathering activities: The study will be conducted in Maseru district, which is large and
      representative of a variety of settings within Lesotho. Maseru has one of the highest HIV
      prevalence rates and the lowest PMTCT and MCH indicator coverage rates in Lesotho. Twelve
      health facilities serving between 150-900 pregnant women annually from Maseru district were
      purposefully selected to reflect a common range of ANC volumes while allowing for timely
      recruitment of the sample size of HIV-positive women needed during the enrollment period.
      Pregnant women attending their first ANC visit at a study health facility will be eligible
      for enrollment in a prospective cohort and followed until 24 months' post-partum. Because the
      study intervention begins at the first ANC visit with enhanced counseling and close follow-up
      at home within the next week, the study will only enroll women who are attending ANC for
      their first visit. The investigators will enroll ~310 HIV-positive and 200 HIV-negative women
      in each arm over 10-15 months, for a total of 1020 participants.

      After obtaining written informed consent, pregnant women will be enrolled in the study into
      either the IMPROVE intervention arm or control arm depending on the facility the woman
      attends. At enrollment, women will undergo an interview to collect demographic, pregnancy,
      medical and HIV related information. Clinical and laboratory data will be abstracted from
      clinic medical records. After the enrollment visit, women/infants will be seen by study staff
      for study specific visits during ANC at the next ANC visit after enrollment or sooner if late
      in gestation (timing depends on gestational age at first visit), around the time of delivery,
      6 and 14 weeks and 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24 months postpartum. Study visits will be scheduled to
      coincide with routine health service visits to the clinic for the mother or child as much as
      possible. At each study visit, a participant interview and abstraction of clinical and
      laboratory data from medical records will be conducted.

      Study nurses will be present in each study facility and will be responsible for the
      collection and maintenance of study records and data. Informed consent documents, study
      screening/enrollment logs, and participant locator forms that include identifiable
      information will be completed at enrollment and stored in a locked secure location in the
      health facility with access limited to study staff. Multivariate random-effects 2-stage model
      (level-1: individual, level-2: cluster) logistic regression will be used to compare
      proportional outcomes between intervention and control groups. Time to event outcomes will be
      analyzed using survival analysis approaches. An "intent to treat" analysis will be used.
      Descriptive analyses will be used for the assessment of the fidelity to the IMPROVE
      intervention implementation over time and secondary outcomes that are likely to be infrequent
      and thus with limited power to detect differences (such as mortality, HIV infection rates in
      children, seroincidence, repeat pregnancies, etc.) The evaluation results will be presented
      as either odds ratios or hazard ratios (for the time-to-event analysis), and 95% confidence
      intervals.

      Risks and Benefits to Participants: There may or may not be direct benefits to study
      participants. However, possible benefits to the participants include close monitoring that
      may identify problems sooner, screening and referral for depression, additional viral load
      monitoring for HIV-positive women, and potential receipt of improved service delivery for
      women in IMPROVE intervention facilities.

      The study poses minimal safety risks to the study participants. The services are being
      conducted in the framework of routine MCH services. The intervention addresses mainly service
      delivery changes that do not subject study participants to risks outside of what would be
      expected within routine services. Potential risks include the potential for unintended
      disclosure of mother and infant's HIV status. All efforts will be made to conduct interviews
      in private to protect participant confidentiality.

      Women enrolled in the IMPROVE study will be identified by their unique study identifier, and
      data collection and forms will be linked to the patient using this unique identifier only.
      Study participants will not receive any compensation or incentive for participating in the
      study.

      Qualitative data collection: A subset of women participating in the study (~ 40 in each arm)
      will be asked to undergo semi-structured interviews for a total of about 80 semi-structured
      interviews. These will include approximately 20 HIV-positive and 20-HIV negative women in
      each of the intervention and control arms. Women attending their 18 or 24 month visit during
      the time that the qualitative component is underway will be randomly selected to participate
      in a semi-structured interview. Focus Group Discussions (FGDs) will be used to gather
      information about the HCW and VHW/LENASO/M2M experiences, with separate FGD for the two
      cadres. Sources of qualitative data will be the open-ended responses from interviews and
      FGDs. All qualitative data will be entered into Microsoft Word as data files and analyzed
      using MAXqda or another similar qualitative data analysis program. Prior to beginning study
      procedures for this component of the study, verbal informed consent will be documented for
      all individuals participating in interviews by study staff trained in protocol and ethical
      procedures.

      Costing data collection: The cost-effectiveness component of the study will measure the
      cost-effectiveness of the IMPROVE intervention in achieving positive health outcomes among
      pregnant/postpartum women and their infants. The endpoints of the study relevant to the
      cost-effectiveness analysis are: 1) retention through 24 months postpartum 2) ART adherence
      among HIV-positive women, 3) viral load suppression among HIV-positive women 4) rate of HIV
      re-testing among HIV-negative women (5) rate of family planning uptake (6) rate of
      immunization uptake. These will be among the inputs used to compute Quality of Life Years
      (QALYs) gained per woman.

      The outcomes will be measured in terms of incremental cost per QALY gained per HIV-positive
      woman, cost per infection averted per HIV-exposed infant, cost per QALY gained per HIV
      exposed infant, cost per adult HIV infection averted, cost per birth averted, and cost per
      child death averted.

      The outcomes will be computed using the OneHealth Tool and data compiled from the primary
      endpoints. The cost estimation will include a summation of the IMPROVE intervention package
      plus the sum of costs incurred by participants (pregnant and postpartum women and infants)
      for service provision less any cost savings achieved through (1) productivity losses averted
      and (2) costs averted per treatment (or prevention) of disease.
    
  