
    
      Due to population aging and advances in medicine and public health, the prevalence of people
      affected by progressive, chronic, life-limiting diseases is increasing. Many studies
      documented that patients with progressive chronic diseases received care that was more aimed
      at the prolongation of life than palliation of symptoms during their last 6-12 months of
      life, as well as frequent hospitalizations. These data suggested that providing palliative
      care (PC) to these patients may improve their end-of-life care while reducing costs by
      minimizing futile treatments and unwanted ICU care.

      Consequently, there is a strong need for acute care hospitals to more vigorously identify
      patients entering the final phase of their lives as well as their specific care needs.

      Historically, Hospice and PC services have focused on the needs of cancer patients. However,
      the majority of patients needing PC worldwide suffer from life-limiting non-cancer illnesses,
      like cardiovascular diseases, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), renal failure,
      cirrhosis of the liver, Alzheimer's and other dementias, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's
      disease, HIV/AIDS, rheumatoid arthritis, and diabetes. The main illnesses requiring PC are
      cardiovascular diseases (38%), cancer (34%), and COPD (10%).

      In order to correctly identify such patients, adequate screening tools are needed.

      In a previous study, the investigators employed for this aim a screening tool derived from
      the Italian Society of Anesthesia, Analgesia, Resuscitation, and Intensive Care (SIAARTI)
      position paper based on expert panel opinions reporting criteria to identify patients with
      end-stage chronic organ failures. For cancer patients, the screening was done according to
      specific clinical indicators elaborated by the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN).
      A Simplified Screening Tool was also created, in order to make available an easier instrument
      for the same aim.

      The SIAARTI/NCCN screening tool (Extended Screening Tool - EST) is, in fact, an instrument
      validated by many scientific societies, but it is very articulated and its compilation is too
      much time-consuming. The Simplified Screening Tool (SST) has been created through a
      statistical process in order to include all the critical variables, with the advantage of
      being shorter and therefore easier to administer in a routinely use.

      The aim of the current study is to demonstrate that the SST has accuracy comparable to that
      of the SIAARTI/NCCN tool in identifying chronically ill patients in need of a PC approach,
      thus making available an easily manageable tool for the assessment of PC needs in chronically
      ill patients.

      In order to do this, every enrolled patient will be administered both the SST and the
      SIAARTI/NCCN tool, in a randomized sequence.

      After completion of the enrollment and data collection, an appropriate statistical
      methodology will be employed for the comparison between the established SIAARTI/NCCN tool and
      the SST.
    
  