
    
      This study will be a community-based cluster randomized controlled trial. All communities in
      the Upper Manya Krobo District (UMKD) that are accessible 12 months of the year (with the
      exception of 19 communities that are participating in an agriculture-education intervention)
      will be considered eligible. These communities (n =168) will be stratified based on
      sub-district and the median community population size for the sub-district. Four communities
      will be randomly selected from each sub-district: two large and two small communities. These
      24 communities will then be randomly assigned to active or passive radio engagement.

      Each community will be considered a cluster. To achieve a total sample of 1258 caregivers, 52
      women per cluster will be enrolled. If researchers are unable to enroll the sample size in
      one community, the cluster will be expanded to include the closest village and enrolment will
      continue until the sample size is achieved.

      Enrolment strategy. A census of all communities was completed in 2013 and will be used to
      decide on the selection strategy. Field workers a priori will randomly select the 52
      households in each cluster (only one mother per household, randomly chosen if there is > 1).
      If the selected household does not have a child < 5 y of age, the closest house will be
      approached. This will continue until enrolment is completed.

      Data Collection Procedures

      Phase 1: Baseline survey

      A baseline survey will be carried out to document the prevailing IYC feeding knowledge,
      attitudes and practices of caregivers using a semi-structured questionnaire. Questions will
      cover:

        -  socio-demographic information

        -  radio ownership and listening practices

        -  exposure to other sources of nutrition education in the district

        -  IYC feeding knowledge and practices

        -  knowledge and awareness about anaemia

        -  knowledge and awareness about undernutrition

        -  knowledge, attitudes and practices about water, sanitation, and hygiene

      Phase 2: Formative research

      The formative research will begin in only the active engagement communities.

      The total sample for the formative research will be no more than 144 women with children
      under 5 years of age 144 men with children under 5 years of age, and 144 elderly women who
      take care of children under 5 years of age. Participation will be solicited at a
      community-wide meeting to explain the project. Interested individuals will be included until
      the sample size is reached. Written informed consent will be obtained as noted below.

      Participation in the formative research will include:

      (i) Farm Radio International (implementers of the mass media programming) will carry out the
      focus groups to determine the beliefs, attitudes, and constraints that prevent caregivers
      from adequately feeding their infants and young children. In addition, information on
      radio-listening habits, time preference for programmes, and formats that are of interest to
      the communities will be collected. Information gathered will be used to design radio
      nutrition and health messages and jingles that directly address the IYC feeding challenges in
      the area. Three focus group discussions will be undertaken in each of the 12 active radio
      engagement communities. The focus groups will include 8-12 individuals each, for the
      following groups: i) women with children under 5 years of age ii) men with children under 5
      years of age iii) elderly women who take care of children under 5 years of age (grandmothers,
      great aunts)

      (ii) These same participants from the focus groups will be followed up and will take part in
      monthly and quarterly assessments of the radio programming using semi-structured
      questionnaires. The aims of these assessments are:

      i) obtain feedback from community members to improve content the radio messages, ii)
      determine whether the messages are being received as intended, and iii) assess intermediary
      adoption of messages

      Phase 3: Intervention

      The interactive radio education intervention will involve weekly radio programming with local
      radio stations on key nutrition and health topics for up to 18 months. The topics will be
      consistent with the Ministry of Health's community nutrition and health education messages.
      The programme will be repeated once every week. The intensity of the intervention for an
      individual will differ based on the assignment of the participant's community:

      See description of the active and passive arms.

      Phase 4: Post-intervention survey

      An endline survey will be carried out within a maximum of 3 months after the end of the mass
      media intervention, to determine the effect of the intervention on IYC feeding and sanitation
      knowledge, attitudes and practices of caregivers. The questions will cover:

        -  recollection of key messages (free recall-no probes)

        -  self-reported level of engagement with radio programming

        -  exposure to other sources of nutrition education in the district

        -  IYC feeding knowledge and practices

        -  knowledge and awareness about anaemia

        -  knowledge and awareness about undernutrition

        -  knowledge, attitudes and practices about water, sanitation and hygiene The endline
           survey will be completed with all 1258 women who participated in the baseline survey.

      Data Analysis Focus Group Data All recordings of the focus group discussions will transcribed
      from the local language (Krobo and Twi) to English and analyzed using N-Vivo version10. The
      thematic content analysis approach will be used to analyze the data. Common themes emerging
      from the discussions will be grouped and the results summarized based on these themes.
      Selected quotes of participants will also be presented.

      Change from baseline in self-reported knowledge, attitudes and practices. All analysis will
      be by intention-to-treat basis. Analyses will be performed on individual level summaries
      using a difference-in-difference (DiD) approach. For each target knowledge, attitude and
      behavior, the reported prevalence will be estimated at baseline and endline, and the
      difference between surveys calculated. ANOVA tests will be used to detect differences in
      caregiver infant and young child feeding knowledge, attitudes and practices between
      intervention group and control group while adjusting for important baseline characteristics
      and the effect of cluster.
    
  