
    
      The anatomy of the paranasal sinuses is important for many surgeon groups. The precise
      knowledge of such structures with variable anatomy will be important for the preservation of
      these structures and the management of complications in surgeries such as endoscopic sinus
      surgery and osteotomies involving the maxilla such as Le Fort osteotomies. The
      maxillomandibular complex is often affected by developmental problems and growth problems,
      and unilateral, bilateral, horizontal, vertical and / or transverse deficiencies are
      observed. Treatment of this complex is often performed by surgical intervention involving one
      or both jaws. In surgeries involving the maxilla, maxillary sinuses are affected by the
      surgery and affect the course of surgery. Paranasal sinuses are also very important
      structures for closely related endoscopic sinus surgeries. Detailed preoperative
      investigation is crucial for patient selection and hence desired outcome. Study was conducted
      in Ankara University Faculty of Dentistry with Ethical approval number:08/03. Computed
      tomography scans of 120 patients (59 maxillary deficiency patients and 61 healthy controls)
      were included in the study. CT scan indications for the group with maxillary deficiency was
      surgical preparation for Le Fort I osteotomy. The control group had no maxillary deficiency
      and CT images were obtained for several reasons such as temporomandibular disease,
      preparation for orthodontic treatment, obstructive sleep apnea and also paranasal sinus
      imaging Patients with a history of trauma in the midline skull base were excluded.
      Statistically significant results were obtained between groups for ethmoid and maxillary
      sinus volumes (left and right). Ethmoid and maxillary sinus volumes (left and right) were
      smaller in the Le Fort group. No statistically significant differences were present for
      sphenoid sinus volume of two groups and for the left and right maxillary sinus volumes in
      both groups.
    
  