
    
      This is a clinical trial, in which adult obese volunteers aged 20-59 years will be evaluated,
      which will be randomized into two groups: training group (GT) and control group (CG). Both
      groups should meet the following inclusion criteria: Age between 20 and 59 years, BMI> 35 and
      <55 kg / m², with clinical stability, able to perform the physical tests and acceptance to
      participate in the study. Women with reports of decompensated heart disease, chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease and asthma will be excluded; musculoskeletal and / or
      neuromuscular changes, which make it impossible to perform the tests. The evaluations will
      occur in two days with at least 48 hours of interval between them, within a period of seven
      days, before and after the respiratory muscle training of four weeks. In addition to
      anamnesis, the initial evaluation will include assessment of pulmonary function (SLF, forced
      vital capacity (FVC) and maximal voluntary ventilation (VVM)) by spirometry; respiratory
      muscle evaluation through the measures of Maximum Inspiratory Pressure (PIMax) and maximal
      sustained inspiratory pressure (PIMaxS); physical fitness assessment through the 6-minute
      step test (TD6), incremental shuttle walking test (ISWT) and Sentar e Levantar (SL) test, as
      well as assessment of dyspnea. For the TMI will be used equipment with pressure threshold
      pressure. During the 4-week period, the IMT will be performed 5 days a week and will consist
      of 2 series with 30 inspirations. Inspirations will be performed slowly and protracted. The
      training load will be 55% of the PIMáx readjusted weekly. Statistical analysis will be
      performed using BioEstat version 5.3. To evaluate the normality of distribution of the data
      will be used Shapiro-Wilk test. For the comparison of all variables studied, the Student's
      t-test or the Mann-Wittney test will be used. Pre- and post-training parametric results will
      also be compared statistically using variance analyzes of two variables (group × time)
      (ANOVA). Bonferroni tests will be used to examine differences between groups when indicated
      by ANOVA. The significance level of 5% will be adopted for all analyzes (P <0.05) where the
      data will be expressed as mean and standard deviation.
    
  