
    
      Many Pd patients are non-adherent to their treatments. Because Pd patients are generally over
      60 years old, suffer from cognitive disorders, and have complex medication regimens, taking
      medications as prescribed is a too complex cognitive task for them. It supposes the ability
      to understand the prescription, to plan and memorize the actions to carry out and to remember
      them while executing them. As prescriptions are communicated to patients via procedural
      documents, it should be possible to improve patient's comprehension by using a format
      suitable for their needs and characteristics. Previous studies with elderly people suggest
      that the table format is more effective than the textual format. However no study addressed
      this question with Pd patients.

      One-hundred and twenty patients with Parkinson's disease and 120 healthy volunteers
      participate voluntarily to the study. Their task consists in reading on a touch screen, or on
      a tablet, two fictive medication prescriptions. One is presented in a table format and the
      other in a textual format. Each prescription comprises two regular medications (same doses
      and moments of the day) and two irregular medications (different doses or different moments).
      For each prescription, participants must fill a virtual pillbox displayed on the screen as
      prescribed in the prescription. Prescriptions and pillboxes are displayed by a tablet
      software specifically designed to record in real time all participant's actions and related
      chronometric data. Half participants perform the task in the " tablet condition ", and the
      other half in the " touch-screen " condition. In the touch-screen condition an eye-tracker is
      used to record eye fixations and scanpaths in real time. Once the 2nd pillbox filling is
      finished a battery of cognitive tests and questionnaires is administered to participants to
      identify Pd subtypes of impaired performances.

      The main hypothesis predicts an effect of the format of prescriptions. More precisely, it
      consists in two concurrent hypotheses. H1a (the mental model model hypothesis): the table
      format should facilitate the pillboxes filling in the parkinsonian group and in the healthy
      volunteer group by facilitating the elaboration of an accurate mental model. H1b (the working
      memory load hypothesis): because parkinsonian patients are frequently impaired in
      visuospatial tasks, the tabular format could have no effect or could have a negative effect
      only in this group. A correlation between cognitive subtypes identified by cluster analyses
      and task performances is expected. Several secondary hypotheses will be tested.
    
  