
    
      Gait impairment and postural instability constitute major sources of disability in Parkinson
      disease (PD). Increased level of dependence in activities of daily living and augmented risk
      of falling are the main consequences. About 87% of patients experience at least one fall
      during their illness, 65% an injury that requires evaluation in an emergency room, and up to
      33% sustain one or more fractures.

      Pedunculopontine nucleus, locus ceruleus, frontal brain cortex, and striatum play a critical
      role in gait and balance, with dopamine, noradrenaline and acetylcholine as the main
      neurotransmitters. Therefore, increased availability of dopamine in the nigrostriatal
      pathway, and enhanced disposal of central noradrenaline and acetylcholine in the locus
      ceruleus can in theory, contribute to improvement .

      Methylphenidate and atomoxetine are dopamine and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors approved
      for the treatment of attention disorders. Interestingly, growing literature suggests a
      promising role of these medications in gait and balance in PD. Three open-label studies
      reported efficacy of methylphenidate in gait impairment in patients with PD. Auriel et al
      used a single 20 mg dose of methylphenidate in 23 patients and found an improvement in gait
      speed, stride time variability, and timed gait. In a second study, 5 patients received a
      single 10-mg dose of methylphenidate and improvements were noted in total walking time, total
      freezing time, number of freezing episodes, and nonfreezing walking time. Another study,
      which evaluated a 50 to 80 mg dose of methylphenidate over 3 months in 17 patients undergoing
      concomitant deep brain stimulation, found an improvement in both timed gait and in the number
      of freezing episodes.

      However, the only randomized clinical trial with methylphenidate showed a different result.
      Twenty-three subjects with PD and moderate gait impairment were screened for this 6- month,
      placebo-controlled, double-blind study. Subjects were randomly assigned to high dose of
      methylphenidate (maximum, up to 80 mg/day) or placebo for 12 weeks and crossed over after a
      3-week washout. The primary outcome measure was change in a gait composite score obtained
      through GAITrite (a system that was developed to measure and record temporal and spatial
      parameters of gait by using a walkway approximately 3 meters long with grids of embedded,
      pressure-sensitive sensors connected to a personal computer). Seventeen patients completed
      the trial. There was no change in the gait composite score or any of the secondary or
      exploratory variables such as fatigue, freezing, depression and daily sleepiness at 12 weeks;
      however, some improvement was noted in the early phase of the study.

      The discrepancy between the results of the open label studies and the randomized study may be
      explained by dose of methylphenidate substantially higher in the RCT compared to the first
      two open-label studies. Whereas patients in the RCT received at least 65 mg/day, patients in
      the first two open-label studies received 10-20 mg/day. It is been suggested that the
      efficacy of methylphenidate and atomoxetine varies according to the dose administrated. The
      complex pharmacodynamic of dopamine and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors in the presence of
      other dopaminergic therapies such as Levodopa or dopamine agonist, can elicit differences in
      response regarding the administered dose . During the early phase of the RCT when a trend
      improvement was noted, smaller doses of methylphenidate were being used as the patients were
      being titrated to their final dose. Low chronic doses of methylphenidate have not been tested
      to improve gait and balance in PD in any trial.

      In the one pilot study thus far evaluating atomoxetine for gait freezing, a trend towards
      improvement in the gait and balance scale (GABS) was noted. However, this study was
      underpowered as only five patients participated in the study .

      Simultaneously, diverse modalities of physical therapy (PT) have shown improvement in gait
      and balance in PD. A systematic review from Cochrane database concluded that different
      physiotherapy interventions were better than placebo over three months, in terms of velocity,
      two- or six-minute walk test, step length, Timed Up & Go, Functional Reach Test, Berg Balance
      Scale and clinician-rated UPDRS. The grade of improvement varied depending on the
      intervention and outcome measure, ranging from 10 to 30%.

      To the best of the investigators' knowledge, the combination of medication and physical
      therapy has never been evaluated previously in gait and balance in PD.
    
  