
    
      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to gender, concurrent
      radiosensitizing chemotherapy (yes vs no), and age (< 60 years vs ≥ 60 years). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive doxepin hydrochloride oral rinse (swish, gargle, and spit)* over
           1 minute on day 1. Patients may crossover to arm II on day 2.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive placebo oral rinse (swish, gargle, and spit)* over 1 minute on
           day 1.

      Patients may crossover to arm I on day 2. The primary and secondary objectives are detailed
      below.

      Primary Objective:

      Determine whether doxepin oral rinse is effective in reducing OM-related pain in patients
      undergoing RT to the oral cavity, as measured by a patient-reported questionnaire at 5,15,
      30, 60, 120 and 240 minutes

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. Assess the adverse event profile of doxepin rinse using a patient-reported questionnaire
           at 5, 15, 30, 60, 120 and 240 minutes for domains of unpleasant taste, burning or
           stinging discomfort, and drowsiness.

        2. Compare the incidence of using alternative analgesics before 4 hours, between the
           doxepin oral rinse and placebo arms.

        3. Assess patient preference for continued therapy with oral rinse after initial test rinse
           or after the cross-over phase.

      NOTE: * Patients are instructed to avoid taking medications for mucositis pain 60 minutes
      before and after study medication.

      After completing study therapy, patients have the option to receive doxepin hydrochloride
      oral rinse every 4 hours as needed during radiotherapy.

      Patients complete questionnaires at baseline, and at 5, 15, 30, 60, 120, and 240 minutes
      after study medication. Patients who choose to continue doxepin hydrochloride oral rinse also
      complete weekly questionnaires.
    
  