
    
      The study included 40 participants, students of Dental Medicine at the School of Medicine, of
      the University of Split. There were a total of 12 males and 28 females, aged between 20 and
      26 (mean age 23.18 ± 1.48). Subjects were divided into two equal groups, depending on the
      combination of the toothpaste used.

      In the first group, Sensodyne Classic (GlaxoSmithKline, UK) and Sensodyne Fluor
      (GlaxoSmithKline, UK) were the brands of toothpaste used, while in the second Plidenta 15
      Seconds (Neva Ltd., Croatia) and Plidenta Sensitive (Neva Ltd., Croatia) (Table 1).
      Participants have used toothpaste for four months. The first two months they used
      non-fluoride toothpaste, after which, for the next two months, they used toothpaste
      containing fluoride of the same manufacturer and similar composition. The tested kinds of
      toothpaste were applied twice a day, in the morning and evening, for three minutes in the
      amount of 1 g (≈2 cm). Contemporary, participants did not use other agents for oral hygiene
      such as mouthwash or topical fluoridation. A detailed medical and dental anamnesis were taken
      from each participant. In a structured questionnaire, tailored to this study all participants
      provided answers to questions related to demographic factors (age, gender), personal factors
      (general health, a medication used, radiation exposure), lifestyle (smoking, alcohol
      consumption) eating habits and oral hygiene habits. Individuals who smoked three or more
      cigarettes a day for at least a year were considered as smokers. Those individuals who
      consumed two or more alcohol units for three or more times a week were not included in the
      study as well as patients with oral lesions, history of malignancy, and those with removable
      and fixed prosthodontics, orthodontic appliances. The criterion for selecting participants
      was to be completely healthy with no systemic disorders and diseases.

      Sample collection Samples of buccal epithelial cells were collected from each participant
      using the swab technique immediately prior to the use of tested toothpaste and 30, 60, 90 and
      120 days after the beginning of the research (T0 - control prior to the use of tested
      toothpaste, T1- 30 days after the beginning of the use of non-fluoride toothpaste, T2 - 60
      days after the beginning of the use of non-fluoride toothpaste, T3 - 90 days after the
      beginning of the study, using fluoride toothpaste for 30 days, T4 - 120 days after the
      beginning of the study, using fluoride toothpaste for 60 days).

      One hour prior the sampling, the participants were asked to abstain from smoking and
      consuming any food and drinks. After rinsing of the oral cavity for three times with tepid
      water in order to remove exfoliated cells, a swab was taken by gently brushing the buccal
      mucosa bilaterally with a cytobrush (Cytobrush Plus, GmbH, Dietramszell-Linden, Germany) and
      then the samples were applied to coded laboratory glass slides pre-warmed at 37 °C.

      Micronucleus assay in buccal epithelial cells The cells applied on microscopic slides were
      allowed to air-dry and then were fixed in methanol (80% v/v) at 4°C for 20 minutes. Staining
      was carried out with 5% Giemsa solution for 10 minutes. Afterwards, the slides were rinsed
      with aqua distillate and air-dried.

      The analysis was done under a light microscope Olympus CX40 (Olympus, Tokyo, Japan) with a
      400× magnification, and each micronucleus and other nuclear anomalies were additionally
      verified under 1000× magnification. Two replicate slides were prepared for each subject, and
      1000 epithelium cells per preparation were scored for each sampling time.

      Statistical analysis Statistical analysis was done by using SPSS software package (IBM Corp.,
      Armonk, NY, USA). By descriptive statistical analysis, the basic statistical parameters
      (mean, standard error, and standard deviation, and relative standard deviation, median and
      minimum and maximum values) were determined. The differences in the number of micronuclei and
      other nuclear anomalies between different sampling times for each group and between the
      groups of examinees were tested by ANOVA and Tukey's HSD post hoc test using a general linear
      model procedure. General regression model (GRM) from linear/nonlinear modelling method was
      used for the assessment of the influence of the predictor variables (age, gender, and
      profession, use of medication, X-ray exposure, dietary habits, and lifestyle) onto dependent
      variables (micronucleus, binucleated cells, broken eggs, nuclear buds, pyknosis, condensed
      chromatin, karyolysis and karyorrhexis). The results of GRM are expressed in the form of
      Pareto charts of t values. A significance level was set at 0.05.
    
  