
    
      The aim of this study was to investigate the relationships between physical activity level
      and demographic factors, motor function, cognitive function, functional status, balance and
      quality of life in patients with chronic stroke and to compare physical activity levels with
      healthy individuals in the same population. It is a fact that the physical activity levels of
      individuals decrease significantly after stroke. However, there is no study examining to what
      extent the physical activity is affected and the factors related to the decrease in the level
      of physical activity. The primary aim of stroke rehabilitation is to recognize and prevent
      complications, to minimize disturbances, to maximize functions. Secondary objectives; to
      prevent stroke recurrence. Physical activity has been shown to reduce the risk of stroke,
      stroke severity and other consequences. The risk of a reduction in physical capacity occurs
      over time and it is assumed that normal physical activity can prevent recurrent stroke.
      Therefore, it is necessary to continuously assess physical activity levels after stroke. In
      order to increase physical activity levels, it is important to identify people with low
      levels of physical activity and to understand the factors that may be associated. Therefore,
      in this study, we aimed to provide a comprehensive analysis by including most of the factors
      that may be related to physical activity in patients with stroke. In this study, unlike
      previous studies on physical activity in stroke, the relationships between physical activity
      and factors such as motor function, quality of life and cognitive skills as well as balance
      measurements and walking speed parameters which will be obtained from computerised
      posturography will be examined. In previous studies Physical Activity Scale for Elderly
      (PASE) questionnaire or the accelerometer device are used for the measurement of physical
      activity level. In this study, both of these tools will be used and the correlation between
      these two assessment tools will be demonstrated. In this study, patients with stroke will be
      evaluated by using PASE scale and accelerometer results (accelerometer will be held from
      Monday to Friday) for physical activity and Mini Mental test for cognitive function, Fugl
      Meyer Scale for motor function, Berg Balance Test and computerized posturography analysis for
      balance, Barthel Index for daily activities, Stroke Impact Scale for quality of life,
      Brunnstrom stage for motor recovery status. Each of the tests lasts about 5-10 minutes.
      Healthy control group will also be assessed via accelerometer and PASE questionnaire for
      physical activity and computerized posturography for balance.

      With this study, physical activity which is protective for recurrent stroke, will be
      evaluated comprehensively and factors associated with physical activity will be revealed.
      Thus, in order to increase the physical activity, it will be concluded which factor should be
      treated or evaluated, and these results will be very helpful for further studies.
    
  