
    
      This is a single center, open label, prospective randomized pilot study to evaluate the
      capture threshold of His Bundle versus left bundle area pacing. Secondary analysis will focus
      on changes in left ventricular performance and mechanical synchrony. Symptomatic
      bradyarrhythmias are effectively treated with cardiac pacemakers.The amount of pacing by the
      lead positioned in the bottom chamber of the heart at traditional sites such as the right
      ventricular apex have been associated with increased rates of atrial fibrillation, heart
      failure, and mortality. Traditional pacing sites result in cardiac electromechanical
      dyssynchrony, for which alternate pacing sites to minimize these untoward effects have been
      sought. HIS bundle pacing, which utilizes a patient's native conduction, has demonstrated
      improved electrical synchrony and left ventricular function when compared to traditional
      pacing at the tip of the bottom chamber. Barriers to wide spread application to this
      technique include the His bundle anatomic location and its attendant difficulties associated
      with implant, as well as higher capture thresholds leading to decreased battery duration of
      the pacemaker. An alternative to HIS bundle pacing is placing the lead just past the HIS
      bundle area, which is further in the heart, and to actively fixate the lead into the
      interventricular septum. This is referred to as Left Bundle Pacing, as it may electrically
      capture the left bundle, which would simulate a patient's native conduction. The researchers
      will evaluate the two different pacing sites (HIS bundle and Left Bundle area sites) to
      determine how effectively the heart pumps with each pacing site.

      Patients requiring pacemaker implant will be screened for study eligibility and approached
      for informed consent. Baseline assessments including echocardiogram and ECG will be obtained.
      Once enrolled, the researchers will randomize patients to one of two arms. One arm will
      fixate the ventricular pacemaker lead to the HIS bundle area while the other arm will have
      the leads fixed into the left bundle area. The pacemaker wires will be connected in
      accordance with randomization group. The day after the procedure, a chest x-ray, EKG and
      pacemaker evaluation will be performed. An echocardiogram will be obtained at 3 months post
      procedure. At 6 and 12 months post procedure, EKG rhythm strips will be obtained from
      patients' standard of care remote pacemaker monitoring systems.
    
  