
    
      Eligible patients will be enrolled and treated with 4-week cycles of trastuzumab 2 mg/kg IV
      weekly (following a loading dose of 4 mg/kg in cycle 1) and paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 weekly x 3
      weeks followed by a rest period of 7 days. Dasatinib will be administered orally in two dose
      levels 100 and 140 mg once daily (a -1 dose level is included just in case dose de-escalation
      is needed). Treatment will be repeated on Day 1 of a 28-day cycle in all patients (both in
      the phase I as in the phase II) until radiographic or symptomatic progression or unacceptable
      toxicity occurs. Only in the phase I and in all patients included in every different dose
      level, the first cycle will last 38 days.

      Primary Objective:

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase II dose (RPD) of
           dasatinib in combination with fixed doses of trastuzumab and paclitaxel in HER2-positive
           MBC patients (Phase I).

        -  To determine the efficacy, measured by objective response rate (ORR) in HER2-positive
           MBC patients with measurable disease (Phase II).

      Secondary Objective(s):

        -  To characterize the safety of the combination (in both phase I and phase II).

        -  To evaluate the Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), Time to Progression (TTP), Progression Free
           Survival (PFS) and Response Duration (RD) (in the phase II).

        -  To evaluate the pharmacokinetics (PK) of the combination (in the phase I and selected
           patients in the phase II if necessary).

        -  To evaluate molecular characteristics that may be predictive of the activity (or lack
           of) and any correlation between the biological activity of the study treatment and the
           disease outcome.

      Exploratory objective:

      • To explore the correlation between the lymphocytosis and efficacy.

      Sample Size:

      Phase I: following the 3+3 rule, a minimum of 6 and a maximum of 12 patients will be
      recruited.

      Phase II:Assuming 10% drop-out rate, 48 patients are required to enter the study.

      The duration of the study, from first patient visit to last patient visit will be
      approximately 42 months.
    
  