
    
      Rationale: Propofol, a rapidly acting anaesthetic agent, is currently used unlicensed in the
      clinical care of (preterm) neonates as sedative for endotracheal intubation. Neonates receive
      the same propofol doses per kg bodyweight, independent of their developmental stage
      (gestational age, postnatal age), morbidity, co-medication, etc. This is related to a high
      failure rate of intubation attempts and leads to hypotension in around 40 percent of
      patients. Propofol research in newborn infants is on the recently published priority drug
      research list of the European Medicines Agency (EMA). Propofol metabolism and elimination
      (PK: pharmacokinetics) as well as propofol effects (PD: pharmacodynamics) highly depend on
      the stage of development and on the genetic make-up of a patient. This study is based on the
      hypotheses that currently used single doses of propofol for newborn infants can be optimized
      and that this will improve the quality of sedation and increase the safety of the patients.

      Objective: To determine effective and safe age specific propofol dosing guidelines for
      neonates of different age groups (both gestational age and postnatal age). Secondary
      objective is to determine a new age specific PK/PD (pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic),
      including a specific propofol genotype (pharmacogenetic analyses) that enables much better
      prediction of the effects and side-effects of propofol.

      Study design: Prospective single dose optimizing and dose validation study

      Study population: Neonates admitted at the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (gestational age 24 -
      42 weeks, post natal age < 28 days divided into 8 different age groups) that need
      (semi-)elective endotracheal intubation.

      Intervention (if applicable): Adapted propofol dose. Starting dose is dependent on effects of
      previously included patients. Dose is increased in case of insufficient sedation. Intubation
      is started only after sedation level is adequate (titration with additional propofol is
      possible because propofol is very fast acting)

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Primary outcome is the appropriate dose of propofol in 8
      different age groups. Optimized propofol doses need to be related with adequate sedation,
      good quality of intubation conditions and no short term side effects. Secondary endpoints
      include further evaluation of cerebral perfusion, stress levels and short and long term
      outcome of the included patients. The incorporation of PK data and genotype of patients is
      used to make a prediction model for future patients that includes various important
      cofactors, related to effects and side effects of propofol. Physiological and behavioural
      responses of the newborns are further explored to find the most reliable and validate
      neonatal sedation score for intubations.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      Propofol is used as a standard of care for sedation before intubation in newborn infants.
      Drug metabolism, drug transporters and drug receptors are not yet well developed in (preterm)
      newborn infants. Therefore PK/PD is very much dependent on the developmental stage of the
      newborn infant and though changes with age. This study can therefore not be done in another
      patient group (for instance older patients or healthy volunteers).

      Internationally used propofol starting doses in newborns vary between 1.0 to 2.5 mg/kg and
      are repeated if necessary. The current study will start with propofol doses of 1.0 mg/kg in
      every age group. If the study starting dose is insufficient, the patient will receive
      additional propofol doses (1.0 mg/kg) until adequate sedation is acquired. No patient will be
      intubated before adequate sedation is reached. This is possible because propofol is very fast
      acting (1-2 minutes).

      If the starting dose turns out to be insufficient in 5 patients per group it will be
      increased in the following patients of that group. The effect of an initial propofol dose is
      tested to find the optimal propofol doses for neonates in different developmental stages. The
      study will be continued until the appropriate dose for each age group is determined. The
      appropriate doses are re-used in another 5 patients per age group to validate the
      predetermined doses. Safety is monitored very intensively and if hypotension occurs this is
      immediately treated. The patient will benefit from this intensive safety monitoring, because
      side-effects will be detected earlier and can be more effectively treated.

      Included patients will be monitored with non-invasive techniques (videotaping, cranial
      ultrasound, aEEG, NIRS) next to the standard intensive care monitoring of physiological
      parameters.

      Blood samples will only be collected from indwelling arterial lines or during routine blood
      sampling because of normal patients care. An amount of 1.7 ml blood (0.5 ml for DNA analyses,
      2 times 0.6 ml for propofol PK analyses) is taken if possible. Two saliva samples for
      cortisol analyses will be collected.
    
  