
    
      Tinnitus refers to persistent "ringing in the ears" in absence of external sound. For some
      individuals tinnitus can be disabling. Most tinnitus is of idiopathic origin and currently
      there are no reliable treatment options available. Existing approaches, such as hearing aids,
      counseling, and noise masking typically provide only partial relief and only for a minority
      of patients. Newer exploratory methods include tailored auditory stimulation and various
      brain stimulation techniques. While these techniques show great promise in a subset of
      subjects (maybe about 1/3), it is hard to anticipate which, if any, will benefit a given
      patient.

      Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) has been explored for a number of neurological
      conditions, and it is most effective when paired with some form of training (e.g. motor rehab
      after stroke). For tinnitus however this treatment modality has only been tested in
      isolation. The purpose of this pilot study is to explore the benefits of combining tailored
      compensatory auditory stimulation with tDCS.

      There is widespread consensus in the research community that tinnitus originates with some
      peripheral hearing deficit, and that maladaptive central plastic mechanisms subsequently lead
      to the tinnitus percept. Most individuals with tinnitus have audiometric evidence of hearing
      loss. Our hypothesis is that reduced input to the auditory pathway leads to increased
      sensitivity (auditory gain) and finally aberrant activity in the frequency band with hearing
      loss. In this view, auditory stimulation that compensates for the reduced input can
      potentially revert the maladaptive plasticity.This is consistent with the reported benefits
      of hearing aids and tailored auditory stimulation. Our hypothesis is that tDCS can boost
      adaptation induced by compensatory auditory stimulation to reduce the strength of the phantom
      percept.
    
  