
    
      The primary goal of the N-FURIOUS pilot trial is to determine whether a nitrate intense
      strategy safely reduces congestion, defined by LUS B-lines, better than a diuretic intense
      strategy.

      This pilot trial is designed to provide the necessary and sufficient information for a
      larger, definitive trial.

      PUBLIC HEALTH IMPACT:

      Over one million hospitalizations for AHF occur every year in the US. Within 30 days after
      hospitalization, over 25% of AHF patients will be dead or re-hospitalized. By one year after
      hospitalization, up to 67% of patients will be re-hospitalized and 36% will be dead.
      Worldwide, the costs of AHF exceed 100 billion annually. For patients aged 65 years and
      older, AHF is the most common and most expensive reason for hospitalization. Despite major
      reductions in morbidity and mortality for chronic HF, considerably less progress has been
      seen in AHF.

      The emergency department (ED) initiates diagnosis and management for the vast majority of AHF
      patients. Nearly 80% of all admissions originate from the ED. Delays in diagnosis,
      misdiagnosis, and delayed or improper treatment are costly, associated with greater morbidity
      and mortality. Despite this crucial starting role, ED AHF pharmacological management today is
      largely the same as 40 years ago. In fact, guidelines state: "the treatment of AHF remains
      largely opinion-based with little good evidence to guide therapy." Consensus statements from
      the American Heart Association as well as a working group from the NHLBI on ED AHF management
      further corroborate this lack of evidence: "the evidence base on which this foundation of
      acute care is built is astonishly thin." There remains a critical unmet need for evidence
      based ED AHF management.

      Limitations of Current AHF Therapy:

      There are currently no Class I, Level of Evidence A therapeutic guideline recommendations for
      AHF, highlighting the unmet need. In fact, therapeutic recommendations from the ACCF/AHA
      begin with hospital based management, highlighting the absence of ED based evidence. The last
      ED based guidelines were published in 2007 and have yet to be updated. The investigators
      argue this lack of evidence leads to tremendous variation in ED care. Combined, this
      contributes to worse outcomes.

      Targeting Congestion in AHF:

      Freedom from congestion is associated with improved outcomes; yet many patients leave the
      hospital inadequately decongested. In fact, many patients leave the hospital without a
      pre-discharge assessment of congestion. The investigators would argue, many ED AHF patients
      are poorly assessed prior to hospitalization. The absence of robust, reliable methods to
      assess congestion is a primary reason why it is not assessed. A recent consensus statement
      published in 2010 highlights this fact: "…no method to assess congestion prior to discharge
      has been validated." While physical exam is currently the cornerstone of congestion
      assessment, it lacks sensitivity and inter-rater reliability. The ED is the beginning of AHF
      management for >75% of admitted patients; delays in diagnosis, misdiagnosis, and resultant
      delays in management are associated with greater morbidity and mortality.

      Initial Therapy:

      IV loop diuretics are the mainstay of AHF management. Yet emergency physicians are often
      reluctant to use IV loop diuretics, largely influenced by small studies and retrospective
      studies suggesting an association with harm. Nitrates are either recommended above diuretics
      or even to replace diuretics in popular blogs, podcasts, or online forums. Arguably, neither
      IV loop diuretics nor nitrates have definitive outcome data regarding efficacy or harm. This
      is evident in guidelines, where IV loop diuretics receive a class I, B indication, and
      nitrates a IIb, A recommendation. The evidence that does exist supports their use. Whether
      one should be used before another, both, how to combine them, and in whom, is not well
      defined.

      Lung Ultrasound as an Endpoint:

      For years, the lungs have been considered 'off-limits' to ultrasound: with aerated lungs, the
      ultrasound beam is reflected and scattered due to acoustic mismatch. However, in the setting
      of pulmonary congestion, extra vascular lung water (EVLW) can be directly visualized and
      quantitated. Lung ultrasound measurement of B-lines are an objective, semi-quantitative
      measure of extra vascular lung water (EVLW). B-lines are well-defined, vertical echogenic
      lines, originating from water-thickened interlobular septa. They are a marker of congestion.
    
  