
    
      Patients in this study will already be scheduled for surgery/ablation, or for chemotherapy
      and/or radiation treatment. Patients undergoing surgery/ablation will complete some
      questionnaires about their mood and quality of life. These questionnaires will happen about 6
      weeks after their procedure, during their scheduled visit to M.D. Anderson to follow-up after
      their surgery. Patients scheduled to receive chemotherapy and/or radiation treatment will
      complete the same questionnaires around the time of their new patient consult visit at M.D.
      Anderson. They should take about 60 minutes to complete. About 8 teaspoons of blood will be
      drawn to measure immune function.

      Patients will then be randomly picked (as in the toss of a coin) to be in one of two groups.
      One group will be the emotional expression writing group. The other group will be the neutral
      writing group.

      Patients in both groups will be asked to write for 20 minutes on different topics at four
      different times. They will be asked to complete all assignments in their home. They will
      choose four separate times when they would like to do the writing assignments and a research
      assistant will prompt them with a phone call at those times. During these phone calls,
      patients will complete a brief mood evaluation before the start of the writing session. After
      20 minutes, patients will receive another phone call to signal that they should stop writing.
      A second mood assessment will also be given at this time. Patients will be provided with a
      pre-addressed, stamped envelope for mailing each writing sample back to M. D. Anderson the
      day after it is completed.

      Patients will complete some questionnaires about their mood and quality of life approximately
      1 month, 4 months, and 10 months after their last writing assignment. They should take about
      60 minutes to complete. About 8 teaspoons of blood will then be taken each time to measure
      immune function.

      This is an investigational study. As many as 710 patients will be enrolled in this study. All
      will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  