
    
      Endothelial dysfunction reflects a vascular phenotype prone to atherogenesis and may
      therefore serve as a marker of an inherent atherosclerotic risk. In line with this
      hypothesis, dysfunction of either the coronary or peripheral vascular endothelium was shown
      to constitute an independent predictor of cardiovascular events, providing valuable
      prognostic information additional to that derived from conventional risk factor assessment.
      Interventions, such as risk factor modification and treatment with various drugs, including
      statins and niacin, may improve endothelial function leading potentially to improve
      prognosis.

      Research over the past years has identified numerous beneficial effects of high-density
      lipoprotein (HDL) beyond this property. These include, but not limited to, improvement of
      endothelial function, anti-inflammatory, anti-thrombotic, antioxidative effects and the
      stimulation of endothelial regeneration. Consequently, therapeutic elevation of HDL is among
      the primary goals of treatment of patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). Laropiprant
      (LRP; Merck & Co., Inc, Whitehouse Station, NJ, USA) is a potent, once-daily, highly
      selective PGD2-receptor (DP1) antagonist. A combination tablet containing 1 g of
      extended-release niacin and 20 mg of laropiprant (ERN/LRPT) offers improved tolerability,
      supporting a simplified 1-2 g dosing paradigm and improved adherence. Statins and niacin
      improve endothelial function in CAD patients, however, there is no data yet regarding the
      additive effects of raising HDL-C by ERN/LRPT and statins on endothelial function in CAD
      patients. Thus the aim of the present study is to evaluate the impact of 3 months'
      administration of ERN/LRPT compared to placebo added to statins on endothelial function,
      assessed by brachial artery vasoreactivity, and platelet function in stable CAD patients .
    
  