
    
      Objective:

      The purpose of this study is to compare different techniques for cubital tunnel release.

      Specific Aims:

        1. Determine if there are differences in patient-directed outcomes scores between different
           techniques used for cubital tunnel release.

        2. Determine if there are differences in post-operative pain scores between different
           techniques used for cubital tunnel release.

        3. Determine if there are differences in objective measurements such as range of motion and
           grip strength scores between different techniques used for cubital tunnel release.

        4. Determine if there are differences in complications between different techniques used
           for cubital tunnel release.

      Background:

      Compression of the ulnar nerve at the elbow (cubital tunnel syndrome) is the second most
      common compressive neuropathy of the upper extremity (carpal tunnel is the most common).
      Patients who fail conservative treatment (activity modification, splinting, medications) are
      offered cubital tunnel release. There are multiple techniques to decompress the ulnar nerve
      at the elbow, but the ideal release has not been determined. These techniques vary from
      simple decompression of the nerve (in-situ release, endoscopic release), to decompressing the
      nerve and moving it anteriorly to take tension off the nerve (subcutaneous transposition,
      sub-fascial transposition, sub muscular transposition), and removing part of the medial
      epicondyle (medial epicondylectomy). Each procedure has purported benefits and also potential
      complications. Simple in-situ release has the benefit of shorter operative times and less
      surgical dissection, however, the nerve may subluxate post-operatively and cause persistent
      pain. Procedures to move the nerve (subcutaneous transposition, sub-fascial transposition,
      sub muscular transposition) prevent subluxation and take tension off the nerve, however, they
      require more dissection, larger incisions, and also partially devascularize the nerve. Medial
      epicondylectomy prevents subluxation and decompresses the nerve, but some patients may have a
      prolonged recovery and persistent pain from removing part of the bone.

      Significance:

      The results of this study may provide a high level of evidence to determine if specific
      techniques for cubital tunnel decompression result in improved patient outcomes and/or fewer
      complications.
    
  