
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Test the effects of a family caregiver palliative care intervention (FCPCI) for informal
      caregivers of patients with early and late stage lung cancer on caregiver burden and
      caregiver skills preparedness as compared to a group of family caregivers (FC) in a usual
      care situation.

      II. Test the effects of a FCPCI for informal caregivers of patients with early and late stage
      lung cancer on FC in a usual care situation.

      III. Describe early and late stage FC self care behavior, comparing the usual care and FCPCI
      groups.

      IV. Describe resource use by early and late stage FC comparing the usual care and FCPCI
      groups. V. Identify subgroups of FC who benefit most from the FCPCI in relation to
      sociodemographic characteristics, clinical/functional factors.

      V. Identify subgroups of FC who benefit most from the FCPCI in relation to sociodemographic
      characteristics, clinical/functional factors.

      OUTLINE: Family caregivers (FC) are assigned to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I: FC complete questionnaires at baseline and at 7, 12, 18, and 24 weeks to assess
      caregiver burden, caregiver skills preparedness, quality of life, distress, self care, and
      resource use.

      GROUP II: FC undergo 4 individualized teaching sessions in weeks 7, 8, 10, and 12 that focus
      on caregiver burden; caregiver skills preparedness; management of patient psychological
      symptoms; management of FC distress; social and spiritual needs of the patient and FC; the
      continuing role of the FC in caring for the patient; and development of a personalized
      wellness plan. FC then receive 3 follow-up phone calls in weeks 16, 20, and 24 to review any
      questions regarding care; to assess symptom management, community resources, and support; and
      to review and support the wellness plan. FC also complete questionnaires as in group I.

      After completion of the educational intervention, a sample of FC undergo 1-hour educational
      interviews exploring their perspective and insights on their experience as a caregiver.
    
  