
    
      In early-stage breast cancer the cornerstone of treatment is surgery. There are 2
      possibilities: either mastectomy (ME, the whole breast, including the tumour, is removed) or
      breast-conserving surgery (BCS, only the tumour is removed, along with a part of the
      surrounding healthy tissue). After surgery, most patients also receive some kind of adjuvant
      systemic therapy like hormone therapy, chemotherapy (CT), targeted therapy or a combination
      of these. After BCS, adjuvant radiotherapy (RT) has shown to improve locoregional control and
      overall survival rates. After ME, a benefit of adjuvant RT was observed only in node positive
      patients. In recent years, adjuvant or postoperative (postop) CT is more and more replaced by
      preoperative (preop) or neo-adjuvant CT in patients with large tumours since the need for
      mastectomy may then be significantly decreased. Several randomized controlled trials
      demonstrated that there is no difference in overall survival whether CT is given pre- or
      postoperatively.

      The use of breast RT in the neo-adjuvant setting is far less common. It has been proposed for
      patients with inoperable or inflammatory breast cancer and a recent retrospective study in
      breast cancer patients showed preop RT might improve disease free survival compared to postop
      RT. In another retrospective study comparing neoadjuvant versus adjuvant radio- and
      chemotherapy a possible benefit of neoadjuvant treatment was suggested for tumours larger
      than 2 cm. These benefits have also been observed in other cancer sites. There is evidence
      from randomized trials that preop RT is more effective than postop RT in patients with rectal
      carcinoma. For soft tissue sarcoma, better local control rates have been described with preop
      than with postop RT. From a radiobiological point of view, the benefits of giving RT
      preoperatively are not surprising. In contrast to the postop setting, the vasculature is
      still intact and less radioresistant tumour clones are present, both possibly increasing
      radiosensitivity. But there are other advantages of preop RT treatment. On the postop imaging
      used for RT planning, the localisation of the initial tumor is challenging, even with the aid
      of surgical clips. This is especially the case in patients receiving chemotherapy which is
      typically given before RT, thus increasing the interval between surgery and radiotherapy to
      about 6 months. In this 6-month period, tissue distortion and seroma, which are useful to
      guide the radiation oncologist when delineating the target volume for boost irradiation, have
      often disappeared. In the postop setting, larger volumes are delineated and interobserver
      variability is larger than in the preop setting. Preop breast irradiation has the advantage
      that the tumour is still in place and easy to locate. Zones of higher doses can be better
      targeted. For the latter reason, less acute side effects and a better overall breast cosmesis
      is expected. There is also a possibility of downsizing the tumour which might lead to a lower
      need for mastectomy. While preop breast RT clearly has some advantages, there are some
      obstacles that complicate its introduction into daily practice. One of these is the fear of
      delaying surgery and/or chemotherapy for too long. At Ghent University, investigators have
      experience with a 5-fraction RT schedule allowing preop RT delivery in a very short time
      span. Large randomized trials confirm that moderate hypofractionation schemes in 15 or 16
      fractions are at least equivalent in tumor control and toxicity although the total dose is
      lower than the traditional 50 Gy in 25 fractions. Further acceleration to 5 fractions is
      expected to have an even greater radiobiological advantage concerning tumor control. In the
      UK FAST randomized trial, a schedule of 5 times 5.7 Gy, once a week, was compared to a
      normofractionation schedule of 25 times 2 Gy. Tumor control and toxicity were comparable
      after 3 years of follow-up. At Ghent University Hospital (UZ Gent) a feasibility trial was
      started using the FAST scheme (5 x 5.7 Gy) over 12 days (instead of 5 weeks) in patients of
      65 years or older. Additionally, patients requiring a boost received a simultaneously
      integrated boost to the tumor bed of 5 x 6.5 Gy. The final analysis on 95 patients shows <10%
      grade 2-3 erythema, with only one case of moist desquamation, located at a skin fold(10).
      With this RT schedule of 5 fractions in 12 days given preoperatively, the investigators
      hypothesize that overall treatment time will not be increased.

      The 3 main objectives of this project are: 1 - to prove the feasibility of preop breast RT in
      5 fractions in patients also receiving neoadjuvant CT; 2 - to identify the involved cell
      death mechanisms and the effect of preop breast RT on the in-situ immune micro-environment;
      and 3 - to identify the markers that predict for response and toxicity.

      Classically, radiotherapy is considered to mediate its effects via the direct killing of
      cancer cells. It is now known that radiotherapy can induce systemic effects resulting in
      tumour responses outside the irradiated regions. This phenomenon called the "abscopal"-effect
      has been reported in breast and several kinds of malignancies and is nowadays considered to
      be immune mediated. The hypothesis is that radiotherapy induces immunogenic cell death (ICD)
      through the release of tumour-associated antigens and damage associated molecular patterns
      (DAMPs), which leads to antigen uptake and dendritic cell maturation, resulting in the
      priming and clonal expansion of cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CTLs) in the lymph nodes. These CTLs
      then travel back to the tumour, becoming tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs). Radiation
      could increase these TILs in a clinical setting and, more importantly, a high level of
      (post-therapy) TILs is associated with a good prognosis. Immunogenic cell death implicates
      the release of DAMPs and tumoral antigens through a disintegrated cell plasma membrane. The
      latter correlates with necrosis (regulated or secondary) instead of apoptosis, which was
      considered to be the principal mechanism of radiation induced cell death for years. Distinct
      cell death modalities may thus have a different (immunogenic) outcome. In this project the
      investigators would like to determine the mode of cell death evoked by high-dose
      pre-operative RT through measurement by immunohistochemistry (IHC) of cell death markers on
      pre-treatment, post-RT (only in case of pre-operative RT) as well as tumorectomy tissue
      samples. The investigators will correlate the results of the IHC stainings for cell death
      markers with the presence (or increase) of tumour infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in the same
      tissue samples and response to treatment. The number of TILs before and after radiotherapy
      will be assessed according to international guidelines.

      Extracellular vesicles (EVs), such as exosomes (50-150 nm) are composed of a lipid bilayer
      that contains transmembrane proteins (such as receptors and adhesion molecules) derived from
      the donor cell and encloses soluble hydrophilic components derived from the cytosol of the
      donor cell such as signaling molecules, and nucleic acids (small RNAs such as miRNA).
      Different cell types can release EVs, including immune cells (monocytes, neutrophils, etc.),
      tumour cells, fibroblasts and adipocytes (fat cells). EVs are promising novel biomarkers
      because: 1) their molecular content is a fingerprint of the releasing cells and their status
      and consists of proteins, lipids, and nucleic acids, 2) they are released in easily
      accessible body fluids including blood and 3) they are enriched for highly selected
      biomarkers which otherwise would constitute only a very small proportion (less than 0.01%) of
      the total molecular content of blood. Analysis of Glypican-1 positive EVs in circulation
      distinguishes with absolute specificity and sensitivity healthy subjects and patients with a
      benign pancreatic disease from patients with early- and late-stage pancreatic cancer. EV
      transfer from stromal to breast cancer cells regulates therapy resistance pathways. miRNA
      levels in circulating EVs identify remnant vital tumour tissue and are suitable to measure
      therapy response and relapse monitoring. These pioneering studies suggest that quantification
      and characterization of EVs can be implemented to predict therapy response.

      20 non-metastasized female breast cancer patients receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy (CT)
      will be randomized between preop or postop RT. For each patient, a biopsy with tumor
      histology, histological grade, ER/PR status, Her2/Neu status (amplification or not) and Ki67
      status will be available. Menopausal status will be assessed before the start of treatment.
      Patients with regular menses will be considered premenopausal. Patients > 50 years old with >
      1 year of amenorrhea will be considered postmenopausal. In all other patients or patients
      with an intrauterine device or hysterectomy, plasma levels of LH, FSH and estradiol will be
      measured and documented.

      Patients with clinically suspicious axillary lymph nodes will receive a fine needle biopsy.
      If lymph node involvement is confirmed by fine needle biopsy, they will receive an axillary
      clearance after neoadjuvant treatment and axillary RT will be performed (either preop or
      postop). In clinically node negative patients with a tumour of ≤ 5 cm, a sentinel node biopsy
      will be performed before the start of RT or CT. Patients with a tumour of > 5 cm, clinically
      node negative, will receive axillary clearance and axillary RT since a sentinel node biopsy
      is unreliable in these large tumours. Patients receiving postop RT will receive neoadjuvant
      CT followed by surgery (21-28 days after CT) and adjuvant RT starting 28-35 days after
      surgery. Patients receiving preop RT will receive RT first, followed by CT (5-8 days after
      the end of RT) and surgery (21-28 days after CT). All patients will receive a clip to locate
      the tumor before the start of any treatment.

      The feasibility of preop RT will be evaluated based on overall treatment time. From a
      clinical point of view, it is not warranted that preop RT leads to an increase in the overall
      treatment time, since this may compromise locoregional control and survival. However, it is
      expected that preop RT will shorten the overall treatment time with about 14 days (SD 9 days)
      since the interval between RT and CT is shortened considerably. A difference of less than 14
      days is not considered clinically relevant. With 20 patients (10 patients in every treatment
      arm), a 14 days' difference in overall treatment time can be detected with a power of > 90%
      (2-sided t-test, α = 0.05).
    
  