
    
      The objectives of this study are to:

      To demonstrate the bioequivalence of Meloxicam GSK 15 mg tablets manufactured by Savipharm
      J.S.C, Vietnam and Mobic® 15 mg tablets of Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co.KG Binger
      Str.173, 5521 Ingelheim am Rhein, Germany, in healthy adult human male subjects under fed
      condition To monitor the safety of the study subjects. Study design: A randomized, balanced,
      open label, crossover, two period, two treatment, two sequence, single dose, oral
      bioequivalence study under fed condition. It is a pivotal study Sample size estimation: Based
      on the literature available [Public assesment report Scientific Discussion Meloxicam "Arrow"
      Tablets 7.5 and 15 mg Meloxicam, DK/H/0905/001-002/MR] sample size of 28 subjects will be
      enough to meet the study objective. And 28 healthy adult human male subjects will be
      enrolled.

      Screening procedures:

      Demographic data, medical and medication histories, complete physical examination, height,
      weight and BMI as well as 12 lead ECG, chest X-ray [PA view], vital signs [blood pressure,
      pulse rate, respiratory rate and oral temperature], hematology, biochemistry, HIV1& 2,
      Hepatitis B and C, RPR test for Syphilis and urine analysis will be done at screening.

      Urine drug screen, Liver chemistry test and Breath alcohol test to be done prior to each
      check-in.

      Breath alcohol test to be done prior to each ambulatory visit blood collection. Housing: The
      study subjects will be housed at least 11 h prior to drug administration until after the 24 h
      blood sampling in each study period. The housing will be followed by three ambulatory visits
      [48, 72 and 96 hr post dose] during each period.

      Study Meals Supervised fast for at least 10 h before dosing day breakfast will be maintained
      in each period. High calorie high fat breakfast will be served to subjects to start to consum
      30 minutes before the scheduled dosing time. After dosing lunch, snacks and dinner will be
      served at 5, 8 and 12 h respectively. Meal plans will be identical for both the study
      periods.

      Water will be permitted ad libitum except for 1 h before and until 1 h after post-dose.

      Drug Administration:

      As per the randomization schedule, one tablet of either test or reference product will be
      orally administered to each subject in each period in sitting posture, at 30 minutes after
      start of consuming served high calorie high fat breakfast on an overnight fast of at least 10
      h. The investigational products will be administered with 240 ± 2 mL of water.

      Subjects will be instructed not to chew or crush the tablet but should be swallowed.
      Compliance for dosing will be assessed by identification of subjects with subject ID card,
      identification of label on investigational product to confirm correct allocation of treatment
      and checking the oral cavity immediately after dosing.

      Restrictions Subjects will remain in upright position [sitting or ambulatory] for two hours
      after dosing in each period except when clinically indicated to change the posture. The
      subjects will fast for at least 10 h prior to dosing day breakfast and 5 h post-dose. Water
      will be permitted ad libitum except for 1 h before and until 1 h after post dose.

      Blood sampling:

      In each period of the study, 26 blood samples of 6 mL each will be collected in K2EDTA
      vacutainers via an indwelling catheter placed in one of the forearm veins. Heparin-lock
      technique will be used to prevent clotting of blood in the indwelling catheter. Before each
      in-house blood sample is drawn through catheter, 0.5 mL of blood will be discarded so as to
      purge the heparin containing blood sample in the catheter. Blood can also be collected by
      direct venipuncture in case of cannula blockage, during ambulatory visits or for any other
      practical reasons. The two pre-dose blood samples will be collected within a period of 1 h
      before the drug administration. The post-dose blood samples will be collected at 0.5, 1.0,
      1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.5, 5.0, 5.5, 6.0, 6.5, 7.0, 7.5, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0, 12.0, 16.0,
      24.0, 48.0, 72.0 and 96.0 h. The 48.0, 72.0 and 96.0 h post dose blood samples will be
      collected during ambulatory visits by direct venipuncture. Immediately after collection of
      blood, the sample will be kept in ice bath. After collecting the blood samples from all the
      subjects at each sampling time point, samples will be centrifuged at 4oC with 3500 rpm for 10
      minutes. The plasma samples will be separated in duplicate and stored in pre-labeled
      polypropylene tubes at -70 ± 10°C or colder pending assay. The time interval between sample
      collection and the start of centrifugation should not exceed more than 45 minutes.

      The total volume of blood drawn including the volume necessary for the laboratory tests, PK
      sample analysis and the volume of blood discarded before each in house blood draw will be
      about 360 mL per subject for the entire study.

      Washout Period: Washout period will be of at least 14 days, but not exceeding 21 days between
      two dosing days.

      Pharmacokinetic Parameter: Cmax, Tmax, AUC0-t, AUC0-∞, AUC%_Extrap, Kel and t1/2 Analytical
      Methods: Meloxicam in plasma will be estimated using validated LC-MS/MS method.

      Statistical Methods: Statistical analyses will be done using SAS® version 9.2 or higher.
      Analysis of variance [ANOVA] for log-transformed pharmacokinetic parameters [Cmax, AUC0-t and
      AUC0-∞] and two one-sided tests [Schuirmann] for bioequivalence will be performed. Power,
      ratio and 90% confidence interval for log-transformed pharmacokinetic parameters - Cmax,
      AUC0-t and AUC0-∞ will be calculated.

      Standards for Bioequivalence: The calculated 90% Confidence Interval for the test to
      reference ratio of Meloxicam should fall within the range of 80%-125% for log transformed
      Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-∞ for the conclusion of bioequivalence.

      Adverse Events The investigator or site staff is responsible for detecting, documenting and
      reporting events that meet the definition of an AE or SAE.

      AEs will be collected from the start of Study Treatment and until the follow-up contact.
      Medical occurrences that begin prior to the start of study treatment but after obtaining
      informed consent may be recorded on the Medical History/Current Medical Conditions CRF.

      SAEs will be collected over the same time period as stated above for AEs. However, any SAEs
      assessed as related to study participation (e.g. study treatment, protocol-mandated
      procedures, invasive tests, or change in existing therapy) or related to a GSK concomitant
      medication will be recorded from the time a subject consents to participate in the study up
      to and including any follow-up contact. All SAEs will be recorded and reported to the sponsor
      within 24 hours.

      Investigators are not obligated to actively seek AEs or SAEs in former study participants.
      However, if the investigator learns of any SAE, including a death, at any time after a
      subject has been discharged from the study, and he considers the event reasonably related to
      the study treatment or study participation, the investigator would promptly notify the
      sponsor.
    
  