
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is highly prevalent in the U.S. and possesses a greater risk in
      patients with sleep disordered breathing (SDB) versus patients without SDB. AF recurrence
      after catheter ablation is associated with 25% increased risk in patients with obstructive
      sleep apnea (OSA). One hypothesis suggests that the repeated hypoxic episodes time-linked to
      OSA and central sleep apnea may act as chemo-reflex triggers that enhances brainstem
      sympathetic activity in conjunction with responses to OSA-event hypoxia. This hypothesis is
      believed to induce tachycardia and cardiovascular stress. In an animal model, episodes of
      hypoxia were shown to induce pulmonary vein burst firing and reduction of the negative
      tracheal pressure promptly restored normal sinus rhythm. The Trigemino-cardiac reflex
      hypothesis implicates chemo- and mechanoreceptors in the oronasal cavity that provides
      signaling to the reticular formation via the mesencephalic nucleus of the trigeminal nerve
      and serves to control breathing, cardiac function, blood pH (acidity), amongst other body
      functions.

      The sympathetic system in patients with OSA syndrome is considered to be chronically
      hypersensitized. A hyperarousal state suggests AF patients with OSA would tend to have AF
      occur more frequently in conjunction with apnea hypopnea events. An increase in autonomic
      sympathetic cardiac dominance with a withdrawal of cardiac parasympathetic control could
      easily be driven by mechanoreceptors in the oropharynx upon airway narrowing and present as
      decreased heart rate variability. Considering that the upper airway is often the site of
      greatest airflow restriction (i.e. snoring), a potential sudden rise in autonomic sympathetic
      nerve activity in sensory afferent fibers from the oropharynx should be the first to
      communicate the airflow reduction to brainstem. This theory is supported by the
      investigators' preliminary data and those in other reports. Oral appliance (OA) therapy that
      prevents snoring in conjunction with a mouth shield should simultaneously facilitate an open
      airway and prevent mouth breathing. The combination effect is expected to decrease vagus
      nerve motor efferent activity to the esophagus, facilitate nasal breathing, reduce
      sympathetic tone, promote stable sleep and increase HRV(heart rate variability). In patients
      with AF, the MyTAP + MS intervention is likely to also facilitate putatively effective
      medical therapies, reduce noxious AF triggers, and maintain normal oral bacterial flora
      levels and cardiac functioning.
    
  