
    
      The vision for the coming 6-year period is to establish multi-disciplinary research, designed
      to strengthen and advance the knowledgebase of eHealth as an aid for facilitating and
      supporting self-management among children with long-term illness and their families. The
      programme builds on interventions and implementation in three research domains: (1) eHealth
      to enable and promote self-management in advanced paediatric care, (2) eHealth for early
      diagnosis and treatment in paediatric healthcare, and (3) Co-creation of multi-disciplinary
      knowledge for the translation of eHealth in practice.

      The overall goals of the research programme are to:

      Evaluate, advance and implement models of eHealth to improve self-management for children and
      adolescents with or at risk for long-term illness and their families for better allocation of
      family-, healthcare- and societal resources.

      Increase the knowledge of cultural factors and implementation strategies to facilitate
      implementation processes in general, and more specifically generate theoretical and
      methodological models on how to successfully implement eHealth in paediatric care.

      Enhance the translation and integration of new research findings within eHealth into care
      services and the wider society by supporting healthcare professionals in their provision of
      evidence-based care and by translating and communicating research results to them as well as
      stakeholders and families.

      Enhance the research proficiency of junior researchers in paediatric care and eHealth
      nationally and internationally through collaborative approaches in both inter- and
      multidisciplinary groups.

      Two features of healthcare systems today are easily detected: 1) a trend towards more
      reliance on the individual and family to take active part in the healthcare process - with
      self-management being a keyword, and 2) great expectations regarding the potential benefits
      of using modern information technology in the domain of health and health care. The complex
      and costly needs for care of an increasing number of children with long-term illness (LTI)
      i.e. an illness that lasts for three months or more, generally has a slow progression, and
      can be controlled but not cured [1]) is one of the most critical challenge for healthcare
      systems all over the world. In addition to poorer health, people with LTI generally have
      lower educational achievements, fewer economic opportunities, and higher rates of poverty.
      Ensuring healthy growth and development in children is a principal concern of all societies.
      In this context, eHealth is of special interest as an aid for facilitating and supporting
      self-management for children with and at risk for LTI.

      Self-management is the use of own time and money for individual and family health promotion.
      It is an ingredient in almost all measures for promoting health. Pure self-management in
      health relies on own efforts without formal intervention of health care services. On the
      other extreme, there are formal healthcare activities that require 100 percent of healthcare
      inputs for example surgery under anaesthesia. In most instances, both types of inputs are
      necessary - in varying degrees. The choice of self-management activities and its results
      depend on family-member preferences, knowledge, and attitudes. In order for healthcare system
      initiatives to be accepted and successful, they must be attuned to these characteristics.
      Individual tailoring is all the more important, the more reliance is on self-management.
      Thus, in the process of developing and evaluating new treatment modes, user participation is
      essential.

      eHealth is a broad concept as indicated by the WHO definition: "eHealth is the transfer of
      health resources and healthcare by electronic means", i.e. also including older techniques
      such as telemedicine. Great expectations are associated with the realisation of the term. It
      may: 1) increase communication between healthcare providers and patients, 2) increase
      accessibility and patient participation in healthcare, and 3) support information and data
      sharing between patients, family and health-service providers
      http://www.euro.who.int/en/ehealth. It might be observed that the term eHealth does not
      preclude the use of electronic means to improve communication between providers within the
      healthcare system, potentially increasing the internal efficiency of formal healthcare,
      without any direct effects on patients and families. Here, however, the focus is on the role
      of eHealth as an aid for facilitating and supporting self-management, i.e. a concern with a
      wider, societal perspective on the allocation of scarce resources for health.

      Cost-effectiveness is one of the ethical principles that are supposed to govern decisions on
      the allocation of scarce healthcare resources in Sweden. Thus, new healthcare technology
      should not be introduced if not proven cost-effective in comparison to existing (best)
      practice. Requirements for the economic evaluation of new healthcare technology exist in most
      Western countries. To date, economic evaluations of eHealth reported in the literature are
      scare and suffer from lack of randomised control trials (RTCs), small sample sizes, and the
      absence of high-quality data or appropriate measures.

      Paediatric healthcare is rapidly evolving towards outpatient and community-care and from
      public to parental responsibility. This form of care is however rarely backed-up with
      communication support. In Sweden and most Western countries, highly specialised paediatric
      healthcare is confined to few National Centres of Specialized Medicine (NCSM)
      http://www.socialstyrelsen.se/rikssjukvard. This means that following birth a large majority
      of children with congenital malformations are transported to hospitals far away from home for
      advanced surgery. Following discharge, the outermost medical and nursing competence for the
      child will be at the NCSM. International policy and practice aim for infants, older children
      and adolescents with LTI to be cared for at home as much as possible to reduce the distress
      of hospital admissions and to keep up the normal family life. Limited research exists on the
      effect of digital interactive care on parents and children. eHealth in the home setting is
      often preferred by parents, especially by parents of newborns but has still not been widely
      adopted. Digital techniques can aid safer post-operative healthcare at home and may reduce
      costs to patients and society. This in turn might lead to more confident use of
      self-management and an increased sense of security at home. In some areas in paediatric care
      telemedicine initiatives is shown to benefit resources, enrich the community, and improve
      care that ultimately serve to better patient health.

      Six clinical research projects are planned, illustrating complex, highly specialized, often
      long-term and costly decision-making challenges in paediatric care, for developing,
      evaluating implementing, and utilising different devices of eHealth technology. In addition,
      four more research projects will be performed in parallel to provide general analyses of
      eHealth in paediatric care and to facilitate and support economic, technical, cultural, and
      organisational analyses of the clinical data.

      Bridging the hospital care and safe care at home for children with LTI with the aid of
      eHealth is a vital clinical area, especially for professionals in nursing, physiotherapy and
      medicine. However, also for the scientific area in health science it is of great importance
      as eHealth change the communication between children, parents and health professionals. This
      is a new research area that needs to be explored.

      To develop, evaluate and implement eHealth devices in clinical care, an inter- and
      multidisciplinary approach is needed. Therefore, the investigators well-functioning and
      long-lasting clinical and research collaboration in health science, medicine, global health,
      health economics, technology, and social science has been enhanced to respond to the needs in
      paediatric care. Thereby, it is possible to address the important study of encounters with
      technology and various methods of communications and how eHealth aid can capture complex
      exchange of wellbeing and health, and feelings and perceptions of for example anxiety, stress
      levels, safety, many of which are culturally related. Also, values and contexts are sensitive
      to communication methods. The studies will therefore contribute significantly to the research
      area of eHealth as an aid for facilitating and supporting self-management in paediatric care,
      but not only. The programme also includes the research issue whether eHealth at the same time
      improves the allocation of scarce healthcare- and societal resources.

      The multi-method design including both qualitative and quantitative methods will enhance the
      understanding to advance and evaluate routines and practices for better physiological and
      psychological outcomes in children with LTI and their families. The clinical projects will
      also contribute to a deeper understanding on identifying risk factors for complications and
      how to prevent adverse events in care performed at home.

      In this programme, the focus is on eHealth solutions for situations where children and their
      families can be supported by enhanced communication for self-management with specialist
      professionals most commonly with specialist nurses. In such situations, it is important to
      find technical solutions that are both easy to use for all involved, easily accessible for
      families, and efficient to use for the professionals. Design options include web
      browser-based solutions, application-based solutions for larger mobile devices such as
      touchpads and application for mobile phones while observing the strict security rules for
      personal health information. An issue of accessibility is also to avoid economic demands on
      e.g. families not having access to appropriate equipment. Furthermore, relying on patient's
      equipment increases the technical demand and testing as the variation of equipment is huge,
      while the number of patients is comparatively small. Typically, technologies and applications
      develop at a high pace driven by commercial interests and may not be synchronised with a
      corresponding development of the understanding of possibilities and limitations of the
      applications in specific areas of care.

      Importantly, the studies within different clinical contexts and considering
      cost-effectiveness, technical development, cultural and implementation aspects contribute to
      the knowledge and understanding about how eHealth can reduce the information asymmetry
      between providers, developers and consumers for further implementation into clinical
      practices, policies, and procedures. This programme also provides a significant contribution
      to a grounded and evidence-based understanding of both possibilities and limitations of
      eHealth applications in this area not only in terms of their efficacy but also in terms of
      the possible ethical conflicts involved in the introduction of new technology.
    
  