
    
      For the majority of cleft patients, surgeons usually delay secondary rhinoplasty to ages 14
      to 16 years for females and 16 to 18 years for males until after completion of nasal growth
      Unilateral secondary cleft nasal deformity results from hypoplastic nasal tissue, asymmetric
      growth due to impaired growth, and surgical scarring. The most common deformities include
      caudal septal deviation, retrodisplacement and under-projection of dome, lateral slumping of
      the medial crus of the lower lateral cartilage, alar-columellar web, insufficiency of
      vestibular skin and deficiency of nasal floor. Moreover, these deformities have negative
      effect on human well-being and quality of life.

      Despite the opinions on how to address the problems, it seems clear that repositioning and
      reshaping of the cleft-side cartilages is necessary for restoring form and function. In
      general, in order to there are two basic approaches: those techniques that move the
      cleft-side lower lateral cartilage from medial to lateral, and those that move the lower
      lateral cartilage from lateral to medial. In an effort to correct the vestibular lining
      deficiency, easily be adapted to combine Tajima's reverse-U incisions for treatment of alar
      hooding, need for other structural grafts, sliding chondrocutaneous flap offers many
      advantages. However, in order to improve nasal tip position or columella shape through
      modification of either the anterior septal and/or posterior septal angle position and to act
      as the fundamental attachment for sliding lower lateral cartilage, Caudal septal extension
      and Columellar strut graft play an important role to stabilize the nasal tip.

      Besides, with the aim of making it harmonize better with other facial features, dorsal
      augmentation is needed for improving the shape of the nose. Selecting the optimal material
      continues to be a challenge. For most surgeons, an autogenous cartilage graft is the first
      choice in rhinoplasty because of its resistance to infection and resorption.

      We assess the functional and aesthetic outcomes based on three criteria:

        1. Change in nose symmetry and nasal height (Preoperative and postoperative photographic
           analyses)

        2. Change in functional outcomes through subjective and objective measurement (Questionaire
           and acoustic rhinometry)

        3. Change in Quality of life (Rhinoplasty Outcome Evaluation Questionaire)
    
  