
    
      The newly developed MAXFRAME™ system from DePuy Synthes® is a multi-Axial correction system
      based on the hexapod configuration. The indications for the MAXFRAME™ include, but are not
      limited to, the treatment of open or closed fractures of long bones, pseudarthrosis, limb
      lengthening via epiphyseal or metaphyseal distraction, joint arthrodesis, to bridge infected
      fractures or non-unions, to correct bony or soft tissue deformities, and to correct of
      segmental defects. One of the main novelties of this system is the Perspective Frame Matching
      (PFM) technique. This software system uses the post-operative x-rays with the entire frame
      mounted to the bone to generate a 3D visualization of the frame and the exact mounting
      parameters as well as a representation of the deformity with regards to the position within
      the frame. This system generates a treatment plan according to the exact representation of
      the frame, and the deformity at the starting point of the correction. The risk of a frame
      mal-positioning is reduced, which in return is believed to reduce the risk of a false
      correction and hopefully leads to a more precise result. Further, this reduces the need for
      adaptations to the initial treatment protocol, which require repeated radiological assessment
      and may alienate the patient during the whole process of the deformity correction.

      To the investigator's knowledge there are no published studies investigating the accuracy of
      this method, therefore the aim of the proposed prospective multicenter registry is to gather
      first evidence on the use of the MAXFRAME™ system in clinical settings and gain information
      on indications, handling, the number of re-planning's needed, and treatment related adverse
      events.

      Up to 100 patients treated with the MAXFRAME™ system are planned to be included for two years
      enrollment period. Each patient will be followed up from before the surgery until the removal
      of the device.

      All follow-up visits are according to standard of care. There are fixed time points (visits)
      during a normal deformity correction process and follow-up:

        -  Baseline = pre-operative assessment

        -  Surgery = application of the frame (defined as day 0)

        -  Post-OP = post-operative image assessment (for PFM planning)

        -  Frame removal (including conversion, if applicable)

      Further, there are additional time points (visits). An additional visit is defined as every
      consultation during the deformity correction process, until the frame is removed, when a
      registry specific event of interest occurs. The events of interest for additional visits are
      the following:

        -  Re-plannings

        -  Re-operation / surgical interventions

        -  Changes to the frame

        -  Treatment related adverse event

        -  Deformity corrected

      Following data points will be collected pre-, intra- and post-operatively:

      Patients demographics, medical history and underlying diseases, Indication for the use of the
      MAXFRAMETM system, Treatment goal(s), Treatment planning, Surgical details, Changes in
      treatment plan, Frame removal, Radiological and calculated outcome assessment of the
      deformity correction and/or lengthening, Treatment-related Adverse Events, Experience with
      MAXFRAMETM system.
    
  