
    
      We will recruit eligible subjects who have an upcoming primary care visit with their primary
      care provider. Subjects will first be mailed letters, signed by a member of their own primary
      care team (in these clinics, patients are usually under the care of a team and not one
      physician) or the Clinic Medical Director in the absence of a primary team member, requesting
      their participation in the study. Subjects can call a toll-free number to request not to be
      contacted or if they have any questions (opt-out strategy similar to prior studies approved
      by Duke's IRB). The research assistant will contact the subject by telephone to explain the
      study, screen for eligibility, arrange an in-person meeting at the clinic to further describe
      the study, obtain informed consent and interview the subject. Enrollment will be scheduled at
      a time when individuals will already be coming to their clinic and all subsequent outcome
      assessment will be obtained from medical records (e.g., blood pressure, Hb A1c, and LDL-C,
      BMI) and secondary outcomes (e.g., behaviors will be obtained over the telephone).

      Upon enrollment, each eligible, consenting subject will be surveyed about demographics,
      health behaviors (exercise, diet, medication compliance and treatment barriers), social and
      medical environment (experiences of discrimination, John Henryism, PHQ2, social support and
      stress, diabetes knowledge and communication). The entire interview would take approximately
      60-90 minutes. If the interview cannot be completed at that time, we will ask permission to
      call the subject at home to complete the interview. After subjects have completed the
      measurement battery, they will be randomly assigned to be in one of the two groups. The
      entire study randomization will occur before patient enrollment begins and this will be
      maintained in a central site away from the enrollment site.

      At either a 12-month follow-up visit or via a phone call, all subjects will once again be
      surveyed (30-60 minutes) to determine secondary outcome variables including changes in health
      behaviors, and adherence to recommended regimens. In addition, the cost-effectiveness of the
      intervention will be assessed at the conclusion of the study.
    
  