
    
      During a preoperative visit, the patients are introduced to the concept of the visual
      analogue scale (VAS), which ranges from 0 = no pain to 10 = worst pain.

      Once given general anesthesia in the operating room, the patient will be randomly selected
      into one of the two arms of this report's diagram (1:1 ratio) through the drawing of a
      sealed, opaque envelope by one of the surgical residents in charge or by the attending
      surgeon. The infiltration group will receive local infiltration with 0.5% Levobupivacaine.
      The trocar insertion sites are infiltrated before the skin incision is made. Using the
      Lap-Assist Transversus Abdominis Plane Block Technique, the total volume of infiltrated 0.5%
      Levobupivacaine is 20 ml, divided proportionally according to the length of the skin incision
      (2 ml for the 5-mm trocar and 3 ml for the 10-mm trocars, and 10 mL for specimen retrieval
      incision). The control group will not receive any local infiltrative agent.After induction,
      the pneumoperitoneum will be created via the Open Hasson Technique and using a 10-12-mm
      trocar. During surgery, intraabdominal pressure is maintained at 12-15 mmHg. In addition to
      the Hasson trocar, one 10-mm and two to three 5-mm trocars will be used. The specimen
      retrieval incision will be performed in one of two techniques, depending on the surgeon's
      preference, a 4-6 cm length midline incision (extending from the Hasson trocar incision) or a
      4-6 cm length Pfanensteil incision.

      A standardized plan for postoperative analgesia is prepared. All patients will receive one
      500 mg tablet of oral paracetamol every 6 hours when postoperative oral intake is allowed by
      the attending doctor. In patients with VAS scores >3, parenteral opioid (Morphine) is given.

      The hospital volunteer nurses caring for the patients during the preoperative and
      postoperative course are given standard pain evaluation protocols. All study pain evaluators
      and patients are blinded to treatment assignments throughout the pain assessment process.

      After the operation, the inpatient ward nurse will record the patients' pain score at 4 hours
      after surgery using the VAS score and record the results in the study data recording form
      attached to each patient's medical record chart. Additional morphine usage data is also
      recorded.

      All side effects, such as tinnitus, nausea, vomiting, headache, dizziness, seizure,
      cardiovascular instability, and local wound complication will be recorded and treated by the
      attending resident or consultant doctor.

      All data is collected by the main investigator from the patient chart and data recording
      form. Data is expressed as mean ± SD. Parametric data is compared between groups. Statistical
      significance is set at a level of p< 0.05.
    
  