
    
      This project will be divided into several methodological steps. First, we will establish an
      imaging protocol using high field MR systems (7T) to deliver high resolution data. The new
      T1/T2-star contrasts mechanisms observed in high field data will make possible the
      segmentation of the central structures, more specifically those deeply located in the
      brainstem, the pons and the mesencephalon that are involved in Parkinsonian syndromes.
      Second, we will characterize the cytarchitectony of the deep structures and the anatomical
      connectivity involved in the Parkinsonian syndromes using high angular resolution diffusion
      imaging (HARDI). The local information about the organization of the tissue coming from the
      HARDI data will be used to subdivide the deep structures into smaller nuclei. We will also
      use the HARDI data to infer the connectivity of these structures, employing probabilistic
      tractography algorithms more efficient to detect the smallest bundles. Such techniques have
      never been used for Parkinsonian syndrome, and may highlight structural differences inside
      deep nuclei that could not be observed when performing statistics on the entire structure.
      Third, preclinical studies will be performed in order to tackle the best spatial and angular
      resolutions and to build an atlas of the brainstem that will help understanding its
      structural organization. Clinical acquisitions will be done to acquire two databases of
      healthy volunteers and patients suffering from Parkinsons disease and progressive
      supranuclear palsy. Fourth, we will develop a statistical tool for isolating the biomarkers
      of the Parkinsonian syndrome and to create a diagnosis tool of the pathology, relying on
      robust bootstrapping techniques. The markers will stem from comparisons between populations
      using the various informations available. Expected results In this project, we will develop
      ultra high field techniques that will allow us to investigate the characteristics of the
      brainstem structures and of the central deep nuclei in normal subjects and in parkinsonian
      syndromes. The findings obtained with these image innovation techniques will help to overcome
      the present technical difficulties and limits of 1.5 and 3T MRI as some of the methods will
      be transferred to the routine machines and results will be compared to the images obtained on
      3T MRI, in order to make new diagnosis tools available, in clinical research or clinical
      practice. The ultimate goal is to improve the accuracy of diagnosis of various parkinsonian
      syndromes at a early stage, to detect at a pre-clinical stage abnormalities that may reflect
      the underlying anatomical lesions, to improve the accuracy of neurosurgical targeting for
      deep brain stimulation, to detect imaging markers that may be useful biomarkers of the
      progression of the disease in neuroprotective therapy.
    
  