
    
      This study is a retrospective analysis of prospectively collected data on 582 obese patients.
      It was conducted according to the ethical principles stated in the Declaration of Helsinki.
      Written informed consent was obtained from all subjects. The study protocol was approved by
      the Regional Ethics Committee. From January 2014 to February 2019, morbid obesity patients
      who failed previous treatment with SG and referred to our bariatric center in the Department
      of General and Emergency Surgery of "A. Rizzoli" Hospital in Lacco Ameno (Naples, Italy) for
      a new bariatric procedure, were considered in the study. Redo surgery was only considered if
      patients still met the criteria for primary bariatric surgery according to guidelines [body
      mass index (BMI) >35 kg/m2 with co-morbidities, BMI >40 kg/m2] at the time clinical and
      anthropometrical revision8. A postoperative follow-up of at least 24 months was also
      considered inclusion criteria. Exclusion criteria were as follows: patients in whom Sleeve
      Gastrectomy was already performed as revision surgery; patients underwent any other abdominal
      surgical procedure after One Anastomosis Gastric Bypass not correlated to the bariatric
      procedure, the presence at baseline of esophagitis B according to the Los Angeles scale,
      Hiatal Hernia (HH) > 5 cm and history of GERD-related symptoms (i.e., heartburn, pyrosis,
      regurgitation) not responsive to proton pump inhibitors and/or severe Lower Esophageal
      Sfinter incontinence. All procedures were performed by the same experienced bariatric
      surgeons.

      Pre-operative evaluation All patients underwent a multidisciplinary preoperative evaluation
      including anthropometric measurements (height in cm, weight in kg, Body Mass Index in kg/m2),
      comorbidity evaluation, preoperative Upper Endoscopy with Helicobacter Pylori test, abdomen
      ultrasound, chest x-ray and nutritional status evaluation.

      Radiographic barium swallow test was performed for the diagnosis of HH or presence of gastric
      fundus. Barium swallow X-ray protocol consisted of five swallows of barium always using the
      same amount of liquid; anteroposterior and oblique views were obtained in upright and supine
      positions. Measurements were done using a standardized protocol: a distance of more than 2 cm
      between the gastroesophageal junction and the diaphragmatic hiatus was defined as a sliding
      Hiatal Hernia. Preoperative assessments of patient eligibility for bariatric surgery included
      consultation with the multidisciplinary committee (surgeon, radiologist, diabetologist and
      psychiatrist) to exclude patients with non-adjusted eating patterns or eating disorders.

      Failure of Sleeve Gastrectomy was defined as a consequence of Insufficient Weight Loss or
      Weight Regain. Insufficient Weight Loss or Weight Regain were analyzed considering the
      modifications of the percentage of excess weight loss <50% and/or the percentage of total
      weight loss <25%. A failure of Sleeve Gastrectomy was recognized if the subject was not able
      to reduce the Body Mass Index <35 with the persistence of co-morbidity or Body Mass Index <40
      at least 2-year after the primary surgery.
    
  