
    
      Postpartum endometritis is an infection of the endometrial lining of the uterus clinically
      diagnosed by fever and uterine fundal tenderness. The most important risk factor for
      developing endometritis is cesarean section, as it occurs in 11% of cesarean sections after
      labor and 3% of elective cesarean sections. Other risk factors for endometritis are
      chorioamnionitis, prolonged labor, prolonged rupture of membranes and vaginal colonization
      with Group B Streptococcus. Some complications of endometritis include prolonged hospital
      stay, sepsis, peritonitis and intrapelvic abscess.

      Surgical site infections are infections of the incision, organ or space after a procedure and
      are responsible for 38% of infections in patients undergoing surgery. In obstetric patients,
      infectious morbidity (wound complication, surgical site infections, endometritis) occurs in
      5-10% of cesarean sections, which is 5-fold higher than vaginal deliveries. Additionally,
      infectious morbidity is thought to be highest in those patients who have cesarean sections
      after undergoing labor.

      Current practices endorsed by ACOG and the CDC to reduce the incidence of infectious
      morbidity after cesarean section include pre-operative antibiotics and pre-operative skin
      cleansing with chlorhexidine skin preparation. Chlorhexidine and povidone-iodine are chemical
      antiseptics that reduces bacteria found on the skin. Additionally, vaginal scrub with 4%
      chlorhexidine gluconate and 10% povidone-iodine antiseptic solution immediately prior to
      cesarean section has been embraced into some practices as a means to decrease infectious
      morbidity. There is abundant literature showing pre-operative vaginal cleansing prior to
      hysterectomy has been shown to decrease vaginal surgical site antisepsis, however research on
      its use prior to cesarean section is limited.

      This study aims to assess the effectiveness of pre-operative vaginal scrub with 4%
      chlorhexidine or 10% povidone iodine in reducing infectious morbidity (specifically
      endometritis and SSI) in patients undergoing cesarean section with previously ruptured
      membranes. Current standard of care is use of pre-operative vaginal scrub with 10% povidone
      iodine. Patients will be randomized to one of two groups using pre-operative vaginal scrub
      for 30 seconds: 4% chlorhexidine or 10% povidone iodine. In addition both groups will receive
      pre-operative antibiotics with cefazolin and azithromycin, as well as abdominal cleansing
      with chlorhexidine-alcohol based skin preparation and 0.25% chlorhexidine wipe for 30
      seconds, as this is standard of care for women undergoing cesarean section with ruptured
      membranes. In the event of penicillin allergy, antibiotics are adjusted accordingly.
    
  