
    
      Objectives and Specific Aims:

      The objective of this proof-of-concept study is to understand the physiological role of
      senescent cells in humans during the aging process using a model of wound healing. Cellular
      senescence is the phenomenon by which normal cells cease to divide in response to a stress.
      We aim to determine if in healthy humans: (1) senescent cells appear around wound sites a few
      days after skin injury; (2) the number of senescent cells induced by skin injury increases
      with age; (3) the wound healing process, as determined by the size of the healed wounds, is
      altered with aging; (4) biomarkers of senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP)
      increase significantly in the tissue around the wound a few days after skin injury, and the
      magnitude of increase is higher in older compared to younger persons; (5) ethnic differences
      in the dynamics of the appearance of senescent cells and whether such a difference is
      associated with wound healing. We also want to describe changes that occur with aging in DNA
      methylation and histone acetylation, gene expression, and protein expression within senescent
      cells in comparison to normal tissue.

      Experimental Design and Methods:

      One hundred and twenty-eight healthy participants, sixty-four between the ages of 20-39 years
      and sixty-four 70 years old or older will be recruited for this pilot study. Of the
      sixty-four participants in each age group, thirty-two will be men and thirty-two will be
      women and sixteen

      will be Caucasian and sixteen will be African American. Each participant will have two 3mm
      skin biopsies on the inner upper arm during baseline visit (Visit 1) and two 6mm skin
      biopsies concentric to the previous site during Visit 2. Visit 2 will be scheduled on 8
      different days (day 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 21 and 30) after the baseline visit with two men and
      two woman from each age/ethnic group for each of the days. A follow-up visit will be
      scheduled at the discretion of the medical staff. Senescent cells will be visualized by
      confocal microscopy based on a number of senescent markers described in the literature.
      Senescent biomarkers will be measured in the tissue and systemically at baseline and
      follow-up.

      Medical Relevance and Expected Outcome:

      Cellular senescence is a complex process characterized by arrest in replication that is
      thought to be intrinsically connected with aging and age-related diseases. Recently,
      researchers have

      suggested that senescent cells may play a role in the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes and its
      associated complications. Therefore, understanding the physiological role of senescent cells
      is critically important for understanding aging and age-related diseases such as type 2
      diabetes. Preclinical data have shown that senescent cells were inducible during cutaneous
      wound healing. Our preliminary results showed that there may be a difference in rate of
      granulation tissue formation with ethnicity. Therefore, this method can be used to quantify

      senescent cell response after a standard stimulus and to verify whether the magnitude of
      senescence response correlate with aging and ethnicity. In the future this method could be
      used to test interventions that can modify the senescence response, and may be an invaluable
      method for assessing novel treatments of type 2 diabetes involving senescent cells.
    
  