
    
      This clinical study is designed to initiate treatment with high or low dose HT047 or placebo
      in subjects with acute ischemic stroke within 2 weeks of onset of the disease and evaluate
      neurological function recovery in these subjects as measured by the extent of motor function
      recovery at Week 12 of treatment.

      Subjects must have had a recent onset of acute ischemic stroke as confirmed by brain imaging.
      In terms of symptoms of ischemic stroke, patients who have motor function impairment with FMA
      motor score ≤ 55 as well as neurological function impairment with K-NIHSS score ≥ 4 and ≤ 15
      are eligible for study participation. A subject who is considered by the investigator to be
      appropriate for study participation and provides informed consent will participate in this
      study.

      At baseline, subjects will be randomized to HT047 high dose group (2250 mg/day), HT047 low
      dose group (1500 mg/day), or placebo group in a 1:1:1 ratio in a double blind fashion and be
      treated with the investigational product for 12 weeks starting from the next morning of
      baseline with a three times a day dosing schedule, 3 tablets per dose.

      Since this is a first-in-human trial for HT047, subjects will have a study visit at Week 1
      (Day 7) of participation for laboratory tests, ECG, and chest x-ray. A one-month portion of
      the investigational product will be supplied. During study treatment, subjects will visit the
      hospital at Weeks 1, 4, 8, and 12.

      During the Week 1 visit, the above tests will be performed and the subject's physical status
      will be checked before he/she is sent home. In the subsequent visits, neurological function
      assessment and drug exchange will be carried out. At each visit, the study staff should
      carefully check the subject's medication compliance and verify the accurate number of
      remaining doses to be countered.

      After 12 weeks of study conduct as shown in the above figure, at Week 12, laboratory tests
      performed at Week 1 will be repeated and overall change in the subject's status will be
      confirmed before all study procedures are ended.
    
  