
    
      ALLEPRE enrols a population of residents in Emilia Romagna with a diagnosis of ACS (unstable
      angina, non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction, ST segment elevation myocardial
      infarction) who were admitted to the specialist cardiological departments of the
      participating centres up to 20 days after the index event.

      All eligible patients are randomised 1:1 to the nurse-led intensive secondary prevention
      programme (ISPP: intervention/experimental arm) or usual treatment (UT: control arm).

      Randomisation is centralised by means of IVRS under the responsibility of the Study
      Coordinator and the Principal Investigator at each hospital centre, and the patients are the
      allocated to groups by e-mail. Due to the nature of the study, neither participants nor
      research personnel can be blinded to the group assignments. The randomisation data are kept
      at the coordinating centre.

      OPERATIVE PHASE After randomisation, all of the patients in both arms undergo a baseline
      examination and are required to return to their reference centre for follow-up visits after
      12, 24 and 60 months for outcome assesment. Outcomes will also be recorded after 36 and 48
      months on the basis of telephone enquiries.

      ISPP: intervention arm. This consists of a series of programmed sessions involving the
      centrally trained nurses and the patients randomised to the ISPP. There will be a total of
      nine sessions: before discharge, and one, three, six, 12, 18, 24, 36 and 48 months after
      discharge. During the sessions, each of which will last for about one hour, the trained nurse
      will record the main clinical parameters (i.e. risk factors, lifestyle habits, adherence to
      therapy, and any discrepancies between patient reports and the recommended goals) using an ad
      hoc clinical file (SIM: scheda infermieristica multidimensionale or multidimensional nursing
      form), and then activate the interventions laid down by the pre-specified rules inside the
      SIM in order to correct the discrepancies. The activation of the pre-established
      multidisciplinary network (anti-smoking, anti-diabetes and anti-hypertension centres, and
      psychological support) is completely under the nurses' control.

      Caregivers are encouraged to support the patients in achieving behavioural changes over time.

      Adherence to the proven secondary prevention treatments is monitored using the Morisky scale
      in order to ensure that each of the following classes of cardioprotective medications are
      prescribed according to the guidelines at the doses used in clinical trials: antiplatelet
      therapy, beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor
      blockers, and statins. The reasons for non-adherence also investigated in order to ensure
      more targeted interventions. The risk factor and lifestyle behaviour goals are to stop
      smoking, eat a healthy Mediterranean diet, undertake physical activity for at least 30
      minutes/day on five days/week, and maintain a body mass index (BMI) of <25 kg/m2, systolic
      blood pressure of <140, LDL cholesterol levels of <70 mg/dL (1.81 mmol/L). A further goal for
      all diabetic subjects is good glycemic control.

      The nurses also assess the subjects' psychological characteristics by means of a
      questionnaire that measures anxiety, depression, anger and hostility, type A and type D
      personality, perceived social support and perceived self-efficacy, and use an ad hoc
      questionnaire for referral to a psychologist if necessary.

      To ensure the same nurse intervention in all partecipating centers the study started with a
      preliminary TRAINING PHASE involving professional nurses proposed by the participating
      centres (6-10 per centre, 50% from a hospital setting, 50% from a community setting). The
      training programme was coordinated by the Training and Continuous Education Centre of Parma
      University Hospital, and delivered by a multidisciplinary team of
      medical/nursing/psychological experts with the aid of ad hoc paper-based teaching materials.
      It consisted of three 8-hour sessions held on consecutive days during which the nurses were
      trained in secondary CVD prevention and how to take multi-dimensional and structured
      responsibility for ACS patients using appropriate communication strategies aimed at reducing
      risk factors, modifying lifestyles and improving adherence to prescribed pharmacological
      therapy. The programme was repeated four times in order to allow the creation of small groups
      (20 participants) and better interactions.

      UT: control arm. The patients randomised to the control group will follow the standard for
      secondary prevention of the hospital to which they were admitted.

      DATA MANAGEMENT All of the data are peripherally recorded in electronic case report forms and
      stored for further analysis. An external monitoring provides for all partecipating centrers
      the clinical data verification, the accuracy and the completeness of electronic case report
      forms.

      Sample size and statistical aspects On the basis of the results of the GRACE UK-Belgian
      Study, it is conservatively expected that the cumulative rate of clinical endpoints in the
      standard care arm (cardiovascular mortality, non-fatal reinfarction, non-fatal stroke) during
      the five years' follow-up will be 28%. Using the formula of Lakatos and Lan (Statistics in
      Medicine, 1992), in order to detect a 25% risk reduction in the experimental group, with 90%
      power and a two-sided significance level of 0.25, at least 1030 patients are required in each
      group.

      However, a two-year interim analysis of the major clinical endpoint will show the real
      divergence of the curves and provide further information for estimating the required duration
      of the study more precisely. The estimated sample size is also valid for the analysis of the
      first primary endpoint.

      The plan of the primary and secondary analyses includes a Kaplan-Meier analysis of the time
      to an event, the HR, and log-rank comparisons based on the ITT and PP populations.

      The baseline characteristics of the intervention and control group will be compared using the
      chi-squared test for categorical factors and Student's t test for independent samples for
      continuous factors. The data will be expressed as mean values ± standard deviations. All of
      the statistical analyses will be made using the SPSS programme.

      A secondary heterogeneity analysis of the primary clinical outcomes will be made by
      stratifying the patients by age, sex, center, literacy level, diabetes, hypertension, smoking
      habits, family history, type of myocardial infarction (STEMI vs NSTEMI), and hospital
      characteristics. Analysis of repeated measures will be used to evaluate the changes in the
      primary surrogate end point over time.
    
  