
    
      The study will have a pilot run-in period and two sequential cohort groups for each center.

      Pilot Run-in Period The pilot run-in period will be conducted in each center with a group of
      at least 5 patients exposed only to conventional PCs, who provide informed consent for data
      collection. The purpose of this pilot run-in is to evaluate study logistics and data
      collection methods within each study center. Data collection will not differ from that
      required in the two sequential patient cohorts. The data from the pilot phase will be
      included in the data analysis for the treatment comparisons.

      Control and INTERCEPT Cohorts Following the run-in period, the study will be conducted in two
      sequential cohort periods. Informed consent for data collection without study specific
      treatment intervention, and under patient confidentiality, will be required for both cohorts
      prior to any study procedure.

      During the Control cohort period, patients will have study data collected following
      transfusion with only conventional PCs for up to 21 days of transfusion support, as
      clinically indicated in a manner that is consistent with the local standard of care. During
      the INTERCEPT phase, patients will receive only INTERCEPT PCs under the same clinical
      treatment guideline. Patients will be transfused with only study PCs of the assigned
      treatment type (Conventional or INTERCEPT) in each cohort. Patients enrolled in the
      Conventional control cohort will be excluded from participating in the study in the INTERCEPT
      cohort.

      Enrollment will be stratified by study center and type of primary disease therapy
      (chemotherapy only or HSCT with myeloablative, non-myeloablative, or reduced intensity
      conditioning).

      For both cohorts, patients will be supported with study PC transfusions for a maximum of 21
      days or until platelet transfusion independence. Patients are considered to have achieved
      platelet transfusion independence if more than 5 days elapse after exposure to a study PC
      transfusion. When a patient achieves platelet independence, the patient will have completed
      the study PC transfusion period (even if they subsequently resume another cycle of platelet
      support).

      For the pilot phase and both cohort periods, all baseline O2 saturation values if available
      in the medical record should be recorded on eCRF. O2 measures associated with any form of
      respiratory therapy (except for room air ventilation) should be recorded with the indicated
      respiratory therapy for each day of therapy. If multiple measures are available in the
      medical record on a single day, then the worst value will be recorded.

      Data collection for all participants will comprise: patient baseline disease characteristics,
      including primary disease, type of HSCT (auto, allo, cord blood, matched related or matched
      unrelated) or type of chemotherapy, and medications at study entry and during the study
      observation period. Patient clinical respiratory status, including, if available, a chest
      imaging study at baseline and O2 saturation by non-invasive pulse oximetry if available in
      the medical record prior to the first study transfusion in each cohort period, will also be
      recorded.

      Within each study cohort, patients will be assessed for the primary outcome measure of
      assisted ventilation for a maximum of 28 days (7 days surveillance following up to of 21 days
      of study PC transfusion support). Patients with assisted ventilation within the defined
      timeframe will be further assessed for ARDS using the Berlin criteria by both the
      Investigator (based on diagnoses documented in the medical record) and the Pulmonary
      Adjudication Panel. Furthermore, AEs (including TR) will be collected from the primary
      medical record for 24 hours following the initiation of each study PC transfusion.; SAEs
      (including ARDS), CSPAEs (Grade 2 or higher AEs affecting the Respiratory System) and
      mortality will be collected for 7 days post each study transfusion (or until hospital
      discharge/discontinuation of outpatient platelet transfusion support, whichever is sooner).
      Investigators will assess the intensity of each AE and SAE and provide their assessment of
      the relationship of each AE and SAE to the study transfusion. Patients who experience the
      outcome of assisted ventilation, ARDS, or CSPAEs will be assessed as detailed in Assessment
      of Pulmonary Adverse Events in the synopsis and in Protocol Section 8.1.

      For patients who achieve platelet independence before Study Day 21, AEs will be collected for
      24 hours after initiating the last study platelet transfusion prior to platelet independence;
      the outcome of assisted ventilation, SAEs, ARDS, CSPAEs, and mortality will be collected for
      7 days after the last study PC transfusion prior to platelet independence (or until hospital
      discharge/discontinuation of outpatient platelet transfusion support, whichever is sooner).

      For patients who require more than 21 days of PC transfusion support, AEs will be recorded
      for up to 24 hours after the initiation of the last platelet transfusion up to and including
      Day 21; the outcome of assisted ventilation, SAEs, ARDS, CSPAEs, and mortality will be
      collected for up to a maximum of 28 days (7 days after up to 21 days of platelet transfusion
      support),7 days after initiating the last study transfusion within the 21-day study
      transfusion period (or until hospital discharge/discontinuation of outpatient platelet
      transfusion support, whichever is sooner). The lowest daily O2 saturation values in the
      medical record will be recorded on the eCRF as well.

      Study-specific research personnel will review the patient medical record and record study
      outcomes on electronic Case Report Forms (eCRF). The intensity of AEs and SAEs will be graded
      according to the most recent version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
      (CTCAE) classification system. TR will also be assessed following the CDC National Healthcare
      Safety Network (NHSN) Biovigilance Component Hemovigilance Module Surveillance Protocol (NHSN
      Protocol).
    
  