
    
      This study will test the hypothesis that physical exercise training modifies alternative
      reward cue reactivity and cognitive control in tobacco use disorder and that these
      modifications mediate the effect of exercise on abstinence. Continued physical exercise
      training was shown to reduce tobacco consumption and prevent relapse in tobacco use disorder
      (TUD). However, the psychological and neural mechanisms through which exercise training
      exerts its effects on tobacco consumption are not clear. The aim of this project is to
      identify the effects of a 12-week aerobic exercise training in TUD and to test how these
      exercise-related changes may mediate the effect of exercise training on abstinence.
      Investigations will focus on two potential mechanisms of regaining control: (1) modifications
      of tobacco and alternative reward cue reactivity and (2) improvement of cognitive control.
      Two aspects of cognitive control will be addressed: inhibitory control and cognitive
      down-regulation of craving. It is expected, first, that exercise training (compared to
      standard treatment) leads to desensitization towards tobacco cues and sensitization towards
      alternative reward cues, reflected in altered craving and neural (fMRI) cue reactivity.
      Second, it is expected that exercise training will lead to increased cognitive control (i.e.,
      inhibitory control and cognitive down-regulation of craving), reflected in increased
      activation of prefrontal control regions (fMRI). Third, it is expected that effects of
      exercise on abstinence will be mediated by sensitization towards alternative reward cues and
      enhanced cognitive control. In an exploratory manner, gender differences in the effects of
      exercise training will be studied. Understanding the psychological and neural underpinnings
      will help to optimize and individualize exercise trainings in TUD.
    
  