
    
      In Part 1, one panel (Panel A) of up to 8 participants will dose in up to 3 dosing periods.
      In each dosing period, 6 participants will receive MK-5475 and 2 will receive placebo (PBO).
      Two (2) different participants will receive placebo in each of the dosing periods. There will
      be a minimum washout of 7 days between dosing periods. Review of available safety data up to
      24 hours post dose of at least the first 4 participants must occur prior to escalating to the
      next dose level. A break to review pharmacokinetic (PK) data from Periods 1 and 2 will occur
      after completion of Period 2 (Functional Respiratory Imaging: FRI period). Review of safety
      will occur after completion of Period 3 (Right Heart Catheterization: RHC period) in all
      participants from Panel A, prior to initiation of Part 2. An optional break to review rolling
      PK data from Panel A Period 3 will be dependent upon exposures observed in Periods 1 and 2.
      Participants from Part 1 may continue into Part 2. Three additional panels of participants
      (Panels B, C and D) will be enrolled into Part 2. Participants in Panel B (N=4), C (N= up to
      8), and D (N= up to 7) will participate in up to 3 dosing periods. Period 1 of Panel B will
      be an open label assessment of safety/tolerability and PK. A review of available safety data
      up to 24 hours post dose and a rolling PK assessment will occur following completion of Panel
      B, Period 1, prior to going to the FRI period. Panel C, Period 1 will be an open label
      assessment of MK-5475. Panel C may begin once PK and safety data are reviewed from Panel B,
      Period 1. A rolling PK and safety data review of the first 4 participants of Panel C will
      occur prior to moving to the FRI period. The remaining participants in Panel C may enter
      Period 1 while this review is in progress. Following a review of individual safety along with
      a review of PK from first four participants in Panel C, the remaining participants will
      proceed to Period 2. Panel D, Period 1 will be an open label safety/ tolerability and PK
      assessment of MK-5475. Following a review of individual safety of Period 1, participants will
      then proceed to Periods 2 and 3.
    
  