
    
      Pregnancy does not reduce the risk of recurrence among women who have previously experienced
      depressive illness and the advent of new episodes during pregnancy raises particular
      problems. Lingering concerns over the possible teratogenicity of medications in general leave
      many women reluctant to continue preexisting antidepressant prophylaxis or to accept new
      trials of conventional antidepressant treatment. There is also now accumulating evidence that
      the SSRIs have short-, and perhaps longer-term, adverse effects on the newborn.

      The antidepressant effects of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) supplementation may
      offer a particularly appropriate alternative to conventional therapy for depressive episodes
      that occur during pregnancy. The nutritional needs of the fetus increase the likelihood of
      omega-3 PUFA deficits in the mother but access to adequate omega-3 PUFAs through fish intake
      is limited due to concerns over mercury levels. Because polyunsaturated fatty acids are
      dietary components essential for both fetal development and maternal health, and because
      their use as supplementation carries a minimal to non-existent side effect burden, women may
      be more likely to accept omega-3 supplementation over that of conventional antidepressants to
      manage depressive illness if provided sufficient evidence for effectiveness.

      Data supporting the antidepressant potential of omega-3 PUFA supplementation derive first
      from numerous case-control studies that have associated depressive illness with lower tissue
      concentrations of omega-3 PUFAs and with higher ratios of omega-6 to omega-3. These findings
      prompted antidepressant trials of omega-3 supplementation as augmentation or as mono-therapy
      and many reports described significant benefits over placebo, including one that targeted
      pregnant women and yielded a large effect size. A number of other trials, however, failed to
      show clear antidepressant effects. Meta-analyses have highlighted these inconsistencies in
      results but have found no explanations for them in differing sample demographics, baseline
      depressive severity levels, PUFA dosing, or trial durations. Other sources of study outcome
      differences undoubtedly exist and a clear possibility is that the studies with positive
      results involved subjects more likely to truly benefit from omega-3 supplementation. The
      characteristics of such individuals are entirely unknown. Though valid predictors of
      antidepressant response to omega-3 PUFA supplementation would provide powerful tools for
      personalizing treatment no study has sought to identify them.

      One feature that might characterize an individual likely to respond to omega-3 PUFA
      supplementation is, of course, the presence of relatively low tissue concentrations of
      omega-3 PUFAs and/or high ratios of omega-6 to omega-3 concentrations. The likelihood that
      omega-3 PUFA supplementation exerts antidepressant effects via modulation of the inflammatory
      cascade, and the extensive evidence that high levels of pro-inflammatory markers characterize
      individuals with depressive disorders, indicate that these measures too may help to select
      those most likely to benefit from treatment with omega-3 PUFAs.

      The identification of response predictors for a specific antidepressant strategy would not
      only have value for the selection of acute treatment for individuals with active depression
      but could also be used to choose preventative strategies for individuals who are not
      currently depressed but who are at high risk because of a recent history of a depressive
      episode. Prophylaxis against depressive illness in such individuals would have special
      importance during pregnancy. The adverse effects of depressive illness on both maternal and
      newborn well-being are widely appreciated but women who develop depressive disorders during
      pregnancy may, for a variety of reasons, fail to report symptoms to their health care
      provider or, if they do, treatment response may be delayed or even absent after one or more
      trials.
    
  