
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the progression-free survival (PFS) for two consolidation regimens: bortezomib,
      lenalidomide, and dexamethasone (VRD) versus bortezomib and dexamethasone (VD) only.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the incremental ability of VRD versus VD in attaining a complete response or
      a very good partial response (VGPR) in patients receiving induction therapy with a
      dexamethasone based induction regimen.

      II. To compare the overall survival, measured from the time of study entry.

      III. Evaluate response rate and PFS according to cytogenetic category (by gene expression and
      fluorescence in situ hybridization [FISH]).

      IV. To evaluate the toxicity of the two regimens.

      V. To compare quality of life (QOL) based on the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy
      (FACT)-Neurotoxicity (Ntx) Trial Outcome Index (TOI) of patients receiving VD to those
      receiving VRD from registration to 6 months post consolidation treatment.

      VI. To examine the impact of differential treatment response (PFS), if observed, on QOL based
      on the FACT-Ntx TOI up to 12 months post consolidation treatment.

      VII. To obtain prospective data on multiple myeloma specific QOL attributes.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive bortezomib at 1.3 mg/m2 intravenously (IV) on days 1, 4, 8, and 11,
      lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) at 15 mg on days 1-14, and dexamethasone at 40 mg
      total dose per day PO QD on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 8 courses
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive bortezomib at 1.3 mg/m2 IV on days 1, 4, 8, and 11 and dexamethasone
      at 40 mg total dose per day PO QD on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 8
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every
      6 months for 3 years, and then every 12 months for 5 years.
    
  