
    
      Peri-implantitis, defined as an inflammatory lesion in the surrounding peri-implant tissues
      with loss of supporting bone, are important disease entities as a result of their high
      prevalence and the lack of a standard mode of therapy. Although the current epidemiological
      data are limited, peri-implantitis affects 28-56% of the subjects and 12-43% of the implants.

      Numerous approaches have been used for implant surface decontamination during peri-implant
      surgery, including mechanical, chemical and laser treatments. Using conventional mechanical
      means, eradication of pathogens on implant surfaces with threads and often with rough surface
      structures is difficult. Treatment models, such as debridment, effectively used to treat
      teeth with periodontitis, cannot be used in the same way on rough threaded implant surfaces.
      The implant rough surface structure also provides the bacteria with ''protected areas'',
      inaccessible to conventional mechanical removal.

      A treatment protocol that may offer an advantage over traditional mechanical treatment
      includes the use of laser therapy. Data have shown that treatments with Er:YAG lasers have a
      bactericidal effect. Er:YAG laser treatment can debride the implant surface effectively and
      safely. Slightly better clinical results in terms of bleeding on probing and clinical
      attachment level have been reported by Er:YAG laser treatment as compared with traditional
      non-surgical mechanical debridement with curette and chlorhexidine.

      The air abrasive method for the removal of bacterial plaque on tooth surfaces has also been
      used in the treatment of peri-implantitis, demonstrating no relevant adverse effects. Until
      recently, air-polishing devices have used a slurry of water and sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO3)
      and pressurized air/water. A less abrasive method using an amino acid glycine has been proven
      to be effective in removing bacterial biofilm structures in deep periodontal pockets and safe
      by not causing emphysema. Moreover the use of a glycine-based powder does not seem to cause
      titanium implant surface changes.

      The aim of the present randomized controlled clinical trial will be to assess the efficacy in
      improving clinical parameters of two further methods of implant surface decontamination
      (Er:YAG laser or air-abrasive device) after mechanical and chemical cleaning during non
      surgical treatment of peri-implantitis.
    
  