
    
      Enrolled participants will complete psychological questionnaires and a multi-measure
      cognitive test battery, physical function, as well as provide blood samples, to determine
      blood chemistry. These will include complete blood count and complete metabolic count [(Na,
      K, Cl, CO2, BUN, Creatinine, Glucose, Total Protein, Albumin, Calcium, Phosphorous, Aspartate
      Aminotransferase (AST), Alkaline Phos, Total Bilirubin, and Alanine Amino Transferase (ALT)]
      and any others deemed necessary by the study physician. They will return to the laboratory to
      perform a muscular endurance test and MRI evaluation at the Brain Institute. Eligible
      participants will be randomly assigned with equal probability to either receive resveratrol
      (300 mg/d or 1000 mg/d) or placebo for twelve weeks. Immediately following completion of the
      MRI, participants will be given a month's supply of resveratrol or placebo. All participants
      will be closely monitored for safety and toxicity during the first 10 days (range 8-12 days
      are acceptable) of the trial. During this initial evaluation period, blood chemistries
      (complete metabolic profiles) will be evaluated every 3 (range 1-2 days are acceptable) days.
      Following one month, participants will be asked to return to clinic. At their monthly visits,
      memory tests, blood samples will be collected to monitor cognitive adaptations and ensure
      that no adverse changes have occurred. Participants' compliance with the supplementation
      regimen will also be checked through pill counts, and participants will be given a month's
      supply of product at each of their monthly visits. After 12 weeks of taking either
      resveratrol or a placebo on a daily basis, participants will complete a final test battery,
      an MRI scan, a blood draw collection. A follow-up evaluation will be provided at 10 and 30
      days following completion of the final post-treatment assessment.
    
  