
    
      The eye care industry has focused a majority of its resources on solving problems associated
      with the ocular or "front end" of the visual system. These investments have led to exciting
      technology advances, such as intraocular lenses (IOLs) and Laser Vision Correction (LVC) as
      well as in the development of contact lenses and improved eyewear.

      NeuroVision's innovative Neural Vision Correction (NVC) technology has been developed through
      research focused solely on optimizing performance of the neural or "back end" of the visual
      system. NeuroVision's technology is distinguished from other products in this space by the
      Company's expert understanding of how the brain processes vision, its reliance on scientific
      and clinical research

      It is the result of two decades of research by Dr. Uri Polat, founder, who has dedicated 20
      years of scientific and clinical research to understanding how the brain processes visual
      information, how neural activity is related to visual perception, and how visual processing
      interacts with other neural systems. His work has been published in leading scientific
      journals and is widely cited by the scientific community.

      NeuroVision's NVC vision correction technology is a non-invasive, patient-specific treatment
      based on visual stimulation and facilitation of neural connections responsible for vision.

      The technology has been clinically proven in the treatment of adult amblyopia ("lazy eye"),
      which until now has been considered untreatable. The Company has received FDA 510(k)
      marketing clearance indicating NVC for the treatment of adult amblyopia in patients 9 years
      or older in the US. The Company also received Medical CE-Mark to market its Amblyopia and
      Low-Myopia products in the EU. Company products are also approved for use in Israel by the
      Israeli Ministry of Health - Device License Authority.

      This study was a prospective non-controlled preliminary clinical study as a prelude to a
      randomized clinical trial, evaluating the efficacy and safety of NeuroVision NVC correction
      technology in improving visual acuity and contrast sensitivity function.
    
  