
    
      Background: Research has shown that unpaid, informal caregivers (CGs), such as family and
      friends, who are also employed may be at significant risk of experiencing burden and stress.
      A recent national survey found that approximately 60% of employed CGs had significant
      problems balancing work and caregiving. Stress not only increases the CG's risk of illness
      and diminishes their quality of life; it also impacts the CG's ability to provide care for
      the care recipient (CR) and overall relationship quality. Moreover, while work frequently
      adds to the CG's stress, relinquishing work can create new stress for both the CG and CR,
      particularly when it involves losses in resources such as income, benefits, social contacts
      and/or respite from caregiving duties.

      Specific Aims: The aims of this study are to, 1) determine the extent to which, relative to
      usual care, a novel intervention providing evidence-based, telephonic CG/work stress
      self-management counseling is related to changes in CG psychological distress and ability to
      function effectively in work and CG roles, and 2) evaluate whether participation in the
      intervention is related to CGs' overall wellbeing and CRs' health care utilization.

      Methodology: The investigators will conduct a randomized controlled trial and compare
      pre/post changes among 300 CGs allocated to the Caregiver SOS (for Self-Management of Stress)
      program or usual care. CGs who, 1) care for Veterans diagnosed with depression, anxiety,
      PTSD, and/or traumatic brain injury (TBI) and, 2) screen positive for clinically significant
      distress and CG/work role difficulty will be recruited to participate from two VA Medical
      Centers and their affiliated outpatient clinics. A novel intervention, Caregiver SOS includes
      6, 1-hour telephonic sessions with a care manager. Usual care will consist of 1 telephonic
      session with a care manager. Primary and secondary outcomes will be pre-post change in CG
      distress and work functioning, respectively. Additional CG and CR outcomes (i.e., physical
      mental and interpersonal functioning) also will be measured and analyzed. CRs' VA health
      utilization data will be extracted from clinical patient records and non-VA health
      utilization data will be collected via CG self-report. Intent to treat analysis using mixed
      effects models will be used to test the study hypotheses. The investigators anticipate that
      CGs in the intervention arm will show significantly greater improvements in outcomes compared
      to those in usual care.
    
  