
    
      Introduction/Background:

      Patellar tendinosis is a frustrating ailment commonly encountered in sports medicine.
      Treating this condition continues to be a significant challenge for sports medicine
      physicians. The tendinosis lesion is characterized by collagen disorganization and increased
      ground substance. One method of treating this problem is using platelet rich plasma (PRP),
      which is a concentration of platelets from the patient's own blood that provides a high dose
      of growth factors aimed at stimulating tendon healing. These injections have been used
      extensively to treat many tendon disorders including patellar tendinosis. Several studies
      have demonstrated the safety and efficacy of using PRP to treat patellar tendinosis.

      One growth factor that is known to be helpful in tendon healing is insulin-like growth factor
      (IGF). However, IGF is not found in PRP but rather in the free plasma that is spun off during
      the PRP processing. This free plasma or platelet poor plasma (PPP) is typically discarded but
      it is a known source of IGF. We have shown that concentrating PPP in the FDA cleared Plasmax
      device yields an increased concentration of insulin-like growth factor (IGF). Local IGF
      injections into the patellar tendon have demonstrated improved tendon healing, but the effect
      on clinical outcomes has never been studied in a controlled fashion.

      Research Design: Double blinded randomized comparative trial.

      Detailed Study Procedures: 38 patients will be randomly assigned to a treatment arm. 19
      patients will receive platelet rich plasma (PRP) and 19 patients will receive PRP plus
      concentrated IGF. Patient will be blinded to their treatment, but treatment team will not.
      PRP will be prepared according to standard sterile procedures out of view of the patient to
      ensure patients are adequately blinded. The injecting physician will not be blinded to
      randomization scheme.
    
  