
    
      Sample size

      Decisions were based on the following:

        1. Number of patients with erythema migrans treated with doxycycline and cefuroxime axetil
           was determined assuming no difference in treatment outcome will be detected
           (non-inferiority testing).

        2. The decision for a larger sample sizes than needed for 1. was done with the intention to
           evaluate the secondary outcome measure, i.e., to assess the difference between the
           frequency of new or increased symptoms in patients treated for early Lyme disease and
           the occurrence of the same symptoms in control subjects.

             1. We assumed that the outcomes in the two treatment groups will be comparable and
                that the patients could be combined for further analysis.

             2. To obtain a control group from the same geographical area, each patient was asked
                if she or he had a family member or friend who was within 5 years of her or his age
                and who was without a history of Lyme borreliosis. These persons were approached by
                a short written explanation of the investigation, containing also a request for
                their participation. We assumed that we will be able to get a corresponding control
                person not for all but for approximately 80-90% of patients.

             3. Under the assumption that approximately 15% of an estimated 200 patients would have
                new or increased symptoms at >6 months after enrollment into the study, a control
                group of 165 subjects would be sufficient to detect a >10 percentage point lower
                rate of new or increased symptoms in controls compared with patients at the 0.05
                level (2-sided) with >90% power. To comply with drop outs at different time points
                we assessed that 280 patients and 230 controls should be included at baseline.
    
  