
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder. This disease
      is characterized by motor symptoms, such as bradykinesia, tremor, and rigidity. Non-motor
      symptoms such as cognitive impairment, anosmia, sleep disorders, or depression are also part
      of the disease, and although their prevalence is very high, non-motor symptomsare often
      underdiagnosed.

      One of the cognitive characteristics in PD is the slowness in the processing of information,
      which includes deficits in processing speed and attention, cognitive inflexibility, and
      forgetfulness. These symptoms may appear from the initial stages of the disease.

      Approximately 60% of PD patients fall once a year and 40% do so regularly. These falls may be
      correlated with the inability to achieve compensatory movements to regain balance when their
      center of gravity generally oscillates outside their limits of stability (LOS), which is
      reduced in this disease. Some authors point out that reaction times and processing speed may
      be a marker of postural instability since a reduced speed is associated with difficulty in
      making turns. This is in line with Pantall's findings, indicating that cognitive function and
      postural control normally progressively worsen with disease progression.

      The relationship between cognitive impairment and postural instability in PD patients may be
      specific for tasks that assess the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and its frontal-subcortical
      connections. The main cognitive functions whose affectation would influence a worse balance
      and gait performance would be attention and executive functions. Varalta et al specified that
      balance is related to executive functions and attention, while functional mobility is more
      related to cognitive impairment, verbal fluency, and attentional capacity.

      Some authors point out that within the executive functions the component with the greatest
      weight in this relationship would be the inhibitory control. Dual-task performance has also
      been established as a good indicator of falls in patients with early-stage PD and no previous
      history of falls. The studies that carried out a one and a half years follow-up of the
      participants concluded that the deterioration of executive functions acts as a predictor of
      future falls in patients with PD.

      Cognitive rehabilitation through neurorehabilitation platforms and neuropsychological
      rehabilitation in patients with Parkinson's disease has shown to be effective in improving
      processing speed, attention, and executive functions.

      Although the relationship between cognitive deficits and postural stability seems to be
      demonstrated, the investigators have not found studies that, through cognitive
      rehabilitation, seek a stability improvement.

      The investigators working hypothesis is that the group that receives rehabilitation of the
      speed of information processing and sustained attention will improve their postural stability
      compared to the group that does not undergo any therapy.
    
  