
    
      Prospective radical treatment trials in oesophageal cancer have shown responses in both
      radiotherapy alone and radiotherapy when combined with chemotherapy. Retrospective studies
      show a response in the palliative setting to relieve dysphagia. The response, durability and
      quality of life end points have not been previously fully documented. This will be addressed
      by this trial.

      Dysphagia is the commonest presenting symptom due to local disease obstructing the
      oesophagus. Difficulty eating not only affects the patient's ability to maintain nutrition,
      but also impacts on all areas of quality of life. Relief of dysphagia becomes the highest
      priority for treatment.

      At the time of developing this protocol there were no randomised trials comparing
      chemo-radiotherapy and radiotherapy in the palliative setting.

      Few studies have prospectively assessed quality of life data for patients with oesophageal
      cancer, and although toxicity and survival data is available, there is no long-term data on
      quality of life. This trial will assess quality of life in a consecutive manner using a
      standardised self-reporting measure of quality of life, and compare quality of life across
      two groups having different treatments.

      Eligible patients are those with proven carcinoma of the oesophagus who are deemed not
      suitable for definitive radical treatment due to the advanced nature of disease, presence of
      metastases or intercurrent illness, who have symptomatic dysphagia requiring loco-regional
      palliation.

      Patients will be randomised to the following treatment options:

        1. Radiotherapy Alone

             -  35 Gy in 15 fractions (Australia and New Zealand) or

             -  30 Gy in 10 fractions(Canada ONLY)

        2. Chemo-Radiotherapy

             -  35 Gy in 15 fractions (Australia and New Zealand) or

             -  30 Gy in 10 fractions (Canada ONLY)

             -  Cisplatin 80mg/m2 IV day 1 (or 20mg/m2/day IV days 1 - 4)

             -  5-Fluorouracil 800mg/m2/day IV days 1 - 4

      Patients will have an initial baseline assessment then be followed up weekly during
      treatment, monthly for 1 year post treatment and then 3 monthly.
    
  