
    
      LIFE-Moms (Phoenix center) is a randomized clinical trial in overweight and obese pregnant
      women that will test the effects of an intensive lifestyle intervention on gestational weight
      gain, control of maternal hyperglycemia, and post-partum return to pre-pregnancy weight. The
      Phoenix center will be conducted in collaboration between the Phoenix Indian Medical Center
      (PIMC) nurse midwifery and obstetrics services and the National Institute of Diabetes and
      Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK). It is part of the LIFE-Moms Consortium consisting of
      six other clinical centers that will follow similar protocols and a research coordination
      unit.

      American Indians are at high risk for developing obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM)
      and its complications. A major factor responsible for this finding is exposure of the fetus
      in the womb to its mother s diabetes, which increases the risk of diabetes in the offspring
      particularly during childhood and adolescence. This study is designed to evaluate the effects
      of an intensive lifestyle intervention (ILI) in at least 200 adult (age greater than or equal
      to 18 years) pregnant women who are eligible for prenatal care at PIMC. Interventions will be
      provided to overweight and obese pregnant women who do not have pregestational diabetes but
      may have (GDM), i.e., diabetes that first develops or is first recognized in pregnancy, or
      are at high risk of developing GDM. The lifestyle intervention will be patterned after the
      Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) that prevented or delayed the onset of diabetes in non
      pregnant adults; the interventions will be modified to be appropriate in pregnancy. For women
      who develop diabetes, interventions will include coaching to optimize glycemic control.

      Women will be randomly assigned to one of two intervention groups, assigned with equal
      probability: an enhanced standard of care group or an intensive lifestyle intervention group
      (ILI). Following delivery, all the mothers and infants will be treated in the same way
      regardless of their initial treatment group. For example, all mothers will be encouraged to
      breast feed and follow other recommended practices for the health of themselves and their
      babies. After delivery the mother will be invited to bring the infant to the research clinic
      five times during the first 6 months and again at 1 year of age. These follow up visits for
      the infant are timed 1) to understand the patterns of change in neonatal body composition and
      2) to coincide, when possible, with well-child pediatric visits. We will also question the
      mothers and abstract data from the medical record regarding the child s feeding practice,
      overall health, hospitalizations, immunizations, and medicine use.

      Outcomes will be assessed on the same schedule for both intervention groups. Prenatal
      measurements include demographic, anthropometric, and biochemical data. The latter will focus
      on periodic measures related to blood glucose (sugar), including glucose tolerance tests.
      Diet and physical activity will be assessed by questionnaires and objective activity
      monitors. Many of these tests will be repeated in the mother at 6-12 weeks and 12 months
      post-partum. Infant data at or shortly after birth and at months 1 through 6 and 12 will
      include weight, length, head size, estimated body fat, feeding practices, and medical record
      abstraction.
    
  