
    
      Background

        -  Loss of activity of the Krebs cycle components succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) complex or
           fumarate hydratase (FH), has been identified as a mechanism of tumorigenesis in subsets
           of gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST), pheochromocytoma and paraganglioma (PHEO/PGL),
           and renal cell carcinoma.

        -  DNA hypermethylation has been demonstrated in these cancers. Loss of activity of SDH or
           FH leads to accumulation of the metabolites succinate and fumarate, respectively.
           Succinate and fumarate act as inhibitors of a broad array of
           alpha-ketoglutaratedependent dioxygenases. The Ten-eleven Translocation (TET) family of
           alphaKG-dependent dioxengenase enzymes convert 5-methylcytosine to
           5-hydroxymethycytosine leading to DNA demethylation. Inhibition of these enzymes due to
           SDH and FH deficiency causes DNA hypermethylation and has been verified in preclinical
           models.

        -  Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are the most common mesenchymal tumor of the
           gastrointestinal tract, resistant to cytotoxic chemotherapy and radiation therapy. KIT
           and PDGFRA mutations have been identified as tumor initiating events in 85% of adult
           patients with GIST and these tumors are responsive to the tyrosine kinase inhibitor,
           Imatinib. In pediatric patients, however, 85% of GISTs lack KIT and PDGFRA mutations
           (wild-type) and imatinib is not effective.

        -  Recent work in the Pediatric and Wild-Type (wt) GIST Clinic at the NCI led to the
           identification of succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) deficiency in approximately 90% of
           wildtype GIST.

        -  In addition to wild-type GIST, SDH deficiency is also present in 30% of pheochromocytoma
           and paraganglioma (PHEO/PGL) and a subset of renal carcinoma. Loss of SDHB protein
           expression is seen in PHEO/PGL and wtGIST either due to mutation in SDH subunit genes or
           hypermethylation of the SDHC promoter region.

        -  Mutations leading to loss of function of FH have been identified in PHEO/PGL as well as
           type II papillary renal cell carcinoma in patients with hereditary leiomyomatosis and
           renal cell cancer (HLRCC). An FH-deficient paraganglioma had DNA hypermethylation as
           demonstrated by array and immunohistochemistry showed increased 5hmC levels in
           paragangliomas and pheochromocytomas.

        -  SGI-110 is a small molecule derivative of decitabine that acts as a DNA
           methyltransferase (DNMT) inhibitor and is resistant to inactivation by cytidine
           deaminase, hence may thus have a more favorable pharmacokinetic profile compared to
           decitabine. Subcutaneously administered SGI-110 is gradually converted to decitabine
           resulting in prolonged exposure with a several fold increase in apparent T1/2 compared
           to intravenous decitabine. SGI-110 has been demonstrated in preclinical models to induce
           a dose-dependent decrease in global DNA methylation and up-regulate expression of
           specific genes including MAGE-A1 and NY-ESO-1 through decreased methylation.

        -  We are proposing a phase II trial with SGI-110 in these SDH-deficient and FH-deficient
           tumors.

      Objectives:

      -To assess the clinical activity of SGI-110 in patients with wt-GIST, SDH-deficient PHEO/PGL,
      and HLRCC-associated RCC using RECIST.

      Eligibility:

        -  Adults and children (greater than or equal to 12 years of age) with wt-type GIST, SDH
           deficient PHEO/PGL, or HLRCC-associated RCC and measurable disease will be eligible.

        -  Newly diagnosed patients with PHEO/PGL or HLRCC-associated RCC with localized,
           resectable disease will not be eligible. Patients with PHEO/PGL or HLRCC-associated RCC
           with unresectable localized disease and/or metastatic disease will be eligible.

        -  Newly diagnosed patients with wt-GIST with completely resectable disease will not be
           eligible. Patients with wt-GIST with metastatic disease and/or residual or recurrent
           tumor following surgical debulking will be eligible

        -  Patients with wt-GIST or HLRCC-associated RCC who have not previously received systemic
           therapy are eligible as there are no standard chemotherapy regimens known to be
           effective for these cancers.

        -  Must have adequate performance status, may not be pregnant or breastfeeding, and must
           have adequate major organ function.

        -  No history of severe or uncontrolled inter-current illness including, but not limited
           to, ongoing or active infection, symptomatic cardiovascular or pulmonary disease will be
           excluded.

      Design:

        -  This is a single site, open label, phase II study using a small optimal two-stage design
           to evaluate the clinical response in three groups of patients:

             1. wild-type GIST (GIST without KIT or PDGFRA mutation)

             2. PHEO/PGL in patients with germline SDH subunit mutation, or

             3. RCC associated with HLRCC

        -  SGI-110 will be administered subcutaneously at 45mg/m2/day x 5 days on a 28-day cycle to
           the three groups of patients.

        -  SGI-110 activity will be assessed by imaging response of measurable disease using
           RECISTv1.1, using CT, MRI and/or PET.

        -  Patients will be closely monitored for development of toxicity with regular physical
           examinations and laboratory evaluations. Toxicity will be graded using version 4.0 of
           the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria.

        -  SGI-110 related toxicities greater than or equal to grade 3 will be considered treatment
           limiting toxicities, unless they are reversible within 72 hours with supportive care.
           Following recovery from toxicity up to 2 dose reductions will be allowed.

        -  Initially 7 evaluable patients in each group (strata) will be enrolled and if 0 of the 7
           have a response, then no further patients will be accrued in that strata. If 1 or more
           the first 7 (14.3% or more) have a response, then accrual would continue until a total
           of 21 patients have enrolled in that strata. If at least 3 responses (at least 14.3%)
           are observed among the 21 evaluable patients, the agent should be considered worthy of
           further testing in this disease.

        -  Enrolling 2 patients/month, it is estimated to require 3 years to complete accrual to a
           maximum of 70 patients, a maximum of 63 evaluable patients allowing for a small number
           (7) of inevaluable patients.
    
  