
    
      Introduction:Timely and accurately predicting the occurrence of sepsis and actively
      intervening in treatment may effectively improve the survival and cure rate of patients with
      sepsis. There have been a large number of research results on the prediction of sepsis
      produced by two methods: the sepsis detection and evaluation method based on clinical scoring
      mechanisms and the sepsis detection method based on machine learning model.

      Objective: Reasonable and effective data pre-processing can significantly improve the
      timeliness and accuracy of early warning models of sepsis. Given the problems of high time
      dispersion, uneven distribution, and large differences of common sepsis prediction modeling
      indicators, the study proposed a method of hybrid interpolation based on time window-related
      sepsis indicators.

      Methods:The study designed the traditional data interpolation method based on linear, MGP,
      average, nearest neighbour and the hybrid interpolation method (CTWH) based on correlation
      time window (CTW) proposed in the study for experimental comparison. Experiments were
      performed respectively in sample sets with no experimental data removal and sample sets with
      90% missing values removal. By comparing with the performance of the existing sepsis
      indicator interpolation methods on the same baseline model, the effectiveness of the method
      was proven from the accuracy and timeliness of the prediction results. In the end, the
      results of the experimental method were analyzed and explained from a clinical perspective.

      Significance:

      In view of the characteristics of high dispersion, uneven distribution, and large differences
      between features of commonly used indicators in sepsis prediction models, this study proposed
      an efficient data interpolation strategy. After elimination of missing data of 90% and 0%,
      the interpolation method proposed in this study performed better than the existing methods
      like mean interpolation and linear interpolation, KNN, MGP on the static baseline and time
      series models. At the same time, this method also provided an idea to explore the length of
      the interpolation window, and supported the prospective study of missing value interpolation
      and data pre-processing.
    
  