
    
      Introduction:

      Coronary artery disease is a leading cause of adult mortality worldwide. One of the most
      commonly performed surgical interventions to treat this vascular disease is a myocardial
      revascularization, mostly performed via a Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) (1). Over time,
      new developments in cardiac surgery have led to the introduction of less invasive and
      minimally invasive cardiac procedures (2). These minimally invasive cardiac procedures are
      proven to be safe and feasible (3) and have excellent outcomes (4) (5) (6). More
      specifically, the short term outcomes include a reduced patient recovery time (5), lower
      transfusion rates, wound infections, hospitalization time and hospital mortality rate (4),
      while the long term outcomes comprise a better vessel graft patency (7) (8). Over the past
      few years, new minimally invasive cardiothoracic surgery techniques have been developed and
      are currently being implemented at the department of cardiothoracic surgery from the Jessa
      Hospital (e.g. endo-CABG, VATS Mitral, hybrid revascularization, Yil AVR). These newly
      developed procedures include laparoscopic techniques that do not require median sternotomy,
      which has several beneficial effects for both patient and the hospital. Also, these
      techniques allow a coronary revascularization or mitral valve repair or replacement without
      the use of expensive robotic equipment and exclusion of specific patients based on
      comorbidities (e.g. elderly patients, diabetic and/or obese patients). Currently, patients
      undergo cardiothoracic surgery via these techniques and although retrospective data from our
      hospital show promising results with respect to clinical outcomes (e.g. 30-day mortality
      rate, intensive care unit length of stay), no prospective data with respect to patient
      centered outcomes (e.g. quality of recovery, quality of life) are available yet. Therefore,
      the aim of this study is to explore several patient centered and clinical outcomes of
      patients that are treated with these newly developed minimally invasive cardiac
      procedures.The comparative group consists of patients undergoing open CABG (invasive) and
      patients undergoing a Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI).

      Outcome measures:

      The goal of this study is to assess several patient central outcomes (e.g. quality of
      recovery measured with quality of life) and clinical outcomes (e.g. mortality rate, serious
      complications, major cardiac events, time registration in icu and hospital, duration of
      surgery, occlusion and perfusion time, surgical parameters, revalidation of the patients)
      after minimally invasive cardiothoracic surgery.

      Design:

      This study is a single-center prospective observational cohort study in which eligible
      patients that are treated via minimally invasive cardiac surgery will be included. Inclusion
      will last for 1 year and patients will be followed-up for 12 months.

      Study Procedures:

      After signing the informed consent form, the baseline tests will be performed the day before
      the surgery. On the day of the surgery, several surgical parameters will be measured as well
      as several parameters that are included in the standard clinical practice. 2 weeks, 1 month,
      3 months and 1 year after the surgery, the QoL will be measured. Patient satisfaction will be
      assessed 3 months after surgery.

      Statistical analysis:

      Descriptive statistics will be presented as frequencies and percentages of the total amount
      of patients for categorical variables, while numerical variables will be presented as mean
      with variances. Results of the different questionnaires will be calculated according to their
      specific guidelines. The clinical significance of the questionnaires will be calculated via
      an effect size. A p-value <0.05 is considered statistical significant, while p<0.10 is
      considered a tendency.
    
  