
    
      Purpose: The aim of this project is to develop an understanding of the pathophysiology of
      shoulder OA. This project will recruit two groups of 30 participants, (60 participants in
      total) and follow them over a period of 5-years.

      Group 1- Participants with posterior subluxation of the humeral head and show early signs of
      degeneration in their shoulder 'disease group' Group 2- Participants with posterior
      subluxation of the humeral head and show no signs of degeneration 'control/healthy' group

      Hypotheses: The investigators hypothesize that there are several factors that contribute to
      the development of shoulder OA. Uncovering those pathways will lead to more targeted therapy.
      (1) The posterior rotator cuff muscles (infraspinatus/teres minor) apply relatively greater
      force than the anterior (subscapularis) cuff; an imbalance in the force couple occurs and the
      humeral head translates posteriorly on the glenoid; progressive posterior subluxation of the
      humeral head occurs and degeneration of the glenoid and humeral head cartilage follow. (2)
      Posterior subluxation of the humeral head is associated with progressive cartilage
      proteoglycan loss. (3) Pre-morbid glenoid morphology including increased retroversion is
      associated with the development of shoulder OA.

      Participant Involvement: The following will be completed with participants: T1Rho Magnetic
      Resonance Imaging (MRI), quantitative Computed Tomography (qCT), functional and motion
      analysis at baseline, year 2 and year 4 in the 'affected' shoulder in both groups 1 and 2.
      These tests will also be conducted on the asymptomatic, contralateral shoulder in Group 1
      participants at baseline and year 4. The finite element model validation will be performed in
      years 2 and 3, and participant-specific finite element analysis (which has no active
      participant involvement) will occur in years 3 to 5. Overall study analysis will occur in
      year 5. This project will be done in two-parts. The first part will consist of six
      participants; assuming further funding is obtained, part two of the study will proceed. The
      second part of the project will be based on successfully obtaining funds to continue the
      remainder of the study recruitment (54 participants) and testing. As pilot data is urgently
      needed to secure granting funds to support this overall project, the investigators will
      commence with recruiting the first 6 participants. Once further funds are secured, the
      remaining portion (recruitment of 54 participants) of the project will continue.

      Objectives: (1) Determine whether patients with posterior humeral head subluxation have an
      imbalance between the posterior and anterior rotator cuff muscles. Objective 1 will be
      assessed through T1Rho MRI, and functional testing/motion analysis.

      (2) Determine whether patients with static posterior subluxation of the humeral head are at
      risk of degenerative changes (i.e. proteoglycan loss). Objective 2 will be assessed through
      T1Rho MRI and qCT scans.

      (3) Determine which joint factors are associated with progression of OA. This will be
      assessed using qCT scans and finite element model analysis.

      Clinical Relevance: The cause is shoulder OA is unknown, and the burden and costs associated
      with this degenerative disease are increasing with our aging population. Research in this
      area is urgently needed to generate knowledge which will inform future treatments which may
      modify and slow the progression of shoulder OA, and to reduce the need for shoulder
      replacement therapy.
    
  