
    
      Catheter ablation of atrial fibrillation (AF) has become a common ablation procedure
      performed worldwide. The cornerstone of this procedure is pulmonary vein isolation (PVI). PVI
      can be achieved by multiple methods, the two most common being radiofrequency (RF) and
      cryoablation. Energy delivery may extend beyond the atrial myocardium and result in damage to
      adjacent structures, including the esophagus. Atrio-esophageal fistula (AEF) is a rare, but a
      well-recognized complication of percutaneous AF ablation. The occurrence rate of esophageal
      injury has varied depending on the reporting center, timing of endoscopy, and the ablation
      technique utilized. Esophageal ulceration is likely the initial injury that leads to AEF
      formation and is probably present within hours to days of the ablation procedure.

      The Attune Medical Esophageal Heat Transfer Device (EnsoETM) is a non-sterile, multi-lumen
      silicone tube placed in the esophagus for the purpose of cooling or warming a patient while
      simultaneously allowing gastric decompression and drainage. For this study, the EnsoETM tube
      will be used during cardiac ablation procedures for the intended indication of patient
      temperature management using approved settings/parameters as detailed in the product
      instructions for use document. EnsoETM is an FDA approved device.

      This prospective, randomized study will include 40 patients with symptomatic AF undergoing
      index PVI under general anesthesia at Northwestern Memorial Hospital. Patients will be
      randomized in a 1:1 fashion with 20 patients (Group A) randomized to undergo the ablation
      procedure with esophageal warming and the other 20 patients (Group B) will serve as the
      control group and will not have the EnsoETM device used. All patients will undergo
      esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) 1-2 days following the ablation procedure to evaluate for
      esophageal injury.
    
  