
    
      The opioid epidemic is a serious public health crisis that affects all age groups. Emergency
      departments (EDs) are on the front line of this public health crisis. Buprenorphine is an
      Opioid Use Disorder (OUD) treatment that reduces opioid overdose mortality by up to 70%. A
      landmark 2015 randomized controlled trial (RCT) also demonstrated effectiveness of
      ED-initiated buprenorphine in improving OUD treatment engagement rates in adults. As a
      result, EDs across the nation have begun to follow these practices. This model of
      evidence-based treatment is a paradigm shift for care delivery and ripe for adaptation to
      special populations, such as adolescents. Adolescents with OUD need easy access to treatment
      now more than ever: fentanyl use is on the rise, the COVID-19 pandemic has heralded historic
      levels of social isolation in this age group, and the opioid overdose death rate is
      increasing.

      Little research has examined how the ED can engage adolescents and their families in
      effective OUD treatment. Buprenorphine is an evidence-based treatment for OUD in adolescents.
      Three RCTs in ambulatory settings have demonstrated the efficacy of buprenorphine in reducing
      opioid use and improving treatment retention in adolescents with OUD. Given its efficacy, the
      American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommends that pediatricians offer buprenorphine to
      adolescents with severe OUD or discuss referrals to other providers for this service. Despite
      the immense efforts to improve access to buprenorphine, youth with OUD continue to have
      markedly low rates of receiving this life-saving medication. A study of Medicaid-enrolled
      adolescents with OUD found that between 2014 and 2015, only 3.3% of 13-15 year-old and 6.9%
      of 16-17 year-old patients received OUD treatment medication within 3 months of diagnosis.
      Treatment receipt is even lower among adolescents experiencing opioid overdose; only 0.5% of
      13-15 year-old and 0.8% of 16-17 year-old adolescents receive pharmacotherapy within 30 days
      of the overdose. Research is urgently needed to identify effective strategies to address the
      enormous treatment gap for adolescents with OUD.

      ED-initiated buprenorphine with brief intervention and facilitated referral to treatment has
      been shown to be highly successful in increasing treatment engagement rates and reducing
      opioid use among adults. It is unknown whether this intervention is similarly effective for
      adolescents with OUD. To rigorously examine this important clinical research question, it is
      first necessary to optimize this intervention for the adolescent population. In this R34
      proposal, we will use the Assessment-Decision-Administration-Production-Topic
      Experts-Integration-Training-Testing (ADAPT-ITT) framework-a systematic method for
      intervention adaptation- to adapt (Aim 1) and test the feasibility (Aim 2) of a treatment
      strategy for adolescents that has been shown to effectively link adults with OUD to ongoing
      addiction treatment. We aim to:

      Aim 1: Optimize the intervention of ED-initiated buprenorphine with brief intervention and
      facilitated referral to treatment for adolescents (ages 13 years old until their 18th
      birthdays) with OUD (Year 1). Recognizing the novelty of ED-initiated treatment for OUD in
      adolescents, and the importance of ensuring that the evidence-based intervention components
      are relevant to the target population, we will use the ADAPT-ITT framework to systematically
      refine the intervention. Focus groups and in-depth interviews with key stakeholders will
      examine: 1) perceptions of ED-initiated buprenorphine, brief intervention and facilitated
      referral to treatment for adolescents, 2) preferences for content and delivery of the
      intervention, and 3) strategies to increase awareness and acceptability of the ED as an
      access site for treatment and linkage to care for adolescents. Data will be used to adapt
      intervention for EDs that treat adolescents and inform the development of updated
      intervention training protocols.

      Aim 2. Conduct a single-arm pilot study of the intervention developed in Aim 1 to examine the
      feasibility of enrolling and collecting outcomes from adolescents (ages 13 years-old until
      their 18th birthdays) with OUD presenting to 4 pediatric EDs (Year 2). We will conduct this
      pilot study in 4 geographically diverse EDs within the Pediatric Emergency Care Applied
      Research Network (PECARN). PECARN is the only federally-funded pediatric emergency medicine
      research network with the robust infrastructure to identify and efficiently enroll a
      sufficient number of adolescents with OUD into an ED-based clinical trial. We hypothesize:

      Hypothesis 1: We will enroll adolescents with OUD at a recruitment rate of at least 1
      patient/site/month.

      Hypothesis 2: We will retain 80% of participants at 30 days, as defined by the successful
      collection of the 30-day outcomes of treatment engagement, self-report of opioid use in the
      previous 7 days and urine toxicology for opioids.

      Impact: The findings will inform our planned large-scale implementation trial of ED-initiated
      treatment in adolescents which could improve outcomes and ultimately save the lives of
      numerous U.S adolescents. The ADAPT-ITT process and feasibility study directly responds to an
      urgent need to design and test developmentally-appropriate OUD treatment engagement
      strategies for this age group.
    
  