
    
      In a recent study, the investigators have demonstrated that the motivational therapy approach
      to treat childhood obesity is highly effective at clinical and metabolic levels. This
      efficacy has been proved in a clinical outpatient setting. However, a standardized
      collaborative approach between the clinic and the primary care services would allow a faster
      and easier approach to childhood obesity treatment. Furthermore, this motivational and
      educational intervention would benefit from the current technologic facilities, the long term
      effect of the education at group level, in terms of food shopping plan, healthy, fast and
      easy cooking methods.

      The aim of this clinical trial is to test the efficacy of a multicomponent motivational
      intervention for the treatment of childhood obesity, coordinated between primary care and
      hospital specialized services, integrating motivational individual interviews, educational
      groups and eHealth tools (wearable), compared to the usual intervention performed in
      paediatrics.

      The design will be a clustered randomized control trial, with an intervention group that will
      receive a multicomponent motivational and educational plan which will be compared to a
      control group receiving the usual recommendations performed in primary care centres (n=167
      per group). The treatment of both study groups will last 12 months and will be performed at
      the primary care centres. In parallel, the study team will validate the methodology used to
      assess body composition in obese children as well as the changes produced by the
      intervention.

      Children assigned to the control group receive advices as recommended by the Clinical
      Practice Guidelines (17). At visits, the family receive explanations about carrying out a
      balanced diet, divided into 5 meals, in order to provide a moderate energy intake reduction.
      An increase in physical activity, both in terms of leisure activity, as sports regular
      practise are recommended. Monthly visits are organized in which weight and height are
      measured, and compliance with recommendations are actually taking place.

      Children assigned to the intervention group receive similar recommendations to those in the
      control group but under a motivational interview schema. This means that each visit,
      objectives from the last visit are fulfiled, the therapists try to make the family
      recongnizing the changes to be done by themselves, rather than imposing by demonstrating
      ambivalences, and objectives for the next visit are agreed. Furthermore, three workshops as
      group therapy are organized with the following topics: 1. Increasing physical actty sing an
      eHEalth monitor, 2. Food choices and dietary balance, and 3. Cooking methods.
    
  