
    
      Clinical research relies on accurate and reliable measurement of relevant outcomes to
      evaluate health interventions. This is commonly done with either clinician-measured outcomes
      (e.g. blood pressure, range of motion, presence of biomarkers etc.) or patient-reported
      outcome measures (PROMs). PROMs are questionnaires given to patients to measure specific
      health constructs like depression, quality of life, pain etc. Measurements in clinical
      practice are experiencing a shift from an objective, clinician-reported view, towards a more
      subjective patient-oriented perspective that places importance on patients' values and
      expectations according to more modern concepts of health and the importance of self-reported
      wellness. PROMs should be well-validated in the clinical population in which they are used to
      ensure that they are accurate and reliable. When PROMs are validated, they are typically
      validated individually. However, it is common to administer multiple questionnaires at a
      single study timepoint in order to assess multiple outcomes at a time. The investigator's
      hypothesis is that there is progressive decay in response reliability as the number of
      questionnaires being given to an individual at a specific time increases. To our knowledge,
      no studies have addressed how administering several questionnaires at a time affects
      reliability of PROMs.The investigators believe that increasing the number of questionnaires
      increases response burden, and impairs data collection. The objective of the following study
      is to address this problem by assessing test reliability after different multiple PROMs
      questionnaires applications. A secondary objective is to identify if there is any critical
      point at which reliability of data collection is impaired significantly.To see how increasing
      the number of questionnaires affects the internal consistency of the SF-36 score (36-Item
      Short form survey, RAND corporation) participants will be randomized into four different
      groups. Each group will answer a series of 8 questionnaires where the SF-36 will be included
      at a different place in order so as to account for differences in questionnaire burdenThe
      SF-36 questionnaire will be placed amongst the rest in a way that the respondents will be
      unable to tell the relevance of any particular questionnaire. Throughout the series of
      questionnaires, the participant will be asked on feeling of burden and tiredness.
    
  