
    
      This study will generate data to compare the efficacy of three different manufactures of an
      instrument commonly used in dental clinics. The instruments are known as electronic apex
      locators (EAL). Electronic apex locators are used to measure the length of a root canal and
      to locate its opening at the end of the tooth's root (called the apical foramen). A root
      canal is the space inside the root of a tooth. If the tissue within the root canal becomes
      diseased, dentists may perform root canal therapy; for this reason the accuracy of the EAL is
      very important.

      In this study patients who are scheduled for tooth extraction as part of their standard of
      care will be pre-screened by record review for candidacy as study subjects. If the scheduled
      patients screen as potentially eligible by reviewing their records, then they will be
      approached by the study team at the time of their pre-extraction consultation visit (this is
      a visit which occurs prior to the extraction visit). Only teeth scheduled to be extracted are
      suitable for this study. On the day of their standard of care tooth or teeth extraction(s)
      prior to the extraction the study team will conduct measurements with the EALs. After the EAL
      measurements the standard of care extractions will occur as standard of care, outside of the
      study, and by the patient's clinician. Extracted teeth will be given to the study team as
      long as they are not needed for further pathological review (extracted teeth are usually
      discarded and are rarely sent to a lab for further analysis). Also the teeth must be
      extracted without breaking. the study team will analyze them (ex-vivo) to generate true root
      measurements which will be compared to the data generated prior to extraction by the
      instruments which are the subject of this study. The instruments are the subject of this
      study, but in-vivo data generated by the instruments will be compared to ex-vivo data gained
      by measurements after the tooth/teeth is/are extracted.
    
  