
    
      We have developed a new device for guiding invasive procedures with ultrasound (US), which we
      call the Sonic Flashlight (SF). We attach a half-silvered mirror and a small flat-panel
      monitor directly to an ultrasound transducer to project a virtual image of the US scan into
      its actual location within the patient. This permits the operator to guide a needle through
      the skin by aiming directly at the image, using natural hand-eye coordination rather than
      looking away from the patient at a conventional display. The device requires no tracking or
      head-mounted apparatus, and provides an intuitive merger of the visual exterior of the
      patient with an in situ ultrasound image, which can be simultaneously viewed by others
      assisting the operator. We believe the SF will increase accuracy, safety, and speed, for a
      wide variety of invasive procedures, and will require less extensive training than
      conventional US displays.

      Given the wide variety of procedures for which the SF could be used, we have narrowed our
      focus to applying it to a single application: vascular access. We have demonstrated
      clinically that the SF can be used successfully to guide the placement of the Peripherally
      Inserted Central Catheter (PICC) lines. The research proposed here will expand this
      application to include the insertion of other Central Venous Access (CVA) lines through the
      internal jugular vein, subclavian vein, and femoral vein. The historical approach to CVA line
      placements has involved the physical exam and identification of visible landmarks. With the
      introduction and common usage of ultrasound, it has become routine to use ultrasound
      guidance.

      Much of the difficulty in learning conventional ultrasound (CUS) guided procedures stems from
      the displaced sense of hand-eye coordination that occurs when the operator looks away from
      the operating field to see the ultrasound display. The SF directly addresses many of these
      issues and therefore we believe that it is well suited for this application. We have already
      shown that novice US users learn vascular access procedures in training phantoms more quickly
      using the SF than CUS. We have also shown that IV team nurses already proficient in CUS
      guided PICC lines perform vascular access in training phantoms more quickly using the SF than
      CUS guidance. Finally, as mentioned earlier, we have shown that the SF can be used
      successfully to guide the placement of PICC lines. This study will test the hypothesis that
      the SF will successfully facilitate catheter placement in the subclavian, femoral, and
      internal jugular veins demonstrating equal vasculature visualization as conventional
      ultrasound.
    
  