
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the extent to which hearing health outcomes are
      improved when patients are screened for hearing loss and provided an educational brochure or
      screened and provided the brochure plus an educational segment emphasizing points in the
      brochure versus a standard screening only protocol. These procedures are non-invasive.
      Hearing loss screening is part of basic health evaluations for older persons, brochures are
      commonly handed out for a variety of health conditions, and providing patient education is
      common practice.

      At all sites our study research nurse will train clinic staff, contact patients who have
      indicated they are interested in taking part, obtain informed consent, administer baseline
      and follow-up questionnaires, and ensure that those completing the two follow-ups receive
      their gift cards. No information from clinic medical records will be obtained.

      Aims:

        1. Evaluate the extent to which hearing health outcomes are improved when patients are
           screened for hearing loss and provided an educational brochure or screened and provided
           the brochure plus an educational segment emphasizing points in the brochure versus a
           standard screening only protocol..

        2. Examine hearing health outcomes by patient and clinic characteristics.

        3. Compare any observed gains in outcomes against the estimated staff time to administer
           either the brochure or the brochure plus the educational segment.

      The three primary outcomes involve comparing the differential impacts of adding an
      illustrated educational brochure or adding both a brochure and a brief educational segment
      over screening only. These three outcomes are whether the participant went to see a hearing
      specialist for an evaluation, whether a hearing or other assistive listening device was
      obtained if recommended, and whether the device if obtained was being used. Other outcomes
      include the number of hours a day participants who received assistive devices actually wear
      them, the number of changes participants have made to improve communication other than
      obtaining an assistive device, and the extent to which their hearing related quality of life
      improves.

      The primary care clinics taking part in our study already do some screening for hearing loss
      but often screening is not perceived as leading to better outcomes. The clinics are
      interested in the opportunity to participate in a project that will assess how effective
      screening is when combined with additional educational material. All consenting and data
      collection will be done by our study's Research Nurse.

      Specific procedures are:

        1. Older patients coming into the clinic for a medical appointment and who are not wearing
           hearing aids will be screened by intake personnel (usually a medical assistant or office
           nurse) for hearing loss using a direct question ("Do you have any difficulty hearing?")
           and a finger rub test (the finger rub protocol is attached). When either or both of
           these tests indicate possible hearing loss, intake personnel will tell the patient that
           their health care provider will be informed and then ask them if they are interested in
           taking part in a study of hearing loss. Those who express an interest will be asked to
           fill out contact information on a card for transmission to the study's Research Nurse.
           They will also be given a flyer describing the study and two copies of the consent to
           take with them to review and discuss with the study's research nurse. A stamped return
           envelope will be included for mailing the signed consent after discussing the study with
           the Research Nurse. The envelope will have the study address both on the front and in
           the space for the return address in order to protect patient confidentiality.

           One of three protocols will then occur for those indicating an interest in the study:

             -  For the first 28 patients the intake personnel will take no further action other
                than to provide the screening results to the patient's health care provider.

             -  For the next 28 patients the intake personnel will hand them the brochure For the
                last 28 patients the intake personnel will hand them the brochure and then ask if
                it is all right with them if he/she goes over some points in the brochure.

        2. Training for the finger rub and what to do during the three protocols will be conducted
           by the study's Research Nurse.

        3. The health care provider that the patient sees will follow his or her usual procedures
           for handling a patient with possible hearing loss. This usually involves checking the
           ears for wax buildup, further discussion about the possible extent of the loss, and
           referral to a hearing specialist if warranted.

        4. The Research Nurse will come by the clinics regularly to pick up the contact cards and
           respond to any questions that medical assistants or other clinic staff may have.

        5. The Research Nurse will then contact potential participants to explain the study, review
           the consent they took home, ask those still interested in taking part in the study to
           sign one copy of the consent and place it in the provided envelope for mailing, and
           administer the baseline questionnaire. She will explain that there will be two follow-up
           contacts at 4 and 8 months. If participants can hear well enough to do the interviewing
           over the telephone it will be used for all contact between the Research Nurse and
           participants. The informed consent will include a self-addressed envelope for mailing
           the signed copy to the Research Nurse. If participants do not feel they can hear well
           enough to talk with the Research Nurse over the telephone, all consenting and
           interviewing will be done at a place of their own choosing.

        6. At the end of the 8-month follow-up, participants from the first two protocol groups
           will be given the same educational materials (brochure and/or verbal educational
           protocol) by the study Research Nurse that they would have received had they been in the
           third protocol group. Thus by the end of the study all participants will have received
           the brochure and the educational intervention.
    
  