
    
      Smoking is a major cause of premature death. Each year, tobacco kills nearly 6 million people
      globally, including more than 600,000 non-smokers by secondhand smoke (SHS). During the past
      few decades, tobacco control has contributed prominently to international health, and the
      World Health Organization (WHO) Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC), the first
      international health treaty negotiated by WHO has propelled tobacco control into a new era.
      In order to determine the impact of and opinions on tobacco control policies, many countries
      around the world have carried out surveys on policies either implemented or under
      consideration. A number of surveys have assessed the impact of policies such as smoke-free
      laws, including the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES), the
      International Tobacco Control (lTC) Surveys and the Global Adult Tobacco Survey (GATS).

      In 2013 and 2014, the investigators conducted two waves of the policy-related survey on
      tobacco control. The surveys gathered information such as SHS exposure at home, in the
      workplace, and in various public places (e.g. bars/restaurants, door way of the buildings,
      streets, and bus stops), use of smoking cessation services, knowledge of smoking and
      quitting, and smoking prevalence; measured the impact of tobacco control policies such as tax
      increase in 2011 and 2014, expansion of smoke-free areas in 2009 and 2010, and pictorial
      health warnings on behavioural change of smokers and ex-smokers; collected the opinions on
      current policies such as smoke-free areas, pictorial health warnings and point of sale
      displays, and the opinions towards future policies such as tax increase, plain packaging, and
      tobacco endgame. The results of the two waves have been used by COSH to advocate plain
      packaging, banning on point of sale displays, and increasing tobacco tax by 100% in the past
      2 years.

      In order to collect further information on issues related to tobacco control which should be
      addressed in future tobacco control measures in Hong Kong, COSH commissioned School of Public
      Health (SPH), the University of Hong Kong (HKU), to conduct a third wave of the survey
      (2014/15). The current survey sought to use the Hong Kong data to update information on the
      prevalence of SHS and active smoking and its health effects, use of E-cigarettes, awareness
      of smoking cessation services and to identify the level of public support for current and
      future tobacco control measures as well as estimating the impact of existing policies.
    
  