
    
      Background Survival rates around 50 % are reported in comatose patients treated with
      hypothermia in Intensive Care Unit (ICU) after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA). The
      high risk of ICU death is generally due to the primary hypoxic-ischemic insult, and
      subsequently secondary brain damage caused by prolonged insufficient cerebral blood flow
      (CBF), disturbed autoregulation, ischemia-reperfusion injury and compromised cerebral energy
      metabolism injury. Conclusive evidence of secondary cerebral ischemia following cardiac
      arrest has been elusive. Secondary injury is a significant determinant of neurologic outcome,
      and alleviating its deleterious effects is a mainstay of post-cardiac arrest management. This
      far, the clinicians still need more accurate monitoring methods to identify and manage
      potential reversible ongoing brain ischemia, and predicting early neurological outcome in the
      ICU. Methods measuring global brain ischemia and reflecting metabolic perturbations after
      resuscitation are needed for a more individualized post-resuscitation care-and target-driven
      therapy to improve patient outcome.

      Jugular bulb microdialysis (JBM) allows global cerebral metabolic variables of the draining
      venous blood to be monitored continuously and provides data on substrate supply and
      metabolism at the cellular level in the brain. The ability to measure global brain
      metabolites concentration of glucose, pyruvate, lactate, lactate to pyruvate ratio (LPR),
      glutamate and glycerol at the bedside has provided the option of utilizing JBM as a clinical
      brain-monitor. High LPR > 30 is considered a robust indicator of anaerobic metabolism (low
      pyruvate) and is an independent predictor of mortality and unfavorable outcome in traumatic
      brain injury among patients monitored with MD (1-6).

      Our group has recently published that I) metabolic monitoring in the jugular bulb is
      representative of the overall cerebral metabolism and can be used in the diagnosis of
      compromised global cerebral metabolism during cardiac surgery (7) and II) global JBM
      indicating isolated early brain injury was found after OHCA and consecutive resuscitation
      (study in press) III) preliminary JBM data indicates that approximately 30 % of comatose OHCA
      survivors (cerebral performance category 3-5, poor neurological outcome) are suffering from
      early secondary brain ischemia (8).

      Further advances in the knowledge of cerebral metabolism have been achieved by applying
      positron emission tomography (PET) of 18-Fluor deoxyglucose ([F-18]-FDG) to OHCA patients,
      enabling cerebral metabolic rate of glucose CMRglc to be quantified (9-10). PET provides a
      global metabolic map of the whole brain but only for the duration of the scan. FDG-PET
      measurement is primarily a marker of glucose uptake, which cannot be used to determine the
      fate of this brain fuel. At the same time, the JBM variables have the potential of displaying
      several options regarding the fate of glucose and signs of metabolic crisis. It is in this
      context that the present study attempts to determine if there is a metabolic crisis due to
      ischemia or due to mechanisms other than ischemia by examining global brain tissue with
      combined positron emission tomography and jugular bulb microdialysis. The sensitivity of JBM
      to detect relevant secondary brain injury in cardiac arrest patients is further investigated
      through comparative imaging with PET-CT.

      Aim The study aim to use 18-Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (PET) combined
      with jugular bulb microdialysis to investigate pathophysiological brain derangements
      following cardiac arrest.

      Endpoints Primary endpoint: The difference in overall CMRglc at day 0 and 3 after OHCA
      between neurological outcome groups

      Secondary endpoints:

        1. Correlation between JBM variables and the overall CMRglc on day 0 and 3 after OHCA.

        2. Do the patterns of PET-verified global glucose metabolism reflect the early global
           neuro-metabolic pattern (ischemia/mitochondrial dysfunction) obtained by jugular bulb
           microdialysis following OHCA.

      Method A prospective feasibility study designed to investigate pathophysiological brain
      derangements following cardiac arrest using combined 18-FDG-PET with jugular bulb
      microdialysis (JBM). Ten unconscious patients admitted to the ICU, with sustained return of
      spontaneous circulation after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest will be included. Assent will be
      obtained from the next of kin.

      For detection of early global brain ischemia in the post-resuscitation phase jugular bulb
      microdialysis catheters will be implanted as fast as possible after ICU admission. Patients
      will be monitored for 96 hours or until arousal or withdrawal of life-sustaining therapy.
      Intravenous microdialysis catheters (CMA 67 IV 130 mm, membrane length 10 mm, MDialysis AB,
      Stockholm, Sweden) with 20 kDa molecular weight cut-off membranes enable the measurement of
      energy-related metabolites: glucose, lactate, pyruvate, LPR, glutamate and glycerol. The
      samples will be collected in microvials for analysis every one hour by enzymatic photometric
      techniques, and presented bedside.

      FDG-PET will be obtained on day 0 and 3 after OHCA regardless of neurological status.
      Neurological outcome is assessed at hospital discharge according to the Cerebral Performance
      Category (CPC) scale: CPC 1 - no neurological deficit; CPC 2 - mild to moderate dysfunction;
      CPC 3 - severe dysfunction; CPC 4 - coma; and CPC 5 - death. CPC scores of 1 and 2 are
      considered as 'good' outcomes and a CPC 3-5 'poor' outcomes.

      Limitations Lateralization in cerebral venous drainage may affect jugular bulb sampling.
      Although, the investigators use bedside ultrasound to identify the dominant jugular vein, and
      the JBM technique is applied to a condition producing strictly global cerebral injury and
      hypoxic ischemia. Clinicians are not blinded to data obtained bedside from jugular bulb
      microdialysis, so all outcome assessors will be blinded to minimize the risk of bias.
      Simultaneously cerebral blood flow cannot be estimated due to logistics and operational
      costs.

      Expected clinical impact The mortality of patients who are admitted in a comatose state
      following successful resuscitation after cardiac arrest remains high. Combined JBM and
      FDG-PET have the clinical potential to provide novel insights in dynamic pathogenic metabolic
      patterns related to secondary brain injury. Combining these two technologies would,
      therefore, appear to be attractive aiming at exploring whether brain tissue after a period of
      global transient ischemia displays biochemical signs of ongoing ischemia. In the future, this
      multimodal approach might optimize brain metabolism and individualize the treatment of
      post-cardiac arrest patients suffering from secondary ischemia and potentially improve
      outcomes.

      Project feasibility The research group has shown that metabolic monitoring in the jugular
      bulb is representative of the overall cerebral metabolism and can be used in the diagnosis of
      compromised global cerebral metabolism in a clinical setting. The next step is to combine
      jugular bulb microdialysis with FDG-PET in a pilot study to prove the feasibility of this
      novel combined technique.

      Ethical justification

      Participation in the study will not interfere with or delay routine diagnostic or therapeutic
      procedures. The ethical justification for participating in the COMA-PROTECT study is:

      Knowledge of cerebral metabolism in comatose patients resuscitated after OHCA cannot be
      gained outside the acute setting.
    
  