
    
      This is a randomized clinical trial with women undergoing surgical treatment for breast
      cancer at Cancer Hospital III / INCA. All patients undergoing mastectomy will be evaluated
      for eligibility criteria after the first dressing in the hospital, those considered eligible
      will be informed about the study and no obligation to participate through free and informed
      consent. Upon acceptance, patients will be randomized to the intervention or control group,
      which will be performed by lot at the time the patient enters the study. 27 blocks will be
      available containing 10 envelopes where 05 will contain a code that allocates the patients in
      group A and 05 in group B. This choice was chosen to avoid influences of the therapist or
      patient's preference over the intervention. The patients will be oriented in relation to the
      group they are inserted and what monitoring will be performed while the patient is under the
      care of the dressing. All evaluations, intervention and data collection will be performed by
      trained professionals qualified for this purpose. Group A: intervention group with preventive
      application of compressive bandage in addition to the suction drain (routine adopted in the
      institution). Patients allocated to this group on the day of the first dressing, before
      hospital discharge, according to the institutional routine, are instructed by the nursing
      staff to wash the plastron region with cold, boiled filtered water and to return within one
      week at the outpatient clinic. The bandage will be applied on the day of discharge after the
      first dressing, withdrawal and new bandage applied on the fourth day and definitive removal
      on the seventh day when it will be scheduled for return in nursing care. Should any
      complications occur due to the use of the bandage, the patients will be advised to remove the
      material at home and will be suspended from the research protocol. At the end of the seven
      days, the patients will be reevaluated. Prior to the application of the bandage will be made
      the antisepsis of the skin and placement of the transparent and sterile film dressing over
      the region of the scar points to protect the scar. The 5 cm wide Vitaltape® neuromuscular
      bandage will be used with maximum stretching over the plastron region and finished with two
      ends of two to three centimeters without stretching. As many bundles of bandages as necessary
      will be applied according to the patient's body characteristics. All applications will be
      performed by the same physical therapist. Group B: control group. The patient will follow the
      institution's routine only with the suction drain. All patients will be instructed to do the
      same care with the suction drain according to the institutional routine.
    
  