
    
      Asthma is a chronic disease and affects approximately 300 million people worldwide. Of these
      patients 3-10% have severe asthma which is defined as asthma remaining uncontrolled despite
      treatment with high-dose inhaled glucocorticoids combined with other controllers (long-acting
      β2-agonist, long-acting antimuscarinic agent, leukotriene receptor antagonist or
      theophylline) and/or treatment with systemic glucocorticoids for at least 6 months. Severe
      asthma causes a high amount of medical expenses in asthma. For patients suffering from severe
      uncontrolled asthma, an IL-5 antibody (mepolizumab) has been approved for therapy when a type
      2 inflammation was present. Treatment is well tolerated and a significant reduction of
      exacerbations, oral glucocorticoid use was reported. Another IL-5 antibody (reslizumab) and
      an IL-5 receptor antibody (benralizumab) are available now.

      Patients with severe eosinophilic asthma will be placed on biologics if they continue to be
      uncontrolled under maximal therapy or if they are only controlled under oral corticosteroids.
      Among biologics, 80% of patients improve, 20% are non-responders, but there is no way to
      identify them early. Among the responders, about 30% respond very well (so-called super
      responders), the rest shows moderate improvements. The main problems at the moment are that
      lung function improvements are only delayed, the response (or non-response) can only be
      reliably estimated after 4 to 12 months. This leads on the one hand to prolonged use of
      medication in non-responders (overtreatment), on the other hand to unjustified and premature
      termination of therapy (undertreatment) (GINA report 2019).

      Study Rationale Functional lung MRI has the potential to show early changes in lung
      microstructure, regional ventilation and perfusion and thus has the potential for early
      detection of therapy response. Very promising results of dynamic regional ventilation and
      perfusion mapping using phase resolved functional lung (PREFUL) MRI have been shown recently.
      This technique holds the promise to mature into a patient friendly sensitive MRI spirometry
      test, with novel clinically relevant information to guide clinical decision making and
      improve patient monitoring. PREFUL MRI typically uses standard 1.5T or 3T MRI equipment and
      is based on a routine gradient echo fast low angle shot (FLASH) sequence. PREFUL is well
      suited also for children, because it is a free breathing exam without the need for i.v.
      contrast and has a relatively short examination time. The ventilation, perfusion and dynamic
      flow-volume loop maps are reconstructed entirely after the image acquisition using complex
      registration and post processing algorithms developed and validated at Hannover Medical
      School. Preliminary unpublished data show that PREFUL MRI may detect changes in regional
      ventilation 3 months after anti IL 5 antibody therapy treatment.

      However, if functional lung MRI can reliably detect changes at 3 months of Mepolizumab
      treatment and can predict long term patient outcome is still unknown, which is of high
      clinical relevance for future clinical decision making.

      The aim of this study is to examine if early treatment changes of Mepolizumab treatment can
      be detected at 3 months measured by functional lung MRI and predict clinical outcome at 12
      months of treatment.
    
  