
    
      STUDY SETTING

      Both interventions (FOCUS+ and iFOCUS) will be administered in the homes of the
      patient-caregiver dyads (or in the location of the dyad's preference).

      The intervention will be conducted in six countries (Belgium, Denmark, Ireland, Italy, the
      Netherlands and the United Kingdom). In each country, patients with advanced cancer and their
      primary family caregiver will be recruited and enrolled via participating hospitals.
      Inclusion criteria for hospitals participating in this study are having 1) to treat patients
      with advanced cancer and 2) an oncology care regimen.

      SAMPLE SIZE

      For the emotional functioning the EF10 subscale from the EORTC is used. For self-efficacy the
      CASE instrument is used. The investigators consider demonstration of an intervention effect
      (for each of both interventions) on at least one of these primary outcomes for either the
      patient or the caregiver at t1 as a success. A pre-determined strict fixed sequence (FS)
      procedure defines prospectively hierarchical ordering of the endpoints, for this study the
      hierarchical order is emotional functioning (1) and self-efficacy (2). Testing of null
      hypotheses proceeds according to their hierarchical order, that is, H(1)0 is tested first at
      a significance level of 5%, and if H(1)0 is rejected then H(2)0 is tested at the same
      significance level, otherwise H(2)0 is not tested at all. The strict FS approach has the
      highest power for testing the first hypothesis (outcome: emotional function) compared to the
      other methods, as it does not save any portion of alpha for testing later hypothesis. The
      reference mean value from EORTC for all cancer patients, stage III-IV is 71.5 (SD: 23.8).
      Alpha is set at 0.0125 instead of 0.05 to account for multiplicity (2 comparisons with
      control group * 2 participant groups [patients and caregivers]). 1-beta (i.e. statistical
      power) is set at 0.9. The expected difference between the control group and the intervention
      arms in the primary outcomes is 0.375 SD at t1 (12 weeks).

      With these parameters n= 203 is needed in each arm across all countries (i.e. 609 in total).
      Anticipating a 65% retention rate at t1, which is more conservative than found in previous
      studies in the USA on the FOCUS interventions due to the advanced cancer population included
      in this study, 938 dyads must be enrolled across the 6 countries (313 per group). This means
      n= 156 need to be enrolled in total in each country (n=52 in each of the 3 arms per country).
      Based on previous studies in the USA an enrolment rate of 55% is expected of those dyads
      referred to the study, meaning that about 282 dyads will need to be screened and identified
      in each country. The feasibility of recruitment has been evaluated based on previous research
      and discussions with clinicians in eligible hospitals.

      DATA ANALYSIS

      Four main quantitative analyses will take place:

        1. Primary hypotheses testing:

             1. Testing the null hypothesis of the first primary endpoint: emotional functioning.
                The effectiveness of the FOCUS+ face-to-face intervention and the iFOCUS web-based
                intervention will be compared with the standard care (control group) for each
                participant population (patients/caregivers) separately. In total, 4 comparisons
                are performed for one outcome variable (alpha=0.0125). The hypotheses related to
                the first primary outcome (emotional functioning) will be tested using a mixed
                model (per participant population) with the T1 measurement value for emotional
                functioning as outcome variable, recruitment center as random effect and
                randomization group and baseline measure of emotional functioning (T0) as predictor
                variables. Analyses will be performed on both 'intention-to-treat' and per-protocol
                principles. The primary principle is intention-to-treat. After completion of the
                baseline measurement (T0), dyads will be randomized to one of the trial arms. All
                randomized dyads will be included in the mixed model. Multiple imputation will be
                applied. Predictors for the imputation model will include the baseline measurement,
                randomization group, age and other variables (e.g. severity of the illness). The
                secondary principle is the per-protocol analysis that functions as a sensitivity
                analysis. The per-protocol population will be defined as dyads who have completed
                all sessions of the FOCUS+ or iFOCUS intervention (except for dyads in the control
                group) and T1 measurement. By including the baseline measurement as a predictor
                variable (ANCOVA), preexisting differences will be controlled, enhancing the
                sensitivity of the analyses. To interpret the magnitude of the effects for the
                different outcomes, effect sizes (Cohen's d) will be estimated.

             2. Testing the null hypothesis of the second primary endpoint: self-efficacy (the
                Lewis´ Cancer self-efficacy scale from FOCUS) As per the fixed sequence (FS)
                procedure, the null hypotheses of the second primary endpoint (self-efficacy) will
                only be tested if a significant result is found for the first primary endpoint
                (emotional function). The same strategy is then followed for the analyses as for
                the first primary endpoint, with an alpha level of 0.0125.

        2. Secondary hypotheses testing:

           All identified secondary endpoints (Quality of Life [including separate items of
           hopelessness, anxiety, depression], benefits of illness, coping, dyad communication, all
           at t1) will be evaluated by testing the FOCUS+ and iFOCUS will against care as usual
           (control group) for each participant population (patients/caregivers) separately. In
           total, 4 comparisons are performed for each outcome variable. For each secondary outcome
           variable a mixed model is applied (per participant population) with the T1 measurement
           value as outcome variable, recruitment center as random effect and randomization group
           and baseline measurement of the variable (T0) as predictor variables. Analyses will be
           performed on both 'intention-to-treat' and per-protocol principles, applying the same
           principles as described above.

           By including the baseline measurement as a predictor variable (ANCOVA), preexisting
           differences will be controlled, enhancing the sensitivity of the analyses. To interpret
           the magnitude of the effects for the different outcomes, effect sizes (Cohen's d) will
           be estimated. All statistical tests will be two-sided and considered significant if p<
           0.0125.

           All primary outcomes and secondary outcomes as listed above will also be analysed at T2
           (6 months) to evaluate longer term effects, using the same analysis procedures.

           The cost-effectiveness of the interventions will be determined by analyzing patterns and
           costs of healthcare utilization and effects on quality of life (measured by the EORTC,
           EQ5D5L, FACT G and CQOLC). Data will also be collected on the types and amounts of
           informal care provided to patients in each arm of the study, to investigate if amount or
           patterns of informal care change as a result of the intervention. The outputs will be
           mean costs of care for patients in each arm of the study, cost per year of life gained
           (if survival is affected significantly by the intervention and the costs in the
           intervention groups overall are higher) and (if appropriate) the additional costs of
           achieving better quality of life outcomes (including estimates of cost per quality
           adjusted life year gained).

        3. Exploratory hypotheses testing:

           For all exploratory endpoints, two-sided statistical tests will be considered
           significant if p< 0.05

             1. For the outcomes that are measured identical for the patient and the caregiver, the
                effect on the dyad as a whole (i.e. both patient and family caregiver) will be
                assessed. For the outcome instruments that led to comparable estimated differences
                between FOCUS+ and standard care and iFOCUS and standard care, the effect will be
                assessed on the dyad as a whole by adding an extra level (dyad) to the linear
                regression model.

             2. For each of the primary and secondary endpoints, subgroup analyses will be
                performed using formal interaction tests to explore the extent to which the
                outcomes of the trial differ by country, gender and socioeconomic status.
                Interaction terms between respectively country, gender and socioeconomic status on
                the one hand and the trial arms on the other hand will be added to the analysis
                models. For the country variation a multilevel mixed model analyses will also be
                performed to additionally account for potential clustering by country (i.e.
                participants nested within a country). Outcomes will be analyzed with country as
                random factor.

        4. Other analyses:

             1. Background reports describing care as usual for people with advanced cancer will
                facilitate the understanding of the results of the between-country comparisons.

             2. Process evaluation of the implementation of the interventions will be analyzed
                following the MRC framework for evaluating complex interventions, integrating
                normalization process theory (NPT) and the RE-AIM framework. Data analysis for the
                process evaluation will include a) standard statistical descriptions of the
                quantitative data from the intervention checklist and routine monitoring to
                describe adherence to the implementation. This analysis will determine cut-off
                points for good intervention adherence and, hence, inform the per-protocol
                analyses; b) analyses of the qualitative data (semi-structured interviews with
                patients and their family caregiver and post-intervention interviews with the
                nurses who delivered the face-to-face FOCUS+ intervention) will be performed (see
                below - Qualitative analysis).

      Qualitative analysis:

      With the transcription of interviews into the local language, the analysis process will
      involve a collaborative process involving researchers from each partner site collecting data.
      Thematic analysis allows for both inductive and deductive analysis and can be implemented
      with a range of computer-based software to support the management of the analysis process
      (e.g., NVIVO, MAXQDA).

      Deductive analysis will be informed by semantic information sought from the interview (i.e.,
      were participants satisfied, where particular elements of the programmes described as
      positive or negative) and themes evident in previous evaluations of the FOCUS intervention.
      This will involve developing themes in advance of the analysis process and assessing the
      presence or absence of these themes across the data. Inductive analysis will be structured
      using the objectives of the process evaluation to target key topics, with more latent or
      interpretative themes isolating more experiential findings from the data. Qualitative
      analysis will be conducted at two levels, an initial assessment of themes in each data source
      (stakeholders, staff, researchers, patients and carers, different language groups) followed
      by a higher-level analysis of superordinate themes of convergence and divergence evident
      across groups. Additional strategies for managing the potential impact of multilingual
      analysis are recommended, including peer debriefing during the process of coding and the
      development of candidate themes, triangulation across researchers and language sources.
      Analysis will be informed by open discussion of conceptual issues in the data to explore
      variations in interpretation and identify shared meaning relevant to the focus of the process
      evaluation.
    
  