
    
      This is an open-label Phase 1 dose escalation study of OMP-21M18 in subjects with previously
      treated solid tumors for which there is no remaining standard curative therapy and no therapy
      with a demonstrated survival benefit. Up to 30 subjects will be enrolled at up to 4 centers.
      Subjects will be assessed for safety, immunogenicity, pharmacokinetics, biomarkers, and
      efficacy. No formal interim analyses will be performed. Prior to enrollment, subjects will
      undergo screening to determine study eligibility. Upon enrollment, subjects will receive
      weekly intravenous (IV) infusions of OMP-21M18 for 9 weeks. After 9 weeks of treatment,
      subjects will be assessed for disease status. If there is no evidence of disease progression
      or if the tumor is smaller, then subjects may continue to receive IV infusions of OMP-21M18
      every other week until disease progression.

      Dose escalation will be conducted to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD). The dose
      levels of OMP 21M18 will be 0.5, 1.0, 2.5, 5, and 10 mg/kg administered IV weekly for 9
      doses. No dose escalation or reduction will be allowed within a dose cohort. The dose may be
      administered at any time during the day. Three subjects will be treated at each dose level if
      no dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) are observed. If 1 of 3 subjects experience a DLT, that
      dose level will be expanded to 6 subjects. If 2 or more subjects experience a DLT, no further
      subjects will be dosed at that level and 3 additional subjects will be added to the preceding
      dose cohort unless 6 subjects have already been treated at that dose level. Subjects will be
      assessed for DLTs from the time of the first dose through 7 days after administration of the
      4th dose, but prior to administration of the 5th dose (i.e., Days 0-28). Dose escalation, if
      appropriate, will occur after all subjects in a cohort have completed their Day 28 DLT
      assessment.
    
  