
    
      Objectives: Olanzapine (OLZ) has emerged as one of the promising pharmacologic interventions
      that not only improves psychotic symptoms but may also target ability to sustain attention on
      cognitive tests. Pupillary response, as measured by degree of pupil constriction, and visual
      scanning patterns are unique methods of quantifying attention by gauging the level of
      psychophysiologic engagement on a visual task. It is reasonable to expect that if a treatment
      for attention problems is effective, then this will be reflected in more efficient allocation
      of psychophysiologic attentional resources as measured by pupillometry. Primary purpose of
      this pilot study is to demonstrate efficacy of switching to OLZ for improving task engagement
      in schizophrenia. Secondary objectives are to demonstrate improved attention in response to
      OLZ translates to improved attentional allocation strategies and vocational readiness, and
      demonstrate efficacy of OLZ as agent that enhances ability to benefit from cognitive
      training. The proposed study will examine functional implications of improved attention in
      patients taking OLZ, and it will test the hypothesis that mechanism of this functional
      improvement is through process of engagement as measured by pupillometry and functional
      behavioral measures.

      Research Design and Methodology: This is an industry-sponsored, investigator initiated trial
      with 18 patients in an open-label design over 24-month period. Participants will be adult
      outpatients (ages 18 to 55) with a diagnosis of schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder who
      are on any regimen of "typical" antipsychotics. They will be randomly assigned to one of two
      conditions: 1) Olanzapine Group (OLZ-G). Subjects assigned to the OLZ condition will be
      switched to OLZ from their previous medication so OLZ is the only antipsychotic medication
      part of their regimen. Following switch to OLZ, subjects will be enrolled in a twice weekly,
      20-session cognitive training program that is specifically designed to target attention
      deficits and promote active engagement. 2) "Typicals" Group (TYP-G). Subjects assigned to the
      "typicals" condition will continue with their medication regimen throughout the course of the
      study as they are enrolled in the same cognitive training program. Research questions are:
      Compared to participants on any combination of "typical" medications, we hypothesize that
      persons with schizophrenia on OLZ will (a) show significantly improved performance on
      psychophysiologic measure of task engagement, (b) show greater engagement in cognitive
      training, and (c) show greater improvement in attention on vocational task. Primary efficacy
      measure will be an ASL H6 Series head-mounted optics pupillometer to measure task engagement
      as function of pupil dilation and visual scanning patterns. Secondary efficacy measures will
      include computer software specifically developed to assess on-task behavior on computer
      exercises, brief neuropsychological test battery, global behavior and symptom inventories,
      and functional assessment of treatment motivation.
    
  