
    
      A fundamental limitation to the application of appetitive sensations is how they are
      measured. The most common approach relies on untrained individuals to self-report the
      sensations they experience under a given set of conditions. Investigators believe this is
      problematic because assumptions made about participant ratings are likely not valid. Most
      commonly, participants are asked to rate their hunger, desire to eat, fullness, and
      prospective consumption. For example, researchers have demonstrated that hunger and fullness
      stem from different physiological processes (e.g., different gut-peptides and
      neurotransmitters) and serve different purposes (eating initiation (hunger), meal termination
      (fullness)) and, accordingly, expect participants to rate the two sensations independently.
      However, participants treat them as opposite poles on a common continuum. Additionally, in
      focus group analysis, consumers often use researcher-defined distinct terms interchangeably
      (hunger=desire to eat; fullness =lack of desire to eat). However, the distinction between
      these sensations is clinically important. Hunger and fullness do not always change
      reciprocally and equally in clinical conditions. Hunger can change without a shift in
      fullness, and the reverse has also been reported. Investigators believe reporting
      sensitivity, selectivity, and reliability can be improved by training participants on the
      terminology of appetitive sensations prior to testing, just as any bench researcher would
      calibrate their instruments before measurements. The proposed protocol will permit
      examination of whether training on appetite lexicon enhances the reliability of appetite
      ratings. Investigators also hypothesize that different preloads will induce different
      magnitudes of appetite sensations (hunger, fullness, desire to eat, and prospective
      consumption) depending on their energy density.
    
  