
    
      Understanding the potential consequences of exposures from nuclear detonations is a current
      national security concern. In the event of a nuclear detonation, an important priority for
      the scientific and national security community is to be able to estimate exposure to the
      general population for medical triage, treatment, follow-up and risk projection for public
      health purposes. The only available comprehensive exposure estimates for persons exposed to
      nuclear detonation radiation are from studies of wartime atomic bomb survivors. There is an
      urgent need to evaluate exposure assessment methods in other populations and to determine how
      well each works and the obstacles involved in the application of each.

      In the absence of other studies of exposures to nuclear detonation radiation, the Atomic
      Veterans Epidemiologic Study (AVES)1, a large ongoing study of atomic veterans of 115,000
      atomic veterans who participated in aboveground nuclear weapon tests during 1945-1962
      provides a unique opportunity to evaluate the lasting biological effects of radiations
      received during nuclear detonations. That study has the means for identifying veterans who
      received the highest exposures as well as control subjects with minimal to no exposure. An
      overview of the AVES can be found at
      http://www.vbdr.org/meetings/2013/Presentations/02_Dr_Boice.pdf.

      We propose to conduct a small methodologic investigation with the following objective:
      evaluate the level of agreement between radiation exposure estimates from the generally
      simple and inexpensive assessment strategy of model-based dose reconstruction with the only
      well-established long-term biologically-based dose estimation technique - quantification of
      chromosome aberration frequency. In this study, the dose reconstruction would include
      individual interview data.

      The study would be conducted using a group of U.S. veterans exposed to nuclear detonation
      radiation during the 1950s and 1960s. While there are many thousands of veterans still alive
      today who participated in nuclear testing-related activities, only 16 have been identified
      that are still living and that have estimated exposures of sufficient magnitude for the
      chromosome aberration frequency assay to be successful. These particular veterans were
      exposed on Rongerik Atoll in the Pacific in 1954 and at the Nevada Test Site in 1951-1952.
      The dose estimates will also be compared against individual records of exposure obtained from
      radiation film-badges, when available. All the persons to be studied are part of the study
      cohort in the AVES study.

      The primary purpose of evaluating the model-based dose reconstruction with the dose estimates
      based on chromosome aberration frequency will be to assess the presence of any substantial
      differences (either systematic or random) in doses now being estimated via model-based dose
      reconstruction in the AVES. Because the chromosome aberration frequency assay is difficult,
      expensive and somewhat invasive (requiring a blood sample), it is not practical in a study of
      many thousands of subjects as in the AVES. Determination that the model-based dose
      estimations are not systematically different from FISH-estimated doses is of substantial
      value to the AVES. To a limited degree, i.e., within the constraints of the small sample
      size, the study may be indicative of the potential for model-based dose estimates to be
      relied upon if mass exposures were to take place from a nuclear detonation.

      It is noteworthy that the collection of samples and data to evaluate doses in this study will
      take advantage of a one-of-a-kind situation to obtain exposure-related data from a unique
      (and rapidly dwindling) population living persons exposed to atomic weapons detonation
      radiation a situation that cannot be repeated except under wartime or actual national threat
      situations.
    
  