
    
      In this study, the data of patients who are planned to undergo craniotomy by neurosurgery
      will be collected as a file scan (medical histories, drugs used, demographic features,
      additional diseases, ASA class, pre-operative routine parameters, operation history, GCS,
      tumor histology, location, dimensions and intracerebral radiological data, laboratory
      values). The pre-operative Quality of Recovery-15 (QoR-15) score will be recorded before the
      patient is taken into operation. Intraoperative; hemodynamic data of patients; highest and
      lowest values of heart rate, diastolic, systolic and mean arterial pressures, fluid and blood
      products given, anesthetic and other drugs administered, duration of anesthesia, duration of
      surgery, surgical position, blood loss, urine output and blood gas samples will be written
      from the anesthesia document after the operation is over. For the study, the application of
      the anesthesiologist for the patient will not be interfered. After the operation; extubation
      time, MAS score, use of mechanical ventilation, post-operative complications (moderate to
      severe intracerebral hemorrhage on brain CT, intracranial hypertension requiring post op
      surgical drainage, development of status epilepticus or seizures, the need for tracheal
      intubation and mechanical ventilation after surgery, decrease in GKS, unmanageable agitation
      that requires restriction or sedation, need for respiratory failure and oxygen therapy,
      serious motor deficit and exitus) will be recorded in the service where the patient is sent.
      The post-operative QoR-15 score will be calculated 24 hours after the operation.
      Pre-operative and post-operative calculated scores of the patient will be evaluated and
      anesthesia recovery score will be created. With this recovery score, post-operative mortality
      and morbidity estimates will be made. The length of hospital stay of the patient will be
      recorded. Glasgow Result Scale (GOS) score will be determined 30 days after the patient
      operation. In this way, 1 month morbidity and mortality of the patient will be evaluated. The
      collected results will be statistically associated with anesthesia recovery and operation
      complications.

      As a result, in our study; post-operative risk prediction score will be created in patients
      undergoing intracranial surgery with elective craniotomy.
    
  