
    
      information related to the subject's demographics, past medical history and current medical
      history will be collected from the medical record. This will be collected by the research
      coordinator.

      The following samples will be obtained by the research coordinator or bedside RN and sent to
      UPMC laboratory for evaluation.

      1 teaspoon of blood for creatinine phosphokinase level will be obtained

      pregnancy testing will occur if necessary - 1 teaspoon of blood Screening procedures about 30
      minutes of the patient's time includes, medical record review will occur and information
      related to the patients past medical history, demographics, and present condition, results of
      present testing will be collected, pregnancy test- 1 teaspoon of blood, creatinine
      phosphokinase - 1 teaspoon of blood. Additionally another CPK level will be obtained 36 hours
      post daptomycin infusion. This blood sample is a routine part of your clinical care. The
      bedside RN or research coordinator will collect the blood samples and send to the lab at UPMC
      for evaluation and the medical chart review will be completed by research coordinator.

      if the patient meets entry criteria the following will occur at the patient's bedside in
      their room. If there is a clinical indication that requires the catheter to be removed, the
      removal will not be delayed for the purposes of the research study:

      Patient will receive one dose of daptomycin via IV given by the bedside RN over 30 minutes
      (the dosing will be based on the patient's weight- 10 milligrams per kilogram). PK sampling
      will be obtained around this dosing. 10 PK samples around dosing of Daptomycin will occur-
      this will be approximately 11 teaspoons (1 teaspoon per sample) and will be obtained
      immediately before the Daptomycin dosing, then 1, 2, 4, 8, 10, 16, 24 and 36 hours after the
      end of infusion. The research coordinator will come to the bedside and the bedside RN will
      obtain these samples and will be obtained via the patient's existing IV catheter or central
      line.

      4 samples of cerebrospinal fluid approximately 1 teaspoon per sample will be collected on the
      day daptomycin is given. These samples will be obtained by the bedside RN and taken from the
      already existing spinal fluid draining catheter.

      10 subjects will have these samples obtained 1, 8, 16, 24 after the end of the daptomycin
      infusion and 10 subjects will have them collected at 2,4, 10 and 36 hours after the end of
      the daptomycin infusion.

      2 days after collection of PK samples the patient will be seen at their bedside to check how
      well the patient is doing. This will take 5-10 minutes of the patient's time. If the patient
      is d/c home a research coordinator will call the patient to check on their status again this
      will take about 5-10 minutes
    
  