
    
      This study design will be a pilot randomized controlled trial. Consent for this study will be
      obtained within the circle of care immediately before the patient is discharged home
      following surgery. The families will be instructed to contact the NP by telephone with any
      post-operative questions or concerns they have about their child. Once the family initiates
      contact with the NP, they will be randomized into either the experimental (PEC) group or the
      control (TTC) group.

      Once randomization has occurred, the NP will obtain all necessary information from the parent
      by addressing all points in expertise based script developed by the Pediatric Urology Team
      for both groups. Those randomized to the control group (TTC) will be provided recommendations
      based on information obtained during the standard telephone call. Families who are randomized
      into the PEC (experimental) group will be required to send a digital photograph of the
      child's surgical site to the professional email address of NP. Should they agree to send
      digital photographs they will be required to give consent for email correspondence, which
      will be emailed to them by the NP. Once they have consented they may send digital photographs
      to the NP of their child's surgical site, which will be assessed by both NPs using an
      expertise-based assessment tool. This information will be entered into REDCap. The NPs will
      come to a unanimous decision regarding advice to be provided and this will be communicated to
      the parents. Upon completion of the interaction with the NP the RA will contact the family to
      complete the family/patient experience survey over the telephone. Family/patient experience
      will be measured using an adapted validated tool "Nurse Practitioner Satisfaction Survey"
      consisting of 10 questions directly related to telephone interaction with the NP. This survey
      consists of a Likert Scale with scores ranging from 1-5 with 5 being the most positive
      response. Follow up telephone calls for both groups will be logged in MediTech as well as the
      RedCAP database. All telephone calls will be documented within the MediTech system and
      included in patient's chart in order to maintain current standard of care. All digital photos
      will be printed and placed in the patient's chart and deleted from the email server, which is
      the current process for those engaging in PEC.

      Recruitment for this study will occur for 7 months with the aim of recruiting 40 patients per
      arm in order to obtain the feasibility data. However, a sample size calculation has been
      carried out and assuming 75% power and an alpha error of 5% using a one sided test, the
      required sample size to answer the definitive research question is 114 patients per group.

      Data will be analyzed by comparing the number of ED and unplanned clinic visits for both
      groups, as well as the number of follow up phone calls received. This will be done using
      descriptive statistics and a t-test for independent means. Family/patient experience will
      also be measured between the two groups (PEC and TTC) using descriptive statistics and a
      t-test for independent means. Subgroup analysis will be done to determine which subgroup of
      post-operative patients benefit most from PEC (i.e., penile surgeries).
    
  