
    
      A randomized control trial design will compare two arms, consisting of the Resonating Arm
      Exerciser (RAE) and standard Physical Therapy (PT), with each subject receiving both
      treatments. Randomization will be used to determine the order in which the subject receives
      each treatment; i.e. RAE followed by PT, or PT followed by RAE.

      At the scheduled test period, the purpose and procedure of the study will be explained via a
      medical translator employed by the hospital. The subject will be asked to read and sign two
      copies of both the Bill of Rights and the Informed Consent Form. The researcher will retain
      one copy for the purpose of research records and the second copy will be given to the
      subject. Interview and score on the Mini Mental Status Exam will determine subject's
      inclusion, in order for participant's cognitive state to be intact and have the capability to
      follow directions, give consent, participate, and communicate directly or indirectly with
      translators to the investigators. Administration of the Upper Extremity-Fugl Meyer Assessment
      (UE-FMA) will be administered next for further subject eligibility. Any additional questions
      asked by the subject will be answered before any testing begins. Translators and researchers
      will be available to assist with survey administration and completion, with no maximum time
      allotted for each survey. Any subject who does not meet the inclusion criteria will be
      thanked and released from the study. Subjects who met the criteria, will continue with the
      Wong Baker Faces Pain Rating Scale (WBFRPS) and the Stroke Impact Scale (SIS) or SIS proxy
      version if the subject is unable to read and write independently.

      INTERVENTION Simple random sampling will be used to allocate 30 eligible participants into
      either the treatment group or the control group. The treatment group will use the RAE for 3
      weeks, whereas the control group will continue with existing physical therapy treatment of
      passive range of motion (PROM) and therapeutic exercise to their involved upper extremity by
      the hospital physical therapist. The treatment group will participate in supervised RAE group
      sessions of 45 minutes, three times a week, for a total of eight sessions for three
      consecutive weeks. During each treatment session, the affected upper extremity will be used
      to push on the lever of the RAE in the sagittal plane. Upon pushing and pulling on the lever,
      the wheelchair moves a total of 20 cm from a neutral position, which indicated a repetition
      counted by a programed iphone. Researchers continuously will monitor the treatment group to
      ensure compliance with the use of the RAE, refrain from compensatory trunk movement and
      address patient discomfort. After four sessions with the RAE, the elastic band connected to
      the device will be stretched to an increased length, in order to increase stiffness for
      continued use.

      At the completion of three weeks, participants in the control and treatment group will
      perform the UE-FMA, SIS, WBFPRS as a post-treatment measurement. The continued presence of
      medical translators will be utilized for the UE-FMA and for any questions the participants
      might have during the SIS and WBFPRS. Following data collection, participants will switch
      groups. Subjects in the experimental group will become the control group and receive their
      normal physical therapy treatment by the hospital PT for an additional three weeks. The
      treatment group will participate in supervised RAE group sessions in increments of 45
      minutes, three times a week, a total of eight sessions for three consecutive weeks. They will
      be supervised by two senior licensed physical therapists Hospital, who were trained by the
      researchers of this study. Their training will include the proper use of the RAE and data
      collection of outcome measures. Intra-rater and inter-rater reliability was established on
      the use of the UE-FMA, prior to data collection. At the conclusion of the six-week study, all
      participants will perform the UE-FMA, SIS, and WBFPRS. During the six-week duration of the
      study, an on-site medical professional and on-site translator will be present, to protect
      against medical complications and language barriers. Subjects will be able to refuse or drop
      out at any point of the study without repercussions and continue to receive uninterrupted
      medical care at the hospital.
    
  