
    
      Phenylketonuria (PKU) is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by more than 500 pathogenic
      variants in the phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH) gene. Due to these mutations, affected
      individuals have reduced activity or complete deficiency of the enzyme phenylalanine
      hydroxylase, which metabolizes the essential amino acid phenylalanine (Phe) to tyrosine.
      Consequently, Phe and its byproducts accumulate in the blood and brain of PKU patients, which
      can have irreparable physical and neurocognitive effects. These may include intellectual
      disabilities, seizures, eczema, psychosis, and hypopigmentation. To prevent these adverse
      conditions, early diagnosis and meticulous control of blood Phe levels are required. For
      optimal metabolic control, the American College of Medical Genetics (ACMG) recommends
      lifelong maintenance of Phe concentrations within the range of 120-360 μmol/L.

      Diet therapy has dramatically improved metabolic control and nutritional status in PKU
      patients and when adherent to dietary treatment, numerous patients have been able to achieve
      normal growth and prevent severe cognitive deficits. This, however, is not an easy task given
      a steep restriction of intact protein is required to keep blood Phe levels within the
      therapeutic range. To meet nutritional needs in the absence of dietary protein, patients
      consume large volumes of Phe-free amino acid formulas (medical food) and specialized
      low-protein modified foods. While this regimen may improve overall diet quality, due to the
      fortification of formula with vitamins and minerals, the poor palatability and high cost
      medical food makes diet therapy a significant burden for patients and their families.

      Pharmacologic therapies now provide an innovative approach to improve patient health and
      quality of life by liberalizing the traditional protein-restricted diet. Palynziq is a
      PEGylated recombinant of phenylalanine lyase, which can lower blood Phe concentrations. Given
      increasing numbers of PKU patients will be initiating Palynziq therapy, it is essential to
      prospectively evaluate the impact of this novel treatment on the neurological health, diet
      quality, and nutritional metabolome of patients when administered in a clinical setting. This
      knowledge will not only improve the efficacy of the treatment, but will be essential for
      expanding the current dietary guidelines to meet the unique needs of patients treated with
      Palynziq.

      The objectives of this proposal are to obtain information on the diet quality, neurological
      health, and nutritional metabolome of patients with PKU at baseline and after intervention
      with Palynziq. This is a three-year observational study that includes non-pregnant adults who
      have PKU and have obtained a physician's prescription to initiate Palynziq treatment.
    
  