
    
      There are 1.1 million persons living with HIV (PLWH) in the US: 60% smoke cigarettes and 75%
      are interested in quitting. Two-thirds of PLWH use the Internet, making this a promising
      avenue to deliver smoking cessation treatment. Almost none are currently accessing smoking
      cessation interventions designed to meet their specific needs and concerns. Cigarette smoking
      is responsible for 24%--61% of deaths among PLWH, and 30% of non-AIDS defining malignancies.
      It is driving the alarming rise in lung cancers in this highly vulnerable population. The
      lack of access to proven, effective, culturally appropriate tobacco cessation services
      represents a health disparity of the first order.

      Cessation websites offer smokers convenience, low (or no) cost, and anonymity; however, there
      are no publicly available web-based cessation programs specifically designed for PLWH
      smokers. Smokers living with HIV have high rates of nicotine dependence, anxiety, depression,
      loneliness, and substance use. The investigators developed Positively Smoke Free on the Web
      (PSFW), a theory-driven, culturally tailored web-based program designed to address the
      specific needs of PLWH smokers. The investigators' NCI-funded R21 pilot of PSFW demonstrated
      moderate-high levels of adherence and yielded higher 3-month abstinence rates compared to
      standard care (10% vs. 4%). The investigators' prior research on web-based cessation
      interventions has shown that smokers who participate in an online community - whether
      passively reading posts by others or actively engaging in online discussions - are more than
      twice as likely to achieve abstinence even after controlling for a broad range of covariates.
      In preparation for the proposed study, the investigators' partners at Truth Initiative
      (formerly known as the American Legacy Foundation) have enhanced and modernized PSFW by
      integrating an online community platform (now "PSFW+"), developing a training protocol for
      PLWH smoker seed users (to provide a critical mass of social network participants), and
      recruiting and training 11 PLWH smokers for this role. The prototype PSFW+ application has
      been successfully alpha- and beta-tested in anticipation of the randomized controlled trial.

      The investigators propose a study that will compare the efficacy of the PSFW+ smoking
      cessation website to an attention-matched website promoting cardiovascular health in a
      randomized controlled trial with repeated measures at baseline, 1, 3, and 6 months.
      Participants will be N=550 PLWH smokers interested in quitting in the next 30 days. All
      participants will be offered nicotine replacement therapy. It is hypothesized that PSFW+ will
      outperform the control condition on the primary outcome of 7-day point prevalence abstinence
      at 6 months post-randomization. Secondary aims and exploratory analyses will examine
      theory-driven hypotheses about the mediators and moderators of treatment outcome (e.g.,
      depression, anxiety, social support, loneliness, self-efficacy). Establishing the
      effectiveness of a web-based smoking cessation program for PLWH that has broad reach and
      could be scaled to reach PLWH smokers throughout the US would not only represent an enormous
      advance in the fight against tobacco use in PLWH, but would also provide a clearer
      understanding of the role of targeted, web-based health interventions in comprehensive HIV
      care.
    
  