
    
      Aim 1:

      Hypothesis 1: 'Minor' but persistent infections of the respiratory tract, skin, mouth, and
      gut cause chronic elevation of hepcidin levels and other markers of infection including CRP.

      Research Question 1: What is the relationship between each of the following: CRP, hepcidin,
      clinical score of skin infections; clinical score of oral health; clinical score of
      respiratory infections; and systemic markers of gut damage and bacterial translocation (serum
      EndoCAB and iFABP) and stool markers of inflammation (calprotectin, REG1b and lipocalin2).

      Hypothesis 2: Respiratory infections and airway inflammation are the most common cause of low
      grade inflammation.

      Research Question 2: What is the most common source(s) of persistent low-grade inflammation
      in apparently well children living in rural Gambia.

      Aim 2:

      Hypothesis: Hepcidin levels above 5.5ng/ml block oral iron absorption.

      Research Question: What is the relationship between hepcidin and oral iron absorption in well
      children living in rural Gambia?

      Aim 3:

      Hypothesis: Anaemic children with low-grade inflammation have anaemia of inflammation with
      concomitant iron deficiency that results in inappropriately low levels of EPO production and
      reticulocytosis for their erythroid mass (Hb levels) levels.

      Research Question: Is there decreased EPO synthesis and/or increased EPO resistance in
      anaemic children with low-grade inflammation living in rural Gambia?

      Aim 4:

      Hypothesis: First investigator will conduct a hypothesis-free exploratory analysis to assess
      whether erythroferrone behaves as predicted based upon mouse models (ie up-regulated by
      stress erythropoiesis and inversely related to hepcidin). Investigator additionally
      hypothesize that there may be a vicious cycle initiated by inflammation and then perpetuated
      by the consequent low levels of (iron-restricted) erythropoiesis, leading to low
      erythroferrone and loss of hepcidin suppression.

      Research Question: What is the relationship between erythroferrone, iron status,
      inflammation, hepcidin, EPO in anaemic and non-anaemic children with and without low-grade
      inflammation living in rural Gambia? Primary: To examine in detail the pathways by which
      low-grade inflammation causes iron deficiency anaemia in African children.

      Secondary: To assess if anaemia of inflammation and resistance to erythropoietin play a role
      in causing and perpetuating anaemia in children living in rural Africa.

      This is an observational study of 120 children who will be recruited at the routine
      vaccination clinics or pre-scheduled well-child check-ups at the Keneba clinic. Each child
      will be seen three times (at 6, 12 and 18 months) and the same protocol will be used at each
      visit.

      Figure 1: Study design At each visit, children will be examined by the Research Clinician or
      PI using pre-determined validated checklists for possible sources of low-grade inflammation.
      Each participant will be given a clinical score for skin conditions, oral health, and
      respiratory infections/airway disease.

      After the clinical examination, an oral iron absorption protocol will be initiated:

      Step 1: A venous blood sample will be collected and assayed for full blood count (including
      reticulocyte count) and serum iron markers, hepcidin, erythropoietin (EPO), erythroferrone,
      IL-6 and EndoCab; Step 2: Children will be given an oral dose of liquid ferrous fumarate at
      2mg/kg; Step 3: Between 3-4 hours later a venous blood sample will be drawn for measurement
      serum iron markers. The change in serum iron levels (measured before and after dosing) will
      be used as a direct measurement of iron absorption.
    
  