
    
      Objective

      Multiple inflammatory and neurodegenerative mechanisms drive progression of disability in
      fully established multiple sclerosis (MS); therefore, it is unlikely that a single
      therapeutic agent will be curative. Analogous to cardiovascular diseases, effective
      treatments for evolved MS will likely require individualized combination therapies that
      target pathogenic processes active in the particular patient. Ability to reliably measure
      such pathogenic processes in living patients is a prerequisite for a precision-medicine
      approach to MS.

      Using combinatorial cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers, we identified and validated
      molecular diagnostic tests of MS and its progressive stage, tests that correlate with
      clinical disability and brain atrophy (i.e., molecular tests of MS progression) and tests
      that predict future rates of disability progression (i.e., molecular tests of MS severity).

      These proteomic tests showed that intra-individually heterogeneous processes, different from
      those that drive MS susceptibility, underlie continuous accumulation of disability and brain
      atrophy in patients with progressive MS (PMS), or patients with relapsing-remitting (RRMS)
      treated with current disease-modifying treatments (DMTs). These processes include
      compartmentalized inflammation, activation of innate immunity such as myeloid lineage,
      complement and coagulation cascade, toxic astrocytosis, restructuring of the extracellular
      matrix in the form of fibrosis, and the re-expression (or lack of it) of developmental
      pathways related to neurogenesis and remyelination. These alternative, likely pathogenic
      mechanisms are essentially unaffected by current DMTs, consistent with observations of
      declining efficacy of FDA-approved DMTs with advancing age of MS patients, so that
      collectively, they offer no benefit on disability progression after age of approximately 53
      years. Consequently, the objectives of this protocol are: 1. To develop clinical trial
      methodology that allows economical screening of prospective therapeutic agents for their
      efficacy on biological processes related to MS disease severity using CSF biomarkers; 2. To
      develop knowledge base of intrathecal effects of current DMTs and novel treatments targeting
      varied mechanisms of MS progression; and 3. To establish and validate framework for
      development of effective combination therapies for MS via precision-medicine paradigm.

      Study population

      Patients with MS who continue to accumulate clinical disability while untreated (e.g. PMS
      subjects) or on FDA approved immunomodulatory therapies and are able to travel to NIH every 6
      months and undergo serial lumbar punctures (LP).

      Design

      The protocol has an adaptable workflow that allows simultaneous assessments of multiple
      therapeutic agents while maximizing potential therapeutic benefit to the studied subjects and
      providing knowledge necessary for rational development of future combination therapies for
      MS. To start with, we selected four agents, whose mechanism of action (MOA) have the
      potential to inhibit identified processes underlying MS disease severity. Patients will be
      assigned to one of the drugs that are not contra-indicated based on existing comorbidities
      and to which the patient has a therapeutic target (e.g. treatment that inhibits activation of
      myeloid lineage will be assigned only to patients who have elevated CSF biomarkers of myeloid
      lineage). Longitudinal measurements of CSF biomarkers will determine if the applied
      treatment(s) exert the desired pharmacodynamics (PD) effects in the intrathecal compartment.
      While those drugs that do not reproducibly effect CSF biomarkers will be dropped from further
      study (or will be tested in higher dose, if possible), drugs with measurable intrathecal PD
      activity will be combined to evaluate additive or synergistic effects. Safety, tolerability
      and pilot clinical/imaging efficacy data will evaluate surrogacy of the biomarkers and
      collect data for power analysis for future definitive trials. The increased understanding of
      biomarker biology will be utilized to derive process-specific combinatorial biomarkers and
      biomarker signatures predictive of clinical efficacy.

      Outcome measures

      Primary outcome will be the change in Combinatorial Weight adjusted dIsability ScalE
      (CombiWISE) progression at the end of monotherapy + combination therapy period in comparison
      to projected baseline disability progression. The acquired longitudinal data will be used for
      assessment of biomarker surrogacy, for identification and validation of PD markers for
      development of new therapeutic entities and for power analysis of future/definitive clinical
      trials.
    
  