
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine if PRP facial filler injections will provide
      effective long-term restoration of facial volume, specifically at the tear troughs. The study
      is a controlled trial. The attending surgeon and residents will perform the procedure.
      Pre-treatment photographs will be obtained of the patient using a VectraH1 3D head & neck
      camera. The provider will complete PRP injections first on the left side followed by PRP with
      calcium chloride on the right side. At no point during the study will we deviate from the
      standard of care for treatment with PRP or PRP with CaCl2. 0.1cc of 10% calcium chloride per
      1mL of platelet rich plasma will be mixed. The volume of PRP and will be used upon the
      discretion of provider for treatment of the cosmetic facial deformity.

      One of the most common filler materials used today are hyaluronic acid derivatives [13].
      While these types of fillers offer certain advantages over bovine and collagen derived
      materials that may require skin testing prior to treatment; they can be expensive and will
      require ongoing injections as they absorb [14]. Autogenous fillers such as autogenous fat can
      offer a permanent solution, which may therefore decrease the net cost compared to hyaluronic
      acid derived fillers, but has higher morbidity associated with the fat harvesting and
      transfer [15-17]. PRP as a filler material may be the least expensive option with the lowest
      morbidity even if the effects are not yet proven to be permanent.

      To evaluate whether the PRP facial filler treatment provides long term restoration of facial
      volume, patients will return for additional photographs and data collection using the
      VectraH1 3D head & neck camera at one, three, six and twelve months after treatment. The
      primary outcome will be the amount of facial volume achieved in the tear troughs, as assessed
      with the VectraH1 3D head & neck camera and VECTRA Capture Analysis module software to
      measure volume differences (cm3) pre- and post-treatment.

      The Canfield VectraH1 3D head & neck camera is a high resolution device that captures the
      highest details and measures volume differences and contour changes of the face and neck. The
      camera allows for quantification of subsurface skin conditions using proprietary RBX®
      technology, allows for visualization of the degree of contour change with color distance
      mapping, allows for automated measurements to allow patients to understand their current
      conditions and visualize their post-treatment appearance. In contrast to previous 3D imaging
      systems, the VectraH1 is a low cost, highly portable system designed for facial imaging that
      has become very popular in cosmetic practice. It is a validated metric and is used within the
      cosmetic surgery community. The validation of tools used to measure surgical outcomes is
      fundamental for high-quality practice and outcomes research and studies performed with the
      VectraH1 show the system is accurate and comparable to other 3D imaging systems on the market
      such as 3dMDFace system. The advantage of the VectraH1 is the portability of the camera as
      opposed to a stationary system.

      VectraH1 3D head & neck camera would be an asset for any training programs participating in
      cosmetic surgery and would be an asset to our study for several reasons. The 3D camera would
      allow us to most accurately assess the volume changes in the nasojugal folds using the color
      distance mapping technology to visualize the results rather than relying on sequential 2D
      imaging and clinical measurement, further reinforcing our study data and obtaining the most
      accurate results possible. Currently the VectraH1 3D head & neck camera is widely utilized in
      the cosmetic surgery community with testimonials from facial plastic surgeons warranting the
      ease of use of the product, the increase in patient satisfaction when using the camera as
      well as an exponential increase in use of facial fillers and fat transfer due to the
      realistic simulations the camera provides [18]. When patients can see the difference a filler
      procedure or fat transfer can provide prior to treatment, patient have a realistic
      expectation for what to expect and allow patients to see themselves as we do as cosmetic
      surgeons. This camera is a practice changer in that the clinician benefits with the most
      accurate imaging technology available for pre-treatment simulations and assessments as well
      as for the patient by offering the most realistic expectations for their individual treatment
      and opens the door for procedures they may not have previously considered. The use of this
      product would benefit our residency immensely in the cosmetic domain and keep us up-to-date
      with the technology that is available and utilized in private practice. This would also
      benefit the Air Force by opening the door for more potential candidates for cosmetic surgical
      procedures that may have foregone treatment once they can visualize the benefits of the
      procedures.

      This study is projected to last approximately one year per patient. The tear trough facial
      volumes will be measured pre-procedure and at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months following the procedure.
      The data will be reviewed after an N of 50 is reached to assess the results. An interval
      evaluation of the data at N of 20 and 40 will be analyzed to evaluate for concerns regarding
      efficacy. The facial volumes reported will enable us to draw conclusions as to the overall
      success of the PRP facial filler injections with and without calcium chloride, and allow us
      to validate it's long term use as a viable facial filler.

      At the conclusion of the study, the patient will have the option to treat the remaining tear
      trough with the PRP with calcium chloride facial filler treatment if results between the two
      sides are noticeable, unless if determined to be contraindicated by the attending physician.
    
  