
    
      Healthy adult volunteers from 18-50 years of age will be recruited through the University of
      Florida and randomly distributed into two groups. This study is divided into 3 phases:
      baseline, intervention (study treatment) and washout. Participants will receive either the
      probiotic or placebo during the intervention phases. During the baseline phase, blood and
      fecal samples will be collected about 1 week before intervention initiation. On the day of a
      scheduled blood draw, the participant will need to arrive fasted overnight, and a light
      breakfast will be provided after blood draw. Starting on day 1 of the intervention phase, a
      second baseline blood sample will be collected and the participant will begin the study
      intervention (probiotic or placebo). Participants will consume 1 capsule (probiotic or
      placebo) daily for 8 weeks, and blood and stool samples will be collected and processed (on
      or around weeks 2, 4 and 8 of the intervention phase). A Fisher Scientific commode specimen
      collection system will be provided for stool collections. The stool collection kit may be
      taken home (participants will be asked to drop off the stool within 4 hours of defecation)
      for fecal sample collection or may use the restroom in the clinical lab at the Food Science
      and Human Nutrition Building in which kits will be provided for use. In the wash-out phase,
      participants will not consume the capsule (either the probiotic or placebo), but will provide
      blood and stool samples (on or around week 12). Throughout the study, participants will
      provide a total of 5 stool samples and 6 blood samples. Participants will be asked to
      complete daily and weekly questionnaires throughout all phases of the study, which will ask
      about quality of life (physical functioning, mental functioning, level of sleep, etc.),
      gastrointestinal function, and dietary intake. These assessments will be self-reported via
      online questionnaires. In the event that internet access is not available for a portion of
      the study, paper copies of the questionnaires may be provided.
    
  