
    
      This is a randomized (patients assigned to treatment groups by chance), double-blind (neither
      the study physician nor the patient will know the identification of treatment assigned),
      active- and placebo-controlled study to assess the efficacy and safety of JNJ26489112 in
      adult patients with treatment-resistant major depressive disorder (MDD). The active control
      used in the study is venlafaxine extended-release [XR], an antidepressant drug used to treat
      patients with MDD. A target of 150 patients will be randomly assigned (like flipping a coin)
      to 1 of 3 treatment groups with approximately 50 patients planned per treatment group. This
      study consists of a screening phase of up to 4 weeks, a 6-week double-blind treatment phase,
      and a safety follow-up period that includes a 1-week taper phase (described below). During
      the screening phase, patients who meet entry criteria for the study will be tapered off their
      current psychotropic medications (medications affecting the mind or mood or other mental
      processes) prior to randomization in the double-blind treatment phase of the study. In the
      double-blind treatment phase, patients will be randomly assigned to receive either 2 capsules
      of JNJ26489112, venlafaxine XR (the active comparator), or placebo (a sugar pill) once daily
      for 6 weeks. Upon completion of the double-blind treatment phase or when patients discontinue
      study drug at any time point during the double-blind treatment phase, study medication will
      be tapered and/or discontinued in a blinded manner over a 1-week period. A Data Monitoring
      Committee (DMC) made up of individuals not involved in the conduct of the study will monitor
      safety during the study. The primary outcome measure will be the change from baseline to end
      point (after 6 weeks of treatment or at the time of early withdrawal from the study) in the
      total score from the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS, a scale that
      physicians use to measure the severity of depression in patients and changes in depression
      due to antidepressant treatment). Patient safety will be monitored during the study by
      evaluating adverse events (side effects) reported and findings from clinical laboratory test
      results, 12-lead electrocardiograms (ECGs), vital sign measurements, body weight measurements
      and physical, neurologic, and ophthalmologic examinations performed. Blood samples for
      assessing pre- and post dose levels of JNJ26489112 or venlafaxine will be obtained at
      protocol-specified time points during the study. In addition, a blood sample will be obtained
      from all enrolled patients at Visit 2 for pharmacogenomics research (research to help
      identify genetic markers of response, to explain variability in the data, or to address
      emerging clinical issues). Patients will receive double-blind treatment with 2 capsules of
      JNJ26489112 (500 mg/day during the first 3 weeks that may be increased up to 1000 mg/day by
      week 4), venlafaxine XR (75 mg/day during week 1 increased to 150 mg/day during weeks 2-6]),
      or placebo orally (by mouth) with food once daily for 6 weeks. After 6 weeks, venlafaxine XR
      150 mg/day will be tapered to one 75 mg/day capsule for 1 week and patients receiving
      JNJ26489112 or placebo will be switched to 1 capsule of placebo for 1 week.
    
  