
    
      This study is a prospective, phase I dose-escalation study evaluating the safety and
      feasibility of intradiscally injected AD-MSCs in the treatment of painful degenerative disc
      disease. The investigators propose a blended open enrollment protocol of four cohorts, each
      comprised of 3 subjects, to allow for interim analysis following the completion of each
      cohort to review safety data prior to commencing treatment of the next cohort. A total of 12
      subjects will be enrolled. Subjects will be screened at outpatient clinic visit appointments
      and interested qualified subjects will be consented and offered participation in this trial.
      Once consent has been obtained baseline values will be established and subjects will begin
      treatment and follow-up for the next 24 months. Baseline data will include physical
      examination of the axial skeleton and sacroiliac region, neurologic examination, clinical
      assessment of low back pain and function using validated Patient Reported Outcome Measures
      (PROMs), radiographs, peripheral blood analysis, and MRI imaging.

      Abdominal fat will be harvested through a small incision and processed by the Mayo Clinic
      IMPACT laboratory using current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMPs) and previously
      established standard operating procedures (SOPs) to produce clinical grade, autologous,
      culture-expanded AD-MSCs for subsequent intradiscal injection. All injections will be
      performed using fluoroscopic guidance and all patients will be clinically evaluated
      immediately after procedure and at week 2 and 4 post-treatment to assess for acute adverse
      events (AEs). Following completion of their respective treatment cycle, each subject will be
      followed for study endpoints using a predetermined protocol, including clinical evaluation,
      radiography, MRI, and peripheral blood analysis. A final visit for evaluation and imaging
      will be conducted at the end of the study.
    
  