
    
      Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has enhanced the life expectancy of human
      immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infected patients, making HIV a manageable chronic disease for
      many patients. Patients with HIV are prone to lipid abnormalities secondary to HIV infection
      and antiretroviral therapy, particularly HIV protease inhibitors (PI). PI containing regimens
      that contain boosting doses of ritonavir (RTV) (i.e., 100 200 mg once or twice daily) often
      cause significant increases in total cholesterol, low density lipoprotein cholesterol, and
      triglycerides. Therapy for isolated hypertriglyceridemia includes fibric acid derivatives,
      such as gemfibrozil (GFZ) or fenofibrate; however, despite treatment with these agents,
      triglyceride levels often remain elevated in HIV infected patients treated with HAART. Many
      factors likely contribute to the incomplete effectiveness of fibrates in these patients. One
      possible contributing factor may be a clinically significant interaction between HAART and
      fibrates. We recently reported a mean 41 percent decrease in GFZ area under the curve when
      administered with the PI combination lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r). To determine whether a
      similar interaction exists with fenofibrate, this study will characterize the impact of RTV
      and LPV/r on the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of fenofibrate (Tricor formulation), after a
      single 145 mg oral dose, administered to healthy volunteers. In a single sequence study
      design, 13 subjects will receive a single 145 mg dose of fenofibrate on three occasions:
      before and after 14 days of RTV 100 mg twice daily, and after 14 days of LPV/r 400/100 mg
      twice daily. With the exclusion of the screening period, the total duration of the study will
      be 48 days. Fenofibric acid (FFA) PK will be determined for all 3 sampling periods and
      compared. Results from this study will inform us about a potentially clinically relevant drug
      drug interaction between fenofibrate and RTV boosted PI combinations. This information may
      therefore assist clinicians in choosing triglyceride lowering therapy for their HIV infected
      patients.
    
  