
    
      Purpose Pain, swelling and inflammation are expected during early recovery from total knee
      arthroplasty (TKA). Compression therapy is a frequently used modality in the direct post
      operative treatment, but there is a great variety in the use of materials, the way and time
      frame of application. The most common goals of the compression therapy are prevention and
      reduction of the swelling. At the same time the literature is not consistent about the use
      and effects of compression therapy other than for prevention of trombo-embolic processes The
      state of the art care concepts for patients undergoing a total knee arthroplasty embraces the
      concept of "fast track" (Kehlet et al) with important parts as early mobilisation and optimal
      analgesics. In the investigators hospital this concept has already been implemented.

      During the stay in the hospital the challenge is to give adequate compression therapy to
      prevent and reduce swelling and enhance woundhealing. At the same time it is essential to
      optimise ambulation of the patient and the possibilities to exercise.

      The current protocol in the investigators hospital consists of 24 hours compression therapy
      with "Elastomull Haft 速", an elastic bandage for the knee region, combined with a Comprinet
      stocking (BSM Medical速) for anti thrombotic purposis. The anti thrombosis stocking is worn
      for a period of 6 weeks.

      The compression is combined with the use of the Continious Passive Motion device for 4 hours
      post operatively (2 hours immobilisation in a position of 90 degrees flexion, followed by 2
      hours hours of passive motion in a range of 60-90 degrees flexion). Four hours post
      operatively the patient is ambulatend and the physical therapy starts.

      The investigators wonder if this is the optimal way of post-operative care. Swelling of the
      knee and the whole leg can remain a problem in the first 6 weeks of recovery which inhibits
      rehabilitation. Sometimes delayed woundhealing will occur and patients may complain of more
      durable pain which make analgesics necessary.

      Prolonging adequate compression could improve the post-operative course and support the total
      rehabilitation process.

      The "Juxta Reduction Kit (by Medi) 速" , applied for the knee could be an adequate solution to
      replace the current protocol of compression therapy.

      The "Juxta Reduction Kit 速" is a non-elastic compression device which can be tailored (by
      cutting it to the correct size) to the circumference of the leg prior to the operation.
      Direct post operatively the compression device can be adjusted by the staff and in the
      following days patients are enabled to adjust the device by themselves by using the Velcro
      ties to loosen or fasten it.

      The device is suitable in early mobilisation and gives the patient tools for selfmanagement
      of the compression by using the Velcro flaps. The material doesn't restrict the range of
      motion and so the possibility to ambulate and to exercise as advised in the fast track
      concept is optimised.

      In this study the patients will use the compression device for a period of six weeks in
      combination with an anti thrombosis stocking (Struva class 2) Outcome parameters will be
      measured in a scheduled way, described in scheme 1.
    
  