
    
      Rituximab, an anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody, has been shown to be as effective as
      cyclophosphamide to induce GPA and MPA remission, with an acceptable safety profile, leading
      to its registration by the FDA and EMA as remission-induction therapy in these patients.

      In addition, the MAINRITSAN trial has demonstrated that 500 mg rituximab given every 6 months
      for 18 months was significantly more effective than azathioprine standard of care to maintain
      remission in patients with GPA or MPA, with a similar profile of tolerance.

      EGPA patients were excluded from these trials. Long-term studies have shown that only 29% of
      EGPA patients achieved long-term remission and that relapses occurred in more than 40% of
      them, leading to high cumulative morbidity and damage. Moreover, most patients cannot be
      weaned off corticosteroids due to asthma and rhino-sinusal manifestations, even after
      vasculitis remission.

      However, recent retrospective series indicated that rituximab may also be an effective
      remission induction and maintenance agent in refractory or relapsing EGPA. REOVAS, the first
      randomized controlled trial with rituximab as induction therapy in EGPA, has started within
      the French Vasculitis Study Group network.

      The MAINRITSEG trial is a phase III, comparative, multicenter, randomized, double-blind,
      double-dummy and superiority trial, comparing pre-emptive low-dose rituximab-based regimen
      with azathioprine standard therapy, for the remission maintenance in newly-diagnosed or
      relapsing EGPA.

      Patients, with newly diagnosed or relapsing EGPA, after achievement of remission, will be
      randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive:

        -  Standard regimen: maintenance oral azathioprine (2 mg/kg/day) for 24 months. This
           control group will receive conventional therapy plus 4 infusions of placebo-rituximab
           (every 6 months for 18 months)

        -  Experimental regimen: pre-emptive 500-mg fixed-dose of rituximab every 6 months for 18
           months (4 infusions). This group will receive intravenous rituximab plus orally
           placebo-azathioprine for 24 months.

      All patients will receive standard of care therapy including glucocorticoid therapy
      reduction/withdrawal.
    
  