
    
      Acute liver failure (ALF) is associated with a high mortality. With severe hepatic
      encephalopathy and elevated arterial ammonia concentration (< 200 micromol/L) more than 50%
      of the patients will develop high intracranial pressure (ICP) and risk cerebral incarceration
      and death. The therapeutic options are limited in treating and preventing this condition and
      new interventions are much sought after. As in hypothermia used for patients after cardiac
      resuscitation it could be speculated that hypothermia and the reduced cerebral metabolic rate
      would contribute to neuroprotection and reduce the risk of cerebral hypertension in patients
      with ALF. We have designed this open, randomized and unblinded study in order to evaluate the
      effect of prophylactic hypothermia on ICP, cerebral hemodynamics and oxidative metabolism.
      Patients are randomized to standard medical treatment (SMT) or SMT and hypothermia 33° C for
      72 hours using a cooling mattress (Blanketrol II, Cincinnati Sub-Zero). All patients will
      receive mechanical ventilation, antibiotics, inotropic support and monitored with invasive
      and non-invasive equipment in accordance to local guidelines. In Copenhagen monitoring
      cerebral hemodynamics includes:

      Placement of a intracranial pressure measuring catheter (Camino (R), Integra) for monitoring
      ICP. Furthermore, a microdialysis catheter (CMA-70) placed in brain cortex is used for
      monitoring brain metabolism. Finally, cerebral perfusion can be monitored by measuring mean
      flow velocity using transcranial doppler and/or oxygen saturation in blood from the jugular
      vein.

      Ethical considerations:

      The Helsinki II declaration will be followed and informed consent is mandatory for
      enrollment. In any patient where hypothermia is believed or suspected to be harmful the study
      should be stopped and the primary investigator should be notified immediately. All adverse
      effects will be recorded and published together with the full paper.
    
  