
    
      This is an open-label, multicenter study of oral azacitidine in MDS or AML patients who have
      undergone allogeneic HSCT. The study consists of three phases: Screening, Treatment and
      Follow-up. During the Screening phase, the study doctor will do tests to see if the patient
      is suitable for this study. The patients meeting protocol-specified entry criteria will enter
      the treatment phase and be assigned to receive one of the oral azacitidine cohorts. The
      dosing group of 200 mg QD on Days 1 to 7 will be evaluated first (ie, Cohort 1). In the event
      that unacceptable toxicity occurs in Cohort 1, then oral azacitidine may be evaluated at
      lower dose levels (eg, 150 mg). If the dosing regimen is confirmed to be safe in Cohort 1,
      other cohorts will be evaluated sequentially. During the treatment phase, patients will be
      monitored closely for safety and tolerability. Dosing interruption or delay, dose or schedule
      reduction, intra-subject dose/schedule escalation or re-escalation may occur on the basis of
      protocol-specified dosing adjustment guidelines. Safety will be monitored throughout the
      study at predetermined intervals and as clinically indicated by vital signs, physical
      examination, performance status, laboratory tests and evaluation of adverse events. The
      patient can continue to receive the study treatment for up to 12 months provided that they
      benefit from the study treatment and all protocol-specified criteria are met. However, the
      patient may receive the study treatment for less than 12 months due to adverse event, disease
      recurrence or progression. When the study treatment is discontinued, all patients who have
      received at least one dose of oral azacitidine will be asked to see the study doctor for the
      treatment discontinuation visit. Thereafter, all patients discontinued from the study
      treatment will enter the Follow-up phase for safety and survival follow up.
    
  