
    
      Early oral feeding is safe and beneficial in most types of gastro-intestinal surgery and is a
      crucial part of fast track or enhanced recovery protocols. Following esophagectomy, fast
      track programs are increasingly being applied, resulting in a reduced length of stay,
      perioperative morbidity and hospital charges. In a previous feasibility study (Nutrient I
      trial) has been shown that direct oral intake following esophagectomy was feasible and did
      not result in an increase of major complications. It remains unclear what the best strategy
      is for nutrition in the early postoperative phase following esophagectomy. The aim of this
      study is to investigate the effects of early start versus delayed start of oral intake on
      postoperative recovery and pulmonary complications following esophagectomy.

      Patients will be recruited at the outpatient clinic of the Catharina Hospital Eindhoven and
      the Hospital Group Twente.Patients will enroll in the early oral feeding group or the delayed
      oral feeding group. The early oral feeding group will receive liquid oral nutrition directly
      after surgery. Patients in the delayed oral feeding group will receive enteral tube feeding
      (via a jejunostomy) for 5-7 days (standard protocol in The Netherlands). After these 5-7 days
      a liquid oral diet is initiated.

      Patient characteristics and clinical parameters are registered in an electronic database. All
      surgical complications are classified using the Clavien-Dindo classification15 (Appendix II).
      An independent investigator will check functional recovery daily. Data is provided by local
      investigator via an online checklist (electronic case report form / website). Quality of life
      and Symptoms are scored using the European organization for research and treatment of cancer
      questionnaire (QLQ-C30/EORTC-OG25)16 at baseline (5 weeks after neoadjuvant treatment), 6
      weeks, 3 months and 6 months postoperatively. Cost-effectiveness is scored via EQ-5D-5L, iMTA
      Medical Consumption Questionnaire (iMCQ) and Productivity Cost Questionnaire (iPCQ).
      Nutritional status will be measured using the actual caloric and protein intake versus the
      needed caloric and protein intake. Long-term outcome parameters such as local recurrence,
      overall and cancer-specific survival will be registered in a database until the end of the
      study.

      The sample size calculation is based on functional recovery as primary outcome. Functional
      recovery is the time to surgical recovery according to the definition described previously.
      Patients in our historic cohort (1 week artificial nutrition) were at least considered
      functional recovered by a mean of 12 days post-surgery. Patients in the NUTRIENT I were at
      least functional recovered at day 10 postoperative (mean) following an esophagectomy. In this
      trial we consider a reduction of 2 days in functional recovery as clinically significant.
      Using a Power of 80%, an alpha of 5% and a standard deviation of 4 days, a total of 128
      patients (64 patients in each group) is needed to show this difference. It is expected that
      the primary outcome will not be normally divided and therefore an extra 15% inclusion is
      necessary, requiring a total of 148 patients (74 patients in each group). Interim-analyses
      will be performed following 50 and 100 patients and will be checked by an independent
      physician.

      All analyses will be done according to the intention-to-treat approach in which all
      randomized patients are included, regardless of adherence to study protocol. Occurrences of
      the primary and secondary endpoints are compared between the treatment groups. Results are
      presented as risk ratios with corresponding 95% confidence intervals. A two-tailed P < 0.05
      is considered statistically significant. To compare the groups the data will be tested for
      normal distribution and an unpaired T-test will be performed when appropriate, otherwise the
      Mann-Whitney U or Chi-square tests.
    
  