
    
      Panretinal photocoagulation (PRP) can cause regression of retinal neovascularization and
      reduce the risk of severe vision loss in people with proliferative diabetic retinopathy
      (PDR). However, this destructive treatment may be associated with side effects (e.g. pain,
      transient blurring, loss of peripheral and/or night vision, increased risk of macular edema
      and central vision loss) and it is not always efficient in the regression of the
      neovascularization.

      Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) has been shown to play a role in retinal
      neovascularization and retinal vascular leakage related with PDR and diabetic macular edema.

      Anti-VEGF treatments have been hypothesized as an adjunctive treatment for the management of
      retinal neovascularization and macular edema related with diabetic retinopathy (DR).

      Anti-VEGF agents, such as Macugen®, combined with PRP are expected to control
      neovascularization without the need for photocoagulation of the posterior pole, around the
      macula, thus avoiding the major side effects of standard PRP (visual field loss).

      A modification of panretinal photocoagulation (PRP) was recently proposed by Madeira et al.,
      (2009) at the 2009 EURETINA Meeting. The described technique involves the progressive
      application of the DRS photocoagulation rings in a different sequence. First ring:
      corresponds to the DRS third ring, extruding from the ora serrata to the midperiphery. Second
      ring: corresponds to DRS second ring, extruding from the midperiphery towards the vortex
      veins. Third ring: corresponds to DRS first ring, and will only be performed if necessary.
      This technique resulted in less aggressive visual fields losses by achieving results with
      only most peripheral photocoagulation. The combination of intravitreal anti-VEGF treatment
      with pegaptanib, where a series of 3 injections are injected to reverse the
      neovascularization, while maintaining the macula dry will be completed by the more long term
      effect of the panretinal photocoagulation. This peripheral photocoagulation proposed is
      expected to eliminate the chronic VEGF stimulus by eliminating the chronic ischemic factor,
      while maintaining the visual fields useful for daily activities such as driving, etc.
    
  