
    
      Study Overview:

      The investigators hope to gain an understanding of the utility of pure CBD use for the
      treatment of drug resistant epilepsy in this open-label dose-finding observational study. A
      baseline seizure frequency will be recorded for each subject in a diary for four weeks prior
      to investigational drug initiation and parents/caregivers will document seizures on a daily
      basis throughout the study period. Investigational drug (CBD) will be administered as an
      adjunct to all current anti-epileptic drugs. Once at their maintenance daily dose they will
      be evaluated one month after achieving the final steady state dose and every three months
      thereafter.

      Visits will consist of neurological exam and seizure diary review. Baseline visit will take 1
      hour and each visit thereafter will take approximately 30 minutes.

      Safety and Tolerability Measurements:

      Data on safety and tolerability of pure CBD is limited. According to the GW Pharma CBD
      Investigator's Brochure (Appendix G), side effects reported as greater than placebo with
      highly purified CBD in one clinical trial were conjunctival hemorrhage, change in vision,
      diarrhea, flatulence, gastric reflux, joint pain, muscle pain, difficulty concentrating,
      abnormal mood and trouble sleeping.

      The patients will be closely monitored for side effects during the titration and treatment
      period and the dose and/or frequency may be adjusted as appropriate.

      CBD is an inhibitor of CYP 2C19, CYP 2C9, and other cytochrome P450s belonging to the 2C and
      3A subfamilies. The effects of CBD administered concomitantly with anti-epileptic drugs that
      are metabolized by this enzyme system are unknown. Anti-epileptic drug doses will be adjusted
      as needed based on signs and symptoms of toxicity and / or changes in drug levels.

      Measurement of changes in seizure frequency:

      All seizure types will be classified before study entry. Seizure type and frequency will be
      monitored during baseline and treatment as recorded in a patient diary. For assessing the
      efficacy of CBD, the investigator will count only change in the frequency of seizures (ie,
      tonic seizures, clonic seizures, tonic-clonic seizures lasting more than 3 seconds, atonic
      seizures, myoclonic seizures including myoclonic absences). In addition, parents/caregivers
      will report:

        -  Change in average seizure severity by seizure type, defined as an increase or decrease
           in seizure duration or intensity

        -  Change in the number of episodes of status epilepticus, defined as convulsive seizure
           lasting longer than 10 minutes

        -  Change in the number of uses of rescue medications

        -  Change in the number of ER visits/ hospitalizations

      Data Safety Monitoring:

      The Principal Investigator will review all data relating to safety and tolerability
      throughout the study, after every third patient has been treated, to monitor study conduct
      and assess patient safety.

      Benefits:

      Subject may have a reduction in seizures. This study will help the researchers learn more
      about the effectiveness and safety of CBD in the treatment of drug-resistant epilepsy.
      Hopefully this information will help in the treatment of future patients with this condition.
    
  