
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To assess the efficacy and compare the associated toxicity of adjuvant chemotherapy
           lasting 12 weeks vs 24 weeks in patients with fully resected high-risk stage II or III
           colorectal cancer.

        -  To conduct an economic analysis of the cost effectiveness of these regimens.

        -  To compare the randomization methodologies used in this study.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to participating
      center's recruitment potential. Patients are randomized (within 10 weeks after surgery and
      before or after receiving 12 weeks of chemotherapy) to 1 of 2 treatment arms. The treatment
      regimen that a patient receives (Oxaliplatin Modified DeGramont [OxMdG] or XELOX) is
      determined by the participating center.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive 12 courses of OxMdG (described below) or XELOX (described
           below)combination chemotherapy (6 additional courses if patient already received 6
           courses) for treatment lasting a total of 24 weeks.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive 6 courses of OxMdG or XELOX combination chemotherapy (no
           additional courses if patient already received 6 courses) for treatment lasting a total
           of 12 weeks.

      The two adjuvant combination chemotherapy regimens are administered as follows:

        -  OxMdG: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours and fluorouracil IV continuously
           over 46 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 6 courses in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  XELOX: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and oral capecitabine twice
           daily on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients complete quality-of-life assessments periodically using the EORTC QLQ-C30, EORTC
      QLQ-CR29, EQ-5D, and GOG Ntx4 questionnaires.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 7 years.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded by Medical Research Council (MRC)
    
  