
    
      This study aims to optimize patient-centered care and to ensure scientific and legal approval
      of cognitive-behavioral and psychodynamic therapy for children and adolescents in the German
      health-care system. This prospective, randomized and controlled trial will therefore compare
      psychodynamic and cognitive behavioral therapy with a low-frequency family intervention
      (control intervention) for children and adolescents with depression and anxiety disorder.
      Number of diagnoses or fulfilled diagnostic criteria - diagnosed by a trained psychologist
      who is blind for treatment condition - will be the primary outcome. Secondary outcomes are
      patients´ and parents´ strain caused by symptoms, patients´ quality of life, global and
      family functioning and treatments´ cost effectiveness are secondary outcomes.

      Patients will be recruited at the end of an inpatient hospital stay in northern Germany
      (Hamburg and Bremen) in two clinics for child and adolescent psychiatry and in surgery. After
      gathering informed consent from parents and patients, the latter will be randomly assigned to
      one type of outpatient treatment (psychodynamic, cognitive behavioral therapy or family
      intervention). Psychodynamic and cognitive-behavioral therapy as well as the control
      intervention will be provided manual-based. Treatment sessions will be audio recorded to
      control adherence.

      Data will be collected annually over a period of five years starting at the beginning of
      treatment. This allows examination of varying treatment intervals as well as the
      sustainability and health economics of therapy effects.

      To analyze data, comparisons of means will be performed. Groupwise analyses of interaction
      will be performed for inferential testing of differences in subgroups. Differences in therapy
      effects will be inferentially analyzed by multifactor analysis of covariance, analysis of
      variance or logistic regression. Interaction effects and predicting variables are of special
      interest.

      In a Subsample of 32 depressive adolescents (ages 13-16) patients expectations before and
      experiences whilst therapy will be analyzed by a mixed-methods-approach.
    
  