
    
      Unilateral spatial neglect (USN) represents one of the most frequent and disabling
      neuropsychological consequences of acute brain damage. Patients with USN show an impaired
      ability to perceive sensory events and to perform actions in the contralesional side of the
      space, in absence of a lower-level sensory or motor deficit. Several studies found that
      controlesional USN is more frequent and more severe in right than left parietal damage and
      due to its prominent impairment, USN has broadly been studied in the visual modality (VUSN).
      VUSN can affect patient's own contralesional body (personal neglect), into the near space
      within reaching distance (peripersonal) or space beyond reaching distance (far extrapersonal
      space). Those portions of space may dissociate and patient may show extrapersonal VUSN
      without alterations on the other portions of space (i.e. personal and peripersonal).
      Traditional paper-and-pencil neuropsychological tests are useful and widely used to evaluate
      VUSN, even if several of them can provide an assessment of peripersonal VUSN. In fact, this
      portion of space can be assessed through line bisection, cancellation, or copy tasks which
      are normally completed within reaching distance. Instead, personal and extrapersonal neglect
      are less easily evaluated: this lack of assessment tools may lead to lower detection rates
      for USN in patients in clinical setting and lead to relevant clinical implications. Finally,
      paper-and-pencil tests can detect only a moderate or even severe deficit due to VUSN but not
      a mild impairment and they are not informative about patients' disability in natural setting.
      According to this limitations of traditional paper-and-pencil tests, several studies have
      shown that computerized reaction time tasks are more sensitive in the detection of
      lateralized spatial attention deficits in patients with mild or remitted VUSN. The primary
      aim of this study was to present and standardize a new neuropsychological tool to provide a
      quantitative assessment of VUSN in the extrapersonal portion of space.

      The Visual Scanning Test (VST) involved a visual search for a target between similar visual
      distractors, projected in the far space, so as to simulate the search within a visual field.
      It is overall composed by four trials, each trial contained 20 cases and made up by 20
      stimuli. On about the 80% of cases, the test provided the presence of target in the left,
      center or in right hemispace. In the remaining 20% of cases, the test provided the presence
      of a catch trial (absence of the target), to assess the presence of frontal disturbances or
      malingering. The test is constructed according to an increasing attentional load for the
      target on the left-hemispace. Participants, sitting in front a blank wall, were required to
      actively and free explore the projected visual field to search for the visual target, naming
      its identification (saying YES or NO). During the task, the examiner annotated the reaction
      times and the errors. From these data it was possible to get some informative indexes
      regarding the reaction times, the accuracy and the implicit learning of the progressive shift
      to the left of the target and the possible presence of asymmetry in the visual exploration.
    
  