
    
      Currently there are only morphological reference standards to detect vulnerable coronary
      plaques. However, inflammatory activity and plaque composition predict future cardiovascular
      events. Thus the aims and objectives of the study are the following:

        1. Inflammatory activity of the coronary arteries and the great peripheral arteries shall
           be detected and quantified by means of FDG PET/CT hybrid imaging.

        2. We aim to develop "motion frozen displays" of the heart and coronary arteries by means
           of ECG- and respiratory triggering of myocardial motion to reduce motion artifacts.

        3. We aim to compare the coronary FDG uptake of patients with known stable CAD to the
           coronary FDG uptake of patients with acute coronary syndrome.

        4. We aim to correlate coronary PET/CT with intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) / virtual
           histology (VH), which will be carried out during coronary angiography and provides the
           gold standard to characterize plaque composition.

        5. Correlation of the inflammatory activity as measured by PET with the risk profile of the
           patients, blood coagulability and inflammatory and plaque-associated serum markers to
           establish a valid risk stratification.

        6. Follow-up of the patients over at least one year to detect cardiovascular events.

      Study Design

      This is a prospective single-center study to evaluate coronary FDG PET/CT under controlled
      and standardized conditions. The study was approved by the local ethical committee as well as
      the German Federal Authority for Radiation Protection (Bundesamt für Strahlenschutz). All
      examinations will be performed at the University Hospital of the LMU in Munich. The study is
      in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki, all patients provide informed written
      consent.

      We plan to image four study populations with a high risk for inflammatory atherosclerosis or
      plaque rupture: two groups consist of patients with stable coronary disease and two groups
      consist of patients with acute coronary syndrome (Figure 1).

      In the following, these groups will be described in more detail.

      Patients with acute coronary syndrome Group 1: Patients with acute cardiovascular event and
      typical aberrations in the ECG (STEMI) and positive serum markers need to be stabilized
      immediately, thus they are not eligible for IVUS. However, by means of ICA the "culprit
      lesion" can be identified. 48 to 72 hours after the event the stable patients will receive
      FDG PET/CT to detect morphology and inflammation of the culprit lesion as well as further
      vulnerable plaques that might need intervention. PET/CT results will be correlated with
      results of ICA.

      Group 2: Patients with acute coronary syndrome without typical aberrations in the ECG
      (NSTEMI) or without positive serum markers need to be stabilized immediately. In a second
      step ICA and IVUS / VH will be performed. 48 to 72 hours after the event the stable patients
      will receive FDG PET/CT to detect morphology and inflammation of the culprit lesion as well
      as further vulnerable plaques that might need intervention. PET/CT results will be correlated
      with results of ICA and IVUS / VH.

      Patients with stable CAD Group 3: Symptomatic patients with stable CAD, who are eligible for
      ICA will receive and additional FDG PET/CT scan as well as IVUS / VH. Results will be
      correlated.

      Group 4: Patients eligible for ICA 6 months after STEMI and revascularization will receive
      IVUS / VH and FDG PET/CT. Results will be correlated with regard to the former culprit lesion
      as well as further coronary lesions that might be present.

      Summary of working hypotheses

      Hypothesis 1 (technique) By means of FDG PET/CT the radiotracer uptake in the coronary
      arteries can be allocated to specific lesions and quantified with the aid of appropriate
      techniques for motion correction and three-dimensional image fusion.

      Hypothesis 2 (association of FDG-uptake and extent of the disease) The coronary FDG-uptake of
      patients with stable CAD is significantly lower than the coronary FDG-uptake of patients with
      acute coronary syndrome.

      Hypothesis 3 (correlation between IVUS/VH and FDG-uptake) Plaques with typical signs of
      vulnerability in IVUS/VH show a significantly increased FDG-uptake as a surrogate marker of
      inflammatory activity.

      Hypothesis 4 (association of FDG-uptake and risk profile / serum markers) Coronary FDG-uptake
      shows a positive correlation with increasing risk profile (Framingham Score) and serum
      markers for plaque vulnerability and inflammatory reactions.

      Hypothesis 5 (association of FDG-uptake and cardiovascular events) Increased coronary
      FDG-uptake and increased uptake in the peripheral vessels are associated with cardiovascular
      and cerebrovascular events over the course of one year.
    
  