
    
      Rationale of the study Uncertainty regarding the potential benefits of transcatheter aortic
      valve implantation (TAVI) compared to surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) in patients
      with aortic valve stenosis (AS) requires well-designed studies with long-term data on the
      outcome of these patients. A Finnish nationwide registry would allow complementing of the
      knowledge gained from randomized trials by providing data on the outcome of a more inclusive
      patient population, within a Health Care System that reflects the actual clinical practice in
      Scandinavia. In fact, the internal validity attained in randomized trials is often achieved
      at the expense of uncertainty about generalizability, especially since the populations
      enrolled in such studies may differ in significant ways from those seen in practice.

      The choice among different surgical aortic valve prostheses is based on solid data with
      20-year follow-up, which have shown significant risk of structural valve deterioration of
      bioprosthesis on the second decade after implantation. However, much less is known about the
      structural durability of TAVI prostheses beyond 3 years of follow-up. This nationwide
      registry would provide data on the durability of surgical bioprostheses as well as second and
      third generation TAVI prostheses at 7 years . Continuous follow-up of these patients will
      allow monitoring of the durability of these prostheses on the long run.

      Furthermore, the introduction of TAVI prompted a rapid development of minimally invasive
      surgical techniques and rapid deployment surgical bioprostheses in order to reduce the risk
      of early adverse events after SAVR. However, it is unclear whether these advances have a real
      clinical benefit on the early and late outcome of patients undergoing SAVR.

      Patients and Methods

      Patients operated on for AS at each Finnish University Hospitals from January 2008 to
      September 2017 will included in to this registry. The following inclusion and exclusion
      criteria will be considered:

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Patients aged >18 years

        -  Primary aortic valve procedure with a bioprosthesis for AS with or without associated
           regurgitation.

        -  TAVI and SAVR with or without associated coronary revascularization

        -  TAVI and SAVR for AS after any prior major cardiac surgery with exception of any maze
           procedure and/or closure of the left atrial appendage.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Patients who underwent any prior SAVR or TAVI

        -  Patients undergoing concomitant procedures on the mitral valve, tricuspid valve or the
           ascending aorta.

        -  Patients operated on for aortic valve endocarditis

        -  Patients operated for isolated aortic valve regurgitation.

      Definition criteria for baseline and operative variables as well as early and late outcomes
      will be according to the Valve Academic Research Consortium (VARC) 2 guidelines (Kappetein et
      al. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg 2012;42:S45-60). Prosthetic valve structural deterioration and
      failure will be reported according to the last specific guidelines on this topic (Capodanno
      et al. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2017;52:408-417). However, because of the lack of complete
      echocardiographic follow-up in these patients, valve structural valve deterioration will be
      classified only according to the definition criteria of severe hemodynamic structural valve
      deterioration of these guidelines.

      The late events of interest are all-cause mortality, stroke, myocardial infarction,
      myocardial revascularization, structural deterioration, non-structural valve dysfunction,
      repeated procedures on the aortic valve and implantation of permanent pace-maker. Data on
      these late events will be collected at each participating center. These will be further
      checked and implemented for patients residing outside the catchment areas by interrogation of
      the Finnish National Health Institute for Health and Welfare database as well as Statistics
      Finland database.

      Planned studies

      The following is a tentatile of study projects which will be accomplished from the FinnValve
      registry:

        1. Late outcome of TAVI versus SAVR in intermediate risk patients

        2. Late outcome of TAVI versus SAVR in low risk patients

        3. Late outcome of TAVI and SAVR in high risk patients

        4. Futility of TAVI (3-month analysis)

        5. Mini- versus full-sternotomy SAVR

        6. Perceval sutureless bioprosthesis: 5-year outcome

        7. Late outcome of sutureless versus conventional stented bioprosthesis in isolated SAVR

        8. Late outcome of sutureless SAVR versus transfemoral TAVI in low- and intermediate risk
           patients

        9. Early and late outcome of TAVI versus SAVR in patients with recent acute heart failure

       10. Early and late outcome of TAVI versus SAVR in bicuspid AS

       11. Early and late outcome of TAVI versus SAVR in obese patients (BMI >29) at low- and
           intermediate risk

       12. Early and late outcome of isolated TAVI versus TAVI plus percutaneous coronary
           intervention (PCI) in patients with coronary artery disease

       13. Early and late outcome of TAVI plus PCI versus SAVR plus coornary artery bypass grafting
           (CABG)

       14. Prognostic impact of Syntax score on the early and late outcome after TAVI

       15. Early and late outcome of TAVI vs. SAVR in patients with prior CABG

       16. Early and late outcome of second versus third generation TAVI prostheses

       17. Early and late outcome of transfemoral versus transaortic TAVI

       18. Early and late outcome of trans-subclavian artery versus trans-aortic TAVI

       19. Early and late outcome of sutureless versus conventional stented bioprosthesis in SAVR
           plus CABG

       20. Early and late outcome of Trifecta versus Perimount bioprosthesis in isolated SAVR

       21. Thromboembolic events after TAVI and SAVR

       22. Early and late outcome of TAVI in nonagenarians

       23. Prognostic impact of permanent pace-maker implantation on the early and late outcome
           after TAVI and SAVR

       24. Prognostic impact of mild paravalvular leakage on the late outcome after SAVR

       25. Impact of preoperative atrial fibrillation on the late outcome of TAVI

       26. Impact of preoperative atrial fibrillation on the late outcome of SAVR

       27. Early and late outcome of TAVI vs. SAVR in patients aged 85 years or older

      Publications of results and PhD studies

      The results of these studies will be published in international, peer-reviewed journals in
      the fields of cardiology and cardiac surgery. Furthermore, data from this registry will be
      available for several doctoral study projects. At this stage, a proposal for PhD studies has
      been submitted by:

        1. Marko Virtanen, MD (Tampere University Hospital);

        2. Pasi Maaranen, MD (Tampere University Hospital)

        3. Maina Jalava, MD (Turku University Hospital);

        4. Tuomas Ahvenvaara (Oulu University Hospital);

        5. Teemu Laakso (Helsinki University Hospital).

      Time schedule of data collection, checking and analysis

        -  December 2017: start of data collection

        -  End of April 2018: deadline for data collection

        -  End of May 2018: data checking

        -  June 2018-December 2019: analyses and writing of the planned studies.
    
  