
    
      Self-harm is defined as intentional self-poisoning or self-injury, whether or not there is
      evidence that the act was intended to result in death. In the past, the term used was
      'attempted suicide.' However, peoples' motives for harming themselves are highly variable, a
      person may have more than one motive and motivation is hard to assess. In line with usual
      public policy in health and social care, the investigators use the term 'self-harm'
      describing a behaviour - avoiding the word 'deliberate' because many service users or
      consumers dislike its connotations.

      In Ontario, the number of people who present to hospital emergency departments with self-harm
      is difficult to accurately assess, but the best estimate is about 30,000 each year. The most
      common form of self-harm seen in emergency departments (around 80% of episodes) is the
      intentional consumption of an excess of a medicinal or toxic product, whether or not there is
      evidence that the act was intended to result in death. Injuries, most commonly self-cutting,
      form 15-20% of episodes.

      Two-thirds of people attending emergency departments because of self-harm are under 35 years
      of age. They are high users of health and social care services. Self-harm has a strong
      association with suicide: 7 patients per 1000 (about 1%) die by suicide in the year after
      attending emergency departments with a non-fatal episode (60 times the general population
      risk), rising to as many as 30 patients per 1000 over the next 15 years. In a recent
      longitudinal study conducted at the University of Toronto, "all-cause mortality following a
      first episode of self-poisoning was 1107 per 100,000 person-years… [with] nearly half of all
      deaths being suicides, accidents or undetermined intent." About a quarter of suicides are
      preceded by a hospital visit due to non-fatal self-harm in the previous year. It is the major
      identifiable risk factor for suicide. Mortality from non-suicidal causes is also high, with
      significantly more than the expected numbers of deaths from natural causes and from
      accidents. Whilst four of ten people who present with self-harm are men, they form nearly two
      thirds of suicides after an episode and are far more likely than women to die of premature
      death from other causes. The premature deaths are greatly over-represented among young people
      and the life years lost to the community are many.

      Repetition of non-fatal self-harm stands at around 20% annually and is associated with much
      distress and many unresolved interpersonal problems. It is likely that any reduction in
      repetition of self-harm will be mirrored by a fall in subsequent suicides. The Canadian
      Association for Suicide Prevention blueprint for a National Suicide Prevention Strategy
      (CASP) has identified those who have presented to hospital with non-fatal self-harm as a high
      risk target group to reduce suicide.

      People attending emergency departments after self-harm receive a variable standard of care in
      Ontario. Many are not assessed for psychological needs, and the little psychological therapy
      available is not usually covered by Ontario Health Insurance (OHIP). Local data from
      hospitals in Ottawa show that only 4 out of 10 men who present with intentional self-harm are
      seen by a mental health professional. Few are offered an evidence-based treatment aimed at
      reducing their risk of suicide or repeated self-harm. At present, assessment for self-harm in
      adults in Ontario is highly variable and there is no standard protocol for therapy.
      Assessment of suicide risk is currently a Required Operating Practice for Canadian Hospital
      accreditation; however, individuals identified as at-risk for suicide rarely receive
      recommended care.

      Specialist services offer intensive and lengthy treatment for the minority of people who
      self-harm diagnosed with personality disorders, such as dialectical behavior therapy or
      mindfulness based therapy. The evidence for the effectiveness of these specialist therapies
      comes almost entirely from studies in women.

      The investigators have received funding for a multicentre cluster randomized trial from the
      Ontario Strategy for Patient Oriented Research (SPOR) Support for People and Patient Oriented
      Research and Trials (SUPPORT) Unit funded by Canadian Institutes for Health Research (CIHR)
      and the Ontario Ministries of Health and Research and Innovation (MRI) comparing the delivery
      of smart phone assisted problem solving therapy with treatment as usual in men who present
      with self-harm. The rationale for focusing on men is that most suicides are in men and
      previous trials have found that providing generic treatments to everyone does not work. The
      intervention will build on previous work by trying to extend the range and intensity of
      therapy. The investigators will do this by supplementing it with a sophisticated smart phone
      application that has already demonstrated its effectiveness in men with substance abuse
      disorders. The investigators will be offering an intervention specifically designed for men
      who self-harm, as they are hard to engage and are more likely than women to have substance
      abuse problems.

      Given the complexity of the proposed study, the investigators have separated the overarching
      research proposal into two parts, designated "Protocol A" and "Protocol B." Protocol A refers
      to a comprehensive secondary analysis the investigators will be carrying out using data from
      the Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences (ICES), and Protocol B refers to the active
      components of the intervention, those carried out with human subjects receiving six sessions
      of blended, problem solving therapy as opposed to routine care. The following description
      outlines the research protocol developed under the heading "Protocol B."

      The cohort component of this study will assess the impact of exposure to smartphone-assisted
      PST in the treatment of suicidal thoughts and behaviour in men who present to Emergency
      Departments with intentional self-harm. Eligible participants will consist of men 18 years of
      age or older who have presented via the Emergency Department of an intervention site for
      self-harm, and who agree to participate in the study. Consenting participants will then
      receive six sessions of blended, smartphone-assisted PST over the course of six weeks, as
      well as a "booster" session occurring six months post-recruitment. The unit of analysis will
      be the individual participant. During the baseline visit, during the sixth session of PST,
      during the booster session (six months after the final PST session), and one year
      post-enrollment.

      Categorical participant characteristics, such as gender identity, marital status and
      education level will be reported using frequencies and percentages. Continuous
      characteristics, such as age, will be reported using mean ±SD for any continuous variables
      that are normally distributed, and as a median score. For non-normally distributed variables
      the 25th and 75th percentiles will be used. Non-normally distributed variables will also be
      dichotomized and analysed as categorical data. Changes in participants' scores from their
      baseline visit to follow-up at one year will be analyzed by use of repeated measures ANOVA
      with a generalized linear mixed modelling (GLMM) to account for missing variables.
      Multivariate linear regression analyses will be performed to determine which participant
      characteristics moderate primary and secondary treatment outcomes. Additional subgroup
      analyses will be carried out to determine the impact of smartphone-assisted PST for the
      following subgroups: first time presentations of self-harm compared to repeaters; Francophone
      versus Anglophone; men with substance abuse disorders versus no substance abuse disorder; and
      rural versus urban residence.

      To minimize the risk of imbalances between the study arms, allocation of a site to an
      intervention or control arm was implemented using covariate constrained allocation, based on
      geographic and catchment area, the availability of onsite psychiatric services assessing
      Emergency Department visitors, rates of representation for self-harm, and facility size,
      defined by the average number of presentations for self-harm over a three year period.

      The primary outcome measure for Protocol B is the Beck Scale for Suicide Ideation (BSS), a
      24-item self-report questionnaire for detecting and measuring the current intensity of a
      subject's thoughts, feelings and suicidal behaviours. Secondary outcome measures include: the
      9-Item Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9),the Generalized Anxiety Disorder Questionnaire
      (GAD-7), the Primary Care Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PC-PTSD) screening tool, the
      EuroQol 5 Dimensions (EQ-5D-5L) questionnaire, two sub-scales from the Experienced Meaning in
      Life (EMIL) scale, the Multidimensional Scale of Perceived Social Support (MSPSS), the
      Alcohol Use Disorder Identification Test (AUDIT), the Drug Abuse Screening Test (DAST-10),
      and two sub-scales from the Conformity to Masculine Norms Scale (CMNI). In order to assess
      the impact of the intervention on a participant's social problem solving skills, the Social
      Problem Solving Inventory - Revised Short Form (SPSI-R:S) will be used, and health service
      use will be captured using routinely collected administrative data obtained from the
      Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences (ICES). The ICES data collected will characterize
      a participants previous hospitalizations for self-harm, previous presentations to hospital
      for self-harm, presentations to hospital for any reason other than self-harm, admission to
      the hospital for any reason, outpatient appointments for any reason, and primary care visits.
    
  