
    
      The primary specific aim of this RCT is to determine the effect of induced moderate HYPO
      (32-33 °C) after severe TBI in children on mortality at 3 months post injury. The primary
      outcome measure will be the GOS; the primary time point for evaluation is 3 months. Further
      secondary functional outcome measures will include the GOS - Extended Pediatrics (GOS - E
      Peds), and Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scale (VABS) and will be assessed in conjunction with
      the GOS at 6 and 12 months post injury.

      The secondary hypotheses are based on the results and analysis of the Pilot Clinical Trial
      (completed and recently published [Adelson et al. NEUROSURGERY. 56 (4): 740-754, 2005]).
      These secondary hypotheses include that induced moderate hypothermia (HYPO) (32-33 °C) after
      severe TBI in children and maintained for 48 h:

        -  will improve other outcome assessments including neurocognitive status on
           performance-based neuropsychological testing across the domains of intellectual
           development, learning and memory, language, motor and psychomotor skills, visuo-spatial
           abilities, attention and executive function, and behavior at only 6 and 12 months after
           injury;

        -  HYPO will improve long term outcome of all age ranges and across genders in infants,
           young, preadolescent, and adolescent children; AND

        -  HYPO will lessen intracranial hypertension and lessen the intensity of therapy necessary
           for control of ICP.

      Based on these hypotheses, further secondary specific aims are proposed:

        -  Specific Aim 2: To determine the effect of early induced moderate HYPO (32-33°C) after
           severe TBI in children on global function and neurocognitive outcomes in the areas of
           intellectual ability/ development, memory and learning, and behavior at 6 and 12 months
           post injury.

        -  Specific Aim 3: To determine the effect of early induced moderate HYPO after severe TBI
           in children of different age ranges (< 6 y and 6- < 16 y) on mortality and 6 and 12
           months functional and neurocognitive outcomes.

        -  Specific Aim 4: To determine the effect of early moderate HYPO after severe TBI in
           children on reducing intracranial hypertension and maintaining adequate cerebral
           perfusion pressure (CPP).
    
  