
    
      Pneumonia is one of the most common health conditions leading to hospitalization today.
      Approximately 1.3 million people in the US are admitted to the hospital with
      community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) annually, with readmission rates within the first 30 days
      as high as 20%. In a retrospective analysis of patients with culture-confirmed bacterial
      pneumonia, 30-day readmission occurred in 19.3% of patients. At Norwalk Hospital, the 30-day
      readmission rate for patients with pneumonia is 13.1%. CAP is the sixth most common cause of
      death with a case-fatality rate of up to 16% for hospitalized CAP patients, and an overall
      30-day mortality up to 23%. The economic burden of CAP is also high, l with a CAP cost burden
      estimated to be at least $13 billion in 2008 within just the Medicare population.

      There have been several small studies done to analyze the utility of airway clearance and its
      potential role in CAP. These studies have generally been small and have used a wide variety
      of airway clearance devices and techniques, including external chest wall physiotherapy
      devices and postural drainage, both now considered second line therapies for most patients.
      These studies have been variable in their findings and overall have not shown that airway
      clearance is either beneficial or harmful in CAP. The studies did show, however, that the
      duration of fever and hospital length of stay were both significantly decreased, suggesting
      the possibility of other clinically important benefits.

      In this prospective randomized controlled trial, investigators will test the hypothesis that
      the use of OPEP devices, specifically the handheld Aerobika (Monaghan Medical) will result in
      more rapid and durable recovery in patients hospitalized with community-acquired pneumonia as
      measured by decreased hospital length of stay, reduced duration of fever, improvement in
      dyspnea, decreased duration of antibiotics, increased rate of diagnosis of the etiologic
      organism responsible for the pneumonia, and reduced readmission rates:

      Primary outcome

      1. Reduction in hospital length of stay

      Secondary outcomes

        1. Reduction in dyspnea by modified-Borg score

        2. Reduction in duration of antibiotics

        3. Reduction in duration of fever

        4. Reduction in need for oxygen at hospital discharge

        5. Reduction in 30-, 60-, and 90-day readmission rates

        6. Diagnosis of organism by sputum

        7. Transfer to the intensive care unit (ICU)
    
  