
    
      Study Phase: Pilot study to assess nab-paclitaxel in combination with gemcitabine effects on
      pancreatic cancer stroma and tumor metabolism.

      Study Objective(s):

      A) Primary end-points:

        1. Evaluate the effect of nab-paclitaxel in combination with gemcitabine on tumor stroma
           density.

        2. Evaluate the effect of nab-paclitaxel on tumor vessels formation.

        3. Evaluate the effect of nab-paclitaxel on tumor metabolism.

      B) Secondary end-point:

      1. Evaluate combination activity in relation with changes in tumor stroma and tumor metabolic
      activity.

      The following studies will be performed prior and after treatment administration:

        -  18FDG-PET/CT scan;

        -  Ultrasound Elastography;

        -  IHC:

             1. SPARC;

             2. Microvessel Density (CD-31, VEGF-A);

             3. Stroma density (SMA and Collagen I).

      Study population and Number of subject: A total of 15 pancreatic cancer patients with
      resectable/resectable borderline disease are expected to be enrolled.

      Study design and schedule: This is a pilot study to evaluate the effect of nab-paclitaxel on
      tumor stroma in pancreatic cancer patients. The study will be conducted in two parts:

      Part A: Patients diagnosed with resectable/resectable pancreatic cancer will be screened for
      SPARC expression. Fifteen, SPARC positive patients, will be enrolled in the study and treated
      with nab-paclitaxel in combination with gemcitabine. Patients will be treated as follow:

        -  nab-paclitaxel will be administered at 125 mg/m2 as intravenous (i.v.) infusion over 30
           minutes;

        -  followed by gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2 i.v. infusion over 30 minutes;

      Treatment will be delivered weekly, for 3 weeks (on day 1, 8, and 15 over 28 days cycle)
      followed by a week of rest, for two cycles of treatment.

      Part B: At the end of treatment tumors will be surgically resected according to standard
      surgical procedure for the treatment of pancreatic cancer.
    
  