
    
      In our Western culture, lifestyle changes focusing on diet, exercise and tobacco could
      prevent about 40% of all cancer deaths, and 82% of cardiac deaths, in the U.S. It is
      estimated that 71% of colon cancers, 70% of strokes, and 91% of diabetic cases could be
      avoided by living a healthy lifestyle. These health problems add a tremendous burden to our
      healthcare budget, and to the loss of productivity of our society. In 2007, it was estimated
      that 2.3 trillion dollars was spent on healthcare in the U.S., $7,600 for each individual.
      Expectations are that without dramatic change, this cost will continue to increase to
      unsustainable levels.

      The Complete Health Improvement Program (CHIP) is a community based lifestyle medicine
      program with proven effectiveness in addressing these problems.

      The project proposes to provide the Complete Health Improvement Program (CHIP) to adult
      (non-pregnant) Ohio University employees (and/ or their adult family members) with with
      diabetes / prediabetes, obesity / overweight, hypertension / prehypertension, atherosclerotic
      cardiovascular disease, or dyslipidemia in an effort to improve self-management and the
      consequences of biometric factors that can be modified by lifestyle changes. The CHIP program
      is an educationally based, lifestyle intervention program that aims to reduce healthcare
      cost, absenteeism, and increase employee productivity. The investigators expect that
      participants following the programs guidelines will lower their body mass index, cholesterol,
      reduce blood pressure and blood glucose levels, and therefore help to prevent chronic
      disease.

      Ohio University Human Resources (HR) will provide research participants with scholarships to
      attend the CHIP program.

      One aim of the project is to compare biometrics factors (weight, cholesterol, LDL, HDL,
      triglycerides, blood pressure, and fasting blood glucose, HgA1c) of participants before and
      after completion of the program (program completion defined as those who attended at least 14
      of 16 CHIP classes, or 15 of the 18 new CHIP+ classes).

      A second aim is to compare this groups health claims (health care utilization office visits,
      emergency room visits, hospitalizations, medication costs) with a control groups data (OU
      employees who have diabetes / prediabetes, obesity / overweight, hypertension /
      prehypertension, atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, or dyslipidemia and do not
      participate in CHIP program).

      A third aim is to compare the treatment groups absenteeism due to illness data with that of
      the control group.
    
  