
    
      There are two parts involved in this study:

      Part #1- Paperwork, Computer-based cognitive tests, Physical function test, EEG recording

        -  Potential participants will be pre-screened at the time of their initial phone call to
           be sure they fit the guidelines for this research study.

        -  Participants will be given this Informed Consent document. This Informed Consent will be
           reviewed in a private location; participants will be given as much time as participants
           need to consider enrolling in the study. Participants may want to discuss the
           information with friends or family. Participants may ask questions at any time during
           the study visit.

        -  If participants choose to sign this form, and agree to participate, participants will be
           further screened for inclusion/exclusion factors related to the MRI scanning. All women
           under the age of 62 will be given a pregnancy test, based on a urine sample.

        -  Investigators will review a detailed Medical History form with participants, asking
           questions about participants and participants family's medical history.

        -  Investigators will ask participants to complete a brief physical activity questionnaire
           asking questions about participants daily level of physical activity.

        -  Participants will be asked to complete several computer tasks meant to measure
           participants cognitive abilities (like memory and attention), which takes about 30
           minutes.

        -  Participants will also be asked to complete a short physical performance battery (SPPB),
           that looks at participants ability to sit and stand, walk a short distance, and balance,
           which takes about 30 minutes.

        -  Participants will also be asked to participate in an EEG recording session. An EEG cap,
           selected for participants head size, will be placed on participants head. The cap
           contains small electrodes that record participants brains electrical activity. During
           this part of the study, participants will sit in a comfortable chair while watching
           pictures on a computer screen, listening to sounds through headphones, or resting. This
           will take about 1 hour.

        -  Participants will also be asked to undergo a cold pressor test (CPT) and/or sham
           stimulation. CPT involves immersing either participants hand or foot in cold water for
           about one minute. Sham stimulation involved immersing either the hand or foot in room
           temperature water for about one minute.

        -  Finally, participants will be transported by someone involved with this study (by
           passenger van or golf cart) to the McKnight Brain Institute MRI Center. Or, if
           participants prefer, the next portion of the visit can be scheduled for another day.

      Part #2- MRI Scan

      The following procedures will take place at the Advanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging Center at
      the McKnight Brain Institute- for the MRI brain scan, and can be done on the same day as Part
      #1, or on a different day for participants scheduling convenience.

      Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a procedure that allows doctors to look inside the body
      by using a scanner that sends out a strong magnetic field and radio waves. This procedure is
      used routinely for medical care and is very safe for most people, but participants will be
      monitored during the entire MRI scan in case any problems occur. The risks of MRI are:

        -  The MRI scanner contains a very strong magnet. Therefore, participants may not be able
           to have the MRI if participants have any type of metal implanted in participants body,
           for example, any pacing device (such as a heart pacer), any metal in participants eyes,
           or certain types of heart valves or brain aneurysm clips. Someone will ask participants
           questions about this before participants have the MRI.

        -  There is not much room inside the MRI scanner. Participants may be uncomfortable if
           participants do not like to be in close spaces ("claustrophobia"). During the procedure,
           participants will be able to talk with the MRI staff through a speaker system, and, in
           the event of an emergency, participants can tell them to stop the scan.

        -  The MRI scanner produces a loud hammering noise, which has produced hearing loss in a
           very small number of patients. Participants will be given earplugs to reduce this risk.
    
  