
    
      Background: Amblyopia is a disorder of reduced visual function in an eye, without ocular
      disease, which arises as a result of an abnormal visual experience in early life. It is
      attributed to a cortical suppression of the image from the amblyopic eye caused by blur or
      diplopia. Amblyopia is the leading cause of preventable monocular vision loss in the US
      affecting 2% to 5% of the population. In addition to significant visual deficits, amblyopes
      are more likely to loose sight in the other, healthy eye as a result of accidents or ocular
      diseases. Accepted treatment of amblyopia, which includes patching or pharmacological, or
      optical penalization of the fellow eye, is limited to young children. This treatment is
      considered ineffective beyond 8 years of age, and no treatment is offered to older
      individuals, who comprise 72% of the population of amblyopes.

      Recent evidence suggests that some cortical plasticity might be present in older individuals
      beyond the accepted age limit for the amblyopia treatment. Spontaneous improvement of visual
      acuity in the amblyopic eye was reported in some adults, who lost sight in the good eye
      following trauma or disease. However, the chance of spontaneous improvement of visual acuity
      to a usable level is relatively low. Therefore, it is important to search for modalities to
      improve the vision in amblyopic individuals to prevent incapacitating loss of function
      following loss of sight in a sound eye.

      Weak direct current (DC) stimulation is a noninvasive method able to induce cortical
      excitability changes. It has been previously safely applied in many animal and several human
      studies, and was able to modulate activity of primary motor and prefrontal cortices. These
      studies revealed that cathodal stimulation reduces spontaneous firing rates of cortical
      cells, most likely by hyperpolarizing cortical neurons, whereas anodal stimulation results in
      a reverse effect. The number of studies applying DC stimulation over the human visual cortex
      is still limited, however these have shown that DC stimulation can induce modulation in the
      excitability of the visual cortex, similar to what was observed in motor and prefrontal
      cortex. This modulation is reflected by changes in both psychophysical and
      electrophysiological parameters of normal volunteers. Because DC stimulation can induce
      acute, as well as prolonged modulation in the cortical excitability and activity, it could be
      employed as a tool for studying neuroplasticity, and might be beneficial in conditions
      accompanied by pathological changes in cortical excitability, such as amblyopia.

      In the proposed study we will assess a short-term effect of DC stimulation of the occipital
      cortex on the visual function of 10 adult amblyopic subjects. If the study will demonstrate a
      favorable effect, then DC stimulation could be used in the future to induce lasting benefits
      in amblyopes, because the duration of the after-effects depend on the duration, intensity,
      and polarity of stimulation.

      Aims: To gather preliminary data on whether DC stimulation of the occipital cortex can
      modulate visual function in adult amblyopic subjects. We will check the short-term effect of
      the DC stimulation on the plasticity of the visual cortex and its ability to temporarily
      alter the impaired visual functions in amblyopia.

      To confirm on amblyopic adults that DC stimulation of the visual cortex is safe and well
      tolerated, similar to what has been previously established on normal volunteers.

      Methods: In the current study we plan to enroll 10 amblyopic subjects ages 18 and older.
      Based on the previous reports, anodal stimulation has an excitatory effect, and cathodal
      stimulation has an inhibitory effect on the cortex. Therefore, only anodal stimulation of the
      visual cortex will be performed on the amblyopic subjects. The stimulation will be applied
      over the occipital cortex, duration 20 min at 2mA. As a placebo, a sham stimulation of the
      same duration will be applied on the same area of the scalp of all subjects at least 24 hours
      before or after the anodal stimulation, in a random order. The stimulation will be done in
      the masked fashion, so that neither the study subjects, nor the investigator assessing their
      visual function will be aware of the type of stimulation.

      Assessment of visual function will be done before, and immediately and 20 min after the DC
      stimulation, and will include measuring visual acuity, contrast sensitivity, reading speed
      and reading acuity. In each session both amblyopic and fellow eye will be assessed starting
      with the amblyopic eye. If any differences from the pre-stimulation visual function will be
      detected 20 min after the stimulation, the patients will also be examined 1 hour after the
      stimulation and, if the effect persists, 1 week following that.
    
  