
    
      The primary goal of therapy for chronic hepatitis B (CHB) is suppression of viral
      replication. Long-term suppression of serum HBV DNA is likely to reduce progression to
      cirrhosis and hepatic decompensation and decrease the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma.
      Conventional treatment of chronic hepatitis B is limited by low rates of sustained hepatitis
      B virus DNA suppression and hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) seroconversion, increasing rates of
      drug resistance to the oral agents, and poor tolerability of interferon.

      Currently, several nucleoside/nucleotide analogues are available for treatment of CHB.
      Typically, treatment is continued indefinitely since discontinuation is usually associated
      with relapse . However, the safety implications related to long term treatment are still
      unknown.

      Previously published studies using combinations (peginterferon alpha-2a + lamivudine)
      (Marcellin 2004; Lau 2005; Janssen 2005) have shown combinations to be more potent in HBeAg
      loss at the end of dosing, than either agent used as monotherapy; off-treatment differences,
      however, did not persist. There are no treatment paradigms as yet of combination therapy with
      two nucleoside analogues for use in treatment-naive patients.

      In summary, there is an unmet need for improved anti-HBV therapy and there are still several
      controversies such as treatment options, potential role of combination therapy versus
      monotherapy and optimal duration of therapy, among others. Clinical trials are underway to
      answer some of these questions. This study aims to assess whether or not combination therapy
      with telbuvudine and tenofovir DF has superior antiviral efficacy when compared to tenofovir
      DF or telbuvidine monotherapy. The study will also determine the safety of the combination of
      telbivudine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in patients with chronic hepatitis B. Patients
      in the immunotolerant phase of CHB will be include in the study. This phase is characterized
      for high viremia and normal transaminases. Since these patients are not considered as
      candidates for CHB therapy according to international guidelines (Lok et al 2007), treatment
      discontinuation after 12 weeks does not raise any unethical implications.

      REFERENCES:

        1. Janssen HL, van Zonneveld M, Senturk H, Zeuzem S, Akarca US, Cakaloglu Y, Simon C, So
           TM, Gerken G, de Man RA, Niesters HG, Zondervan P, Hansen B, Schalm SW; HBV 99-01 Study
           Group; Rotterdam Foundation for Liver Research. Pegylated interferon alfa-2b alone or in
           combination with lamivudine for HBeAg-positive chronic hepatitis B: a randomised trial.
           Lancet. 2005 Jan 8-14;365(9454):123-9.

        2. Lau GK, Piratvisuth T, Luo KX, Marcellin P, Thongsawat S, Cooksley G, Gane E, Fried MW,
           Chow WC, Paik SW, Chang WY, Berg T, Flisiak R, McCloud P, Pluck N; Peginterferon Alfa-2a
           HBeAg-Positive Chronic Hepatitis B Study Group. Peginterferon Alfa-2a, lamivudine, and
           the combination for HBeAg-positive chronic hepatitis B. N Engl J Med. 2005 Jun 30;
           352(26):2682-95.

        3. Lok AS, McMahon BJ. (2007) Chronic hepatitis. Hepatology 45(2):507-39.

        4. Marcellin P, Lau GK, Bonino F, Farci P, Hadziyannis S, Jin R, Lu ZM, Piratvisuth T,
           Germanidis G, Yurdaydin C, Diago M, Gurel S, Lai MY, Button P, Pluck N; Peginterferon
           Alfa-2a HBeAg-Negative Chronic Hepatitis B Study Group. Peginterferon alfa-2a alone,
           lamivudine alone, and the two in combination in patients with HBeAg-negative chronic
           hepatitis B. N Engl J Med. 2004 Sep 16;351(12):1206-17.

      Primary objectives:

      The primary objective of this study is to characterize the reduction in HBV DNA level from
      Baseline to week 12 of telbivudine plus tenofovir DF combination therapy versus telbivudine
      or tenofovir DF monotherapy.

      Secondary objectives:

      Secondary objectives of the study include describing the following for telbivudine plus
      tenofovir DF combination therapy versus telbivudine or tenofovir DF monotherapy:

        1. reduction in HBV DNA level from Baseline to Weeks 2, 4, and 8

        2. characterization of early viral kinetics through estimation of various parameters such
           as efficiency of blocking new virus production, and half-lives of free virions and
           infected heptocytes

        3. % patients who are PCR negative at Week 12 (defined as <25 copies/mL)

        4. % of patients who achieve HBeAg loss and HBeAg seroconversion at Week 12

        5. safety

      Exploratory objectives:

        1. To explore HBeAg and HBsAg levels over the treatment period as an additional potential
           predictor of efficacy.

        2. To explore additional potential early serological and immunological markers for
           prediction of efficacy or safety.
    
  