
    
      RADIOTHERAPY WBRT Patient in supine position Immobilization of the head with a thermoplastic
      mask Simulation with computed tomography (CT) with contrast.

      Design:

      Clinical target volume (CTV): brain and meninges to the foramen magnum Planned treatment
      volume (PTV): 5 mm from the CTV in all directions

        -  Planning:

        -  Technique: Two latero-lateral fields, with permission to use field inside the fields,
           known as "field-in-field".

        -  Isodose prescription: 95% of the dose covering 95% of PTV

        -  Maximum dose allowed in the PTV: 15% higher than the prescribed dose

        -  Dose / fractionation: 30 Gy in 10 fractions of 3 Gy once a day, five times a week

        -  Treatment Equipment: Linear accelerator of 6-MeV photons (Varian Clinac 600 CD, Varian
           Medical Systems, Palo Alto, CA, USA)

      HSRT Planning HSRT

        -  Held on the seventh day post-WBRT(or next business day if the date coincides with a
           weekend or holiday):

        -  Patient in supine position

        -  Preparation of individualized mask "Mask Patient One set is 41,100 (BrainLAB AG,
           Heimstetten, Germany)

        -  Brain MRI with contrast and volumetric reconstruction of 1 mm without mask and without
           fiducial markers

        -  Brain CT with contrast, 1-mm slices with tracking and stereotactic fixation.

        -  Fusion of MRI and CT in the planning system iPlan version 4.1 (BrainLAB AG, Heimstetten,
           Germany)

        -  Delineation Gross tumor volume (GTV): metastasis(es) of the brain displayed in the MRI
           signal in T1 with contrast Clinical target volume (CTV)= GTV Planning target volume
           (PTV)= CTV with 3 mm margins in all directions

        -  Physical Planning

        -  Technique: multiple dynamic arcs, multiple static conformal fields, multiple static
           modulated fields, multiple static arcs

        -  isodose prescription: higher isodose that meets the following criteria: Coverage of at
           least 95% of the PTV with the prescription dose (V100 ≥ 95%) and 95% Of the prescription
           dose covering at least 99% of the PTV (V95 ≥ 99%).

        -  Maximum dose allowed in or outside the PTV: 20% of prescription dose, while respecting
           the tolerance of the organs described below.

        -  Scores compliance with RTOG

        -  Dose escalation scheme

      Study model It'll be recruited 3 patients to the initial scheme of 4 fractions of 5 Gy on
      each brain metastasis with HSRT and if no patient has unacceptable toxicity, more 3 patients
      for subsequent scheme will be recruited. If 2 patients had unacceptable toxicity, the study
      ends and it'll be considered the study initiated with toxic regimen. If 1 patient has
      unacceptable toxicity, it'll be recruited 3 more patients for this scheme and if 1 or more
      patients had unacceptable toxicity, the scheme will be considered toxic and the study will be
      closed. If no patient develops unacceptable toxicity, the study will follow to the next
      cohort of 3 more patients with next dose level. The same criteria of recruitment will be
      performed till any scheme reach the MTD or up to the scheme of 4 fractions of 9 Gy.

        -  The number of fractions of HSRT will be kept in 4 fractions for all cohorts.

        -  The initial dose is 5 Gy per day.

        -  Increasing the dose of one cohort to another will be more than 1 Gy per day of HSRT. For
           example: If the scheme of 4 fractions of 5 Gy will not have unacceptable toxicity, the
           study continues to recruit patients for the scheme of 4 fractions of 6 Gy, and so
           subsequently.

        -  The study will recruit patients to the fractionation scheme up to four fractions of 9 Gy
           according to the BEDGy3 be similar to a maximum dose of RS studies to brain metastasis
           of 24 Gy in one fraction.

        -  At the discretion of the responsible investigator for the safety of the study, the
           number of patients may be increased in each cohort during the study.

        -  Restrictions of radiation dose on critical organ

        -  optic chiasm: BEDGy3: 90 Gy

        -  optic nerves: BEDGy3: 90 Gy

        -  optic tract: BEDGy3: 90 Gy

        -  brainstem: BEDGy3: 110 Gy

        -  retina: BEDGy3: 72 Gy

        -  lens: BEDGy3: 16.7 Gy

        -  Simulation of HSRT

        -  Ten days post-WBRT(or next business day, if the date coincides with a weekend or
           holiday)

        -  Tests of collision safety and quality control testing to ensure the alignment of
           isocenters radiation, mechanical and coincidence of lasers (Winston-Lutz test).

        -  Treatment of HSRT

        -  Eleventh day post-WBRT(or next business day, if the date coincides with a weekend or
           holiday)

        -  Treatment equipment

        -  linear accelerator of 6-MeV photons (Varian Clinac linear accelerator 600 CD, Varian
           Medical Systems, Palo Alto, CA, USA)

        -  Micromultileaf m3 System(BrainLAB AG, Heimstetten, Germany).
    
  