
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Cisplatin has a platinum atom at its center. The platinum is supposed to poison the cancer
      cells, which may cause them to die.

      Surgery and Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible, the abdominal surgery will be performed to try to remove as
      many tumors as possible. The abdominal surgery is not being performed specifically for this
      research study and would be performed even if you didn't take part in this study. You will be
      given a separate consent form to sign that explains the details and risks of abdominal
      surgery in more detail.

      During the surgery you will receive sodium thiosulfate by vein. The abdomen will then be
      temporarily closed. Then the abdominal wash will begin. During the "abdominal wash," heated
      cisplatin will be delivered through plastic tubing that is connected to a pump into the
      abdomen. The pump pushes the heated cisplatin into the abdomen and then pulls it out and
      recirculates the cisplatin. The skin of the abdomen is temporarily closed during the
      abdominal wash. The surgeon will also "wash" over the closed area of the surgical site. A
      pump will be used to pump heated cisplatin in and out of the abdomen over 90 minutes while
      the surgeon gently presses on the abdominal wall so the cisplatin reaches all areas in the
      abdomen. After 90 minutes, the cisplatin is removed and the abdomen will be "washed" with
      saline and all fluid will be removed before the surgeon permanently closes the abdomen with 3
      layers of stitches.

      Two (2) pea-sized tumor samples will be sent to the laboratory of Dr. Dina Lev for tissue
      evaluation and extraction of RNA (genetic material). One (1) tumor sample will be removed
      before the procedure and the other sample will be removed at the end of the procedure. The
      samples will be examined under a microscope and DNA (the genetic material in cells) will be
      removed to look for any changes to the DNA. The results of these tests will not be shared
      with you, nor will they be used for any decisions regarding your treatment. The samples will
      be destroyed after these tests are complete.

      There is a chance that the surgeon may decide during the surgery that the abdominal wash will
      not be performed, for example if the disease has spread to or attached to certain organs. If
      this occurs, your doctor will discuss other treatment options with you.

      Study Visits:

      On Days 1-5, 11, and 14, (Day 1 being the day after surgery):

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

      Follow-Up Visits:

      About 1, 3, and 6 months after the surgery is complete, you will have follow-up visits and
      the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn at the 1 month visit only for routine tests.

        -  You will have a hearing test at the 1 month visit only.

        -  Blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests at the 3 and 6 month visits
           only.

        -  At the 3 and 6 month visits only, you will have a CT scan, positron emission tomography
           (PET)-CT scan, or MRI scan to check the status of the disease.

      Length of Study:

      You will remain on study for up to 6 months. You will be taken off study if the disease gets
      worse.

      If the study doctor learns that the disease has come back or gotten worse at the 6 month
      follow-up visit, you may be eligible for a re-perfusion, which is a repeat of the operation
      and study drug administration. If you are eligible for a re-perfusion, your participation on
      this study will end and then you will be given a new consent form to sign in order to be
      re-enrolled back onto this study.

      This is an investigational study. Cisplatin is FDA-approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of advanced bladder cancer, metastatic testicular cancer, metastatic ovarian
      cancer, hepatoblastoma, neuroblastoma, metastatic appendiceal cancer, and abdominal
      mesothelioma. The use of cisplatin in patients with abdominal sarcoma-type tumors is
      investigational.

      Up to 22 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  