
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a common disease, which affects 4% middle-aged men and 2%
      women. Daytime sleepiness is one of the symptoms of OSA which drive patients to seek medical
      help. Sleepiness in OSA has been reported to be raised by microarousal, altered sleep
      structure and somnogenic cytokine and modifications in body metabolism. The assessments of
      daytime sleepiness included objective measures, like multiple sleep latency test and
      subjective measures, like Epworth sleepiness scale (ESS).

      So far, continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is the standard treatment for patients
      with severe OSA. CPAP could improve daytime wakefulness, blood pressure and quality of life
      (QOL). Several studies tried to identify factors predicting the CPAP effect and most
      concluded CPAP was not effective for patients with high apnea-hypopnea index but not sleepy.
      All of them determine the CPAP effect in terms of daytime function, lowering of blood
      pressure and QOL. None of these studies evaluate the CPAP effects in terms of improvement of
      sympathetic hyperactivity, inflammatory mediators and metabolic abnormalities. Therefore, we
      assumed patients whose daytime functions didn't improve after CPAP treatment still possibly
      got benefit from altering factors contributing to cardiovascular consequences.

      Our previous study showed that CPAP effect in OSA patients without sleepiness was as well as
      in patients with sleepiness, except that plasma level of norepinephrine and 24hr mean
      arterial blood pressure could be lowered more in patients with sleepiness. However, without
      optimal placebo and randomization, the actual role of CPAP in treating non-sleepy OSA
      patients still couldn't be determined.

      Recently sham CPAP was developed, which mimicked all the characteristics of a true CPAP
      except for the null pressure applied to the upper airway of the patient. Moreover, sham CPAP
      doesn't influence sleep efficiency, arousals, or apnea-hypopnea index. Therefore, in this
      project, using sham CPAP as a placebo, we propose a randomized double-blind placebo
      controlled trial to assess the effectiveness of CPAP in severe OSA patients without daytime
      sleepiness. We also establish a model to predict the CPAP effect. The results would change
      the current practice of managing severe OSA patients without daytime sleepiness.
    
  