
    
      2 months after an acute mild traumatic brain injury (TBI) defined as Glasgow Coma Scale
      between 13 and 15. The patient will get a clinical examination by a specialist in
      rehabilitation medicine. Patient who wish or need a further follow up, are out of work or
      school, will be included and randomized to either a multidisciplinary follow up or primary
      care follow by their family doctor.

      Both groups will got a multidisciplinary examination. The multidisciplinary team will work
      out a rehabilitation program and a report back to their family doctor.

      Patient who got a multidisciplinary follow up will then get individual appointments and they
      will follow an educational program for 4 days. The topics are physical and psychical problems
      after TBI and problems in daily living and return to work. We will teach a way to accept and
      deal with their problems. A cognitive behavioural treatment or a psycho educative approach
      will be central in the treatment. The follow up period will be until 2 years if needed.

      For booth groups we will make a registration of sick leave for 5 years. The Extended Glasgow
      Outcome Scale (GOS- E), Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HAD), Rivermead post
      concussion symptoms questionnaire and Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC) after 6 and
      12 months.

      Department of Economics at the University of Bergen will make cost-benefit analysis.

      Further on we will examine if there were differing clinical characteristics between patients
      who attended a planned follow-up session and those that failed to, if sick leave or return to
      work could make a difference and Prognostic factors in mild traumatic brain injury patients
      after discharge from hospital. We also include demographic data, CT findings and clinical
      data based on information from the medical records, pain drawings and numeric rating scale
      for pain, Quality of Life and Subjective Health Complaints inventory. We got data about days
      on sick leave, diagnosis for sick leave and income for the first year before and after the
      injury from The Norwegian Labour and Welfare Service (NAV) through a third accredited agency
      Statistics Norway. From Statistics Norway we got additional information about education level
      and income.
    
  