
    
      To investigate the influence of xenon-anaesthesia on transpulmonary pressure and tidal volume
      Distribution, the investigators will enroll 20 patients - 10 with a Body mass index of less
      than 30 and 10 with a Body mass index of 30 or more - undergoing routine xenon-based
      anesthesia in the course of a prospective cohort study. Performance of anesthesia will be at
      the discretion of the attending anesthesiologist. Typically, xenon-based anesthesia is
      induced and initially maintained with propofol and an opioid and tracheal intubation is
      facilitated using a muscle relaxant. Initially, the patient is ventilated with 100 per cent
      oxygen in order to wash out nitrogen from the respirator and the lungs. When nitrogen
      wash-out is completed, 55-65 per cent xenon in oxygen is introduced.

      5 minutes after anaesthesia induction, as well as 5 minutes after completion of Xenon
      wash-in, transpulmonary pressure will be measured from inspiratory plateau pressure and
      pleural pressure, which will be estimated from esophageal pressure. Esophageal pressure
      measurements will be facilitated via esophageal balloon catheters (Adult Esophageal Balloon
      Catheter Set 5 French, CooperSurgical, Trumbull, USA).

      Tidal volume distribution will be assessed with the use of Electrical Impedance Tomography
      (EIT). Images will be acquired in the supine Position 5 minutes before anesthesia induction,
      5 minutes after induction as well as 5 minutes completion of xenon wash-in. EIT measurements
      will be made for a period of one minute and functional EIT images of changes in tidal
      impedance will be generated. The Center of Ventilation Index and Global Inhomogeneity Index
      will be calculated for each time point.

      Analysis Plan:

      The primary analysis will include all recruited patients, irrespective of their Body mass
      index. Changes in transpulmonary pressure before and after Xenon wash-in will be assessed
      with the Wilcoxon signed-rank test for matched pairs. Center of Ventilation Index and Global
      Inhomogeneity Index, which will be assessed at three time points, will be compared with the
      use of repeated measures ANOVA with the post-hoc Sidak test.

      Secondary subgroup analyses will consist of separate analyses for patients with a BMI over or
      equal to and a BMI of less than 30. A type I error will be accepted with a maximum
      probability of 0.05.
    
  