
    
      A randomized trial of adjuvant Pembrolizumab following surgical resection versus observation
      following surgical resection in patients with stage I non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with
      primary tumors between 1-4 cm.

      Patients will be randomized (1:1) 4-12 weeks following surgery to either:

        -  Arm A: Pembrolizumab 400 mg every 6 weeks × 9 cycles

        -  Arm B: Observation

      Stratification factors will include: PD-L1 TPS (<50% vs. ≥50%), and tumor size (1-2 cm vs.
      >2-4 cm)

      Primary Objective:

        -  To evaluate whether the addition of adjuvant Pembrolizumab following surgical resection
           improves disease free survival compared with observation following surgical resection in
           patients with stage I non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with primary tumors between 1-4
           cm in size, regardless of PD-L1 TPS score.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To evaluate whether the addition of adjuvant Pembrolizumab following surgical resection
           improves overall survival compared with observation in patients with stage I non-small
           cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with primary tumors between 1-4 cm in size, regardless of PD-L1
           TPS.

        -  To evaluate the disease-free survival and overall survival rates at 1 year, 2 years, and
           3 years on each arm.

        -  To characterize the toxicity profile of adjuvant Pembrolizumab following surgical
           resection in patients with stage I non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with primary
           tumors between 1-4 cm in size.

      Exploratory Objectives:

        -  To evaluate whether the addition of adjuvant Pembrolizumab following surgical resection
           improves disease free survival compared with observation following surgical resection in
           patients with stage I non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with primary tumors between 1-4
           cm in size and a PD-L1 tumor proportion score (TPS) of ≥ 50%.

        -  To evaluate whether the addition of adjuvant Pembrolizumab following surgical resection
           improves disease free survival compared with observation following surgical resection in
           patients with stage I non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with primary tumors between 1-4
           cm in size and a high tumor mutation burden (TMB) defined as ≥ 10 mutations/MB.

        -  To evaluate whether the addition of adjuvant Pembrolizumab following surgical resection
           improves disease free survival compared with observation following surgical resection in
           patients with stage I non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with primary tumors between 1-4
           cm in size and a high tumor mutation burden (TMB) defined as ≥ 16 mutations/MB.

        -  To evaluate the disease free survival and overall survival for patients stratified by
           PD-L1 status (TPS ≥ 50% vs. < 50%), and tumor size (1-2 cm vs. >2-4 cm).

        -  To evaluate the association between various known prognostic variables, including, but
           not limited to, tumor differentiation (well-differentiated, moderately well
           differentiated, poorly differentiated), lymphovascular invasion, sex (male, female), PET
           max SUV and disease free survival and overall survival in patients treated with adjuvant
           Pembrolizumab for stage I non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with primary tumors between
           1-4 cm in size.

        -  To evaluate whether the presence of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) or circulating tumor
           cells (CTCs) following surgical resection predicts relapse in patients with stage I
           non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with primary tumors between 1-4 cm in size.

        -  To evaluate whether the presence of ctDNA or CTCs following surgical resection in
           patients with stage I non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with primary tumors between 1-4
           cm in size can predict which patients benefit from adjuvant Pembrolizumab compared to
           observation.

        -  To evaluate potential biomarkers (which may include genomics, RNA, tumor infiltrating
           lymphocytes, CD4 and CD8 expression, JAK2, STK11/LB1 loss of function, macrophage
           profile, neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio, and microbiome) as prognostic or predictive for
           improved disease free survival and overall survival.
    
  