
    
      The study proposes to use a prospective split mouth crossover randomized control trial design
      to study the success of implant placement in cases with sinus lift procedures performed using
      the Sonic Weld® (KLS-Martin GmbH , Mulheim, Germany) ultrasound guided bone welding system
      with a membrane (Resorb X Membrane) on one side, and placement of Biomend collagen membrane
      to stabilize the graft

      Patient selection:

      20 patients requiring bilateral maxillary sinus lift procedure (40 procedures) will be
      selected from the patients reporting for implant placement to both the Riyadh Colleges of
      Dentistry and Pharmacy and the Riyadh Dental Center, King Saud Medical City.

      Graft Placement:

      Each patient will receive both the pin stabilized and the conventional graft placement
      procedures with standardized allografts (Purus® Cancellous Allograft?) on both sides of the
      maxilla. The grafts will be placed using the lateral window technique. The patients will be
      randomly assigned into either those who receive the pin first (Group A) or those who receive
      the conventional technique (using collagen membranes) first (Group B). The patients will have
      a one week gap between the sinus lift on the right and left sides.

      Evaluations of the sinus lift procedure:

      The sinus lift will be evaluated clinically radiographically and histologically using
      previously established criteria. Cone Beam CTs (Gallelios Comfort plus, Sirona Dental,
      Salzburg, Austria) will be taken preoperatively and at three month intervals to help assess
      the osseous outcomes of the graft.

      At the end of one year the site will be evaluated clinically for the placement of implants.
      At the time of placement of the implant a trephine biopsy will be performed and H&E staining
      will be used to determine the histological outcomes of the graft procedure.

      Statistical Analysis:

      The paired t test will be used to compare the thickness of bone before and after the
      completion of the sinus lift procedure. The multiple measures paired ANOVA will be used to
      compare the thickness of bone at each follow up vist.

      The student's t test will be used to compare the thickness of bone between the two types of
      sinus lift procedure.

      The chi-square test will be used to compare differences (if any) in the histological patterns
      obtained at the end of the study.
    
  