
    
      Smoking is a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease (CVD). Compared with nonsmokers,
      smokers are approximately twice as likely to develop CVD, and three times more likely to die
      from it. This increased risk is due to the deleterious effects of smoking on endothelial
      function and blood coagulation, and the development of coronary atherosclerotic plaques. A
      research showed that continued smoking after successful percutaneous coronary
      intervention(PCI) is associated with an increased risk of restenosis. However, smoking
      cessation can make a 36% reduction in crude relative risk (RR) of mortality for patients with
      CVD. Hence current management guidelines now advocate smoking cessation, in addition to
      controlling hypertension and dyslipidemia, as part of an overall cardiovascular risk
      reduction strategy. Varenicline is a novel selective nicotinic acetylcholine receptor partial
      agonist that has been approved in over 70 countries worldwide as an aid to smoking cessation.
      Clopidogrel is widely used by patients with coronary artery disease undergoing PCI. The
      relationship between smoking and cardiovascular disease increases the prospect of patients
      receiving smoking cessation therapy and Clopidogrel concomitantly in clinical practice.
      Plasma protein binding of Varenicline is low(≤20%) and independent of age or renal function.
      The major route of clearance for varenicline is renal excretion. Clopidogrel, a prodrug, is
      metabolized by 2 consecutive cytochrome P450-dependent steps to its active metabolite, which
      binds irreversibly to the platelet P2Y12 receptor. The likelihood of a clinically relevant
      drug-drug interaction between varenicline and Clopidogrel was considered to be low;
      nevertheless, the possibility of an interaction between these 2 drugs is lack of clinical
      evidences. Hence, our hypothesis is that varenicline may have no influence on the
      antiplatelet action of clopidogrel.
    
  