
    
      Background:

        -  Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide, accounting for more
           than one million deaths every year.

        -  Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) constitutes approximately 85% of lung cancers and
           about 40% of patients with newly diagnosed NSCLC have advanced disease. The median year
           overall survival for advanced NSCLC is at least 1 year.

        -  In recent years, identification of oncogenic alterations such as mutations in epidermal
           growth factor receptor (EGFR) and anaplastic large-cell lymphoma kinase (ALK)
           translocations and therapies targeting tumor immune escape mechanisms have led to a
           substantial improvement in the prognosis of patients with advanced lung cancer;

      however, such alterations have been detected in less than half of all advanced NSCLC patients
      in only a small subset of patients respond to immunotherapeutic interventions available
      today.

        -  Anetumab ravtansine (BAY 94-9343) is an antibody-drug conjugate targeting mesothelin, a
           protein normally present on mesothelial cells. A Phase I trial showed the overall
           acceptable and manageable safety profile. It is being developed for patients with
           mesothelin expressing cancers; clinical development is furthest along in mesothelioma
           where it is in a registration phase II clinical trial.

        -  National Cancer Institute (NCI) researchers have demonstrated that mesothelin messenger
           ribonucleic acid (mRNA) and protein are present in a substantial number of lung
           adenocarcinoma cell lines; mesothelin expression has been observed in over 50% of
           advanced lung adenocarcinomas by immunohistochemical assessment.

      Objectives:

      Safety Run-in

      -To evaluate safety and tolerability of anetumab ravtansine in patients with previously
      treated unresectable mesothelin expressing advanced lung adenocarcinoma (stage IIIB or IV).

      Phase 2

      -To determine the efficacy (objective response rate) of anetumab ravtansine in patients with
      advanced (Stage IIIb) or metastatic (Stage IV) mesothelin expressing lung adenocarcinoma.

      Eligibility:

        -  Age >18 years.

        -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed previously treated unresectable mesothelin
           expressing advanced lung adenocarcinoma (stage IIIB or IV)

        -  Positive mesothelin expression in the archival tumor tissue, defined as the mesothelin
           membrane intensity score of 2+ or 3+ (on the 0-3 scale) expressed on the membrane of
           greater than or equal to 10% of tumor cells.

        -  Should have received at least one prior platinum based chemotherapy and an immune
           checkpoint targeted agent. In addition, subjects with epidermal growth factor receptor
           [EGFR]-mutated and anaplastic lymphoma kinase [ALK]-translocated NSCLC should have
           received Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved targeted therapies as appropriate.

        -  Normal organ function

      Design:

        -  This is an open label, single center, phase I/II study of anetumab ravtansine in
           subjects with mesothelin positive lung adenocarcinoma.

        -  During the safety run-in portion of the study, de-escalating doses will be assessed to
           determine a recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D).

        -  During the phase 2 portion of the study, the (RP2D) will be assessed for objective
           response rate.

        -  During both portions of the study, anetumab ravtansine will be administered
           intravenously every 3 weeks until disease progression in the absence of clinical
           benefit, patient withdrawal or the occurrence of intolerable toxicities.

        -  Response assessments (imaging) will occur every 6 weeks for the first 6 months, then
           every 9 weeks until the end of year 2, then every 12 weeks thereafter.

        -  Up to 12 evaluable patients will be enrolled in the safety run-in portion of the study.
           Approximately twenty patients, including 6 from the safety run-in portion of the study,
           will be evaluated in the phase 2 portion of the study. The accrual ceiling will be set
           at 55 to accommodate screen failures (a 50% failure rate with regard to mesothelin
           expression) and inevaluable subjects.
    
  