
    
      BACKGROUND About half of patients with sepsis related organ failure die on the ICU,
      frequently after end-of-life decisions (EOL-D), i.e. the decision to withdraw or withhold
      life-supporting therapies or forgo cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Lack of SOPs about how to
      communicate and share EOL-decisionmaking among staff and to communicate EOL-D to relatives
      may increase burnout and anxiety in staff as well as relatives. Also, there is uncertainty
      about the role of patients' advance directives in EOL-Decision-making.

      HYPOTHESES 1. SOPs for interdisciplinary EOL-decisions will alleviate staff burnout; 2. A
      structured strategy to communicate EOL-decisions to relatives will lead to reduced anxiety
      and depression in relatives 3 months after the event.

      AIMS 1. to develop SOPs for EOL-decision-making which improve timeliness of EOL-D and
      involvement of interdisciplinary care-givers. 2. to develop a strategy how to communicate
      these EOL-D to relatives including a structured procedure for participants, set-up, times and
      content. These aims may be adapted according to the findings of the observation period.

      CONDUCT The study is designed as an interrupted time series analysis ("before/after study")
      located on the mixed, neurological and medical ICUs of the Jena University Hospital. It is
      composed of 3 observation periods separated by phases of data analysis and implementation of
      changes in behavioral practice. After the first phase of observation and data analysis, SOPs
      including an improved communication strategy with relatives will be developed on the basis of
      the collected data. SOPs will be developed and implemented on participating ICUs. In the
      following second observation period data will be collected to assess changed procedures and
      primary endpoints. A third round of data analysis, interpretation and observation will enable
      to further adapt SOPs and achieve sustainability ("post-implementation phase").

      ESTIMATED ENROLLMENT Enrollment of 180 staff members (physicians and nursing staff) and 90
      relatives during each study phase
    
  