
    
      The aim is to investigate the efficiency of two follow-up programs after radical surgery for
      colorectal cancer. Colorectal cancer attacks between 3-5% of the European population during
      their lifetime, and about 75% of these will have potential curative surgery performed. Follow
      up after surgery is costly and time consuming for both patients and the Health Care Systems.
      The intensity of follow up as well as the methods employed vary tremendously from center to
      centre and from country to country. Until recently the scientific documentation for the
      cost-effectiveness of follow-up was very sparse, but recent compiling of data indicates that
      intense follow up can save lives as compared to sporadic follow-up at an acceptable cost.
      However, the optimal follow-up intervals and the best methods are unknown. Previous results
      indicate that scanning of the liver and measuring of the tumor-marker CEA may be a way
      forward. A prospective randomised multicenter study in centers from Denmark (approx. 15),
      Sweden (approx. 20), Poland (approx. 6), Hungary (approx. 2) and perhaps The Netherlands and
      UK is starting in 2005 after basic work with protocols, ethical committees now has been
      finished. This basic work was supported by the Nordic Cancer Union with a grant of 25,000
      EUROS. The patients will be randomised to follow-up with CEA, multislice CT scan of the liver
      and X-ray of the lungs, either 12 and 36 months after surgery or 6, 12, 18, 24 and 36 months
      after surgery. If recurrence is detected, the patient will be offered the best available
      treatment either as repeated surgery with curative intent or palliative oncological
      treatment. Data will be collected electronically via the internet to an already constructed
      database. The primary efficacy parameter is 3 and 5 years overall and cancer-specific
      survival. It is planned that recruitment will be at least 2,500 patients, which is feasible
      in 2 years.
    
  