
    
      This study is exploratory in nature and is designed to be hypothesis generating to support
      the design of future studies. Women diagnosed with a pelvic mass (ovarian, uterine,
      retroperitoneal, etc.) who are scheduled for an imaging guided biopsy, surgical biopsy or
      surgical excision for evaluation of their pelvic mass. It is estimated that approximately 200
      women will be enrolled for evaluation of the primary and exploratory endpoints. Enrollment
      into the study will continue beyond 200 women if necessary to obtain a minimum of 50
      evaluable women with a histopathologically confirmed malignancy, including ovarian,
      fallopian, peritoneal, endometrial, cervical, etc.

      Within 60 days prior to the pelvic mass evaluation procedure, each subject must have a pelvic
      imaging study (e.g. ultrasound, CT scan, MRI, etc.) conducted and read to visualize the
      pelvic mass according to the current standard of care. Results of the pelvic imaging
      study(ies) will be recorded.

      Within 30 days prior to, or on the day of the pelvic mass evaluation procedure, collect up to
      35mL of whole blood into one 5mL SST tube, which must be drawn first, followed by three
      separate 10mL EDTA tubes. Serum from SST tube will be used for protein biomarker testing.
      Blood from EDTA tubes will be pooled and processed on the Parsortix™ System to capture and
      harvest rare cells. The captured rare cells will be eluted (harvested) and lysed, and total
      RNA will be extracted from the cell lysate for evaluation of multiple gene targets.

      Imaging guided biopsy, surgical biopsy or surgical excision for evaluation of the pelvic mass
      will be performed by a qualified individual. Tissue samples will be sent to the local
      pathology department for histological examination in accordance with standard institutional
      practices. Results of the histopathological evaluation will be recorded, including the final
      diagnosis along with histological sub-type, and if available, stage, of cancer where disease
      is identified. Where possible, representative fresh frozen tissue samples from the pelvic
      mass will be obtained for research purposes for evaluation of the same mRNA gene targets used
      in the cell harvests.

      Subjects will be considered negative for malignancy:

        -  if the subject undergoes surgery and no mass is identified, or;

        -  if the histopathological findings are negative for malignancy (i.e. benign conditions).

      Subjects will be considered positive for malignancy:

        -  if the histological examination of the tissue taken at the time of the biopsy or surgery
           confirms the presence of a malignancy (i.e. ovarian, primary peritoneal, fallopian tube,
           endometrial, uterine, cervical, metastatic cancers, etc.).

      For the purposes of enrollment, subjects diagnosed with low malignant potential (LMP) /
      borderline tumors will be considered as benign (negative for malignancy). However, two
      separate analyses of the final study data will be conducted: one where subjects diagnosed
      with low malignant potential (LMP) / borderline tumors are classified as being negative for
      malignancy and a second time where these subjects are classified as being positive for
      malignancy.

      For subjects diagnosed with a malignancy, a bi-annual medical record review will be performed
      for up to 5 years after their enrollment into the study to collect information regarding
      their treatment response, chemotherapy sensitivity and resistance, time to recurrence, time
      to progression and overall survival.

      An algorithm for the prediction of benign vs. malignant disease will be constructed using the
      clinical information, serum biomarkers and mRNA markers. Additional analyses may be performed
      within and between various histopathological diagnosis sub-groups. The variable selection and
      algorithm construction will be done using various statistical methods, such as logistic
      regression, hierarchal clustering, classification and regression trees (CART), ROC curve
      evaluation, sensitivity/specificity analysis, visual plotting for determination of
      thresholds, etc. The inputs for evaluation may include continuous variables (e.g. age, ovary
      and dominant mass dimensions, serum biomarker results, mRNA expression levels, etc.),
      categorical variables (e.g. age groups, biomarker results by ranges, mRNA expression levels
      by ranges, etc.), and/or binary variables (e.g. presence or absence of particular risk
      factors and/or imaging features, age above or below a particular threshold, menopausal
      status, biomarker results above or below a particular threshold, mRNA expression levels above
      or below a particular threshold, etc.). A threshold for the resulting algorithm(s) output to
      differentiate between benign and malignant disease (or a subgroup thereof, such as epithelial
      ovarian cancer patients only) will be selected to optimize the sensitivity at a set
      specificity (e.g. maximize sensitivity at a minimum specificity level of >80%).

      Upon completion of the long-term follow-up period, the association of the clinical data and
      markers with the subject's treatment response, chemotherapy sensitivity and resistance, time
      to recurrence, time to progression and overall survival will be assessed using the
      appropriate statistical methods (e.g. 2x2 tables, correlation analyses, Cox hazards
      regression, Kaplan-Meier plotting, etc.).
    
  