
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the safety of immunization with in vitro-treated autologous tumor cells and
           dendritic cells with sargramostim (GM-CSF) in patients with stage III or IV or recurrent
           renal cell cancer.

        -  Determine the frequency of conversion of delayed tumor hypersensitivity tests in these
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the progression-free and overall survival of these patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the objective tumor response rate in patients who still have measurable
           disease at the time they are treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to measurable disease at the time vaccine therapy
      is initiated (yes vs no).

      Patients undergo tumor cell harvest. Patients with multiple persistent sites of metastatic
      disease following harvest receive systemic therapy (biologic therapy and/or chemotherapy)
      during tumor cell line expansion. Over 2-4 months, the tumor cell line is expanded, treated
      with interferon gamma, and irradiated.

      Patients undergo leukapheresis to obtain peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). The PBMC
      are incubated over 7 days with sargramostim (GM-CSF) and interleukin-4 to produce dendritic
      cells (DC). The DC are incubated over 2-3 days with the irradiated tumor cells from the
      autologous tumor cell line for antigen loading of the DC.

      Patients undergo delayed tumor hypersensitivity testing 1 week prior to vaccination and again
      at week 4. Patients receive vaccine therapy comprising autologous treated tumor cells and DC
      suspended in GM-CSF subcutaneously weekly for 3 weeks. Vaccine therapy continues monthly for
      5 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 2 months for 1 year and then every 3 months for 4 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 80 patients (40 per stratum) will be accrued for this study.
    
  