
    
      This study aimed to investigate the effects of methylphenidate (Concerta ®) in patients with
      22q11DS. Outcome is evaluated based on changes in clinical and cognitive measures as well as
      brain connectivity (with magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalography). Treatment
      benefits are evaluated in an intra-subject design, i.e. performance with/without treatment
      are compared for each patient. Depending on medication history and current psychostimulant
      medication, participants are included either in the consumer group (composed of participants
      with ongoing methylphenidate treatment) or in the naïve group (composed of participants naïve
      to the molecule). To the naive participants the investigators prescribe a 13-day treatment of
      Concerta ® at a weight-adjusted dose of 0.7 mg/kg). The treatment phase begins with a lower
      introductory dose for the first 5 days before moving on to the weight-adjusted dose. The
      effect of treatment on cognitive measures is assessed on day 6, with memory monitoring on
      days 7 and 13. The treatment effect evaluated using clinical measures and questionnaires was
      conducted at the end of the treatment phase to ensure multiple opportunities for observation
      by the participant and caregivers. For consumer participants, the procedure was similar. For
      visits with methylphenidate, participants will be asked to take their usual prescription. In
      order to best follow the procedure of the naïve group, for the visits without
      methylphenidate, the consumer participants were asked to interrupt their usual prescription
      for 13 days. Since many participants usually interrupt their treatment during vacations or
      sometimes on weekends, compliance is not a barrier. For methylphenidate-free visits, a 5-day
      break prior to assessment with cognitive measures will be requested from each participant.
      Again, in order to ensure several opportunities for observation for the participant and
      caregivers, assessments with clinical measures and questionnaires will be conducted at the
      end of the break, on day 13.

      The research hypothesis of this study is that methylphenidate treatment has a beneficial
      effect on clinical and cognitive performance. Scores in the tests evaluating these areas are
      expected to be significantly better than when the tests were administered in the absence of
      the substance. A change in brain connectivity is also expected when the drug is taken,
      tending towards a "normalization" of brain connectivity. Finally, to find the link between
      changes in cognitive measures and changes in brain connectivity is investigated.
    
  