
    
      The study consists of the following: 1) a screening period of up to 28 days; 2) a treatment
      period of radiation with daily temozolomide that lasts approximately 6 weeks, 3) a study
      treatment period that will last until either your tumor grows or you experience unacceptable
      side effects; and 4) a 30-day follow-up period after treatment has ended. Additionally, basic
      information concerning your condition will be collected every 2 months after the follow-up
      period for the rest of your life.

      During this study, Dr. Nicholas and his research team will collect information about you for
      the purposes of this research. This includes name, address, dates (i.e., date of birth, date
      of consent), telephone number, and medical record number. Slides of your tumor tissue that
      were used to diagnose your GBM will be sent to a pathologist to confirm the diagnosis of GBM.
      After this review has been completed your slides will be returned to the hospital that
      provided them. Preserved samples of your tumor will also be sent for a test to determine how
      effective the temozolomide might be in your case. Any remaining tissue will be returned to
      the hospital that provided it.

      Screening phase (following diagnosis of GBM at surgery) To determine if you are eligible to
      participate in this study, you will undergo a screening process that will involve the
      following

        -  Assessment of your cancer by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of your brain using an
           intravenous (in your vein) contrast material

        -  Recording of your general medical, surgical and cancer history

        -  Physical examination, including measurement of your blood pressure, height and weight

        -  Evaluation of your performance status (your ability to carry on daily activities)

        -  Neurologic examination (how well your nerves and muscles work)

        -  Blood sample for laboratory tests (approximately 2 to 3 tablespoons) to evaluate your
           blood counts, liver, and kidney function

        -  Serum pregnancy test if you are a woman of childbearing potential

        -  Urine sample

        -  Recording of any medications taken within the past 14 days

      Radiation and daily temozolomide chemotherapy You will begin radiation treatment within 5
      weeks of surgery. You will take temozolomide orally once daily (seven days a week) during
      radiation treatments (which occur Monday - Friday and last approximately six weeks). You will
      take a medication to prevent a rare form of pneumonia (pneumocystis carinii) that can occur
      when temozolomide is given on a daily basis. That may be either in pill form or inhaled.
      During radiation treatment you will be seen every two weeks by a study doctor at which time
      you will be asked how you are tolerating the treatment. A physical examination, (including
      neurological evaluation), will be performed. Blood tests (1-2 tablespoons) will be performed
      to assure that you are not having any side-effects from the chemotherapy.

      Post-radiation treatment Two to four weeks after completing radiation you will have a brain
      MRI scan. Beginning four weeks after radiation ends, the study drug and temozolomide will
      begin. The study drug (Avastin) will be administered by IV infusion (through a vein) every 2
      weeks. Temozolomide will be taken orally for five consecutive days of every 28 days. In other
      words, you will receive two intravenous infusions of Avastin and five days of temozolomide
      every 28 days. This constitutes a treatment cycle. These cycles will continue indefinitely.
      The dose of Avastin will be based upon your weight during screening and will remain the same
      throughout the study. The temozolomide dose during radiation will be based on your height and
      weight at screening. During the study phase, temozolomide will be dosed according to your
      height and weight at the beginning of each treatment cycle. The dose may be delayed for up to
      four weeks if your blood counts are low. If temozolomide still cannot be given because your
      blood counts are low for longer than four weeks, the temozolomide will be stopped but the
      Avastin may still be continued.

      Your first dose of Avastin will be given as over 90 minutes. If you tolerate the 90 minute
      infusion well, infusions in the future may be given over a shorter period of time. However,
      if you do not tolerate the shorter infusion time, future infusions will be given over the
      longer period that you previously tolerated. If you experience any problems during or
      following the infusion, you will be monitored by trained staff until it is considered safe
      for you to leave.

      The dose of Avastin that you receive may be stopped or slowed based on how well you tolerate
      the treatment. If you must stop treatment because of unfavorable side effects, you may be
      able to restart treatment once the side effect has improved or resolved. Your doctor will
      discuss with you whether it is in your best interest to continue treatment. If you stop study
      drug treatment, you should continue to return to be evaluated as explained below.

      Temozolomide will be taken at bedtime on an empty stomach (at least 2 hours after any meal).
      Prior to each dose of temozolomide, you will take an anti-nausea pill (ondansetron,
      granisetron, or dolasetron) to reduce nausea and vomiting.

      The treatment cycles described above will continue until: 1) your tumor grows, 2) you have
      unacceptable side effects, 3) you choose to withdraw from this research study, or 4) your
      participation is ended by Dr. Nicholas or Genentech.

      During the first treatment day of each 28 day cycle you will receive Avastin. Your blood
      pressure will be monitored, and you will have a physical examination, a neurologic
      examination, and an evaluation of your performance status (how well you are functioning in
      daily activities). On the same day, you will begin temozolomide chemotherapy. You will have a
      blood sample drawn for laboratory tests (approximately 2-3 tablespoons), and a urine sample
      taken. You will be asked by the study doctor about any health problems you have and
      medications you take. Additional blood samples may be drawn at the discretion of your doctor
      as part of your standard care.

      On day 14 of every treatment cycle you will return to the clinic to receive an infusion of
      Avastin. At that time, your blood pressure will be taken, and you will have a physical
      examination and an evaluation of your performance status. On day 21 of each cycle you will
      have blood work (1-2 tablespoons) to see how well you are tolerating the treatment. Every 8
      weeks (after every 2 cycles immediately prior to your next cycle) you will have an MRI of
      your brain to determine measurements of your tumor.
    
  