
    
      Denileukin diftitox has been used for the treatment of a variety of disorders, in particular,
      malignant lymphoma, another blood-related disease. Denileukin diftitox is believed to be able
      to specifically attach to and kill malignant mast cells.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have what are called "screening
      tests". These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in the
      study. You will have blood (around 2 teaspoons) and bone marrow samples collected. To collect
      a bone marrow sample, an area of the hip bone is numbed with anesthetic and a small amount of
      bone marrow is withdrawn through a large needle. These samples will be used for tests to
      confirm the diagnosis of the disease. Women who are able to have children must have a
      negative blood pregnancy test.

      If you are found to be eligible, you will receive denileukin diftitox as an injection by vein
      once a day for 5 days in a row. This will be repeated every 3 weeks (1 cycle). You will
      receive treatment on an outpatient basis. Treatment will continue as long as there is
      evidence that therapy is affecting the disease and is beneficial to you. If the disease gets
      worse or you experience any intolerable side effects, you will be taken off the study and
      your doctor will discuss other treatment options with you.

      During treatment you will have blood (around 1 teaspoon) collected twice during every 3-week
      period. You will also have bone marrow samples collected every 3 months during the treatment.

      After the end of treatment, blood and bone marrow samples will be collected every 3 months
      until the disease gets worse or you start a different therapy. The blood and bone marrow
      samples will be used to look at response to therapy.

      This is an investigational study. Denileukin diftitox has been approved by the FDA for the
      treatment of skin T-cell lymphoma and is commercially available. The use of denileukin
      diftitox in this study is investigational. You will be provided denileukin diftitox free of
      charge. Up to 25 participants will take part in this study. All be enrolled at M. D.
      Anderson.
    
  