
    
      Chronic HCV infection is associated with persistent innate immune activation and dampened
      cellular immune responses. Interferons (IFNs) are key mediators of the antiviral innate
      immune response, initiating the expression of interferon-stimulated genes (ISG) with numerous
      host protective effector functions. However, in chronic HCV, high pre-therapy expression of
      ISG and persistent activation of the innate immune system negatively predicts the response to
      IFN-based therapies and failure of viral clearance8. In addition, HCV persistence is also
      associated with HCV-specific-CD8+ T cell exhaustion. HCV-specific CD8+ T cell exhaustion is
      characterized by diminished ex vivo polyfunctionality, upregulation of negative costimulatory
      cell modulators and, decreased cellular proliferation and IFN production10,12. This phenotype
      is associated with the development of short-term effector CD8+ T cells rather than durable,
      long-term memory CD8+ T cells. Chronic bystander infections (e.g. chronic HCV), characterized
      by persistent inflammation have been linked to bystander (non-HCV specific) CD8+ T cell
      dysfunction. Bystander CD8+ T cell dysfunction significantly impairs the expansion of memory
      CD8+ T cells and could prevent the development of secondary immunological memory to new
      antigens and/or vaccines11,13. Clinically, chronic HCV has been associated with impaired
      immune response to Hepatitis B vaccination13,14,15. Only 40% to 60% of individuals with
      chronic HCV achieve seroprotective titers following HBV vaccination versus 90% to 95% in
      healthy subjects13,14. Specific immune defects responsible for HBV vaccine failure in
      HCV-infected patients are unknown at present. However, some studies have suggested that the
      blunting of the immune response to HBV vaccination is associated with lymphocyte dysfunction
      and upregulation of PD-1 expression on CD4+ T cells in HBV vaccine non-responders13,15.

      In the United States, 99.5% of adults over 40 years have been infected with the Varicella
      zoster virus (VZV) and are at risk of Zoster virus reactivation (shingles) and its
      complications. Unilateral, painful, blistering rashes along dermatomes characterize shingles.
      Complications associated with shingles include acute or chronic pain, osteonecrosis, zoster
      ophthalmicus with visual impairment, increased risk of blindness and a 4-fold risk of
      cerebral vasculitis-associated stroke)1,2. Overall, complications of shingles have a negative
      impact on the quality of life and activities of daily living21,22. Zoster vaccine live
      (Zostavax®, Merck) is recommended for the prevention of shingles. Zoster vaccine is a live,
      attenuated vaccine that is licensed by the FDA for individuals older than 50 years without an
      underlying immune deficiency (HIV, malignancies, immunosuppression and transplantation). In
      non-immunocompromised individuals, Zoster vaccine decreases shingles by 51% in individuals
      between ages 60 - 89 years and 70% in individuals between 50 - 59 years of age. Chronic
      infections such as TB, malaria and chronic Hepatitis C virus (HCV) have been associated with
      increased susceptibility to other pathogens and decreased vaccination efficacy3-6. Although
      chronic HCV infection is not considered a clinically immunocompromised state, it is
      associated with persistent immune activation and decreased vaccination response7. Zostavax is
      routinely administered to chronic HCV patients. However, at present, no other study has
      documented the immune responses elicited by Zoster vaccination in this population. This study
      aims to identify the innate and adaptive immune signatures elicited by zoster vaccination in
      chronic HCV and healthy volunteers. Unrecognized suboptimal vaccine response in individuals
      with chronic immune dysregulated states (chronic bystander viral infections (HBV, HCV and HIV
      with CD4 >200), diabetes, advancing age, cancers and transplantation) could be potentially
      devastating and costly.
    
  