
    
      The patients will undergo standard assisted conception procedures; controlled ovarian
      stimulation (COS), oocyte pickup procedure (OPU), ICSI, embryo culture, blastocyst
      vitrification and frozen embryo transfer. If sufficient (>2) viable blastocyst develop from
      the in vitro culture of their embryos, all viable blastocysts will be cryopreserved using a
      routine vitrification procedure. This is the eligible patient population. On the day the last
      blastocyst(s) are frozen the patients will be given a further opportunity to ask questions
      and if satisfied they will be asked to complete a trial consent. At this point patients will
      be randomized by numeric code and given a schedule and drug prescription for scheduling the
      start of their hormone supplemented frozen embryo transfer cycle. During the scheduling
      period the patients will follow the drug prescription provided . After the completion of
      their treatment - the transfer of one or two vitrified-warmed blastocyst - the patients from
      both groups will receive identical luteal support drug schedules and prescriptions. A blood
      test will be performed on the 15th day of progesterone supplementation, to determine the βhCG
      blood concentration. Currently at Antalya IVF, approximately 75% of patients who have
      blastocysts transferred in a frozen embryo transfer cycle have a positive biochemical
      pregnancy test, >29 international units per litre (IU/L) of human chorionic gonadotropin
      (βhCG). If pregnant, patients will continue using estrogen and progesterone supplementation
      for a further 8 weeks. At 7 weeks of gestation (5 weeks after embryo transfer ) the patients
      will receive a transvaginal ultrasound scan (TVUS) to check for pregnancy viability (fetal
      sac with cardiac activity). Thereafter the patients will have regular TVUS to follow fetal
      development. At 20 weeks of gestation a TVUS will be performed to confirm an ongoing
      pregnancy (normal fetal development).

      All drug packs are delivered to the clinic by the pharmacy after receiving the prescription.
      A staff member will verify the code on the prescription with randomization code allocated to
      the patient. The pack will then be given to the patient after verbally confirming patient
      identity. The packs will also contain a drug use instruction sheet and a trial information
      sheet.
    
  