
    
      Artemisia dracunculus L., often called Russian tarragon, is a wild specie and a close
      relative of common cooking tarragon (known as French tarragon or Artemisia dracunculus sativa
      or dracunculoides). Artemisia and, more specifically, Artemisia dracunculus, have a storied
      history of medicinal use in humans, particularly for treatment of diabetes. The Artemisia
      dracunculus extract described in this project as PMI-5011 was originally identified from a
      screening of extracts for hypoglycemic activity in diabetic mice as the most promising
      candidate for the development of a nutritional supplement for diabetes. The active compounds
      in the preparation are believed to be members of the sesquiterpene, lactone or flavanoid
      groups, of which the Artemisia family is well known. Preliminary data from our laboratory
      suggests that PMI-5011 may have significant effects to improve carbohydrate metabolism by
      enhancing molecular events of insulin action in skeletal muscle.

      PMI-5011 is an herbal botanical dietary supplement prepared from Artemisia dracunculus L.
      (Russian Tarragon) to help maintain normal blood glucose concentrations. PMI-5011 is an
      ethanolic extract from fresh herb grown in standardized hydroponic conditions for maximum
      consistency and nutritional content. Artemisia is a large family of herbs with a rich history
      of safe medicinal and culinary use. PMI-5011 is able to significantly decrease blood glucose
      concentrations in Streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice and in genetically diabetic KK-Ay
      mice. The preparation does not, however, decrease blood glucose concentrations in
      non-diabetic mice or rats. The historical use of the plant and its extract suggest that it is
      safe and its non-toxicity has been confirmed with acute and chronic toxicity studies and
      non-mutagenicity confirmed with AMES testing. PMI-5011 may have several modes of action
      leading to its ability to decrease blood glucose concentrations in diabetic animals,
      suggesting it is comprised of several different nutrients that act synergistically. Some in
      vitro activities of PMI-5011 include the modulation of GLP-1 binding to its receptor and the
      stimulation of insulin-mediated glucose uptake into cultured skeletal muscle cells. PMI-5011
      also decreases the expression of PEPCK in the liver of diabetic animals and may decrease
      hepatic glucose output as a result. Recently, in an in vitro assay identified that PMI 5011
      may have potent effects to reduce phosphastase activities and thereby promote insulin
      sensitivity.

      The overall objective of the study was to evaluate the effect of a high does of PMI 5011 in
      obese insulin resistant, yet non-diabetic subjects. The study is a double-blind, randomized,
      placebo-controlled, pilot study in which subjects will be randomized to receive either
      placebo or PMI-5011 (4 500mg caps/TID) for a total of 3 weeks of treatment. Each subject will
      continue on the same dosage of PMI-5011 or matching placebo for the entire duration of
      treatment.

      For this pilot trial, a precise technique (hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamps) will be used
      to assess insulin sensitivity.
    
  