
    
      In fiscal year 2014, over 57,000 Veterans with diagnosed alcohol use disorders (AUDs)
      received VHA inpatient medical-surgical services. This likely underrepresents the prevalence
      of AUDs among Veteran inpatients, because these conditions often go undiagnosed during
      hospital stays. The high prevalence of AUDs among VHA medical and surgical patients is of
      critical concern because AUDs and medical conditions exacerbate one another, and their
      co-occurrence increases the use of costly health services. Yet, there are no evidence-based
      strategies that improve outcomes in this patient population by means of increased utilization
      (initiation, engagement) of AUD treatment services. The investigators have identified
      Drinking Options: Motivate, Shared Decisions, Telemonitor (DO-MoST) as a potential solution
      to the critical need for evidence-based strategies.

      This project is evaluating DO-MoST as a new and innovative intervention to facilitate the
      transition from medical-surgical care to AUD treatment in primary and specialty care
      settings, thereby improving Veterans' AUD and medical outcomes. DO-MoST entails use of
      motivational interviewing and a decision aid during the inpatient stay to facilitate informed
      choices about drinking options and resources for help to change drinking, if desired,
      followed by telephone calls with the patient to continue to motivate and support decisions.
      In addition to determining the effectiveness of DO-MoST, this project includes a process
      evaluation - that is, will gather information from providers and patients on DO-MoST's
      implementation at the two project sites - to inform VA's potential widespread implementation
      of DO-MoST with medical-surgical patients with AUDs.

      Using an effectiveness/implementation Hybrid Type 1 design, incorporating a randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) and process evaluation to facilitate future implementation, this
      project has three Specific Aims.

      Aim 1: Adapt a decision aid being implemented with AUD patients in non-VA primary care
      settings to be appropriate for Veterans with AUDs in medical-surgical treatment settings.
      With this prototype, the investigators will conduct alpha testing with patients and
      providers, and adapt and pilot the decision aid to finalize it for use in the RCT.

      Aim 2: Conduct DO-MoST at two VA facilities (Ann Arbor and Palo Alto) and evaluate its
      effectiveness.

      The primary hypotheses are: Patients in DO-MoST, compared to patients in usual care (UC),
      will be more likely to (1) utilize AUD help (initiate, engage), (2) have better AUD (fewer
      heavy drinking days) and medical (physical status) outcomes, and (3) have fewer and more
      delayed acute care episodes (Emergency Department visits, rehospitalizations). Patients will
      be assessed at baseline, and 3, 6, and 12 months post-baseline, for outcomes and non-VA
      health care; VA health care will be assessed with VA databases. GLMM analyses will be
      conducted to compare the UC and DO-MoST groups on course of outcomes.

      Aim 3: Conduct a qualitative process evaluation to inform the wider implementation of
      DO-MoST, using the RE-AIM (Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation, Maintenance)
      framework. The purpose is to provide guidance for VA facilities' broader adoption of DO-MoST
      in the future, including its possible adaptation for diverse subpopulations of Veterans, such
      as patients with mental health diagnoses (e.g., PTSD).

      In summary, this project will develop a decision aid and comprehensively examine DO-MoST as a
      novel and groundbreaking approach to providing a bridge between medical-surgical treatment
      and AUD treatment. Decision Aids have been used successfully in a number of contexts, but
      never with medical-AUD patients. The investigator's operations partners from VHA Office of
      Mental Health and Suicide Prevention, and Medical Service, are committed to directly
      addressing the dangerous, costly pattern of Veterans obtaining medical-surgical services but
      not receiving the AUD treatment they need. The project is focused on priorities in the VA
      Blueprint for Excellence, of HSR&D Service, and of the PIs' HSR&D Centers of Innovation.
    
  