
    
      To verify the main hypothesis, a prospective controlled randomized interventional trial with
      2 parallel groups of patients of the Sonnenhof hospital undergoing an elective knee- or hip
      implant surgery was designed. A superiority framework for the decolonization procedure was
      used. All patients planned for such a procedure will be recruited during preoperative
      consultation by the orthopedic surgeons or by post and phone. Written informed consent will
      be obtained at this occasion. Study participants were screened 2-4 weeks prior intervention
      for nasal S. aureus colonization.

      Study participants were allocated on a 1:1 basis either to an intervention or to a control
      group, but prosthesis implantation was not defined as randomization criteria in the initial
      trial. Randomization was stratified for important risk factors of SSI; procedure type (upper
      extremities and pelvic/hip, spine, knee and foot) and ASA-criteria (I, II, III -V).
      Stratification-groups were chosen in function of SSI's rate and expected number of
      operations/year. Randomization list were generated by the CTU and allocation was concealed
      using central randomization that was implemented in the REDCap data entry system.

      One week prior to hospitalization patients in the intervention group received a
      decolonization kit by mail with instructions to apply mupirocin ointment 2% (BACTROBAN Nasal
      ong 3g, GSK) in each nostril 30mg (which corresponds approximately the same amount as the
      volume of a pea) twice a day and to shower daily (starting with the face, then from top to
      bottom the whole body emphasizing especially on nose, axillaries and pelvic region and then
      rinse. In a second time starting with the hair and then repeat the whole body. Dry with a
      proper towel (one for the 5 days)) with 25ml chlorhexidine gluconate soap, (Lifo-Scrub sol 4
      % 500ml, B. Braun) during 5 days prior surgery. For non S. aureus carriers only skin
      cleansing without intranasal mupirocin application was used. This dosing schedule, mode of
      administration and treatment periods correspond to the allowed and recommended standards of
      Swissmedic and were not modified in this trial. Decolonization occured before
      hospitalization, as a fully completed course before surgery has been more effective. In some
      of the previous trials decolonization took place only at the beginning of hospitalization.
      The decolonization procedure was only completed after surgery had taken place and this
      possibly affected the results.

      For practical reasons the use of a placebo kit within the control group abandoned. Operators,
      who are also the outcome assessors, will be blinded for either the carrier status or the
      decolonization procedure. Study participants will be told not to inform surgeons about
      performed decolonization procedure.

      The incidence of PJI at two years in the intervention and control group will be assessed by
      phone interview.
    
  