
    
      The prevalence of overweight youth nearly quadrupled in the past four decades. An alarming
      increase in the number of poor, underserved, overweight minority youth is reported. This
      dramatic increase in overweight youth has led to the emergence of associated co-morbidities
      such as dyslipidemia, hypertension, type 2 diabetes, musculoskeletal disorders, respiratory
      conditions, and emotional problems in youth as well as increased risks of cardiovascular
      disease and cancer as adults. School-based health centers (SBHCs) provide access to primary
      care for many underserved and minority youth at risk for obesity and related chronic
      conditions. Primary care providers (PCPs), however, including those at SBHCs, face a number
      of barriers to addressing weight management in children. The rising prevalence of obesity and
      difficulty in identifying, assessing, and maintaining healthy weight in children and
      adolescents led national groups to convene expert panels that have published evidence-based
      guidelines. These guidelines include screening for cardiovascular risk factors and using a
      family-centered and culturally sensitive approach to care. The recommendations incorporate
      the use of motivational interviewing (MI) and the chronic care model to collaborate with
      families on a plan of care to improve children's health outcomes. The publication of
      recommendations or guidelines, however, traditionally has not changed provider behavior.
      Studies have shown widespread failure to follow established guidelines for a variety of
      conditions. The barriers to implementing guidelines include inadequate tools or resources,
      insufficient knowledge and skills, lack of self-efficacy, lack of time, and insufficient
      reimbursement. Health information technology (HIT) serves as a mechanism for providing
      decision support and tailored patient education materials to improve evidence-based care for
      the prevention of obesity and related conditions. Self-efficacy regarding obesity counseling
      has been linked to access to HIT. Other studies indicate that patients who received written
      health information with graphics that depicted their response to therapy improved their
      motivation to adhere to the treatment plan and were more satisfied with care. The proposed
      study is a comparative-effectiveness trial evaluating the impact of web-based provider
      training with and without HIT for provider decision support and tailored patient education.
      The goal is to translate into practice the current evidence-based guidelines for the
      prevention of obesity-related chronic conditions. HeartSmartKids™ is a decision-making tool
      that integrates patient health information with evidence-based guidelines and generates
      graphic trends of cardiovascular risks and tailored recommendations to improve patient
      outcomes. Elimination of health disparities in the chronic conditions related to childhood
      obesity depends upon the translation of best evidence into practice by the providers who care
      to youth at-risk for these obesity-related conditions. The unique features of this study are
      the SBHC setting; comparative effectiveness of web-based training on current evidence-based
      recommendations with and without HIT to support providers' decision making and tailored
      patient education; and the use of the Health Disparities Collaborative, the Institute for
      Healthcare Improvement's Breakthrough Series quality improvement process, and the chronic
      care model for childhood obesity for training providers on the current guidelines.
    
  