
    
      "Cardiometabolic diseases" as defined in this protocol refer to diseases that increase risk
      for cardiovascular disease. Proteus® Digital Health is operationally defining cardiometabolic
      (CMB) conditions for this study as including hypertension, type 2 diabetes, and
      hypercholesterolemia. The prevalence of metabolic diseases is growing. Factors contributing
      to this rise include the obesity epidemic and the aging population. In particular, because of
      the costs and risk of complications associated with diabetes and hypertension, many health
      systems and payers are increasing focus on interventions to reduce the burden of these
      diseases.

      The purpose of the study was to evaluate the ability of a new digital health offering,
      Proteus Discover to lower blood pressure and glycated hemoglobin in patients with
      uncontrolled hypertension and type 2 diabetes.

      The study enrolled subjects with uncontrolled hypertension and type 2 diabetes failing at
      least 2 antihypertensives and metformin and/or a sulfonylurea. Subjects were randomized to
      one of 3 arms: use of Proteus Discover for 4 weeks, use of Proteus Discover for 12 weeks, or
      usual care.

      Subjects randomized to the intervention arms, used a digital health offering to (1) provide
      automatic and passive electronic documentation of medication adherence and patterns of
      medication taking, (2) assist providers in distinguishing inadequate medication adherence or
      pharmacologic unresponsiveness as the root cause for uncontrolled hypertension and type 2
      diabetes, and (3) inform management decisions (dose adjustment, medication addition or
      substitution, adherence counseling, referral to a hypertension specialist).

      Subjects randomized to usual care, received usual medical care such as medication changes,
      adherence counseling, and lifestyle coaching. Providers could also schedule additional visits
      without restrictions.
    
  