
    
      Limb fracture is a common disease in the Department of orthopedics, surrounding soft tissue
      swelling is the most common phenomenon of fracture and surgical treatment.The swelling, limb
      discomfort and increased pain seriously affecting the treatment effect.Therefore, prevention
      and treatment of limb swelling and perioperative pain is the main content of the treatment of
      fractures.

      Post traumatic swelling and pain belong to the category of blood stasis syndrome in
      traditional Chinese medicine.Under the guidance of traditional Chinese medicine theory,
      traditional Chinese medicine plays a wide range of therapeutic effects, with a syndrome of
      multiple characteristics, but from the syndrome to the disease diagnosis and treatment
      process, more and more modern evidence based on medicine support are needed.A randomized
      controlled trial was carried out in the phase IV clinical trial to confirm the therapeutic
      effect of the capsule on posttraumatic swelling and pain. Meanwhile, an open clinical trial
      was conducted to evaluate the safety of the capsule in a wide range of applications.

      The research subjects are patients with acute limb fractures within 2 weeks.The inclusion
      criteria are:(1) diagnosis of limb closed acute fracture, fracture occurred within 14 days,
      need for surgical treatment;(2) age ranged from 18 to 80 years old, both male and female;(3)
      voluntarily signed the informed consent form as the subjects.Test grouping include the
      capsule group and the placebo group.

      The research consists of two parts: (1) the core research part: The core study was a
      placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blind, multicenter trial designed with 400 units of
      sample size, including 200 patients in the Zhi Kang Capsule group and 200 in the placebo
      group. The aim of the core study is to evaluate the effectiveness of test drugs. (2) the
      expanded research part: on the basis of core research,1800 cases were further divided into
      the capsule group. The aim of the expanded study was to evaluate the safety of the capsule in
      a large sample.

      Criteria for efficacy evaluation include: pain score, swelling degree, lead flow, laboratory
      indicators and the first healing rate of surgical incision.All the statistical tests were
      two-sided, and the P value was less than or equal to 0.05, which would be considered
      statistically significant (except for the special description). The measurement data are
      described by means of mean, median, standard deviation, maximum, minimum, 25% and 75%
      quantiles; enumeration data or rank data are expressed in frequency and frequency.
    
  