
    
      Scientific Background:

      Contracture is defined as a scar tissue that replaces the original tissue and leads to
      shortening and tightening of the muscle results in a range of motion limitation and
      deformity. Contracture creation is common in burn's healing process. The process itself
      involves fibrosis of the effected area including intrusion towards the deep layers of the
      skin, and can be described as ineffective healing process. In many cases these scars have
      major functional and cosmetic implications that challenges the plastic surgery departments
      around the world.

      Creation of bands, webs and contractures close to a joint area can cause a significant
      movement limitation and shortens the range of motion. Until recently, failure of treatment
      with bandaging, splints and physiotherapy activity usually led to surgical intervention
      involving many kinds of techniques ranging from simple incisions, Z-Plasties to skin grafts,
      and flaps. All these methods were meant to release the contracture itself and restore the
      functional capability.

      A recent study showed that it's possible to use the collagenase enzyme in releasing
      dupuytren's contracture by a simple injection, a procedure that can be preformed under
      ambulatory conditions. This kind of contracture causes a fixed flexion of the fingers towards
      the palm of the hand. The study was a double blinded, placebo controlled study and involved
      308 patients, all suffered from contracture with at least 20 degrees range of movement
      limitation. In the end, it was proved beyond any doubt that collagenase is effective in
      releasing and restoring range of motion of dupuytren's contracture. These positive results
      might indicate the possibility of using collagenase in other kinds of contractures.

      In this study the investigators intend to perform a preliminary test of the effectiveness of
      collagenase in treating contracture that developed due to the burn's healing process. As
      comparison parameters the investigators will compare the range of motion before and after
      treatment and subjective feeling of pain (again, before and after treatment) according to VAS
      scale of pain. Also the investigators will try to monitor any kind of side effects that might
      appear.

      In the clinical aspect, this study might introduce the medical community with a new kind of
      treatment protocols and even might decrease the need for surgical intervention in these
      patients.

      Goal:

      A pilot experiment to test the efficiency of the enzyme Collagenase in treating contractures
      which result's from burn's healing process.

      Methods:

      During the study the investigators will recruit about 10 patients which suffer from a known
      contracture that causes movement's restriction and can be attributed to burn's healing
      process. These patients will have to meet the exclusion and inclusion criteria of the study.

      Patients will sign an informed consent in according to the Helsinki Committee, containing the
      list of complications and side effects expected. Patients will go through Collagenase enzyme
      injections according to the protocol that was conducted in the dupuytren's study. Before
      performing the injections, the range of motion's limitations will be measured using
      goniometer and a pain scale questionnaire (VAS) will be filled by the patient. Remeasuring
      will be done in several time periods, after the first injection, ranging from 24 hours, a
      week, 14 days and 28 days.

      Expected results and research significance:

      So far, treatment of choice in patients with burn's created movement limiting contractures,
      concentrated around supportive care. Patients were referred to surgical intervention only if
      necessary .Treatment by injecting an external enzyme is avant-garde and hasn't been done
      under such conditions.

      Injections attempts of various enzymes such as hyaluronidase , Collagenase and also
      Gelatinase are documented in the literature as therapeutic trial for Keloid and hypertrophic
      scars in the aesthetic aspect, were found ineffective. However, literature review found no
      evidence of therapeutic attempts using Collagenase in burn's healing contracture for the
      functional aspect. These processes are known to be fibrotic and rich with collagen
      deposition.

      This study might introduce a new kind of treatment, which can be done in ambulatory
      environment .This type of treatment might significantly improve patients' function and
      quality of life, with no need for a surgical intervention.
    
  