
    
      Between 80 and 100 allogeneic stem cell transplants (allo-HSCT) are performed every year at
      the NIH to treat a variety of malignant and nonmalignant conditions. The current transplant
      protocols at the NIH focus on research regarding the response of the underlying disease, the
      development of graft versus host disease (GVHD) as well as the feasibility and safety of a
      variety of transplant strategies. Many clinically significant complications are considered to
      be part of the transplant process and are not studied systematically. Even when they are
      studied, the diverse institute-based protocols differ on the range of complications captured
      and the amount of information collected on them. This leads to knowledge gaps regarding the
      incidence and risk factors for complications in the various protocols.

      This exploratory natural history study involves a prospective review of the medical records
      of patients actively enrolled in allo-HSCT protocols at the NIH. The study will focus on
      infections and a subset of noninfectious complications identified by the transplant community
      as significant causes of morbidity, mortality and cost. The cost data captured in this study
      will be the cost consumed by the Clinical Center. This study does not require any sample
      collection and will consist merely of data collection and optional periodic patient
      examinations that will be performed in conjunction with those already scheduled by the
      original transplant protocol. The prospective collection of clinical data and information
      available in the medical record will allow us to determine the rates of a number of
      complications in different protocols. At the completion of the study, it is expected the
      investigators will be able to generate preliminary hypotheses regarding risk factors for
      infection and noninfectious complications, the impact of complications on transplant costs
      and the correlation between laboratory immune reconstitution (usually determined by each
      transplant protocol in a variety of ways and functional immune reconstitution (frequency of
      infections).
    
  