
    
      Type of study:

      This is a prospective randomized controlled study that was done in department of obstetrics
      and gynecology of Assiut University Hospital.

      Aim of the work:

        1. To study the effect of antioxidants in cases of oligohydramnios.

        2. To study the effect of antioxidants on mode of delivery and neonatal outcome.

        3. To commence special recommendations from the study about the use of antioxidants in
           cases of oligohydramnios of unknown cause and cases of oligohydramnios associated with
           pregnancy induced hypertension.

      Inclusion criteria:

      Patients with gestational age between 30-34 weeks with:

        -  Oligohydramnios of unknown cause.

        -  Oligohydramnios assosiatd with Pregnancy induced hypertension (PIH).

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. Premature rupture of membranes.

        2. Oligohydramnios in postdates pregnancy (>41 weeks).

        3. Fetal anomalies.

        4. IUGR.

        5. Patients using non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.

      Assessment of the patients:

      The target population was assessed to find the participating women suitable for the study,
      this assessment was done to verify inclusion criteria and to exclude any women has any of the
      exclusion criteria.

      Ultrasongraphic evaluation:

      Ultrasongraphy was done for estimation of amniotic fluid index by measuring the vertical
      diameter of the pockets of amniotic fluid in four sections of the uterus and add them
      together. This gives them a number known as amniotic fluid index (AFI). If the AFI is less
      than 5 centimeters, the pregnant woman has oligohydramnios

      Composition of omega-3 plus:

      Soft gelatineous capsule (Sedico medical company) each capsule contains:

        -  Fish oil (30) % (Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) 18 % / Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) 12 % )
           natural source of Omega 3 Fatty acids.

        -  Wheat germ oil (Tocopherol: N.N.T. 0.22 %) which is rich and natural source of Vitamin E
           (protects the oils from oxidation. besides its well known that requirements of vitamin E
           increases with increased dietary amounts of polyunsaturated fatty acids).
    
  