
    
      Objectives: The purpose of this research study was to test the effectiveness of a new
      multimodal educational intervention to improve caregiver competence to create a safer home
      environment, and decrease risk and accidents to veterans with dementia living in the
      community.

      Objective 1: To determine the effect of the Home Safety Toolkit intervention on caregiver
      self-efficacy, caregiver adherence to home safety recommendations, and caregiver strain.

      Objective 2: To determine the effect of the Home Safety Toolkit intervention on the frequency
      of risky behaviors and accidents among care recipients with dementia of the Alzheimer's type
      living in the community.

      Research Design: This study was a single-blinded clinical trial with random assignment of
      subjects to either the intervention group that receives the Home Safety Toolkit Intervention
      or the control group which receives customary care.

      Methodology: The sample consisted of primary family caregivers of a person with dementia of
      the Alzheimer's type (DAT) receiving care at the Bedford VAMC Dementia Outpatient Clinic, the
      VA Boston HCS, and the Boston University Alzheimer's Disease Center. Subjects were dyads of
      primary caregivers and persons with a progressive DAT who live in the community, are willing
      to have home visits for home safety education, and who read and speak English. Inclusion
      criteria for care recipients were: diagnosis of DAT, score of 24 or less on the Mini-Mental
      State Exam (MMSE), is expected to continue living in the community for the next 6 months, and
      has the ability to ambulate without help from the caregiver. Inclusion criteria for the
      primary informal caregiver were: lives in the home with the care-recipient, provides a
      minimum of 4 hours of care-giving or supervision per day, and has no known cognitive
      impairment as judged by the primary care provider who refers the subject dyad for study
      recruitment. Exclusion criteria were: care-recipient MMSE score of 25 or greater; a previous
      home safety visit; and admission to a long-term care facility. Persons with DAT who are
      living alone will be excluded because their safety issues are more complex and there is no
      primary informal caregiver who can make consistent observations about risky behaviors and
      accidents. Time 1 and Time 2 data collection was conducted at home visits and interim data
      collection was done biweekly by phone. A total of 108 subject dyads completed the study,
      randomly assigned to the control group (N-48 dyads) and intervention group (60 dydads). The
      length of participation for each caregiver-care recipient dyad was 3 months after which the
      control group was offered the Home Safety Toolkit. Data analysis used Multivariate Analysis
      of Covariance (MANCOVA) to test hypotheses for significant group differences with the
      following outcome variables: adherence to recommendations; post-intervention caregiver
      self-efficacy and post-intervention caregiver strain; care-recipient risky behaviors and
      accidents. Covariates will include: baseline measures of caregiver self-efficacy and
      caregiver strain, caregiver years of formal education and use of social support resources.
    
  