
    
      This research protocol involves one or more of the following procedures in healthy volunteers
      and patients with known or suspected predisposition to respiratory infection who are enrolled
      in National Institutes of Health (NIH) protocols: 1) Adults only: bronchoscopy with sampling
      of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and epithelial cells in healthy adult volunteers and
      patients; 2) Adults and Children: sputum induction for collection of sputum specimens; 3)
      Adults and Children: nasal mucosal biopsies and brushings for sampling of epithelial cells;
      4) Adults and Children: measurement of nasal nitric oxide production; 5) Adults and children:
      collection of exhaled breath condensate; 6) Adults and children: measurement of nasal
      potential difference. The cellular and acellular samples will be separated, and stored or
      transferred to the appropriate laboratories investigating these diseases.

      Alveolar macrophages are the predominant (greater than 95%) cell type present in the lavage
      of normal subjects. Alveolar macrophages play a central role in the initiation and
      propagation of lung inflammation by releasing cytokines (i.e., interleukin-1, tumor necrosis
      factor) and chemokines (i.e., interleukin-8, monocyte chemotactic protein, macrophage
      inflammatory protein) that activate other resident cells and recruit inflammatory cells to a
      local nidus of inflammation. Airway epithelial cells are known to release a variety of
      mediators as well. Thus, the interaction of cells with mediators generated by alveolar cells
      and bronchial epithelial cells during acute inflammation is a key element in the initiation
      of pulmonary inflammatory responses.

      Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL), bronchial brushings, and mucosal biopsies are standard
      diagnostic techniques done through the bronchoscope to obtain samples of alveolar and
      bronchial specimens for diagnosis of infection, malignancy, or non-infectious inflammation.
      Nasal mucosal scrape biopsy is a minimally invasive method of obtaining airway epithelial
      cells to diagnose disorders of airway clearance associated with abnormal cilia (hair-like
      structures on airway lining cells). Sputum induction is a routinely performed procedure to
      facilitate the collection of respiratory secretions (mucus) through stimulation of cough with
      inhalation of an aerosolized concentrated salt-water solution. Exhaled breath condensate is
      simply collected by breathing normally through a plastic tube inserted into a chilled
      cylinder. Nasal potential difference is performed by placing a small needle under the skin of
      the forearm that is connected to a salt solution bridge and resting a small catheter on the
      surface of the nose through which various salt solutions are dripped.

      The objective of this protocol is to analyze bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, airway epithelial
      cells, sputum, and exhaled breath specimens and bedside physiologic measurements from healthy
      volunteers and from patients who acquire respiratory infections to look for differences in
      immune function and to discover new pathways of infectious disease susceptibility. We
      hypothesize that studying cellular responses to infection and inflammatory markers released
      from these cells will further our understanding of human susceptibility to respiratory tract
      infections.

      Five hundred and fifty subjects (250 healthy volunteers and 300 patients) will undergo one or
      more of the following: 1) bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage, bronchial brushings,
      endobronchial biopsies; 2) nasal mucosal scrape and/or brush biopsies; 3) sputum inductions
      4) exhaled breath condensate to obtain specimens for in vitro investigations and comparisons
      of both the cellular and acellular components. Bedside measurements 5) nasal nitric oxide
      production and 6) nasal potential difference may be done to assess epithelial cell functions
      in real-time.
    
  