
    
      Population definition: Women previously diagnosed with a primary breast carcinoma who present
      locally recurrent or metastatic lesions and who meet the selection criteria. The expected
      sample size is 175 patients.

      Observation period: Each patient in the study will be observed from their inclusion in the
      study until 1 year after the inclusion of the last patient in the study. These visits will
      match with the scheduled follow-up visits made by the patient according to the usual clinical
      practice of the site.

      Determination of sample size: The calculation of the sample size will be based on determining
      a number of patients that will achieve the main objective of the study.

      The fulfillment of the secondary objectives of the study will be obtained from the size
      determined by the main objective.

      Main objective of the study is to: Prospectively determine the probability of conversion of
      the HER2 stage between the different subtypes of primary breast cancer (luminal, triple
      negative and HER2) and their respective metastases.

      A review of the literature has allowed to find several published works with varying
      percentages of HER2 disagreements determined by IHQ + FISH or FISH, which have allowed to
      estimate an average percentage of disagreements of 10.45% (range between 4% and 20%).
      Considering the hypothesis that the level of disagreement in each of the different subtypes
      of primary, luminal, triple negative and HER2 breast cancer, is presented in an approximately
      similar frequency, that is to say approximately 10.45%.

      From the aforementioned data, an average conversion rate to be expected of 10% will be
      assumed. An alpha risk of 0.05 will be accepted, with an accuracy of +/- 0.09 percentage
      units, with a bilateral contrast, for which it would be necessary to include 43 patients for
      each of the three groups mentioned above (luminal, triple negative and HER2), which
      consequently includes 129 patients. If a loss rate is assumed (patients registered with
      biopsies finally not performed or not valid, or with inconclusive results or reflecting other
      diagnoses) of approximately 25%, the necessary size would increase to a total of 172
      patients.

      Based on these calculations, the final sample size would be 175 patients
    
  