
    
      Multiple myeloma (MM) patients that develop bortezomib and lenalidomide-resistant disease
      have a very poor survival of only a median of 9 months. This clearly illustrates that new
      anti-MM agents are needed with different mechanisms of action.

      Importantly, daratumumab monotherapy is effective and well tolerated in heavily pre-treated
      lenalidomide and bortezomib-refractory myeloma patients. However, approximately 60% of
      patients do not achieve a partial response, and ultimately all patients, also those achieving
      complete response, will develop progressive disease during daratumumab therapy. Factors that
      determine the susceptibility of MM cells to daratumumab include levels of the target antigen
      CD38, and expression levels of the complement inhibitory proteins CD55 and CD59. At the time
      of progression, there is a reduced level of CD38 on the MM cells, whereas CD55 and CD59
      levels are increased. This indicates that these factors are also involved in the development
      of daratumumab-resistant disease.

      Importantly, ATRA upregulates CD38 levels and downregulates CD55/CD59 levels on MM cells,
      both in daratumumab naïve cells and in cells that are resistant to daratumumab because of
      previous exposure to this drug. These alterations in expression explain the strong synergy
      between ATRA and daratumumab, both in MM cells derived from daratumumab naïve patients and
      from patients with daratumumab-refractory disease.

      These data form the preclinical rationale for clinical evaluation of ATRA and daratumumab in
      MM patients. The investigators will treat relapsed/refractory MM patients in two stages. The
      first stage (part A) consists of treatment with daratumumab monotherapy. In case these
      patients have progressive disease after cycle 1, less than minimal response after cycle 2, or
      less than partial response after cycle 3 (unless ongoing response) to single agent
      daratumumab, or in case these patients progress during daratumumab therapy after previous
      response, then ATRA will be added to daratumumab (part B).

      The aims of this study are to develop a safe ATRA and daratumumab combination suitable for
      clinical use and evaluation in subsequent randomized clinical trials. To this end, the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of ATRA and daratumumab will be determined for patients with
      relapsed/refractory disease, who were treated with daratumumab but failed to achieve a
      partial response, or developed progressive disease during daratumumab treatment. This will be
      followed by a second part in which the investigators will examine the effectivity and
      toxicity profile of the combination at the MTD.
    
  