
    
      Objectives: First phase (medium-term): To evaluate the medium-term (3 months) efficacy of
      automatically adjusted noninvasive ventilation (NIV) treatment versus "life style
      modifications" treatment in obesity hypoventilation syndrome (OHS) after an episode of
      acute-on-chronic hypercapnic respiratory failure. The main outcome will be a composite that
      includes hospital resource utilization (hospital and ICU admissions and emergency department
      visits for any cause) and all-cause mortality. Key secondary outcomes will include incident
      cardiovascular events (new hypertension diagnosis or initiation of anti-hypertensive
      treatment, atrial fibrillation, hospitalization for nonfatal myocardial infarction or
      unstable angina, percutaneous coronary interventions, nonfatal stroke or transient ischemic
      attack or for acute heart failure episode, and cardiovascular death), blood pressure,
      arterial blood gases, clinical symptoms and quality of life. Second phase (long-term):
      Evaluate the long-term efficacy (36 months) of manually titrated NIV treatment versus
      manually titrated CPAP treatment in OHS after 3 months of an episode of acute-on-chronic
      hypercapnic respiratory failure, with a composite outcome of hospital resource utilization
      (hospital and ICU admissions, emergency department visits) and all-cause mortality analyzed
      as the primary outcome. Incident cardiovascular events, blood pressure, arterial blood gases,
      clinical symptoms and quality of life will be the main secondary outcomes.

      Methods: Prospective, multinational, randomized open-label controlled trial with two parallel
      arms: 1,110 hospitalized patients with newly diagnosed OHS with acute-on-chronic hypercapnic
      respiratory failure treated with invasive or noninvasive mechanical ventilation who survive
      hospitalization and available for hospital discharge will be randomized to either
      automatically adjusted NIV (555 patients) or "life style modifications" (555 patients) for
      three months. Subsequently, both automatically adjusted NIV and "life style modifications"
      arms will be re-randomized to polysomnographically adjusted CPAP or to polysomnographically
      adjusted NIV groups to complete 36 months of follow up. The first phase of the proposal is a
      superiority study and the second phase is a non-inferiority study. The primary outcome and
      its components will be analyzed by a mixed-effects model with negative binomial. A
      mixed-effects Cox model will be used for hospital resource utilization, new cardiovascular
      events and overall survival. Other secondary outcomes such as repeated measures derived from
      the arterial blood gases (i.e. PaCO2, PaO2, pH, calculated bicarbonate), blood pressure,
      health-related quality of life tests and Epworth Sleepiness Scale during the follow-up will
      be analyzed by a linear mixed-effects model.
    
  