
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the safety profile of voriconazole and interferon gamma in patients with
           invasive aspergillosis or other filamentous fungal infections.

        -  Compare the efficacy and possible heterogeneity in efficacy of voriconazole with or
           without interferon gamma across different patient sub-populations, in terms of designing
           a larger phase II or pivotal phase III study.

        -  Determine the time to partial or complete response and rate of response (at weeks 6 and
           12 or at end of treatment and follow-up) in patients receiving interferon gamma.

        -  Compare the proportion of patients with at least a two-fold reduction in the
           galactomannan antigenemia titer at 6 and 12 weeks or at end of treatment with these
           regimens.

        -  Determine surrogate immunologic markers for response to interferon gamma, functional
           integrity and anti-fungal activity of phagocytic cells (neutrophils, monocytes, and
           macrophages), and nonphagocytic effector cells (natural killer and T cells) in these
           patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, multicenter, pilot study. Patients are
      stratified according to age (under 18 vs 18 and over) and absolute neutrophil count (less
      than 500/mm^3 vs at least 500/mm^3). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive voriconazole (IV over 80-120 minutes for the first 3 doses and
           orally every 12 hours for subsequent doses) 3 times per week and interferon gamma
           subcutaneously (SC) 3 times per week.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive voriconazole as in arm I and placebo SC 3 times per week.

      In both arms, treatment continues for 12 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed at 4 weeks.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 88 patients (44 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  