
    
      Background: The majority of Danish women work during their reproductive years. Sickness
      absence among pregnant women is frequent; more than one third of Danish women are on longterm
      sick leave during pregnancy. Sick leave has been found associated with occupational exposures
      and studies have shown that adjustment in exposure can reduce sick leave in pregnancy
      indicating that there are potential preventive initiatives.

      Design and outcomes: In a cluster randomized design it will be investigated whether teaching
      local leaders how to implement active pregnancy policy results in less sickness absence among
      their pregnant employees. It will further be investigated to what extent Active pregnancy
      policy is implemented at the departments and whether it results in higher sense of security
      and wellbeing among the pregnant employee. Finally the cost and benefits of the intervention
      will be analyzed.

      The study takes place at hospitals in the two regions on Zealand, Denmark (The Capital region
      of Denmark and Region Zealand) and in the daycare sector in 2 municipalities located in The
      Capital region of Denmark. The randomization will be at the level of departments, which will
      be randomized to either intervention or control:

      Intervention: The leaders are invited to a 3 hours seminar, where they will be taught in how
      to implement active pregnancy policy at their department.

      Control: as usual

      All employees at the involved departments getting pregnant during the year of intervention
      will be included in the study. They are to answer a questionnaire at 28th week of gestation
      and their days of sick leave during pregnancy will be recorded. All leaders at the
      departments are to answer two questionnaires, one before randomization and one after
      intervention.

      The intervention: At the 3 hours seminar the leaders will receive education containing: 1)
      Updates on evidence on pregnancy and risk of occupational exposures, 2) information about the
      rules in the area and the leader's responsibilities, 3) Answers and solutions to frequent
      issues relating pregnant employees at work and 4) Introduction to Active Pregnancy policy.

      The content of Active Pregnancy Policy: A congratulation letter to the pregnant employee
      inviting her to a meeting. At the meeting her job task will be discussed and fears and
      worries taken hand on. The aim is to adjust the job tasks to the employee and her special
      need during her pregnancy. During the pregnancy the leader regularly evaluate with the
      pregnant employee on how it goes and if there are needs for other or further adjustments. A
      minimum of 3 planned meetings have to be held during the pregnancy. Further the leader shall
      inform the other employees at the workplace about the arrangements made with the pregnant
      employee.
    
  