
    
      As secondary objectives, the study aims to:

        -  Estimate positive and negative predictive values;

        -  Identify the diagnostic threshold of PLMs index with actigraphy;

        -  Study concordance between actigraphy and polysomnography to detect lower limbs
           movements;

        -  Evaluate reproducibility between 2 readers and with the new PLMs software;

        -  Study actigraphy reproducibility for this indication over 3 consecutive nights in the
           same patients (ancillary study);

        -  Compare diagnostic performance according to SCI completeness (AIS-A vs AIS-B, C, D) and
           underlying pathology (MS, SCI);

        -  Compare installation and interpretation times between actigraphy and PSG.

      PLMs appropriate diagnosis appeared mandatory in SCI patients however the accessibility and
      the delay of availability remain challenging for severe SCI complications in care management.

      The study team hypothesize that actigraphy could be able to diagnose PLMs with sufficient
      reliability (AUC (area under the curve) around 80%) compared to the gold standard
      (polysomnography) in patients with spinal cord injuries.

      Intervention: During a scheduled night recording (polysomnography) 3 actigraphs will be added
      (1 on the wrist, and 1 on each foot).

      Equipment: MotionWatch8®, CamNtech® (marking CE Class 1 device; accord FDA (K132764)).

      Methods:

      All consecutive eligible patients followed in our tertiary care center (for whom a full night
      polysomnography is already scheduled) will be informed of the study and proposed to
      participate.

      After signing the informed consent form, all subjects will undergo a full-night examinations:
      polysomnography (already scheduled in usual care) and actigraphy (addition of 3 devices):

        -  1 classic actigraph on the wrist to detect light and identify inactivity periods
           compatible with sleep.

        -  2 new generation Actiwatch actigraphs (MotionWatch) placed on the feet. Polysomnography
           will incorporate tibialis anterior EMG recording and will be scored by one sleep
           specialist following American Academy of Sleep Medicine (AASM) scoring criteria.

      Actigraphy analysis will be provided by:

        -  An automated software specially developed for this indication (PLMsanalysis software,
           camNtechR).

        -  A nurse reading unaware of both software's and PSG results.

        -  A second reading will be provided by a second nurse, also unaware of the result of the
           polysomnography.

      Actigraphy results will not be communicated to patients or physicians and therefore will not
      affect patient management.

      At the end of the evaluation period, each patient will be offered, if needed, treatment and
      follow-up in the sleep unit as in usual care.

      A study of actigraphy reproducibility will be carried out in a sample of 33 subjects. This
      study will take place over three consecutive nights during an already scheduled
      hospitalization (no additional hospitalization night for patients).

      Statistical analysis: as described in Outcome Measures.
    
  