
    
      Myocardial cells communication is mediated via direct cell to cell contact, cell to matrix
      interaction, long-range signals, electrical signals, and via extracellular chemical molecules
      (such as proteins, nucleotides, lipids and short peptides). Cell to cell communication can be
      achieved through direct contact (i.e. Gap junction, cell surface protein/protein interaction)
      or via secreted signaling molecules (i.e. hormones, neurotransmitters, cytokines). In the
      last few decades, a third intercellular communication mechanism has gained intense attention
      - extracellular vesicles that include: (1) apoptotic vesicles (1000-4000 nm), (2)
      microvesicles (100 nm - 1000 nm), and the smallest extracellular vesicles (3) exosomes
      (40-100 nm).

      The exosomes are produced through the endosomal pathway and are able to carry cargo and
      transfer them to recipient cells, thus contributing to cell-to-cell communication. The
      exosomes cargo includes protein content, rRNA, tRNA, short DNA sequences, messenger RNA
      (mRNA) and microRNA (miRNA). The last two can change the gene expression within the target
      cells and by that affect myocardial cells.

      Nowadays, it is known that in the cardiovascular system, exosome plays important roles in the
      pathophysiology of myocardial infarction (MI) and as an indicator for the damage and repair
      mechanisms post-acute MI (i.e. miR-126), in myocardial remodeling, and cardiac regeneration.

      Since the field of cardiovascular exosome is still in its infancy, there are no available
      data regarding to its role in cardiac arrhythmias. Therefore, there is place to investigate
      the role of exosomes in patients who suffer from atrial fibrillation.

      Some of the important issues to explore are: (1) Do the epicardial fat in patients with
      atrial fibrillation release quantitatively and qualitatively different exosomes than in
      patients without atrial fibrillation? (2) Can epicardial fat exosomes be a clinical biomarker
      for arrhythmias? (3) Can these exosomes be a target for the treatment and prevention of
      arrhythmias?

      The current study will include patients who undergo any cardiac surgery and will give
      informed consent. An epicardial fat biopsy will be taken and cultured in a medium that
      contain M-199 medium, dexamethasone, gentamicin, and insulin for 9 days. The exosomes will be
      collected from the medium and analyzed.

      The participants will be divided into two groups: (1) participants with atrial fibrillation,
      (2) participants who did not develop ever atrial fibrillation.
    
  