
    
      Co-primary Objectives: Determine the effectiveness of real-time identification
      administratively of uncontrolled asthma and real-time outreach administratively to optimize
      National asthma care guideline implementation compared to standard KP asthma outreach to
      improve asthma control (subsequent asthma impairment and risk, separately).

      Hypothesis 1: Real-time notification of uncontrolled asthma status to asthma specialists and
      patients compared to standard Kaiser Permanente (KP) asthma outreach will reduce subsequent
      asthma impairment and risk, separately.

      Hypothesis 2: Real-time notification of uncontrolled asthma status to asthma specialists and
      patients compared to standard KP asthma outreach will increase the proportion of patients who
      receive step-up care for impairment and risk.

      Hypothesis 3: The real-time notification of uncontrolled asthma status to asthma specialists
      and patients compared to standard KP asthma outreach will lead to increased step-up care that
      will reduce subsequent asthma impairment and risk.

      Hypothesis 4: Specific demographic characteristics (older age, female gender, non-Hispanic
      white ethnicity, higher census block education/income level) will be associated with a
      differential response in the intervention group.

      Study Objectives:

      1. Determine whether real-time notification of uncontrolled asthma status to asthma
      specialists and patients compared to standard KP asthma outreach will reduce subsequent
      asthma impairment and risk, separately.

      2: Determine whether real-time notification of uncontrolled asthma status to asthma
      specialists and patients compared to standard KP asthma outreach will increase the proportion
      of patients who receive step-up care for impairment and risk.

      3: Determine whether the real-time notification of uncontrolled asthma status to asthma
      specialists and patients will lead to increased step-up care that will reduce subsequent
      asthma impairment and risk compared to standard KP asthma outreach.

      4: Determine whether there exist specific demographic characteristics (older age, female
      gender, non-Hispanic white ethnicity, higher census block education/income level) that are
      associated with a greater differential efficacy in the intervention group.

      5. Determine in an exploratory analysis the frequency, characteristics (demographic, asthma
      severity, prior health care utilization, etc) and clinical outcomes (impairment and risk) of
      patients placed on omalizumab step-up therapy.
    
  