
    
      Recent research has indicated that emotional factors have an important role in the control of
      diabetes. According to previous literature, the burden of diabetes and its treatment
      contribute to emotional distress. In fact, the emotional discomfort associated with diabetes
      can influence the control of glycemia as it is related to the decrease of self-care behaviors
      and adherence to protocols and care routines. The scientific literature shows that high
      levels of anxiety and depression affect the adherence to treatment of diabetes, since the
      people who experience it are less likely to comply with health care recommendations due to
      the difficulty that entails compliance with the imposition of restrictions on their usual
      lifestyle.

      The most widespread definition of emotional intelligence describes it as "the ability to
      accurately perceive, evaluate and express emotions; the ability to access and / or generate
      feelings that facilitate thinking; the ability to understand emotions and emotional
      knowledge; and the ability to regulate emotions promoting emotional and intellectual growth.
      Research shows that the ability of people to process emotional information adequately is
      related to effective social functioning, resilience to emotional and social pressures and
      less emotional impact when faced with certain health problems.

      The first preliminary results of a pilot study indicated that adolescents with Type 1
      Diabetes Mellitus (DM1) with high emotional abilities have a better glycemic control
      evaluated through HbA1c and a lower emotional discomfort associated with diabetes. These
      first data allow us to hypothesize that training in emotional intelligence will facilitate
      the increase of these skills which will contribute to the improvement of metabolic control
      (evaluated through HbA1c), healthy lifestyle habits and emotional well-being.

      Objectives The first general objective (GO1) of our study is to design a program on emotional
      intelligence for intervention with adolescents with DM1 aimed at improving therapeutic
      adherence, healthy lifestyle habits and well-being. The second general objective (GO2) is to
      analyze the effectiveness of this program of improvement of emotional skills once the program
      is finished, 6 and 12 months after the intervention.

      Pre-intervention phase: The specific objectives (SO) are:

        -  (SO1) Development of the intervention sessions and preparation of theoretical materials
           and practical dynamics.

        -  (SO2) Evaluate the adequacy of the contents and methodology of the program through a
           focus group and individualized interviews with the target population.

      (OG2) Analyze the effectiveness of this program to improve emotional skills once the program
      ends, at 6 and 12 months after the intervention.

      Intervention Phase: The specific objectives (SO) are:

        -  (SO3) Evaluate the psychological and metabolic variables of adolescents with DM1 prior
           to the intervention of the control group and the intervention group to establish the
           baseline.

        -  (SO4) Implementation of the intervention program in the intervention group during 5
           sessions of 2 and a half hours.

        -  (SO5) Evaluate the psychological and metabolic variables of adolescents with DM1 in the
           control group and in the intervention group after the end of the program.

      Follow-up phase: The specific objectives (SO) are

      -(SO6) To evaluate the psychological and metabolic variables of adolescents with DM1 in the
      control group and intervention group at 6 and 12 months after the program to analyze the
      maintenance of the results.

      Methods Participants Participants will be recruited from a University Hospital Virgen
      Macarena. The estimation for the sample size is based on the average HbA1c of 8.84% (±1.39)
      (73.1± 15.3 mmol/mol) in adolescents between 11 and 16 years of age (n = 133) with a
      diagnosis of less than one year indicating that 31 participants will be needed per group to
      achieve an 80% probability of detecting a difference of 1% (11 mmol/mol) in HbA1c means
      between the two groups with a significance of 5%. It will be emphasized that participation in
      the study is voluntary. Participants may withdraw from it in any moment.

      Procedure

      According to the objectives set, the research project is structured in different phases:

      A) PRE-INTERVENTION PHASE:

        1. Development of the intervention sessions and preparation of theoretical and dynamic
           materials practices. The adequacy of the contents and methodology of the program will be
           evaluated through of a focus group and individualized interviews with the target
           population.

        2. Adolescents will be recruited through specialist physicians in the area of University
           Hospital Virgen Macarena. The participants and their parents / guardians will be
           informed by the principal investigator of the nature of the study, its usefulness, the
           mode of realization and the people involved.

        3. Consent and informed consent will be administered by the investigator principal along
           with a fact sheet on the objectives and procedure of the investigation as well as the
           data of the project contact person.

        4. Participants will be assigned randomly to each of the groups. For it a simple random
           assignment will be made using the procedure "Assignment of subject to treatments
           "available in 'Epidat software' version 3.1.

        5. The following data will be collected: Sociodemographic variables, clinical variables,
           metabolic control variables, psychological variables

           B) INTERVENTION PHASE

        6. A program of intervention in emotional skills will be carried out. The work methodology
           will be eminently practical, working in groups including analysis of real cases and
           interactive simulation.

        7. After the intervention, the psychological team will carry out the evaluation of the
           variables, as well as the collection of clinical, biochemical, of metabolic control,
           healthy living habits and emotional well-being.

        8. Parents of adolescents will receive two training sessions in emotional skills of two
           hour each with the objective of helping adolescents to consolidate the contents and
           skills acquired during the intervention program.

           C) FOLLOW-UP PHASE

        9. In the third year of the project, 2 sessions will be held to know if participants had
           any problems with what they learned in the intervention, remember the principles and
           main techniques for its implementation.

       10. At months 6 and 12 after the intervention, there will be a re-evaluation of
           psychological and metabolic control variables to analyze the maintenance of the results.

       11. If the intervention achieves the proposed objectives, once the study is completed, the
           adolescents of the control group will be offered to participate in the intervention
           program.

      Design This is a randomized controlled trial that evaluates the effectiveness of a program of
      emotional skills on metabolic control, healthy lifestyle habits and well-being with two
      groups (intervention group and control group) with pre-post-treatment measures and follow-up.

      Materials

        -  Perceived emotional intelligence (TMMS-24)

        -  Scale of positive and negative affect (PANAS)

        -  Difficulties in Emotion Regulation Scale (DERS)

        -  Diabetes-related Distress Scale (DDS-17)

        -  Diet and Exercise domain of the (eVITAL Toolkit)

        -  Health questionnaire (SF-36)

      Analysis of data The results will be analyzed according to the objectives proposed in the
      project. The effectiveness of the intervention in the increase of the emotional skills and
      the improvement of the metabolic control, healthy habits and emotional well-being will be
      estimated comparing the pre and post evaluations of the group intervention through different
      statistics of comparison of means such as the non-parametric Wilcoxon statistic and the
      pre-post-follow-up measures with the nonparametric statistic for repeated Friedman
      measurements. ANCOVA analysis of covariance will be used in order to separate the effect of
      the intervention from the effect of the differences in the selection of the participants. To
      check the effectiveness of the intervention, analysis of the covariance on the post-test will
      be carried out for both groups (intervention and control) including as a covariate the scores
      in the pre-test.
    
  