
    
      Health Education Intervention with Social Networking (HISONET) is a open-label randomized
      controlled trial. The objective of this study is to determine the efficacy of social
      networking media on mobile phone intervention in antenatal care (ANC) group-health education
      compared with usual ANC health education. The incidence of preterm delivery and major
      neonatal morbidity including respiratory distress syndrome, stillbirth and perinatal
      mortality in women delivering from 28 to 36 weeks' gestation are significant outcomes in a
      randomized prospective design. Preterm delivery occurs in approximately 9.6% as global
      incidence, and about 11.1% in South-Eastern Asia. Forty-four percent of child under 5 years
      died in neonatal period. Preterm birth is one of the three leading causes of neonatal death
      which 15% died from preterm birth complications such as respiratory distress syndrome,
      intraventricular hemorrhage, necrotizing entercolitis, and sepsis. Recent studies demonstrate
      that Short Message Service (SMS) on mobile phone intervention in antenatal care can increase
      numbers of ANC attendance to WHO recommendation of four or more visits and decrease in
      perinatal mortality.

      Social networking on mobile phone has been increasingly used in daily life of both healthcare
      personnel and women who attend ANC clinic. However, there is lack of evidence that
      demonstrates the effect of social networking on mobile phone to improve maternal and neonatal
      outcomes. LINE, a mobile application, is a popular one of many social networking
      applications. So, health education through LINE of antenatal women about serious
      complications such as labor pain, bleeding, water breaking and fewer fetal movement during
      pregnancy may encourage them to come to the hospital as early as possible. Early diagnosis of
      premature labor provides early management and better maternal and neonatal outcomes. So, a
      randomized controlled trial should be conducted to answer these questions.
    
  