
    
      A randomized, controlled, single-blind crossover study design was utilized, and the three
      independent variables were spinal manipulative therapy (SMT), a 10 second plantar flexion
      maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) or SMT immediately preceding the MVIC (SMT +
      MVIC). The treatment order was randomized for each of the three sessions before the tibial
      nerve Hmax/Mmax stimulation protocol.

      Each of the four dependent variables were evoked during the tibial nerve H-reflex stimulation
      protocol at the conclusion of each session, and included the Hmax/Mmax ratio (%) of the
      gastrocnemius and soleus muscles and the isometric twitch torque occurring at Hmax and at
      Mmax. Hmax, the highest H-reflex amplitude, is an indication of the greatest possible reflex
      activation; as such, it is an estimate of the number of motor neurons a subject is capable of
      activating in a given state. Further increases in the stimulation intensity cause the
      subsequent M-wave to reach its highest amplitude, Mmax. Mmax is a compound muscle action
      potential (CMAP) which represents full muscle activation. Specific to the current
      investigation, Mmax indicated activation of the total volume of the gastrocnemius/soleus
      motor neuron (MN) pool.

      Given that Hmax is an inference of the number of MNs being recruited, and Mmax constitutes
      the entire motor neuron pool, the proportion of the entire MN pool capable of being recruited
      can be estimated with the Hmax/Mmax ratio. The Hmax/Mmax ratio was determined by division of
      the EMG peak-to-peak amplitudes (mV) evoked at Hmax by the preceding Mmax EMG peak-to-peak
      amplitudes. Differences in each of the four dependent variables (Hmax/Mmax ratios of the
      gastrocnemius and soleus and the peak twitch torques evoked at Hmax and Mmax) following each
      treatment form of SMT, MVIC or SMT+MVIC delivered during the three data collection sessions
      on three separate days were determined with a two-way (treatment × time point) repeated
      measures ANOVA. Percent changes from baseline were also calculated for each of the dependent
      variables, and the same type of ANOVA was used to determine differences in the
      within-subjects effects of each treatment.
    
  