
    
      In this study investigators plan to measure tumor response (RECIST and Choi criteria) when
      administering trabectedin standard dose or inferior with simultaneous radiotherapy treatment.
      The hypothesis states that administering trabectedin at 1.3mg/m2 or ≤1.5mg/m2 plus
      Radiotherapy 30-45Gy shows synergic activity that turns into tumor shrinkage.

      A phase I trial (dose escalation -or de-escalation for cohort C- level of 1.3 or 1.5 mg/m2)
      will provide the proper dose level to perform a phase II trial to measure RECIST and Choi
      response, progression free survival, overall survival and register safety and quality of life
      details.

      Three cohorts are indicated for this trial, A: Patients with diagnosis of non-operable or
      unresectable or not oncologically recommended metastasectomy of limited to lung metastases
      soft tissue sarcoma and cohort B: Patients with locally advanced resectable Myxoid
      Liposarcoma, C:Patients with retroperitoneal and resectable soft tissue sarcoma (liposarcoma
      and leiomyosarcoma).

      Unlimited cycles of chemotherapy are considered to be beneficial for cohort A patients,
      whereas cohort B and C only 3 cycles are indicated. About radiotherapy treatment, 30Gy will
      be given to cohort A patients, whereas cohort B and C will receive 45Gy. TCs and MRI are
      selected for imaging purposes.

      Phase I:

      For cohorts A and B:Trabectedin at two dose escalation levels:

      0 1.3 mg/m2 as a 24h I.V. infusion

      1 1.5 mg/m2 as a 24h I.V. infusion

      For cohort C:Trabectedin at two dose de-escalation levels:

      0 1.5 mg/m2 as a 24h I.V. infusion

      -1 1.3 mg/m2 as a 24h I.V. infusion

      Administration of trabectedin with a portable pump, i.v infusion of 24h, in cycles of 3
      weeks.

      Premedication:

        -  4 mg oral dexamethasone 24h and 12h before chemotherapy administration.

        -  20 mg I.V. dexamethasone 30minutes before treatment.

        -  Ondansetron or analogue will also be given prior to trabectedin.

      Pathology review, radiology review and radiotherapy review are performed to every patient.

      Several biomarkers are selected to perform FFPE tumor assays in relation to prediction
    
  