
    
      The first Orthographic operation was carried out in 1849, for the correction of
      malocclusions, in the United States of America. Back then, this surgery was merely a
      mandibular operation and was called Hullihen's procedure done by general surgeons. However,
      the first cooperation between surgeons and orthodontists in the evolution of the early
      orthognathic surgery was cradled in St. Louis by the orthodontist Edward Angle (1898) and the
      surgeon Vilray Blair (1906). During the 19th orthognathic surgery underwent minor
      improvements, never the less, not until the beginning of the 1950s, when orthognathic surgery
      was deemed as a true specialty had its origins, which led to tremendous success all over the
      world. Nowadays, orthognathic surgery is performed not only for correcting dental and
      skeletal deformities, but also is conducted as a treatment of various congenital and
      cranio-facial syndromes, such as Crouzon syndrome, Treacher syndrome and Apert's syndrome.

      However, orthognathic surgery is not an innocent procedure, since it contains several
      complications. Pain, swelling, neurosensory deficits and post operative infections are the
      most common complications. While postoperative infection is the most common one, with a 2% to
      33.4% percentage of occurrences. Postoperative infections increase the mortality rate of
      orthognathic procedure and may create a challenge for the surgeon and the medical staff,
      thus, reducing its prevalence is critical issue in defining the success of this unique
      procedure.

      Preoperative prophylaxis has been proven as an efficient in decreasing the rate of
      postoperative infections in orthognathic surgery.

      While the current literature regarding the efficacy of postoperative antibiotics questionable
      and there is still no consensus on its efficacy.

      This study is a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study that will
      investigate the efficacy of postoperative antibiotics. And will try to state a consensus in
      prescribing postoperative antibiotics.

      Objectives and Goals of the study:

      The main goal of the present study is to evaluate the efficacy of post operative antibiotics
      in decreasing the rate of postoperative infections in orthognathic surgery.

      Secondary objectives are to state and formulate a consensus in prescribing postoperative
      antibiotics.

      Study Design:

      The current study is a prospective, double blind, randomized, placebo control, clinical
      trial.

      The impact of post-operative antibiotics in prevention early surgery related infections will
      be investigated. The potential benefit of the study lies particular in reducing the various
      side effects of unwise administration of antibiotics, along with the high cost and bacterial
      resistant resulted from antibiotics overuse.

      The study subjects will be allocated by the investigator into two study groups through the
      use of randomization. The Intervention group will be getting intra-venous1GR Amoxicillin
      Clavulanate 3 times a day for 5 days post surgery; while the Control group will be getting
      intra-venous Placebo for 5 days.

      As described above, 50 patients will participate in this study, an important prerequisite for
      this study is a completely healthy patients. Then the patients will be allocated randomly
      into two subgroups: intervention group and control group, as mentioned before.
    
  