
    
      While perinatal HIV infection has become rare in developed countries through the use of
      highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), it remains a serious problem in developing
      countries. Botswana has a population of approximately 1.7 million; the prevalence of HIV in
      Botswana is about 37.4%. In the developed world, HAART has revolutionized the prevention of
      MTCT among nonbreastfed infants. This trial will compare the effectiveness of a protease
      inhibitor (PI)-based regimen versus a triple nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor
      (NRTI)-based regimen in preventing MTCT of HIV.

      This study will last up to 24 months for mothers and their children. Participants will be
      stratified based on their CD4 count at screening. Women with CD4 counts of 200 cells/mm3 or
      more will be in one of two treatment groups and will be randomly assigned to receive either
      TZV twice daily or LPV/RTV and 3TC/ZDV twice daily. Once in labor, treatment group
      participants will continue to take their assigned HAART regimen and will also be given
      additional ZDV. Women with CD4 counts less than 200 cells/mm3 will receive nevirapine (NVP)
      once daily for the first 14 days, then twice daily, and 3TC/ZDV twice daily; these women will
      be in the observational group.

      Shortly after birth, infants will receive single-dose NVP. A 1-month supply of ZDV will be
      provided to the mother to administer daily to her child. Mothers will stop HAART at 6 months
      postpartum or when they stop breastfeeding, whichever occurs earlier. A clinical evaluation,
      blood collection, and HIV prevention counseling will occur at all maternal visits. An
      obstetrical exam and physical exam will occur at selected visits. Women will provide at least
      four samples of breast milk during the first 5 months postpartum. For infants, a clinical
      evaluation will occur at every visit, and a physical exam and blood collection will occur at
      selected visits.
    
  