
    
      Binge eating is a common and disabling problem which is often associated with obesity. Binge
      eating causes significant distress and compromises quality of life in affected individuals.
      Current treatments do not support full recovery in a considerable number of adults and
      adolescents. As such, it is important that we explore new options for treatment.

      Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is a non-invasive procedure that is
      emerging as a potentially effective treatment psychiatric disorders. In rTMS, an electric
      current is passed through a coil placed on the scalp. This current creates a magnetic field
      which changes the activity in the brain area immediately below. rTMS is a well-established
      treatment for depression and has been approved by the National Institute for Care and
      Excellence (NICE; 2015). The NICE-approved rTMS treatment for depression involves 20-30
      sessions, each requiring 37.5 minutes of stimulation. A novel variant of rTMS, intermittent
      theta burst stimulation (iTBS), is an attractive alternative to standard stimulation which is
      delivered using a very similar procedure as standard rTMS and may produce comparable effects
      in as little as 3 minutes.

      In depression, the therapeutic applications for rTMS have been widely studied. By comparison,
      research in eating disorders and obesity are preliminary. Nevertheless, studies have reported
      promising results in these populations. For example, a case study involving a patient with
      refractory BED and comorbid depression reported clinical improvement following 20 sessions of
      high frequency (excitatory) rTMS targeting the left DLPFC (Baczynski et al, 2014). Similarly,
      two recent studies of obese adults have reported a reduction in food intake, reduced craving,
      and significant weight loss following 20 sessions of high frequency rTMS targeting the left
      DLPFC (Alvarado-Reynoso & Ambriz-Tututi, 2019; Kim et al, 2018). Finally, studies in healthy
      participants reporting strong cravings and clinical participants with bulimia nervosa have
      also reported a reduction in craving and food-intake following high frequency rTMS (for
      example, Dunlop et al, 2015; Van den Eynde, 2010, and Uher et al, 2010). No study to date has
      used iTBS in eating disorders.

      The primary objective for this trial is to assess whether iTBS may benefit people with binge
      eating difficulties. As such, we are conducting two inter-related studies: (1) a
      proof-of-concept randomised double-blind sham-controlled trial involving a single-session of
      either real or sham iTBS, and (2) a therapeutic case series involving 20 sessions of real
      iTBS delivered week-daily over four consecutive weeks.
    
  