
    
      Hospitalizations for disease, injury, and/or surgery in older adults are likely to impair
      physical mobility and, therefore, the older adults capacity to be physically active both
      during hospitalization and beyond. The resulting sedentary lifestyle is likely to be accepted
      as the "new normal", ultimately increasing the risk of skeletal muscle and metabolic
      dysfunction (e.g. insulin resistance and sarcopenia).

      Muscle atrophy and insulin resistance are an unfortunate consequence with disuse in older
      adults. We have observed with our bed rest studies in healthy older adults that in addition
      to muscle and metabolic changes, we notice increased skeletal muscle inflammation, impaired
      glucose uptake signaling and an upregulation of enzymes related to de novo ceramide
      biosynthesis. The accumulation of ceramide, a toxic lipid intermediate, can disrupt glucose
      homeostasis and impair muscle growth. Metformin treatment has been shown to improve insulin
      sensitivity and attenuate muscle loss in insulin resistant adults through a mechanism that
      may involve ceramide synthesis. Metformin used as a preventive strategy to maintain muscle
      and metabolic health during a period of physical inactivity in older adults has not been
      investigated.

      A separate group of participants for the 2-week Metformin Run-in Period, independent of the
      bed rest and recovery study will also be recruited. All study procedures will be the same as
      the 2-week Run-In period within the full protocol.

      We hypothesize that metformin treatment in healthy older adults during bed rest would
      attenuate inflammation, insulin resistance, and thigh muscle loss and changes in lipid
      accumulating in muscle. We also hypothesize that elevated skeletal muscle ceramide levels, is
      central to the development of insulin resistance with bed rest in older adults.

      Therefore, we have proposed to conduct a clinical study in older adults to:

        1. Test if daily metformin treatment (vs placebo) during 5d of bed rest in older adults
           would attenuate intramuscular ceramide accumulation (lipid accumulation), insulin
           resistance (euglycemic-hyperinsulinemic clamp), and loss in thigh muscle lean mass. We
           would also like to determine if 5-days of bed rest in older adults within the placebo
           group increases skeletal muscle ceramide concentrations and whether these are in turn
           associated with insulin resistance.

        2. Test if daily metformin treatment (vs placebo) during 5d of bed rest in older adults
           would improve skeletal muscle glucose uptake cell signaling, reduce skeletal muscle
           inflammation and ceramide biosynthesis signaling.

        3. Determine if muscle ceramides and insulin resistance return to baseline levels following
           7 days of recovery after bed rest in the placebo group.

        4. Determine if metformin given over a 2 week period (independent of bed rest) will improve
           muscle size, strength and insulin sensitivity.

        5. Determine if metformin improves the recovery of muscle size and strength and insulin
           sensitivity 7 days after bed rest.

      These findings will be foundational for future development of treatments to prevent insulin
      resistance and muscle atrophy in inactive older adults.
    
  