
    
      SPECIFIC AIMS This study examines the operational consequences and training requirements for
      implementing subcutaneous hydration vs. standard intravenous hydration in emergency
      departments.

      B. BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE Emergency departments across the nation are overcrowded.
      Emergency department visits hit a new high in 2005, with more than 115 million visits, an
      increase of 5 million visits over the previous year, and a 20 percent increase over 10 years.
      During the same period the number of hospital EDs decreased more than 9 percent from 4,176 to
      3,795. A consequence of the increase in demand occurring during a decrease in capacity,
      according to the American College of Emergency Physicians is that 60 percent of EDs report
      that the overcrowding has forced their facilities to divert patients and though more than 70
      percent of hospitals reported having a goal of admitting patients within two hours of arrival
      in the emergency department, almost half of that group routinely fails.

      Overcrowding not only results in delayed treatment, long patient waiting time, overburdened
      working staff, patient elopement, and low throughput, it also results in increased medical
      errors due to overloading and significant legal and financial risks.

      These issues have led to a number of initiatives with, potentially the most profound being
      the 2007 Joint Commission requirement ( Leadership Standard, LD.3.15) requiring hospital
      leadership to:"… develop and implement plans to identify and mitigate impediments to
      efficient patient flow throughout the hospital".

      Developing processes and procedures that can improve patient ﬂow in EDs, improve efficiency
      and reduce crowding is in all parties interests.

      One potential area of improvement is in the hydration of patients. Twenty-five million
      Americans have intravenous catheters placed each year representing significant commitment of
      time, personnel, and resources. Several systems have been devised for the effective delivery
      of injectable material into a body using intravenous systems, but all suffer from drawbacks
      including trauma associated with intravenous needle placement and swelling, infection and
      limited, often compromised, placement sites . Furthermore intravenous hydration delivery
      require, at minimum, an RN who not only starts the IV but is also expected to monitor rates
      of perfusion (Adequate end-organ perfusion is best indicated by urine output of > 0.5 to 1
      mL/kg/h) and notify the physician when desired end-states are obtained. In our own studies of
      Emergency Departments, this process added significant time to patient stays as well as
      increased error rates in the form of either ration fluids running out without replacement or
      patients needing to urinate without a Nurse recording that they had reached this end-point.

      Improvement in either the rate of hydration and reduction in trauma and complications
      associated with typical intravenous systems should be a benefit to both patients and health
      care systems. Healthcare has developed a new system of hydration/medication delivery using
      Subcutaneous Recombinant Human Hyaluronidase. Subcutaneous Recombinant Human Hyaluronidase
      offers several advantages in hydrating emergency department patients over I.V. hydration
      methods. These include unlimited placement sites, (providing both psychological and
      physiological benefits), more rapid hydration, potentially administered by lower-cost and
      more available ED personnel than required for IVs.

      However, new technologies super-imposed on old processes frequently do not generate the full
      potential of the new technology. Cars required a paved highway system and cell-phones
      required methods for uniquely identifying individual calls in three dimensional space.
      Attempting to implement Subcutaneous Hydration in an environment such as an Emergency
      Department may find "as is" workflow dynamics and skills do not effectively support the new
      technology. It is essential to understand how Emergency rooms function to understand how to
      improve the process, and where training in use of new technologies is most appropriately
      addressed to realize efficiencies and improved quality of care. Following is our model of
      EDs:

      D. RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS This is a classic direct observation, workflow study in which
      the endpoints are the (potential) time differences in patient throughput, when hydration
      occurs via Subcutaneous Recombinant Human Hyaluronidase vs. Intravenous methods. We will also
      capture difference in patient and staff satisfaction for the two hydration methods. The
      satisfaction survey occurs immediately as part of the workflow observation.

      The study design employs a Difference within Difference design in which the relative
      differences in patient throughput (primary variable of interest) and patient/staff
      satisfaction (secondary variable of interest for the various hydration/medication delivery
      systems is assessed at each site. It is the relative difference in measures for each site
      that is used in the aggregate for analysis. This mitigates the danger of large variations
      between sites overwhelming the differences between treatment options within sites.

      Since this is an observational study, primarily of workflow characteristics, we will not (nor
      could we) make any determination of the appropriateness of individual provider's decision to
      either initiate or discontinue patient hydration.

      Approach Between three and five Emergency Departments (depending on volume) that have already
      approved Subcutaneous Recombinant Human Hyaluronidase for their formulary will be included in
      this study. Following UCSD (and other relevant participating organizations) IRB approval, the
      UCSD P.I. and Project Coordinator will coordinate with identified administrative personnel at
      each research site regarding the nature of the study, provide an introduction of field
      observers, and what the product of the study will be. In addition, each site will be asked if
      there are specific issues they would like the research team to analyze that fit within the
      parameters of the study. Once all clearances and permissions are obtained, field observers
      will be oriented to the individual facilities and introduced to the staff.

      Observations will be conducted in the following manner, field staff will observe ED patients
      and record the time they enter the facility. Once ED patients have completed the triage and
      are identified as an Acuity Level 3-5, field staff will approach ED patients and offer the
      opportunity to participate in the observational study. If signed permission is granted then
      field staff will "shadow" patients through the total ED visit using the Observational
      Checklist of Patient Encounters (OCPE), which has been published by the Joint Commission. 15
      It is a 52 item checklist capturing three types of data:

        1. Operational conditions at the time of an encounter (e.g. staffing ratios X number of
           patients)

        2. Whether key procedures occurred (e.g. temperature taken, pain assessment completed)

        3. Time to task completion (e.g. how long from the time an imaging study was ordered until
           the patient is taken to imaging) Patient satisfaction data will be collected as part of
           each workflow observation. Secondary variables of interest, specifically satisfaction
           and assessment of possible iatrogenic effects, occur at the conclusion of each
           observation. Patients are directly surveyed about their satisfaction with the encounter.
           Preference items (e.g. satisfaction with the provider) use standard 5-point likert scale
           while objective items (e.g. "is the care you received the care you expected, did you
           have any bruising around the hydration site) are cast as binary answers. Staff and
           providers undergo similar direct surveys of satisfaction and observation of iatrogenic
           effects, though the interview is not time-dependent as the patient satisfaction surveys.

      Outcome Measures The data generated by the workflow observations and satisfaction surveys
      produce three distinct types of data sets for analysis. The one of primary interest for this
      study is the difference in time sequences and patient throughput between Subcutaneous
      Recombinant Human Hyaluronidase vs. Intravenous hydration methods. This type of data not only
      provides simple time-motion comparisons, it is also frequently used to generate measures of
      efficiency (i.e. how many patients can be hydrated for a given unit of time and labor) and
      proficiency (i.e. how many patients can be correctly hydrated for a given unit of time and
      labor). Secondary outcomes of interest include the difference in patient and staff
      satisfaction, including perception of iatrogenic effects, between Subcutaneous Recombinant
      Human Hyaluronidase and Intravenous hydration methods. The third data set includes the
      operational conditions requisite for effective use of Subcutaneous Recombinant Human
      Hyaluronidase use.

      Data Analysis Data preparation and analysis will follow standard statistical techniques
      appropriate for each method used in this study. For example, McNemar tests will be used to
      determine significant changes for dichotomous variables such as errors of commission and
      omission (e.g., IV fluid ran out, patient urinates without staff noting). Paired-samples
      t-tests will be used to determine significant differences for both discrete continuous
      variables (e.g., time required to perform exam, time in waiting room) and ratio variables
      (e.g., patient/provider time to all time in clinic, patient/provider time to waiting time in
      the exam room). Wilcoxon signed-rank tests will be used to determine significant changes for
      variables using Likert scale response options (e.g., provider, staff, and patient
      satisfaction ratings on a 5-point scale).

      Outcome measures of efficiency, such as improved patient throughput or increased adherence to
      ED policy and procedures, will use traditional parametric efficiency calculations. Efficiency
      is essentially how much of a service can be provided correctly for a given unit of time and
      resources (including personnel). Efficiency will be calculated using the following formula:

      Where:

      N = individuals who could be hydrated PV = probability of being hydrated with Subcutaneous
      Recombinant Human Hyaluronidase PHHR = probability of hydration that has begun evaluated
      within time defined by protocol PD = probability of hydration iatrogenic effects L = labor
      costs C = capital costs M = material costs

      Finally, data will undergo Critical Path Analysis to identifying "inputs" or operational
      factors controlling patient flow dynamics and clinical outcomes. This analysis will use
      classification and regression analysis using binary recursive partitioning to identify the
      variables with the greatest predictive ability to correctly classify patient's lengths of
      stay in the ED.
    
  