
    
      In recent years endurance sports with high intensity and participation in competition have
      been increasingly popular among middle aged and older people. The Birkebeiner studies are
      investigations of elderly non-professional athletes (65 years or older at enrollment in
      2009/10) participating in the Birkebeiner cross-country ski race. It consists of Birkebeiner
      Aging Study, BIAS and the Birkebeiner Atrial Fibrillation, (BAF-study). The BAF-study
      investigated the association between prolonged endurance sport practice and the risk of AF by
      comparing the cohort of veteran cross-country skiers to a control population drawn from the
      Health and Environment Study in Oslo (HELMILO 2009).

      The main findings of the Birkebeiner study so far have been that participation in the
      Birkebeiner cross-country ski race (an indicator of prolonged endurance exercise practice) is
      associated with an elevated risk of atrial fibrillation (AF) among men ≥ 65 years, and that
      this risk correlates with the cumulated amount of endurance-training. Similar findings were
      seen amongst female athletes. This increased risk of AF was shown independent of other known
      significant comorbidities (such as hypertension and diabetes), indicating that
      endurance-training at this level itself is an independent risk factor.

      Regular physical exercise is an important factor when it comes to successful ageing. However,
      dose-relationship of physical exercise in a longer perspective is poorly studied. Atrial
      fibrillation is associated with increased risk of stroke, heart failure, dementia and death.

      The mechanisms governing the increased risk of AF in elderly subjects undergoing
      endurance-training remains elusive. This study aim to detail the specific traits of elderly
      subjects with AF conducting endurance-training in comparison with trained and not-so-trained
      control groups. Thus, generating knowledge that can form the basis for better prevention and
      treatment of AF in this group.
    
  