
    
      This observational prospective cohort study was conducted on patients with a history of
      rhythm disturbance who visited their family physician at the Health Care Center of Ljubljana
      and Health Care Center of Murska Sobota from October 2016 to January 2018. It included family
      physicians and their patients and was conducted on two levels. The inclusion criteria were
      age of ≥18 years, suspected heart rhythm disorder, and no previous diagnosis of rhythm
      disorder. Patients had a 12-channel ECG record performed at the first visit. If a rhythm
      disturbance was detected at that time, the patient was treated according to the guidelines
      and was not included in the study. However, if a diagnosis of rhythm disorder could not have
      been made, the patient was included in the study. In the study, the investigators divided
      participants into two groups: the test group and control group, where the patients in the
      test group received a wearable device. The pilot study is a part of an ongoing study that
      includes a bigger sample calculated with the help of Raosoft sample size calculator.
      Investigators estimated that a sample size of 100 patients (50 in test and 50 in the control
      group) is sufficient to obtain relevant data in the population. Patients who met these
      criteria were invited to participate in a study that was approved by the Ethics Committee of
      the Republic of Slovenia (number 0120-299/2017-7, KME 47/06/17), and written informed consent
      confirmed their participation. The study was conducted in accordance with The Code of Ethics
      of the World Medical Association (Declaration of Helsinki).

      In collaboration with medical experts, the Jožef Stefan Institute of Slovenia developed a
      personal portable ECG sensor that works in conjunction with a smartphone. The Personal
      Digital Mobile Body Sensor is listed in the medical device category, has the status of a
      medical device with all necessary certifications, and is owned by Savvy. It includes a
      personal sensor, ECG electrode kit, MobECG mobile application, and computer program called
      VisECG, which is currently available for Android only. The ECG sensor consists of two
      electrodes, which are placed 8.5 cm apart, and measures the potential between these two
      closely placed body-surface electrodes. The gadget weighs 21 g and has several possible
      positions of placement. The measurement is transmitted via Bluetooth connection to a
      smartphone, where the device is paired and managed via the MobECG mobile application.
      Initially, personal and other necessary information are entered into the smartphone
      application; then, the user can forget that he or she is wearing the device. The application
      works reliably in the background, even when using the phone for calls or other applications.
      If desired, the user can monitor the heart rate on the meter display with a curve and
      calculate it on an ongoing basis. Finally, the measurements are collected on the phone and
      can be transmitted to the physician in two ways: (1) pressing the button, the user can
      prepare a PDF report and send it to the physician's e-mail address or (2) transfer the data
      via USB cable to the physician's computer, where he or she can closely monitor the entire
      recording using VisECG. The first method is useful in the case of a severe disorder in which
      it is necessary to inform the physician. However, it is still related to the availability and
      responsiveness of the physician. When reading the recording, one should remember that it is
      not any standard lead typically used in a Holter monitor and that it is a single-channel
      measurement that is performed live on a patient moving and performing daily activities. The
      recordings can show different disorders but need to be evaluated so that artefacts can be
      distinguished from the actual disturbance of the rhythm. VisECG enables us to review and
      accurately analyze the recording and produce a report that can be submitted to physicians of
      other specialities for consultation or delivered to the patient and his or her physician as a
      measurement result. Given that the measurement is only a single channel, we can estimate the
      frequency and possible disturbances of rhythm but not ischemia.The study included the
      patients and their family physician. Patients with a complaint of heart rhythm disorder but
      no detectable rhythm disturbance on a 12-channel ECG record performed at the first visit were
      included. If a rhythm disturbance was detected at that time, the patient was treated
      according to the guidelines and was not included in the study. However, if a diagnosis of
      rhythm disorder could not have been made, the patient was included in the study. In the
      study, the investigators divided participants into two groups: test group where they received
      the personal ECG sensor and control group without the sensor one after another according to
      their visits at the office. However, the protocol was not followed rigorously, and physicians
      had the option of deciding for themselves if they prefer not to include the patient in the
      test group. The test group received an ECG sensor, which was placed by a healthcare
      professional and worn for three days. Whereat that time, they received information about the
      placement and handling of the sensor. The sensor was placed using two self-adhesive
      electrodes on the skin of the chest, which should not be too hairy. Then, the sensor was
      attached to the electrode and connected via Bluetooth to the smartphone, which was also
      provided to the patient with the charger for the duration of the examination. Patients were
      advised to perform their daily activities as regularly as possible and not to remove the
      sensor while showering or sleeping and keep the smartphone in the same room with them. In
      case the electrode peeled off, the patient had four spare electrodes and could install them
      himself. During the investigation, the patient kept a journal where he or she wrote down his
      or her problems and feelings. After 3 days, the patient returned to the healthcare provider,
      who removed the sensor and downloaded the measurements from the phone, which are then sent to
      the physicians who will analyze the reading. Then, the measurement was transferred to the
      computer memory and sent to the physicians for evaluation. The same patient underwent a
      checkup with the physician after 5-10 days, which depended on the date they had made an
      appointment. The physician read the recording, and in case of severe rhythm disorder, the
      patient was called earlier for a checkup at the physician's clinic where he or she received
      treatment as needed. The control group received a questionnaire and returned to the physician
      after 5-10 days.

      For the purpose of the study, a questionnaire was made, and it was validated in a similar
      pilot study in a hospital setting. At the first visit to the doctor's office, all patients
      received a questionnaire to record their problems and provide an opinion on the quality and
      usefulness of the examination. Also, physicians of all tested patient had to complete two
      questionnaires. One for a patient on the first visit, then after 5-10 days, and after 3
      months. The questionnaire provided us with demographics data, chronic illness and medication,
      presence of possible rhythm disorder and actions taken after first and second visit. The
      other questionnaire was used to record their comments on the quality and usefulness of this
      method.
    
  