
    
      Objective: To provide rigorous epidemiological data on diabetes risk and morbidity in Health
      District 17D06 in Quito, Ecuador; and Eloy Alfaro District, located in the coastal region of
      Esmeraldas.

      Design: The investigators will undertake two cross-sectional population surveys, with
      representative samples of the selected health districts, to estimate the prevalence of
      diabetes, impaired glucose tolerance, and NCD risk factors.

      Sample design: Participants will be selected using multi-stage cluster sampling. We will use
      parishes or 'micro-areas' as primary Enumeration Areas (EA) for which official GIS shape
      files and population estimates are available. The EAs will be randomly selected with a
      probability proportional to its population density. In urban areas, after having sampled EAs,
      buildings or homes will be identified by randomly generated GPS points. The investigators
      will then sample one person at random in each household.

      In rural areas, the investigators will randomly select villages from within the samples EAS,
      and then undertake the simple random sampling of individuals by using an existing census
      already developed by voluntary health promotors, and digitised by a local NGO. This census
      will be updated in the 3 months preceding sample selection to ensure accuracy.

      Sample size: The sample size is proposed assuming the prevalence of diabetes is no higher
      than 10%, to provide an estimate with an absolute precision of +/- 3%, with a 95% confidence
      level. The investigators assume a design effect of 1.5 (recommended in STEPS guideline for
      complex designs in absence of locally available alternatives) and will further increased the
      sample size to allow for up to 20% refusal or loss due to individuals not attending their
      appointment for physical and biological measurements.

      Survey procedures: The questionnaire will be designed according to the WHO STEPS NCD risk
      factor survey forms , and some survey-specific questions. Detailed demographic information
      will also be included following the WHO STEPS core questions and extended questions (highest
      level of education, ethnicity, marital status, employment status and household income).
      Cultural adaptations to the questions will be made as required.

      The questions will be used to compile a purpose designed electronic survey form loaded onto
      tablets purchased for the research. The survey tool will be pre-piloted before the survey,
      after training the data collection team.

      Thirty trained interviewers will establish survey eligibility, solicit informed consent, and
      carry out the survey in the participant's home. Composition of the survey team will be gender
      balanced, and include staff who represent local cultural, ethnic and religious groups. The
      survey will be carried out in Spanish but some interviewers will also be fluent in Quechua,
      Chachi and any other relevant indigenous language to translate questions verbally if
      required. Data collection in rural areas will engage the volunteer health promotors. The
      surveyors will arrange an appointment for physical and biological measurements together with
      the participant considering geographical convenience and availability. Individuals with a
      fasting blood glucose ≥ 126 mg/dl and/or a 2 hour plasma glucose ≥ 200 mg/dl, or blood
      pressure over 140/90 mmHg will be referred to their local health facility for care. All
      participants will receive the results of their physical measurements and blood analyses and
      will receive a health promotion booklet about diabetes, cardiovascular risk, and the
      importance of healthy diet and physical activity.

      Physical measurements and laboratory: Weight, height, waist circumference will be measured
      and we will include limited biochemical measurements (fasting blood glucose, cholesterol and
      creatinine) analysed at regional reference laboratories. Participants will also undergo an
      Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT). Survey participants will be invited to a well-lit
      hygienic location after at least 8 hours fasting. Appointments will be first thing in the
      morning and participants will be instructed to eat or drink nothing but water from 10pm the
      night before. Instructions for fasting will be given on the appointment card given to the
      participants the survey day and telephone reminders will be sent when possible. All
      participants will receive breakfast after the OGTT test. Diabetic patients on medication will
      be asked to bring their medication and take it immediately after their breakfast after blood
      draw. They will not be asked to complete an OGTT. Similarly, pregnant women are eligible to
      participate in the study but will not undergo an OGTT, only fasting blood glucose. In order
      to ensure absence of pregnancy, the investigators will provide pregnancy tests to women in
      fertile age who are unable to confirm the absence of pregnancy at the household interview.
      Steps will be taken to minimise variability (at study zone level) in the pre-analytical
      treatment of samples. Blood extraction, storage and transportation will follow standard
      infection control measures.

      Data management and analysis: Stickers with Quick Response (QR) codes that can be scanned by
      the android devices at each step will be used to ensure linkage of data collected in
      participant's home, their physical and biological measurements and laboratory results. The
      investigators will use and modify the WHO STEPS forms where possible and import them to Kobo
      toolbox free open source software (or ODK collect if necessary). Stata/SE (StataCorp, Texas,
      U.S.A.) Version 12.1. will be used for statistical analysis. The prevalence of impaired
      glucose tolerance, diabetes, and the other NCD risk factors will be calculated with 95%
      confidence intervals. Outcomes will be disaggregated by sex, age group, ethnicity and
      socioeconomic position. Geographical variation in survey outcomes will also be described.
      Steps will be taken to prevent missing data, but some level is unavoidable and we will
      incorporate methods analysing missing data or data from uncertain sources when necessary.
    
  