
    
      Antipsychotic drugs are widely used to treat not only psychosis but an increasing number of
      other psychiatric indications. The prevalence of antipsychotic drug use in British Columbia
      is increasing at a high rate, especially in youth. Second generation ("atypical")
      antipsychotic drugs, while bereft of the neurological side-effects of their predecessors,
      commonly cause metabolic syndrome. This includes hyperglycemia, hyperlipidemia, insulin
      resistance, weight gain and hypertension - a cluster of side-effects that puts patients at
      strongly increased risk of cardiometabolic disorders such as Type 2 diabetes and
      cardiovascular disease. Drug therapies to reduce metabolic dysregulation have provided
      limited benefits. It is recognized that lifestyle changes that address daily habits regarding
      eating, physical exercise, stress and sleep management, and lifestyle habits such as smoking,
      represent a complementary approach to additional drug therapy. The emerging field of
      Integrative Health Coaching addresses this issue and provides a clinical framework for
      helping people successfully develop and achieve personalized lifestyle goals. This study will
      investigate whether Health Coaching is a useful clinical tool to facilitate healthy lifestyle
      behavior and thereby improve metabolic health in people with psychotic illness.

      HYPOTHESIS: In a first-episode psychosis population that have recently begun treatment with
      atypical antipsychotic drugs, the inclusion of an Integrative Health Coaching goal-setting
      model will significantly improve patients' attitudes towards, and increase the frequency of
      behaviours related to healthy living, as indicated by the Short-Form 36, the Three-Factor
      Eating Questionnaire, and the Health Value Scale.

      RESEARCH PLAN: The investigators will conduct a non-blinded clinical trial of the efficacy of
      Integrative Health Coaching techniques in 40 subjects who are being treated at the
      Vancouver/Richmond Early Psychosis Intervention program, which provides specialty care to
      patients with suspected or newly diagnosed psychotic disorders. All subjects will be randomly
      assigned to one of two treatment groups (n = 20 subjects per group). In the first group,
      subjects will receive treatment for psychosis based on the current standard of care, which
      includes psychosocial training, education and pharmacological treatment. The second group of
      subjects will receive not only the standard of care treatment for psychosis, but additional
      Health Coaching to improve physical health. Subjects in both treatment groups will be given
      questionnaires to assess health attitudes and behaviours, and will receive routine blood work
      to monitor metabolic dysregulation, at baseline and months 1, 2, 3 and 6 from when they enter
      the study. Data will be collected and analyzed for differences between the two groups at the
      end of the study. Results will be analyzed based on intent-to-treat analysis, and comparison
      of metabolic and other health indices compared between the two groups using t-test and
      chi-square analyses.
    
  