
    
      1. BCAA's multiple functions in cells In addition to participating in de novo protein
           synthesis, Branched-Chain Amino Acids (BCAAs, including leucine, isoleucine, and valine)
           regulate multiple cellular functions as nutrient signaling. For example, BCAAs regulate
           insulin and glucagon secretion and thus glucose metabolism1. BCAAs, especially leucine,
           is one key regulator of mTOR signaling, which is the central component of a complex
           signaling network of insulin signaling, cell growth, and proliferation. BCAAs also
           regulate protein synthesis and degradation in various tissues.

        2. Impact of BCAA supplemental or BCAA-enriched diet on metabolism In addition to the
           healthcare utilization of BCAAs for liver disorders and their complications and other
           diseases, BCAA supplementation is common amongst athletes and fitness professionals to
           improve muscle building and strength. Meanwhile, BCAA supplementation or BCAA-rich
           protein diets are often associated with positive effects on body weight and glucose
           homeostasis1. Increasing dietary uptake of BCAAs improved the parameters associated with
           obesity and T2DM, such as body composition and glycemia levels. However, these
           beneficial effects are not conclusive. Moreover, other studies have shown that
           circulating branched-chain amino acid concentrations are associated with obesity and
           future insulin resistance in children and adolescents2.

        3. Summary Both beneficial and detrimental effects of BCAA on metabolism have been
           established and therefore warrants further investigation. In the preliminary study, we
           found that BCAAs enhanced glucose metabolism in lean mice while they promoted glucose
           intolerance in obese mice. In lean mice, BCAAs decreased adiposity and enhanced glucose
           utilization and insulin sensitivity in different tissues. But in obese mice, BCAAs'
           effects were mediated by impaired insulin signaling in fat tissue.
    
  