
    
      During surgery on the lung, ventilation of one lung at a time is often necessary. During
      thoracic surgery requiring one-lung ventilation (OLV), hypoxemia (reduced oxygen tension in
      blood) can present a clinical challenge. Due to multiple factors, the likelihood of hypoxemia
      during OLV in obese patients is increased. Atelectasis (collapse of the lung airspaces)
      contributes to hypoxemia and can be mitigated by application of recruitment maneuvers and
      positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP). A recruitment maneuver is a breath given in a
      mechanically ventilated patient that helps to open up collapsed air spaces, and PEEP is
      application of a continuous amount of positive pressure that helps keep the air spaces open
      at the end of an exhaled breath. Adjusting the level of PEEP to each individual patient's
      optimal lung compliance (individualized PEEP) improves blood oxygen levels compared to
      application of standard low PEEP (5 cmH2O); however, higher levels of PEEP required to
      achieve optimal lung compliance could increase intrathoracic pressures to a level that
      impedes normal circulation. This could negatively affect blood flow (cardiac output) and
      delivery of oxgyen to vital organs.

      Evidence addressing OLV in obese patients is lacking. The purpose of this study is to compare
      brain oxygen levels (cerebral oxygen saturation) and measures of blood flow and gas exchange
      during OLV with individualized PEEP vs low standard PEEP in obese patients undergoing
      thoracic surgery. To our knowledge, there is no previous study that compares oxygen delivery
      to vital organs (such as the brain) during OLV using individualized PEEP versus standard low
      PEEP, in an obese patient population.

      In this study, subjects undergoing OLV during surgery to remove a portion of the lung
      (lobectomy) will undergo a process to determine their individualized PEEP and then two
      20-minute experimental periods-- one period with OLV with low PEEP and one period with OLV
      with individualized PEEP. Measurements of cerebral oxygen saturation, blood oxygen levels,
      cardiac output, and blood pressure medication dose will be measuring before and after these
      experimental periods during surgery.
    
  