
    
      Studies have shown that the majority of patients undergoing selective surgery experience
      different levels of anxiety. The degree of anxiety is influenced by factors such as patient
      demographic characteristics, type of surgery, previous experiences with operational
      procedures, willingness to undergo the proposed intervention, perceived rapport with hospital
      personnel and personal stress threshold. This anxiety has been shown to be correlated with
      acute postoperative pain and chronic postsurgical pain, which leads to an increased use of
      postoperative analgesic, slow recovery, and other maladaptation behaviours in paediatric
      patient like eating disorders. The link between greater preoperative anxiety and the risk for
      developing chronic postsurgical pain has been documented in a variety of surgical procedures,
      including elective abdominal hysterectomy, radical mastectomy, breast cancer surgery, and
      arthroscopic knee surgery. While pharmacological interventions such as opioid-based analgesic
      are available, other methods to manage anxiety and distract patients from stressors - such as
      music, television, and virtual reality - have become more popular in the recent years due to
      their safety, low cost and effectiveness in improving overall patient experience and outcome.

      Virtual reality (VR) is a promising new technology that offers opportunities to modulate pain
      experience and cognition. Patients received VR treatment reported a reduction in pain and
      anxiety, faster wound healing, decreased chronic pain intensity and other neurorehabilitation
      improvements. The recent advent of inexpensive consumer VR system has also made VR more
      accessible to the mass, especially those by Samsung available locally. In SingHealth, VR has
      been used in neurosurgery for individualized surgery planning for patients with brain
      tumours, vascular malfunction and skull based tumours. However, there has been little done to
      investigate the effectiveness of VR during the preoperative period especially in local
      setting. Therefore, the investigators will investigate the feasibility and practicability of
      employing VR in anxiety and pain management in patients undergoing same day admission or day
      surgery. The proposed intervention may not only be implemented in the preoperative
      environment but also be in other settings such as before diagnostic screening or minor
      treatments done during inpatient stay or outpatient visit. The use of VR is suitable for
      those who are preparing for procedures in clinic or ward as an alternative anxiety management
      without prolonging the preparation time.
    
  