
    
      This project is confronting age-related physical disability by optimizing exercise strategies
      for older adults. Aerobic training is recommended to improve cardiorespiratory (heart and
      lung) function, while strength training is recommended for muscular function. These exercise
      effects are necessary for building healthier lives and reducing mortality and disability
      risk, but most older adults who do exercise typically only perform one type of exercise. In
      doing so they are missing a key component for healthy aging. This study will address whether
      stationary-cycling high-intensity interval training results in both cardiorespiratory and
      muscular improvements, and it will be the first controlled study comparing adaptations to
      high-intensity interval, aerobic, and strength training in sedentary older adults.

      It is unclear whether the lack of muscular adaptations to traditional aerobic training is due
      to the low intensity/high volume model that is currently prescribed, and thus the central
      hypothesize of the study is that stationary-cycling high-intensity interval training can
      improve both cardiorespiratory and muscular function. To test this hypothesis, the
      investigators will measure heart, lung, and muscle function, as well as physical performance
      in sedentary older adults, before and after 12 weeks of supervised training using one of
      three exercise strategies; stationary-cycling high-intensity interval training,
      stationary-cycling moderate-intensity continuous training, or strength training. By comparing
      the outcomes across these three groups, the investigators will be able to confirm if short
      intervals of high-intensity exercise can elicit both cardiorespiratory and muscular benefits.

      This work will demonstrate that older adults can improve their cardiovascular health and
      muscular strength with a single exercise strategy. Establishing in detail the cardiovascular
      and muscular benefits of this exercise can lead to the implementation of new and improved
      exercise guidelines for cardiovascular health and reduced physical disability in older
      adults. Incidentally, it will also provide a framework for future studies to investigate the
      importance of intensity in exercise. At the end of this study the investigators will be able
      to disseminate a new evidence-based exercise protocol that will address a significant barrier
      to healthy aging.
    
  