
    
      Disparities in cardiovascular disease (CVD) morbidity and mortality among African-Americans
      (AAs) persist despite advances in risk factor identification and evidence-based management
      strategies. Studies suggest risk factor reduction, such as obesity treatment, positively
      attenuates the mortality disparity between AAs and other racial/ethnic groups. Closing the
      CVD disparity gap may require attention to more proximal causes of CVD that lower risk
      factors, including cardiovascular health behaviors such as dietary intake and physical
      activity. Cardiovascular-related health behaviors are directly correlated with socioeconomic
      status, and thus, populations with lower socioeconomic status are more likely to experience
      disparate health outcomes. One particularly important health behavior known to reduce CVD
      risk, but also with culturally specific influences and dynamics, is dietary behavior. Factors
      such as food access, decreased nutritional awareness, and cultural preference are significant
      contributors to dietary behaviors and lower dietary quality. Given that lower dietary quality
      is reported among AAs, it is important to understand how these other factors may influence AA
      dietary behaviors and decisions. Among dietary behaviors, cooking behavior is identified as
      an important way to lower sodium intake and daily calories as well as to improve fiber
      intake. Cooking activity among AAs has been reported as lower than other racial/ethnic
      groups. Determinants of cooking among AAs have not been fully explored in the literature.
      Qualitative studies suggest demographic variables related to employment, number of family
      members, as well as psychosocial variables related to social support and norms may have a
      role. Limited cooking intervention studies, which have included AAs, suggest improved
      outcomes related to diet, including DASH scores, but impact on home cooking behavior during
      or after a cooking intervention is not known, because self-reported confidence and/or dietary
      quality variables have been the primary outcomes reported. Furthermore, outcomes of these
      studies and suggested related factors to home cooking have not been measured against
      feasibility measures for delivering the intervention in a community setting.

      This study will occur in two phases: First phase consists of a focus group discussion on
      dietary behaviors with community members and the second phase consists of the dietary
      behavior intervention delivered in a community setting, clinical examination, survey and
      biomarker data collection.The primary objective of this study is to explore feasibility
      measures, facilitators and barriers related to cooking and cooking frequency among an AA
      adult population at risk for CVD following participation in a cooking intervention.

      Secondary objectives are to explore relationships between feasibility measures, especially in
      relation to participant burden, cooking frequency, facilitators and barriers and factors
      suggested from current literature as related to cooking at home. These include 1)
      psychosocial factors, social support, social network diversity, perceived stress on cooking
      behaviors, 2) lifestyle behaviors: sleep, physical activity, 3) built environment factors.
    
  