
    
      Preterm rupture of the membranes (PROM) is the leading identifiable cause of prematurity and
      accounts for about one-third of all preterm deliveries and 18-20% of perinatal deaths in the
      USA. When PROM occurs at very early gestational ages, the clinician must make a decision
      whether to attempt to prolong the pregnancy or whether to recommend prompt delivery. Both
      approaches carry substantial risk. The strategy of continuing the pregnancy is commonly
      called "expectant management." During expectant management, gestational age steadily
      increases, and the balance naturally shifts toward favoring delivery. Once the gestational
      age reaches 34 weeks, the risk of lethal or permanent sequelae of prematurity or minimal, so
      most clinicians agree that delivery is warranted. Despite an attempt at expectant management,
      the majority of patients with PROM will be delivered within the first week or so.
      Unfortunately, no intervention other than antibiotic prophylaxis or corticosteroids have been
      shown to prolong latency or reduce neonatal morbidity after PROM. Recent evidence suggests
      that prophylactic administration of progesterone medications may reduce the risk of preterm
      delivery in women with certain risk factors, notably those with a history of a prior preterm
      delivery and those with a shortened cervix discovered by ultrasound examination. Clearly,
      women with PROM are at very high risk of preterm delivery, so there is a pressing need to
      study whether 17 hydroxyprogesterone caproate (17P) is effective after PROM. Progesterone
      might be beneficial after PROM both because it tends to promote uterine quiescence by
      suppressing the formation of myometrial gap junctions and because it has anti-inflammatory
      properties, suppressing the production of inflammatory cytokines and thereby inhibiting
      cervical ripening. Inflammation is a major pathway leading to preterm labor, cervical
      dilation & preterm delivery. 17P would seem to be like an ideal candidate for prolongation of
      pregnancy after PROM.

      This is a double-blinded, placebo-controlled, multicenter, randomized clinical trial of 17P
      versus placebo. The primary outcome measure will be the percentage of each group reaching
      either a gestational age of 34w0d or documentation of fetal lung maturity at 32w0d to 33w6d.
      Secondary outcomes will include the latency period for each group and the percentage of
      newborns in each group who have major neonatal morbidity or death.
    
  