
    
      This study will provide preliminary evaluation of the following:

        1. Further characterization of the efficacy of FEAST and the safety of the treatment.

             1. The primary efficacy measure will be the 24-item Hamilton Rating Scale for
                Depression. The changes in these scores from before to immediately following the
                treatment course (typically after 4 weeks) will be compared in patients treated
                with the FEAST methodology and matched to nonrandomized patients at our facilities
                who were treated with conventional ECT methods (ultrabrief right unilateral [RUL]
                ECT).

             2. Acute and subacute cognitive side effects following FEAST will be assessed with a
                brief neuropsychological battery. The primary acute measures will be the time to
                return of orientation following seizure induction. The primary subacute measures
                will be assessment of retrograde amnesia for autobiographical information. The
                neuropsychological measures will be compared in the patients treated with the FEAST
                methodology (under this IDE) and matched (but nonrandomized) patients who are
                treated with conventional ECT methods (also covered under this IDE).

             3. Safety will also be determined by examining the number and frequency of serious
                adverse advents and adverse events.

        2. Characterization of the focal nature of the seizure onset with FEAST and RUL ECT. We
           will use two main methods to address the issue of focality.

             1. Resting state fMRI before and after a course of FEAST (or conventional RUL ECT). We
                will address whether FEAST causes changes in hyper connected prefrontal cortical
                subcortical networks, and whether such an effect is more restricted to prefrontal
                cortex with FEAST relative to conventional RUL ECT.

             2. Peri-ictal EEG acquired immediately before, during and immediately after the FEAST
                seizure. We will acquire this in all patients at all treatment sessions. Again, for
                comparison, we will use identical EEG acquisition methods in patients treated with
                conventional RUL ECT.
    
  