
    
      This was a single-blind randomized controlled trial comparing the effect of AHT versus AHT
      associated with PFM contraction in incontinent women. The study was approved by the Research
      Ethics of Santa Catarina State University (number 3.712.850) and each participating provided
      the written informed consent signed. Women were randomly assigned to either an AHT group or
      the AHT associated with PFM contraction (AHT + PFMC) group. The first group underwent a
      hypopressive exercise program that does not stimulate the PFM contraction, while the other
      group receives the AHT associated with PFM contraction stimulated by the physiotherapist
      during the sessions. Following eligibility screening by the research, the women were
      allocated in an of the two groups. Group allocation results were concealed by opaque, sealed
      envelopes with serial numbers, and the participants were assigned at the second visit by
      opening envelops in a sequential manner, after their eligibility was assessed at the first
      visit. Study investigators were blinded to treatment allocation. Participants underwent a
      five weeks intervention after the first evaluation, and the final evaluation occurred one
      week later on a date according to the participant availability.

      The first three sessions were designated to learn how to perform the exercises and your
      variations correctly were part of the five weeks intervention. The intervention was performed
      in a forty-minute training session in two-week meetings during five consecutive weeks. All
      women included in this trial, independently of the group, received standardized lifestyle
      advice including, when appropriate, instructions about weight loss, constipation, hydration
      and the avoidance of heavy lifting. It is very important to emphasize that the time dedicated
      to performing the daily exercises was similar. The therapist applying the protocol was
      appropriately trained especially for the trial and it was not the same professional who
      conducted the evaluations.
    
  