
    
      Leprosy is still a common medical problem in many countries including Bangladesh, and
      currently there are at least 3500 leprosy patients in this country at risk of ENL reaction,
      which is a distressing complication of Multibacillary (MB) leprosy liable to result in
      permanent disability if not well treated. The drug of choice is either prednisolone ( which
      often causes adverse effects especially with prolonged use) or thalidomide which is not
      available in Bangladesh.Clofazimine in high doses is recommended as an alternative but
      supplies are difficult to obtain. Hence the need for an alternative drug which could be used
      as a steroid sparing agent or an alternative to steroids in ENL reaction. Montelukast is a
      leukotriene inhibitor already available on the open market in this country as an
      immunomodulator, and a small clinical trial with zafirlukast ( very similar drug) suggested
      that drugs in this group may be effective for ENL.

      This is a phase two trial to assess the safety and efficacy of montelukast as an alternative
      or supplementarry treatment for ENL reaction.

      Eligible patients presenting to one of the participating hospitals with ENL reaction will be
      randomly allocated to one of three groups to receive prednisolone only or prednisolone plus
      montelukast or montelukast alone. Any patients who have major contra-indications to steroids
      will be put into a separate observational group and receive montelukast only.

      Drug regimens are prednisolone starting at 40 mg od nd tapered over 12 weeks. Montelukast
      10mg od for 16 weeks.

      The patients will be monitored weekly for 8 weeks then monthly for 4 months.

      At least 20 patients will be enrolled in each group.

      The patients will be closely observed for adverse effects, and any who deteriorate will
      receieve additional steroid according to the protocol. Any who develop new nerve function
      impairment will be removed from the trial and given a full course of prednisolone.

      Analysis will be done on an intention to treat basis and will look for any statistically
      significant difference in ENL score at 2 weeks, 12 weeks and 24 weeks, or a difference in the
      number of patients who develop new nerve function impairment, as well as the incidence and
      severity of any adverse effects in each group.
    
  