
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      1. To evaluate the feasibility of adding daratumumab to DA-EPOCH by assessing the percentage
      of PBL patients who complete ≥3 cycles of study treatment per protocol.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        1. To estimate the complete response (CR) rate as defined by the 2017 RECIL Criteria in HIV
           positive and HIV negative patients with plasmablastic lymphoma treated with daratumumab
           and DA-EPOCH.

        2. To evaluate the safety of dose-adjusted EPOCH with daratumumab as assessed by the NCI
           CTCAE version 5.0.

        3. To estimate the overall survival (OS), progression free survival (PFS), and event free
           survival (EFS) at 1 year.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

        1. To explore the relationship of tumor characteristics as determined by
           immunohistochemistry (IHC) panels and fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) and
           clinical outcomes.

        2. To assess the relationship between EBV-tumor association and EBV plasma copy number and
           to assess any prognostic significance of clearance of viral DNA from plasma during or at
           the end of therapy

        3. To determine the feasibility of identifying circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) as reflected
           in plasma DNA mutation panels or clonal immunoglobulin DNA and to and to assess any
           prognostic significance of clearance of tumor DNA from plasma during therapy.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive daratumumab intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, and 15 of cycles 1-3, and on
      day 1 of cycles 4-6. Patients also receive etoposide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, and
      vincristine sulfate IV continuous over 96 hours on days 1-4, prednisone orally (PO) on days
      1-5, and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day 5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to
      6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 2
      years.
    
  