
    
      Recent studies indicate that anti-factor-Xa inhibition with low-dose rivaroxaban may have a
      role in the reduction of ischemic recurrences in patients with atherosclerotic disease
      manifestations.

      However, although the introduction of newer antithrombotic strategies has been associated
      with a reduction in ischemic recurrences in high-risk patients, these have been consistently
      associated with an increase in bleeding complications. These have been observed particularly
      with the combination of an oral anticoagulant agent, including low-dose rivaroxaban, with
      standard DAPT, also known as "triple therapy". Observations from laboratory and clinical
      studies suggest that in the presence of effective blockade of other pathways triggering
      thrombotic complications aspirin may not offer added antithrombotic effects but contribute to
      the increased bleeding. These observations have set the basis for a large number of clinical
      outcomes studies evaluating whether dropping aspirin in the presence of more potent and
      effective blockade of other pathways triggering thrombosis has a better safety profile
      without a tradeoff in efficacy. Amongst these strategies, the use of low-dose rivaroxaban in
      adjunct to a P2Y12 inhibitor, also known as dual therapy, has been proposed. This approach
      may be of potential benefit to reduce atherothrombotic complications in high-risk patients
      following an acute coronary event. On the other hand, regimens with more modest
      antithrombotic effects compared with a combination of low-dose rivaroxaban and a P2Y12
      receptor inhibitor such as low-dose rivaroxaban alone or in combination with aspirin may be
      more suitable in more stabilized patients.

      To date there is very little data, and not conducted in human subjects, on the interplay
      between anti-Xa blockade with low-dose rivaroxaban and antiplatelet therapies, and in
      particular how this affects profiles of platelet reactivity and thrombin generation. Given
      the potential role for the use of low-dose rivaroxaban for the prevention of ischemic
      recurrences in patients with atherothrombotic disease manifestations, including coronary
      artery disease (CAD) and peripheral arterial disease (PAD), the study team proposes a
      prospective pharmacodynamic (PD) investigation assessing the impact of low-dose rivaroxaban
      when used in combination with antiplatelet treatment regimens commonly used in clinical
      practice.
    
  