
    
      The use of antibiotic prophylaxis to prevent distant site infections (DSI) from oral
      pathogens remains a controversial issue in clinical practice. Little is known about the
      incidence, nature, and duration (IND) of bacteremia resulting from dental extractions or
      tooth brushing, either in the presence or absence of prophylactic antibiotic coverage. The
      purpose of this prospective, randomized, clinical study of 300 subjects is to characterize
      the bacteremia resulting from a highly invasive (single extraction) dental office procedure
      and a minimally invasive and naturally occurring source of bacteremia (i.e., tooth brushing).
      Subjects will be randomized into three equal groups: extraction with amoxicillin, extraction
      with placebo, and oral hygiene. The major goals are to: 1) improve our understanding of the
      IND of bacteremias from 10 specific oral pathogens (S. mitis, S. sanguis, S. oralis, S.
      intermedius, S. mutans, S. salivarius, F. nucleatum, A. Actinomycetemcomitans, E. corrodens
      and P. gingivalis) that have been reported to cause DSI; 2) measure the effect of the
      American Heart Association's guidelines for amoxicillin prophylaxis on the IND of bacteremia
      resulting from a single dental extraction. Blood for aerobic and anaerobic cultures will be
      drawn at six time points before, during, and following these oral procedures. We will employ
      a highly sensitive broth-based culturing system (i.e., BACTEC) and improve the specificity of
      the BACTEC results with the use of PCR sequence analysis. Detailed clinical information on
      the extent of disease in and around the involved teeth will determine the significance of
      local disease factors on the IND of the bacteremia from oral pathogens. Data from this study
      should have implications regarding future guidelines and standards of care concerning
      antibiotic prophylaxis for individuals currently felt to be at risk for DSI.
    
  