
    
      Subjective cognitive decline (SCD), the self-reported perception of memory or cognitive
      problems, is receiving increasing attention as a risk factor for the development of
      Alzheimer's disease (AD). Since SCD manifests before the onset of clinical impairment, it
      might be the optimal stage/window of time at which to intervene with preventative therapies
      for AD and age-related dementia before the progressive neurological loss and irreversible
      cognitive impairment.

      Recently, mind-body interventions have demonstrated their potential in preventing cognitive
      decline. Nevertheless, these mind-body therapies encompass a family of complex practices,
      each with different characteristics and focus. Therefore, they may be associated with
      different mechanisms and treatment effects. Baduanjin (BDJ) is an innovative and simple
      mind-body exercise consisting of eight simple movements that can be easily practiced at home
      with video guidance, thereby making it a more suitable option for older adults with cognitive
      decline than other more complex exercises. In a previous study, the investigators found that
      BDJ significantly improved memory and executive function, resting state functional
      connectivity of the hippocampus and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and grey matter volume of
      the medial temporal area and putamen in older adults. In addition, the investigators found
      that BDJ could produce significantly greater cognitive function improvement, as measured by
      the Wechsler Memory Scale (WMS) sub-score, and more extensive grey matter brain volume
      changes at medial temperal lobe and putamen. A more recent pilot study showed that, compared
      to walking and health education, six months of BDJ significantly improved cognitive function
      in patients with MCI. These findings provide a solid foundation for the current application.

      This proposal aims to investigate 1) the preventative effect of longitudinal BDJ on cognitive
      decline, 2) the modulation effect of BDJ on resting state functional connectivity of the
      hippocampus and bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and 3) the modulation effect of BDJ
      on brain morphometry in individuals with SCD as compared to controls. The investigators
      believe that this study will 1) significantly improve the prevention of MCI and AD and
      directly benefit patients suffering from these highly prevalent disorders, 2) enhance the
      investigators' understandings of the neurobiology through which mind-body interventions
      affect cognition and health, and 3) advance the investigators' understandings of the
      pathophysiology and development of SCD, AD, and age-related dementia.
    
  