
    
      Children across the United States are insufficiently physically active. In response, numerous
      physical activity (PA) interventions have been developed and tested, the majority within the
      school setting. Unfortunately, these have resulted in limited, if any impact on children's
      PA. The investigators feel that this absence of effect stems from a lack of tailoring at the
      school level and a resulting lack in institutionalization. To address the latter issue, the
      investigators feel that it is important to leverage existing resources and capitalize on
      existing policies. The state of South Carolina has instituted the role of "Physical Activity
      Coordinators" to promote PA among students across and beyond the school day. However, while
      these positions are mandated by state law, the individuals in these positions often lack the
      training and support to maximize their impact. Our long-term goal is to develop best
      practices to inform the national movement to train school PA Coordinators to deliver a
      Comprehensive School Physical Activity Program (CSPAP) within schools that can be
      disseminated across the country. The objectives of the current application are to: 1) modify
      and expand existing CSPAP training curricula for PA Coordinators; 2) deliver the enhanced PA
      Coordinator training in our pilot schools; 3) conduct process evaluation on the
      implementation of a CSPAP by the PA Coordinators, and 4) evaluate the effectiveness of the
      trainings to increase children's objectively measured PA. The goal of the proposed study is
      to determine the acceptability, feasibility, and effectiveness of properly train PA
      Coordinators to promote PA in elementary school children. This goal will be achieved through
      the following aims: AIM 1: Develop an enhanced CSPAP training course and resource toolkit for
      PA Coordinators. AIM 2: Determine the acceptability/feasibility of the enhanced PA
      coordinator training and the implementation of a Comprehensive School Physical Activity
      Program in an elementary school setting. AIM 3: Determine the effectiveness of trained PA
      coordinators to increase objectively measured PA in elementary school youth. the
      investigators will randomize four schools to receive the PA Coordinator training (n=2) or
      continue standard practice (n=2). A comprehensive process and impact evaluation will be
      conducted to determine acceptability of the intervention, factors influencing implementation
      fidelity/dose, and the effectiveness of the PA Coordinators to increase physical activity
      measured via accelerometry in children.
    
  