
    
      (A) Background & Clinical Need

      Delirium is commonly encountered in palliative care with a prevalence of between 26-74% and
      rising to as high as 88% nearer the end of life (2). It negatively impacts patient care and
      leads to greater morbidity and mortality (3). There are 3 sub-types of delirium -
      hyperactive, mixed and hypoactive (4) with majority of well-designed studies in palliative
      care focusing on the management of delirium as a whole (5). However, recently published
      literature suggests that these delirium subtypes appear to have different trajectories and
      are also generally treated differently (6).

      Overall, the management of delirium in palliative care remains controversial. Agar had shown
      in a randomised controlled trial that supportive care may be superior to the use of
      anti-psychotics, even though the patients in Agar's study were only 'mildly' delirious and
      the overall doses of anti-psychotics used was lower than compared to common practice (9).
      Other studies have shown the benefits of anti-psychotics like haloperidol, olanzapine and
      aripiprazole in the management of delirium (10,11).

      Hui et al was the only study which looked at the management of hyperactive delirium in the
      palliative care setting (7). Patients with hyperactive delirium exhibit restlessness,
      agitation and even aggression towards their loved ones and to healthcare providers caring for
      them (8).

      To date, there have not been any multi-centre, randomised-controlled trial which has
      addressed the effectiveness of oral Haloperidol vs Olanzapine in the management of
      hyperactive delirium in the palliative care setting.

      (B) Specific Aims

      The investigators aim to study the effectiveness of Olanzapine vs Haloperidol in the
      management of hyperactive delirium in patients with advanced cancer in 3 different settings.

      The primary outcome is the change in Richmond Agitation and Sedation Scale (RASS) scores
      among patients in each treatment group at 8 hours after the administration of Haloperidol or
      Olanzapine as measured using the Richmond Agitation and Sedation Scale (RASS).

      The secondary outcome is the change in Richmond Agitation and Sedation Scale (RASS) score at
      24, 48 and 72 hours with the use of either Haloperidol or Olanzapine required.

      The mean doses of Haloperidol and Olanzapine used as well as the doses of rescue Midazolam
      required as well as side-effects of the study medications, survival after enrolment into
      study will also be studied.

      (C) Methods

      Study Design

      The investigators aim to conduct a multi-centre, randomised-controlled, open-label trial
      (Acute Hospital Palliative Care Unit, Palliative Care Unit in Community Hospital and
      Inpatient Hospice) comparing the use of haloperidol vs olanzapine in a 1:1 ratio in advanced
      cancer patients with hyperactive delirium. Patients will be followed up for 3 days (72 hours)
      with regards to the response to study medications as well as other factors and outcomes as
      described below. Mortality data will also be collected.

      The study will be conducted in 3 different Palliative Care Centres in Singapore - 1. Tan Tock
      Seng Hospital Acute Palliative Care Unit, 2. Palliative Care Unit in St Andrews' Community
      Hospital and 3. Dover Park Hospice. This is to increase the pragmatic applicability and
      external validity in this study to different palliative care units in Singapore and
      internationally.

      Informed consent will be taken from the patient's legal representative according to the HBR
      Act as the patients recruited will be delirious and therefore will not able to provide
      informed consent adequately.
    
  