
    
      Cognitive behavioral therapies (CBT) that include exposure to trauma memories are considered
      first line treatments for PTSD. However, approximately 1/3 of patients who complete CBT for
      PTSD do not achieve remission, and hyperarousal symptoms including sleep disturbances are
      less responsive to CBT than other PTSD symptoms. Despite these limitations, CBT outcomes are
      generally superior to outcomes of pharmacotherapy. It is, therefore, imperative to identify
      strategies to improve effectiveness of treatments for PTSD, particularly hyperarousal
      symptoms.

      Disturbed sleep is common in PTSD. Studies of PTSD and anxiety and mood disorders have shown
      that impaired sleep before psychotherapy predicted less favorable responses. Sleep has been
      implicated in learning processes that are a key to adaptive processing of trauma memories
      such as extinction learning and generalization of extinction. Our recent PTSD study showed
      that preserved slow-wave sleep (SWS), less increase in rapid-eye-movement (REM) density, and
      reduced wake after sleep onset (WASO) during sleep following an evening session of written
      narrative exposure (WNE: writing about one's traumatic experience) was associated with
      greater PTSD symptom reduction. These findings suggest that increased nocturnal arousal
      compromises sleep's benefits to emotional processing of trauma memories. Identifying
      strategies to reduce nocturnal arousal and promote sleep characteristics associated with
      emotional adaptation could enhance PTSD treatment outcomes.

      Orexins are neuropeptides implicated in regulating both sleep/wakefulness and emotional
      behaviors, including anxiety. Inhibiting the orexin system promoted slow-wave patterns and
      reduced wake in animal models. The first orexin receptor antagonist (suvorexant) was recently
      approved for treatment of insomnia. Suvorexant reduced WASO and latency to persistent sleep
      and increased SWS and REM sleep in humans with insomnia. In addition, administrations of
      orexin-A increased anxiety-like behaviors in rodents, and administrations of an orexin
      receptor-1 antagonist to mice facilitated extinction of conditioned fear, an animal model of
      recovery from PTSD and anxiety disorders.

      Objective: To examine effects of blocking the orexin system with suvorexant after WNE on
      sleep, PTSD symptoms, and intersession habituation.

      The investigators will utilize the WNE paradigm in which participants with PTSD write about
      their traumatic experiences in the evening and morning sessions with intervening sleep.
      Suvorexant or placebo will be administered after the evening WNE, and sleep will be recorded.

      The investigators hypothesize that 1) Suvorexant will promote the sleep characteristics that
      have been associated with more favorable treatment outcomes and emotional adaptation (e.g.,
      increased SWS and REM sleep, reduced WASO) compared with placebo; 2) Participants given
      suvorexant will have greater PTSD symptom reduction and intersession habituation indexed by
      reduction of maximum pulse rate compared with participants given placebo; and 3) The greater
      PTSD symptom reduction and intersession habituation in the suvorexant group will be accounted
      for by effects of the medication on sleep.
    
  