
    
      Microincision vitrectomy surgery (MIVS) has largely replaced use of conventional, 20-gauge
      vitrectomy, offering more rapid visual recovery, decreased postoperative pain and
      inflammation, and reduced surgical time with use of smaller diameter instruments1. Most
      recently, 27 gauge vitrectomy instrumentation has been introduced2, offering an additional
      small gauge option to the currently available 23, 25, or 25+ gauge systems.

      Initial experience with small gauge MIVS yielded mixed results, with early reports noting
      increased rates of wound-related postoperative complications including hypotony, choroidal
      detachments, endophthalmitis, and sclerotomy-related retinal tears3,4. However, with more
      experience and instrument modifications, outcomes with MIVS improved1,3. In a 2010 Ophthalmic
      Technology Assessment report by the American Academy of Ophthalmology, outcomes of MIVS were
      found comparable to that of 20 gauge vitrectomy benchmarks5.

      Prior studies have established that a two-stage, angled incision results in improved wound
      integrity with 23, 25, and 25+ MIVS systems6,7, helping to prevent complications such as
      post-operative endophthalmitis and hypotony. However, in the two clinical series describing
      outcomes of 27 gauge MIVS, a one-stage, perpendicular wound construction was performed
      without complication in a series of 31 patients2,8. Thus far, direct comparison between wound
      construction techniques (one-stage, perpendicular or two-stage, angled) has not been
      evaluated.

      The purpose of this study is to prospectively compare clinical outcomes using straight,
      one-stage (perpendicular) versus angled, two-stage trocar insertion during 27 gauge minimally
      invasive vitrectomy surgery (MIVS). The design of the study will be a randomized, clinical
      trial. Primary outcomes will be sclerotomy suture rates and incidence of suture blebs at the
      end of 27 gauge MIVS surgery for epiretinal membrane and macular pucker indications (no air
      or gas tamponade). Secondary endpoints will include rate of postoperative wound-related
      complications such as hypotony, choroidal detachments, endophthalmitis, and
      sclerotomy-related retinal tears with a minimum of 30 days follow-up.
    
  