
    
      In the first place the Apgar-score helps to evaluate the postnatal adaptation of the newborn
      and is used as an index for resuscitative interventions. However, it has been shown in the
      past that the score has its limits and may be influenced by several factors such as the
      variability of the examiner, drugs, parental age, neurological impairment of the child as
      well as premature delivery. Previous studies have proven, however, that the evaluation of the
      infant's condition with the conventional Apgar-score is affected due to non-uniform
      definitions.

      For this, an explanation might be that on the one hand the inaccuracy of the score is based
      on missing guidelines for the assessment of the score in premature infants. Both, muscle tone
      and reflexes of extremely premature infants are physiologically more immature than they are
      in term newborns. In conclusion, healthy premature infants often achieve a lower Apgar-score
      than their term counterparts. However, this is rather an expression of their immaturity than
      a sign for postnatal depression.

      Another reason for the inaccuracy of the score might have its origin in the limited
      comparability and validity of the Apgar-score when applied in resuscitated newborns. Until
      now there is no consensus how to assess the condition of the newborn under resuscitation,
      since the individual characteristics composing the score are affected by the resuscitation
      itself. For example, heart frequency and skin colour are improved by sufficient ventilation.
      So far there are no regulations on how this fact should be considered while assessing the
      score. A description of the infant's condition without interventions respectively with
      interruption of the interventions applied would be in contrast to Apgar's intention to have a
      score "which could be determined easily without interfering with the care of the infant". The
      description of the condition independently of the interventions applied offers a practicable
      alternative. By using this method the resuscitation will not be interrupted and the score
      will not express the efforts of the infant but describe its condition, independently of the
      requirements needed to achieve this condition.

      To validate the accuracy of the specified version of the Apgar-score to predict neonatal
      mortality and long term outcome in preterm infants, the multicenter TEST-Apgar study has been
      performed recently.

      The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) is also aware of the problem concerning the
      description of resuscitated newborns. As a solution, it was suggested to use an expanded
      Apgar-score reporting form that accounts for concurrent resuscitative interventions
      (AAP-Score). This way the infant's condition can be estimated and documented more easily.
      Although the AAP-Score has been suggested 4 years ago, data on the predictive reliability are
      not available yet. This aspect regarding the neonatal mortality of premature infants has also
      been analyzed in the TEST-Apgar study. The results show that the specified Apgar-Score should
      be used in combination with the AAP-Score in the future to appraise the condition of
      premature infants. Its predictive value regarding the neonatal mortality of premature infants
      is very good. Detailed results will be published soon.

      The present study analyzes the validity of the specified Apgar- and the AAP- Scores in
      asphyxiated infants >37 weeks of gestation undergoing resuscitation. Since the Apgar-score
      presents an index for the postnatal adaption to the extra-uterine life, reflects the
      efficiency of resuscitative interventions and also serves as an inclusion criteria for
      specific types of therapy (e.g. hypothermia therapy), it is necessary, to standardise the use
      of the Apgar-score and improve its prognostic value.
    
  