
    
      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      There were two specific aims. The first was to test the hypothesis that controlled physical
      training (PT) reduced blood pressure, at rest and in reaction to forehead cold and exercise
      stressors, in 8-9 year olds who were high in both blood pressure and body fatness. Subjects
      were divided equally on gender and blood pressure and body fatness. Subjects were divided
      equally on gender and ethnicity (black/white). Both resting and reactive blood pressure were
      correlated with left ventricular mass and were predictive of future essential hypertension.
      The underlying hemodynamic regulators of blood pressure, cardiac output and the total
      peripheral resistance, were measured with impedance cardiography to explore hemodynamic
      mechanisms through which training had a favorable influence on blood pressure and left
      ventricular mass.

      The second aim tested the hypothesis that physical training reduced percent body fat, as
      measured with dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA). Children above the 70th percentile in
      both blood pressure and fatness were randomly assigned, within ethnicity and gender, to a
      physical training or waiting list control group. After the physical training group underwent
      four months of training, all subjects were retested and these data were used to test the
      primary hypotheses. The initial control subjects then performed four months of physical
      training, after which they were retested. The data from this second phase were added to the
      data of the initial physical training group to explore interactions of training with gender
      and ethnicity. The initial physical training group was brought back four months after
      cessation of training to see if the changes elicited by the training were reversible. To
      document the stimulation provided by the training, heart rate was monitored during training
      sessions. To observe the time course of changes between the full lab testing sessions,
      skinfolds and resting blood pressure were measured monthly. Diet and free living physical
      activity were assessed to help explain changes in body composition. Aerobic fitness was
      measured with treadmill tests of maximal oxygen consumption.
    
  