
    
      The drug being tested in this study is called TAK-058. TAK-058 is being tested to evaluate
      its effects on P50 auditory gating in people who have stable schizophrenia. This study will
      look at the effect of TAK-058 on P50 auditory gaiting of people with schizophrenia.

      This study will be performed in a sequential manner progressing from an optimization
      (screening) phase in healthy volunteers, to screening of subjects with schizophrenia in part
      1, to a 3 period crossover treatment phase in part 2. In the screening phase, 15 healthy
      volunteers will be enrolled to optimize the settings for the measurement of
      neurophysiological markers prior to any dosing in participants with schizophrenia. If
      optimization is not reached, the study will be terminated. In part 1 participants with
      schizophrenia will receive 2 P50 electroencephalography (EEG) sessions. A measurable deficit
      in auditory P50 gating S2/S1 ratio greater than (>) 0.5 will be established during this
      phase. The intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) will be calculated for the P50 auditory
      gating S2/S1 ratios collected during the 2 sessions. If these P50 auditory gating S2/S1 ratio
      measurements are found to have at least a fair level of agreement within individuals (that
      is, ICC > 0.5), part 2 of the study will begin. 12 participants demonstrating P50 impairment
      in part 1, will be randomly assigned (by chance, like flipping a coin) to one of the six
      treatment crossover sequences -which will remain undisclosed to the patient and study doctor
      during the study (unless there is an urgent medical need):

        -  Placebo + TAK-058 + Ondansetron

        -  TAK-058 + Placebo + Ondansetron

        -  Ondansetron + Placebo + TAK-058

        -  Placebo + Ondansetron + TAK-058

        -  TAK-058 + Ondansetron + Placebo

        -  Ondansetron + TAK-058 + Placebo

      All participants will be asked to take one dose of capsule, followed 1 hour later by one dose
      of solution on Day 1 of each intervention period.

      This single-center trial will be conducted in the United States. The overall time to
      participate in this study is approximately 118 days. Participants will make be confined to
      the clinic for 3 days (Day -1 through Day 2 of each period), a final visit for schizophrenic
      participants in Part 2 after receiving TAK-058, on Day 2 of Period 3 (no final visit for
      optimization phase healthy participants), and a telephonic follow up assessment 21 days after
      last dose of study drug.
    
  