
    
      In North America, AMD is the leading cause of irreversible vision loss in those over 65 years
      of age.1 Vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A) is a potent promoter of angiogenesis
      and vascular permeability and its role in the pathogenesis of neovascular AMD is well
      recognized.2,3 The advent of VEGF inhibitors such Ranibizumab (Lucentis; Genentech Inc.) has
      revolutionized the management of neovascular AMD. Ranibizumab is an intravitreally
      administered recombinant, humanized, monoclonal antibody antigen-binding fragment (Fab) that
      neutralizes all known active forms of VEGF-A. In the landmark phase III clinical studies
      MARINA, and ANCHOR, Ranibizumab injections were administered monthly over the course of 2
      years to eyes with subfoveal CNVMs secondary to AMD. Ranibizumab was shown to not only
      prevent loss of visual acuity (VA) but also improve VA on average in these patients. 4-6

      Despite the tremendous benefit of this treatment, the prospect of indefinitely adhering to
      the monthly treatment schedules of MARINA and ANCHOR has raised ocular and systemic safety
      concerns as well as convenience and cost issues for patient and physician alike. The
      identification of alternative dosing strategies capable of reducing the number of required
      anti-VEGF injections while still achieving favourable visual acuity outcomes has since been a
      subject of great interest. The current norm in clinical practice with Ranibizumab is to
      implement an 'initiation phase' followed by an individualized 'maintenance phase' that is
      modeled after one of two basic approaches: 'treat-and-observe' or 'treat-and-extend'. Both
      regimens are currently considered within the standard of clinical practice. 'Treat
      -and-observe' entails treatment and follow-up until the macula is free of exudation, with
      treatment thereafter only in the presence of recurrent exudation.7 Alternatively, in a
      treat-and-extend dosing strategy, intervals between treatments are extended as long as the
      macula remains dry.8 In the 2009 ASRS survey, 56% of physicians reported employing
      treat-and-observe and 44% reported employing treat-and-extend for their patients with
      neovascular AMD.9 In a study by Oubraham et al10 it was found that a treat-and-extend dosing
      regimen may yield greater gains in vision than treat-and-observe, albeit with a greater
      number of required injections.

      In a treat-and-extend dosing strategy, some patients may require frequent monthly injections
      to stabilize their disease, while others may demonstrate a more stable condition requiring
      infrequent treatments. Many clinicians who employ a treat-and-extend dosing regimen, do not
      extend their treatment intervals beyond 3 months. However, it is possible that the subgroup
      of patients on every three months 'treat-and-extend' dosing may represent a unique, stable
      population that would perform particularly well on a 'treat-and-observe' regimen.
    
  