
    
      HIV-infected individuals on long-term ART treatment are at increased risk for many diseases,
      particularly diabetes mellitus and coronary artery disease, which are more commonly
      associated with obesity and a sedentary lifestyle. As HIV patients are now living longer on
      effective treatment, a growing proportion are becoming overweight and obese, and the
      management of non-AIDS chronic diseases associated is emerging as a major challenge to
      clinicians and the health care system. Excess adiposity (i.e., being overweight or obese) and
      treated HIV infection are associated with strikingly similar alterations in inflammatory
      biomarkers and cellular immune function implicated in the pathogenesis of chronic diseases,
      but there are few data at present on whether the effects of obesity and treated HIV are
      synergistic or additive. In this study we will closely investigate the effects of adipose
      tissue on both the innate and cellular arms of the immune system, and the relationships
      between adiposity, immune function, and risk factors for metabolic and cardiovascular
      diseases.

      Heightened, chronic systemic inflammation is an important contributor to non-AIDS related
      morbidity and mortality among patients on ART, and treated HIV and obesity may promote
      increased metabolic and cardiovascular disease through similar mechanisms. Elevated serum
      highly-sensitive C-reactive protein (hsCRP; a more sensitive serum CRP assay used to measure
      inflammation), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and other innate immune-derived inflammatory markers are
      independently associated with increased risk of cardiovascular events, insulin resistance,
      and all-cause death among HIV-infected individuals. The etiology of this HIV-associated
      inflammation is not fully understood and likely multifactorial, but serum hsCRP and several
      proinflammatory cytokines (e.g., IL-6, TNF-α receptor 1) correlate with fat mass in
      HIV-infected adults, suggesting adipose tissue may have a role in modulating the inflammatory
      response.

      In addition to greater inflammation, abdominal obesity is associated with altered T cell
      function, characterized by increased circulating markers of cellular immune activation (e.g.,
      sCD25 and neopterin), and adipose tissue biopsies from obese individuals and animal models
      contain higher numbers of resident macrophages, T cells (particularly CD8+ cells) and reduced
      T-regulatory cells. Furthermore, adipokines (hormones produced by adipocytes), demonstrate a
      range of lymphocyte effects. Leptin, in particular, enhances expression of T cell activation
      markers after PHA stimulation, polarizes naïve CD4+ T cell proliferation towards the Th1
      phenotype, and promotes Th1 cytokine production. These in vitro data are consistent with
      obesity modulating T cell activation, at least in part through adipokine effects.

      The goal of this study is to understand the complex relationships between adipose tissue,
      innate and cellular immune activation, and metabolic and cardiovascular disease risk factors
      in persons on long-term antiretroviral therapy. Using the facilities and resources of the
      Vanderbilt Clinical Research Center, we will enroll an observational cohort to investigate
      the interactions of innate immune activation, metabolic and cardiovascular risk factors, and
      T cell activation among HIV-infected and uninfected adults with a range of body composition
      profiles from low adiposity (lean) to high adiposity (obese). The study groups will be
      comprised of 70 HIV-infected adults on ART with a range of body composition profiles from low
      adiposity (lean) to high adiposity (obese), and a control group of 30 overweight and obese
      uninfected individuals.

      Hypothesis 1: Increased adipose tissue promotes increased innate and cellular immune
      activation in HIV-infected individuals on long-term ART.

      Specific Aim 1a: To study the hypothesis that adipose tissue promotes innate immune
      activation in treated HIV by determining if serum leptin (a marker of adiposity) is
      positively associated with interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels, in addition to other inflammation
      biomarkers (including C-reactive protein), in HIV-infected persons on long-term ART with a
      range of body composition profiles from low adiposity (lean) to high adiposity (obese).

      Specific Aim 1b: To study the hypothesis that adipose tissue promotes cellular immune
      activation in treated HIV by determining if serum leptin is positively associated with the
      percentage of CD8+ T cells expressing CD38 and HLA-DR activation markers in HIV-infected
      persons on long-term ART.

      Hypothesis 2: Overweight and obese HIV-infected individuals on long-term ART have
      significantly greater markers of innate and cellular immune activation compared to uninfected
      individuals with equivalent adiposity.

      Specific Aim 2a: To determine if IL-6 serum levels, and other inflammation biomarkers, are
      significantly higher among overweight/obese HIV-infected persons compared to uninfected
      controls with equivalent adiposity.

      Specific Aim 2b: To determine if the percentage of CD38+ and HLA-DR+ CD8+ T cells is
      significantly higher among overweight/obese HIV-infected persons compared to uninfected
      controls with equivalent adiposity.
    
  