
    
      Hazardous drinking (i.e., a pattern of alcohol use that increases risk for adverse health
      consequences) and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) are highly prevalent and commonly
      co-occurring conditions that are associated with greater disability, mortality, and poor
      health outcomes as compared to either condition alone. More than 25% of U.S. adults endorse
      hazardous drinking, which is one of the leading causes of preventable death in the U.S. and
      globally. Among individuals who engage in hazardous drinking, the prevalence of PTSD is 27%
      (reflecting 5.81 million people) and individuals who experience PTSD symptoms are roughly
      three times more likely to endorse hazardous drinking compared to those without PTSD
      symptomatology. Hazardous drinking-PTSD comorbidity evince bidirectional and transactional
      effects between PTSD and the maintenance and/or exacerbation of alcohol use. Yet, no
      empirically supported "gold standard" treatments are available and the most promising
      interventions are marked by substantive attrition and small effect sizes. Therefore, it is
      important to consider malleable factors that underlie hazardous drinking-PTSD relations to
      inform personalized evidence-based interventions among this underserved population.

      A transdiagnostic factor for hazardous drinking and PTSD is anxiety sensitivity (AS). AS,
      defined as the fear of anxiety-related sensations and cognitions, has been positively related
      to hazardous drinking and coping-oriented drinking motives. Elevated AS has also been
      implicated in the development and maintenance of PTSD. AS may underlie (i.e., help explain)
      hazardous drinking-PTSD comorbidity by amplifying PTSD symptomatology and motivating drinking
      to down regulate such affect. Despite the efficacy of AS interventions for reducing hazardous
      drinking and PTSD symptoms, an integrated intervention to specifically target AS in the
      context of hazardous drinking and PTSD symptoms has not been developed or tested.
      Personalized feedback interventions (PFI) may help to address this gap as they have
      demonstrated efficacy in reducing hazardous drinking and alcohol-related consequences across
      various populations. PFI's target misperceptions regarding an individual's behaviors and
      actual normative behaviors, highlight consequences of these behaviors, and offer strategies
      for modifying them. Thus, PFIs are brief, cost-effective, easily disseminable, and clinically
      relevant given low treatment-seeking rates found among hazardous drinkers with PTSD.

      Concordant with NIAAA's 2017-2021 Strategic Plan, the objective of the present study is to
      assist on a randomized controlled trial (RCT) aimed at developing and testing the efficacy of
      a novel computer based PFI among hazardous drinkers with at least subclinical PTSD (i.e.,
      endorsing at least one symptom in each PTSD symptom cluster) and elevated AS. The objective
      of this proposal is to examine the feasibility, acceptability, and efficacy of this novel PFI
      on (1) primary outcomes including drinking motivational factors and alcohol-related behaviors
      and (2) secondary outcomes including changes in AS and PTSD, and (3) exploring theoretically
      relevant mediators/moderators. Follow-up assessments will occur at post-test, one-week, and
      one-month post-intervention. Hazardous drinkers with at least subclinical PTSD and elevated
      AS (N=100) recruited from the community will be randomly assigned to receive Alcohol-PTSD-PFI
      (AP-PFI) or an attention information control condition (C-PFI).

      The AP-PFI will focus on feedback about alcohol behavior in the context of PTSD symptoms, AS,
      and coping-oriented alcohol use, to address the following aims:

      Aim 1. Assist on evaluating the feasibility and acceptability of AP-PFI vs. C-PFI.

      Evaluate initial metrics of feasibility and efficacy focused on the following:

        1. Recruitment/retention rates throughout the duration of the study.

        2. Treatment acceptability at post-test, treatment utilization at one-week and one-month
           follow-up.

        3. Initial efficacy at post-test, one-week, and one-month follow-up.

      Aim 2. Assist on conducting a RCT to examine the efficacy of AP-PFI vs. C-PFI.

      At post-test, participants randomized to AP-PFI (vs. C-PFI) will report:

      H1A: Greater motivation/intention to reduce (i.e., from hazardous to non-hazardous) drinking.

      H1B: Lower levels of AS.

      At one-week and one-month follow-up, participants randomized to AP-PFI (vs. C-PFI) will
      evince:

      H2A: Greater change in rates from hazardous to non-hazardous drinking. H2B: Lower frequency
      and quantity of alcohol consumption and reduced negative consequences of drinking.

      H2C: Lower PTSD symptom severity.

      Exploratory Aim 3. Explore mediators and moderators. H4: Effects of AP-PFI (vs. C-PFI) on
      follow-up outcomes (H2A; H2B; H2C) will be mediated by: (1) motivation/intention to reduce
      drinking (H1A) and (2) lower levels of AS (H1B).

      H5: The effects of AP-PFI (vs. C-PFI) on post-test and one-week and one-month follow-up
      outcomes will be larger among female (relative to male) participants.
    
  