
    
      Testing for influenza is largely discretionary because most patients presenting with
      influenza-like illness (ILI) could be effectively and safely managed even when the diagnosis
      is not confirmed. So, it is unclear whether reduction in the risk of laboratory-confirmed
      influenza or mild ILI among vaccinated individuals is of much clinical significance. In
      contrast, hospitalization due to influenza or pneumonia is usually not as discretionary, and
      from both clinical and public health perspectives avoiding hospitalization is more important
      and relevant objective for influenza control than the mere reduction of laboratory-confirmed
      cases.

      Thus far there have been few observational studies that examined the effectiveness of the
      H1N1 vaccine against hospitalization, and most of them had significant limitations including
      small sample sizes, information limited to certain age groups (e.g., children) and the
      potential for selection and recall bias. Using data from a Scottish general practice sentinel
      surveillance network, Simpson et al reported that the adjuvanted GSK vaccine was 95%
      (76-100%) effective against laboratory-confirmed H1N1 infections, and 100% (∞-100%) effective
      against hospitalization for influenza and pneumonia. Unexpectedly, the vaccine was equally
      effective among 'high-risk' groups. Small number of cases limited the precision of these
      estimates; the above-mentioned estimate for vaccine effectiveness (VE) against
      hospitalization is based on a one case only, which is the reason for the wide confidence
      interval that is compatible with any VE estimate (∞-100%). A hospital-based case-control
      study from Spain showed that use of several pandemic vaccines was associated with 90%
      effectiveness in preventing laboratory-confirmed H1N1 infections among hospitalized patients.
      That study was not population-based and was limited by small number of fully-vaccinated
      subjects (only 7 subjects received a pandemic vaccine ≥ 7 days before symptom onset).

      Two Canadian studies examined the effectiveness of the GSK adjuvanted H1N1 vaccine: one was
      very small (28 cases) and was limited to children under 10 years. The study by Skowronski et
      al. that used data from the Canadian VE sentinel network did not examine VE against
      hospitalization and it, too, was very small.

      In the Canadian province of Manitoba, mass immunization against pandemic H1N1 commenced
      October 26th 2010 using primarily large scale vaccination clinics led by public health teams
      and lasted approximately 8 weeks. Initially, the Canadian-manufactured Arepanrix®, an
      AS03-adjuvanted split virion pandemic H1N1 vaccine (GlaxoSmithKline [GSK]), was used to
      vaccinate adults and children over 6 months of age. Later on, two nonadjuvanted vaccines,
      from CSL Limited and GSK, were offered to pregnant women and children over 10 years of age.
      The seasonal trivalent inactivated influenza vaccines (TIV)-Fluviral® (GSK) and Vaxigrip®
      (Sanofi Pasteur) - were less frequently administered.

      All vaccines were offered free of charge, but limited vaccine supply at campaign start
      necessitated the development of priority groups for early vaccination. The initial priority
      group in Manitoba included health care workers, Aboriginal persons, pregnant women, 6-60
      months-old children, individuals under 65 years with chronic medical conditions,
      immunocompromised individuals and residents of remote communities. On November 18,2010, the
      pandemic H1N1 vaccines were made available to the whole population.

      This study evaluates the effectiveness of the GSK adjuvanted and non-adjuvanted pH1N1
      vaccines used in Manitoba in preventing hospitalization and severe illness. The advantages of
      the proposed study over the existing literature are related to the availability of
      high-quality population-based health administrative databases that cover a well-defined
      population. The whole population of Manitoba is eligible and available for inclusion in the
      study, so selection bias is not a concern. Ascertainment of cases is virtually complete
      because all admitted influenza or pneumonia cases in the province are captured by the
      Hospital Abstract database. The availability of detailed histories of vaccination, through
      the unique Manitoba Immunization Registry eliminates recall bias, reduces vaccine use
      measurement errors (e.g., due to patient confusion about what vaccines were received) and
      permits detailed assessments of the effect of the timing of vaccination on the risk of
      hospitalization. These detailed analyses will be facilitated by the large sample size (40% of
      Manitoba's 1.2 million population were vaccinated).
    
  