
    
      When percutaneous radiological gastrostomy (PRG) first emerged as an alternative method to
      surgical or endoscopic techniques, gastropexy was considered an essential step. This consists
      of using sutures and "T-fasteners" to fix the anterior gastric wall to the anterior abdominal
      wall and many variations are described in the literature. It was postulated that this step is
      necessary to avoid tube misplacement and peritonitis caused by early leakage of gastric
      content around the site of tube insertion. It is still considered imperative in some groups
      of patients at high risk of gastric leakage (i.e. patients with ascites, steroid treatment,
      and/or severe malnourishment). However, in other patients its use has become subject of
      debate.

      Experiments with animal models have shown no evidence of gastric leakage following insertion
      of a 14 French tube, even when the tube is subsequently removed and the defect left
      unrepaired. Furthermore, several groups have had success without the use of gastropexy and
      some have described complications caused by performing this step such as peristomal
      infection, increased post-procedural pain, persistent leakage, and gastrocutaneous fistulas.
      Other large series of patients who underwent gastrostomy with gastropexy did not experience
      gastropexy-related complications, further complicating the matter. To date, the guidelines
      for transabdominal gastrostomy published by the Society of Interventional Radiology (SIR) and
      American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) acknowledge both techniques but have no
      official recommendation on the use of gastropexy reflecting the lack of clear evidence
      regarding advantage with or without its use.

      The investigators hypothesize that the use of gastropexy for PRG does not significantly
      decrease complications.

      The investigators also hypothesize that the use of gastropexy is associated with increased
      post procedural pain.

      At the investigators' institution (University Health Network) PRG without gastropexy is
      regularly performed first-line for gastrostomy. There is a high volume of requests for PRG
      and thus establishing which method is superior will help to reduce the number of
      complications and revisions. In doing so, the investigators hope to be able to establish an
      optimal evidence-based protocol for PRG for future patients as well as improving patient
      safety and satisfaction.
    
  