
    
      Mycobacterium tuberculosis (TB) remains the leading cause of death among persons living with
      Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (HIV/AIDS) in southern
      Africa. This syndemic places an overwhelming burden on healthcare workers and the health
      system. Drug-resistant TB remains a growing threat to public health despite advances in
      treatment and diagnosis over the past decade. South Africa has the world's highest rate of
      TB/HIV co-infection and ranks fourth worldwide for both multi-drug resistant (MDR) TB
      incidence and HIV prevalence. Treatment of MDR-TB, defined as resistance to isoniazid and
      rifampin, remains challenging and its treatment course complex. Success of second line
      treatment regimens is considerably less likely than first line treatment with significantly
      more adverse drug reactions (ADRs). Prospective cohort studies from South Africa report less
      than 50% treatment success (i.e. cure or completion) and significant differences in patients
      with and without HIV are noted. Differences in sex and gender as well as age are rarely
      evaluated. In addition to the management complexity and length of treatment, systems level
      factors such as access to care and healthcare capacity contribute to poorer treatment
      outcomes. Insufficient numbers of trained physicians capable and clinically competent to
      manage the challenges of integrated MDR-TB/HIV care are commonplace. These circumstances
      place a heavy burden on the most abundant healthcare resource in South Africa, the nurse.
      Nurses with proficiency in care models for both diseases are essential to improve treatment
      outcomes. The investigators experience dictates, however, that patients endure lengthy
      treatment with little assessment, support or guidance from nursing professionals due to a
      lack of training as well as lack of evidence-based interventions and delineated models of
      care for MDR-TB patients.

      Nurse case management (NCM) models in which a registered nurse facilitates and coordinates
      treatment plans to ensure that timely, evidence-based care is given improves treatment
      outcomes. Presently, there is little evidence to describe such models in TB/HIV co-infected
      patients globally, and specifically less evidence for MDR-TB/HIV in sub-Saharan Africa. Many
      studies, however, have demonstrated substantial improvements in disease outcomes utilizing
      nurse case managers. Complex diseases such as heart failure, diabetes, HIV and drug
      susceptible TB are among these. Substantial gaps remain, however, in the investigators
      understanding of the impact of such interventions among co-infected patients, the influence
      of such models among different age groups or the cost-benefit in under resourced settings.
      Prior studies provide strong evidence that interventions must be multi-faceted and foster
      system level approaches to improve treatment outcomes (i.e. NCM patient-centered care
      services coupled with systems level approaches to care coordination). The Chronic Care Model
      identifies essential elements of a health care system that encourage high-quality chronic
      disease care in such a systems approach. These elements provide the conceptual model and
      implementation structure for the proposed NCM plus health systems strengthening (i.e.
      NCM-plus) intervention, a multi-faceted health systems and patient-centered intervention to
      improve MDR-TB/HIV treatment outcomes. The proposed 5-year cluster randomized trial, will
      evaluate the NCM-plus intervention on MDR-TB treatment outcomes in South Africa, the
      epicenter of the MDR-TB/HIV epidemic.

      Primary Aim:

      To determine the impact of a NCM model (i.e. NCM-Plus) on MDR-TB outcomes in patients with
      and without HIV co-infection in South Africa through a cluster randomized trial.

      Hypothesis:

      Nurse case management (NCM) in intervention sites will increase MDR-TB cure and completion
      rates (i.e. treatment success) in comparison to usual care (UC), i.e. standardized
      programmatic management alone, in patients with and without HIV co-infection.

      Secondary Aims:

        1. To conduct sub-group analysis by a) HIV co-infection; b) sex and gender; and c) age

        2. To compare the frequency and time to identification of adverse drug events between
           intervention and control sites.

        3. To conduct a costing analysis and a cost-effectiveness evaluation of the intervention.
    
  