
    
      Smith-Lemli- Opitz syndrome (SLOS) is an autosomal recessive genetic condition caused by a
      deficiency of the enzyme 3beta-hydroxysterol delta(7)- reductase (DHCR7). DHCR7 is the final
      enzyme in the sterol synthetic pathway and converts 7- dehydrocholesterol (7DHC) to
      cholesterol. This results in low cholesterol and elevated 7DHC levels. SLOS has a wide
      phenotypic spectrum. Mildly affected individuals may have subtle dysmorphic features along
      with learning and behavioral disabilities. Typical clinical manifestations include
      microcephaly, ptosis, anteversion of the nostrils, micrognathia, high arched or cleft palate,
      congenital heart defects, clinodactyly, post- axial polydactyly, and 2-3 toe syndactyly. More
      severely affected individuals have multiple congenital anomalies, may be miscarried,
      stillborn, or die within the first few weeks of life.

      Dietary cholesterol supplementation in children with SLOS is reported to improve behavior,
      growth and nutritional status. Based upon observational studies, the behavioral changes
      reported with dietary cholesterol supplementation occur rapidly and appear to be reversible.
      Parental reports of improved behavior could be influenced by a placebo effect. Thus, we are
      proposing a blinded study to compare behavioral changes while the patient is on cholesterol
      supplementation (egg yolk) versus no cholesterol supplementation (egg substitute).

      The objectives of this study are:

        1. To quantitatively evaluate behavior, in a blinded study, of SLOS children on and off
           dietary cholesterol supplementation.

        2. To quantitatively evaluate behavior in SLOS children treated with egg yolk compared to
           synthetic dietary cholesterol supplementation.

      Completed study has been published. Tierney, E., Conley, S.K., Goodwin, H., Porter, F.D.
      (2010) Analysis of short-term behavioral effects of dietary cholesterol supplementation in
      Smith-Lemli-Opitz Syndrome. Am. J. Med. Genet. Part A. 152A: 91-95 PMID: 20014133
    
  