
    
      Anticipated Impact on Veterans Healthcare: Health information technology (HIT), including
      electronic medical records (EMR) has the potential to improve the quality and safety of
      ambulatory care. The VHA is a leader in EMR implementation. It is believed that EMR use by
      physicians will improve patient-centeredness of visits, and healthcare outcomes. The proposed
      clinical trial addresses the need for rigorous research on EMR use, patient-centered care,
      and relevant health outcomes. Both physician-patient communication and EMR use are
      cross-cutting clinical issues with broad implications for patient care within the VHA.
      Consequently, the proposed project is directly related to the VHA's mission to use HIT to
      improve the quality health care for veteran patients.

      BACKGROUND/RATIONALE EMRs can potentially improve quality and safety of ambulatory care.
      However, little research systematically documents the effect of EMRs on patient-centered
      care. Studies of the EMR's effect on patient-provider communication have been observational
      and had small sample sizes. Overall, these studies reported varied success regarding
      providers integrating the EMR into office visits, and suggest that further research is needed
      to evaluate the effectiveness of training providers in patient-centered communication and EMR
      use.

      OBJECTIVES The PACE aims were to study how EMR use affects patient-provider communication
      behaviors, and patient-centered care and related health outcomes; to develop a unique
      provider training program tailored to patient-centered EMR use; and to evaluate the effect of
      the training intervention on patient-provider communication, patient-centered care, and
      provider EMR use.

      METHODS

      The study used a quasi-experimental (pre-post intervention design) carried out in three
      phases:

        1. Pre-intervention: A pre-intervention patient-provider visit was conducted for each
           patient-provider pair. Visits were video recorded and reviewed for verbal and nonverbal
           patient-provider communication. MORAE software was used to record provider-EMR
           interaction data, including page views, navigation, and mouse clicks. Data were
           collected for related outcomes (patient and provider satisfaction).

        2. Training: Findings from pre-intervention data guided development of a multifaceted
           provider training intervention promoting patient-centered EMR appropriation. The
           training intervention was delivered via a full day training workshop and individual
           feedback sessions.

        3. Post-intervention: A second round of visits was conducted with the same patient-provider
           pairs and similar data were collected as in pre-intervention. Within group analyses
           (pre-post) were used to test whether the training intervention resulted in significant
           improvements in (a) patient-centered EMR use and (b) related outcomes (patient and
           provider satisfaction).

      IMPACT PACE findings emphasize the need to address EMR usability by the VHA hi2 (Health
      Informatics Initiative) and iEHR team.
    
  