
    
      This is an observational, non-randomized, open, long-term project to collect a variety of
      biological samples, in addition to usual or specialized care clinical information and
      laboratory test results, from patients who present to Intermountain Healthcare-affiliated
      facilities, with symptoms of any healthcare-related conditions, as well as from a general
      population including disease-free subjects. The INSPIRE Registry will include all subjects
      enrolled in the HHD registry (IRB # 1007406, approval date 01- 16-2009) and the cathlab
      database registry (IRB # 1008366, approval date 10/04/2000), as of IRB approval date of this
      INSPIRE amended protocol.

      Since this is a registry database project, there are no investigational treatments, drugs or
      procedures associated with participation. Information obtained from this registry project
      will not have direct or immediate benefit for any of the participants.

      Biological samples and subject information will be obtained during diagnostic procedures
      and/or treatment that are generally part of usual or specialized care for the underlying
      healthcare-related condition. Sample testing and registry data utilization for various
      research projects can be initiated only after the appropriate approval is obtained from a
      registry oversight/management committee, and when appropriate, the Institutional Review
      Board.

      After informed consent is obtained from the patient, the biological samples will be obtained
      in one of the following ways:

        1. During a procedure from access lines inserted for the procedure, or

        2. When other ordered lab work is done, or

        3. As a separate sample collection if no other lab work is planned. Biological sample
           collection from the general population may be a separate blood draw and/or sample
           collection. Participating patients may be asked to provide one or more collections of
           biological samples. Biological samples may be used in current and future research tests
           multiple times, or until the sample is consumed. In addition, participating subjects may
           be asked to complete the IRBreviewed questionnaires.
    
  