
    
      Some studies have shown that factors predicting ventricular tachycardia (VT) or ventricular
      fibrillation (VF) recurrences and consequently ICD interventions, include patient's age, New
      York Heart Association class heart failure, left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), the
      presence of atrial fibrillation (AF), the QRS complex width, and the status of renal
      function. However, the accuracy of these parameters is limited and other variables that may
      identify vulnerable patients are sought. This may have important clinical implications
      because such patients could receive more aggressive antiarrhythmic therapy or may undergo
      prophylactic ablation of arrhythmia substrate to prevent the occurrence of arrhythmias and
      ICD discharges. Indeed, some studies suggested that it might be worth to perform prophylactic
      ablation of VT in patients with previously implanted ICD, however, this approach has not
      entered into daily clinical practice.

      One of the methods of risk stratification for sudden cardiac death which has been used for
      many years, is programmed ventricular stimulation (PVS). This is an invasive study assessing
      the likelihood of VT or VF induced by stimulation to occur. This test has been also used in
      order to qualify for prophylactic ICD implantation in patients with LVEF 31-40% and
      non-sustained VT in ambulatory ECG. The primary disadvantage of PVS is its invasiveness.
      Modern ICDs are relatively complex devices with a number of functions, including the
      possibility to perform NIPS with implanted electrode located in the right ventricle. NIPS is
      readily available, inexpensive, minimally burdening ICD battery and less disturbing to the
      patient, because it does not require any invasive procedure.

      Some studies suggested that appropriate interventions occur more frequently in patients who
      had ventricular arrhythmias induced by NIPS, but prognostic significance of NIPS has not yet
      been determined. One of the first NIPS-related studies demonstrated that VF/VT inducibility
      during the test of the device can help to optimize ICD programming, however, predictive value
      of NIPS had not been studied at that time. In another study, one of the first and few on the
      prognostic value of NIPS, it has been shown that induction of monomorphic, especially
      relatively slow VT (cycle length> 280ms) was prognostic for recurrence of arrhythmias. This
      study was relatively small, the distribution of etiology had not been considered, and some of
      the results were surprising, eg. previous myocardial infarction of inferior wall, rather than
      the anterior wall, predicted altered outcome, while LVEF had no prognostic value. In
      addition, these studies had been carried out many years ago, when the use of primary
      angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction was low, and therefore the clinical
      characteristics of the patient groups from that period are different than those of
      contemporary patients.
    
  