
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. To improve 4-year event-free survival (EFS) to 73% for young patients with bilateral Wilms
      tumor (BWT).

      II. To prevent complete removal of at least one kidney in 50% of patients with BWT by using
      prenephrectomy 3-drug chemotherapy induction with vincristine (vincristine sulfate),
      dactinomycin, and doxorubicin (doxorubicin hydrochloride).

      III. To evaluate the efficacy of chemotherapy in preserving renal units in children with
      diffuse hyperplastic perilobar nephroblastomatosis (DHPLN) and preventing Wilms tumor
      development.

      IV. To facilitate partial nephrectomy in lieu of nephrectomy in 25% of children with
      unilateral tumors and aniridia, Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (BWS), hemihypertrophy or other
      overgrowth syndromes, by using prenephrectomy 2-drug chemotherapy induction with vincristine
      and dactinomycin.

      V. To have 75% of patients with BWT undergo definitive surgical treatment by 12 weeks after
      initiation of chemotherapy.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM 1 (Bilateral Wilms Tumors): Patients start with three drug chemotherapy (Regimen VAD;
      vincristine, dactinomycin and doxorubicin) and are evaluated and six and 12 weeks for
      feasibility of undergoing a partial nephrectomy/renal sparing surgery. At week 12 definitive
      surgery takes place followed by chemotherapy and radiation therapy based on histology and
      stage. Treatment continues for 25 or 31 weeks depending on histology. Patients are followed
      for up to 10 years following end of therapy.

      ARM 2 (Unilateral High Risk tumors bilaterally predisposed): Patients start with either 2
      drug or three drug chemotherapy (Regimen VA, VAD) and are evaluated a 6 and 12 weeks for
      feasibility of undergoing a partial nephrectomy. At week 12 definitive surgery takes place
      followed by chemotherapy.

      ARM 3 (DHPLN): Patients with this rare disease are diagnosed based on cross-sectional imaging
      characteristics and undergo 2 drug chemotherapy (Regimen;VA). Patients are reassessed at 6
      weeks and 12 weeks. If disease has responded or stayed stable chemotherapy is completed for
      19 weeks (Regimen EE4A). If disease has progress a biopsy is performed to assess histology
      and adjust therapy based on the biopsy. This therapy may include, nephrectomy, chemotherapy
      or radiation therapy.

      VAD REGIMEN: Patients receive vincristine sulfate intravenously (IV) over 1 minute on days 1,
      8, 15, 22, 29, and 36 (weeks 1-6) and dactinomycin IV and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over
      15-120 minutes on days 1 and 22 (weeks 1 and 4).

      EE4A REGIMEN: Patients receive vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29,
      and 36 (weeks 1-6) and dactinomycin IV over 1-5 minutes on days 1 and 22 (weeks 1 and 4).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 10 years.
    
  