
    
      The use of extracorporeal blood purification therapies (EBPT) is becoming increasingly
      widespread worldwide in everyday clinical practice, particularly in the critical care
      setting. For most of these treatments, the extracorporeal removal of inflammatory mediators
      (via enhanced transmembrane clearance and/or selective/un-selective adsorption of bacterial
      toxins or inflammatory mediators) is already well established in the literature. Unselective
      cytokine removal is the main rationale for the use of EBPT, and it might explain the effect
      of these treatments on multiorgan dysfunction in critically ill patients. Indeed, an
      increment in hemodynamic stability and an improvement in the multiorgan dysfunction scoring
      system of treated patients are consistently observed in most of the studies available in the
      literature. Nonetheless, most of the clinical trials aimed at exploring the effect of EBPT on
      patients' long-term outcomes have failed to demonstrate consistent results regarding 28 day-
      or hospital- mortality rates.

      Interestingly, the post-hoc analysis of large databases suggests that a specific
      subpopulation of patients, who are likely to benefit more than others from EBPT, could be
      identified in clinical practice. As an example, press releases from the Euphrates trial
      suggest that a specific range of baseline endotoxin activity assay might correlate with a
      positive long-term outcome in patients treated with Toraymixin cartridges. Nowadays, a
      personalized approach to extracorporeal therapy has been advocated as the only strategy
      capable of maximizing the clinical effect of EBPT and their impact on patient outcomes (i.e.
      precision medicine).

      The identification of clinical characteristics correlated with positive outcomes during EBPT
      allows the implementation of specifically designed trials, focused on a well-defined cluster
      of patients.

      The implementation of a large database encompassing the clinical/biochemical characteristics
      of patients undergoing EBPT is thus widely hoped for to enable the identification of a
      cluster of patients with specific features who most benefit from these treatments.

      Although it is well known that only a clinical trial can formally assess the effect of EBPT
      on a specific clinical outcome, several drawbacks pose practical limitations to the
      implementation of a clinical trial in the critical care setting for this purpose. First, most
      European countries (and particularly Italy) do not allow the enrollment and randomization of
      non-competent patients (as critically ill patients formally are), due to ethical issues.
      Second, clinical trials are associated with very high costs. Third, the quality of results
      and conclusions deriving from post-hoc analysis of randomized clinical trials (often
      underpowered) may be qualitatively similar to those obtained from a very large database of
      patients observed during treatments performed according to the routine clinical practice.

      As an example, COMPACT and COMPACT 2 trials, failed to demonstrate a significant effect of
      Coupled plasma-filtration adsorption (CPFA) on the outcome of critically ill septic patients,
      with the notable exception of specific subpopulations (e.g. those where an adequate volume of
      plasma was filtered and adsorbed). This conclusion was obtained through two highly-costly
      multicenter randomized clinical trials, prematurely halted due to ethical issues, using
      post-hoc analysis of a subgroup of an already limited sample size.

      Nowadays, the identification of specific clusters of patients during EBPT is obtained by
      means of the implementation of a large web-based registry where a network of researchers can
      upload the clinical data of patients undergoing EBPT in line with the routine clinical
      practice of each single center. Taking into consideration the feasibility of the research
      (i.e. mainly related with the lack of critical ethical issues and the easy-to-use interface
      of web-platforms), these observation-based registries are inexpensive and effective tools
      able to identify specific clusters of patients within a very large sample size with widely
      heterogeneous clinical characteristics.

      As an example, a web-based registry has been already implemented to describe the clinical
      effects of polymyxin-B based cartridges for endotoxin removal (EUPHAS 2 registry). Another
      one has been similarly implemented to describe the clinical effects of un-selective cytokine
      adsorption obtained with CytoSorb (CytoSorb registry).

      Taking into consideration the fact that data on CPFA already exist and web-based registries
      are already available for aforementioned membranes, the aim of this project is to design and
      nationally promote a web-based registry designed for all remaining commercial membranes. In
      particular, an easy-to-use web-based platform will be made available for all centers that
      spontaneously adhere to this project.

      Three main characteristics will distinguish this web-based registry when compared with the
      already available Euphas 2 and CytoSorb registries. First, it will also be available for
      smartphone and/or tablet applications; this characteristic will guarantee easy-to-use access
      and data uploading and enhanced compliance from clinical researchers. Second, it will not be
      confined to a simplistic registration of patients' data; it will instead also provide the
      clinician with clinical tools that might be helpful for patient management (e.g. automatic
      calculation of clinical scoring systems, ideal body weight, functions of mechanical
      ventilation, antibiotic adjustment according to renal function, etc.). All these tools will
      provide the clinician with real-time feedback; this web-based registry will provide a clear
      example of translational medicine and translational research, where data from clinical
      practice will feed a database for clinical research and, contemporaneously, the research tool
      will improve clinical practice, providing useful instruments for routine practice. Finally,
      this web-based registry will allow every center to instantaneously evaluate its results,
      providing a real-time basic statistic for every recorded variable (e.g. age at enrollment,
      main comorbidities, baseline serum creatinine, mortality rate, rate of multidrug resistant
      bacteria, etc.). This function may allow each center to continuously monitor outcomes and
      local practices, and will represent a major improvement when compared to already existing
      platforms in Italy, such as the Prosafe.

      With this rationale, the research questions are:

        -  is there a cluster of critically ill patients that mostly benefits from extracorporeal
           blood purification therapies (EBPT) with specific membrane?

        -  might some baseline variables be used to identify this subpopulation of "responsive"
           patients? In particular, may these indicators be employed to guide indications for EBPT
           , in order to personalize treatments and improve patients' long-term outcome?
    
  