
    
      Up to 15 % of adults in Western society suffer from irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), and it is
      the second leading cause, behind the common cold, of workplace absenteeism. This proposal
      addresses critical knowledge gaps in our understanding of IBS mechanisms. What environmental
      triggers cause pain symptoms to chronically wax and wane? A fundamental observation is that
      over 70% of IBS patients report that meals trigger abdominal pain and diarrhea. Therefore, we
      examined the effects of a diet low in fermentable oligo, di, monosaccharides and polyols
      (FODMAPs) because up to 50-70% IBS patients reported improved symptoms on this diet (McIntosh
      et al 2016; Halmos et al 2014). We found that symptoms, particularly pain, were markedly
      improved in IBS patients on a low compared to a high FODMAP diet. Moreover, we found in a
      subset of patients evidence that FODMAPs activate intestinal mast cells, a major source of
      proteases and histamine, and their expression appears to be associated with IBS symptoms,
      although this remains to be proven. Thus, this diet provides a useful clinical tool to
      stimulate protease activity and study their actions. Sensitization (modulation of
      intracellular mechanisms leading to exaggerated action potential discharge in response to a
      given stimulus) of nociceptive dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons by tissue mediators is a
      fundamental mechanism underlying abnormal pain signaling. We also have compelling evidence in
      human IBS patients that a family of proteases are key mediators underlying another critical
      knowledge gap that we identified, i.e. which tissue mediators can lead to sustained and
      amplified abdominal pain. We and others found these proteases are elevated in IBS tissues,
      and that they sensitize DRG neurons - the primary sensory neurons that innervate the colon.
      Based on these findings, our goal is to test the overarching hypothesis that diet can trigger
      recurrent symptoms in IBS through activation of tissue proteases that cause exaggerated pain
      by signaling to nociceptive DRG neurons. Recurrent exposure to such diet components and the
      resulting protease signaling is an important cause of the waxing and waning of symptoms over
      time. Thus, our objective is to characterize the relationship of a specific dietary
      intervention with protease activity in IBS patients.

      This will be a prospective study comparing the effect of low-FODMAP and high-FODMAP on
      symptoms and protease effects on the excitability of nociceptive DRG neurons. We will analyze
      the urinary metabolome as a secondary measure of mast cell mediators (i.e. histamine and
      proteases). We will also collect stool for possible future microbiome analysis as diet
      microbiome interactions (i.e. fermentation of the FODMAPs) may predict the magnitude of the
      response. The study will be conducted at Hotel Dieu Hospital's Gastroenterology clinics and
      endoscopy suite in Kingston, Ontario. This study will be comprised of the following four time
      periods: "baseline", "run-in", "high FODMAP diet", and "low FODMAP diet". Participants will
      undergo baseline assessment with questionnaires on demographics, IBS symptoms (IBS symptom
      severity scoring questionnaire), diet, as well as a questionnaire pertaining to psychological
      parameters. A detailed questionnaire pertaining to participants' diet will be administered at
      baseline. Baseline mucosal colonic biopsies will be obtained using limited flexible
      sigmoidoscopy. Baseline stool microbiota composition will be analysed by 16S rRNA gene
      profiling. Fecal calprotectin levels will be obtained from stool samples. Urine and blood
      metabolome will be analysed at baseline also using mass spectrometry. These will be repeated
      3 weeks later during a run-in period to assess if these measurements are stable in time or
      not. This run-in period will be 3 weeks long. After completion of the run-in period, patients
      will be asked to consume a high FODMAP diet for 3 weeks. All tests carried out at baseline
      and during the run-in period will be carried out for a third time. Participants will meet
      with investigators and be given dietary guidance, including a handout outlining foods to eat
      and avoid. A dietician will be involved extensively in this process to ensure the
      instructions are adequate and accurate. For the remainder of the study, patients will not be
      able to take antibiotics, and fibre supplements. After the 3-week-long high FODMAP diet
      period, participants will meet again with the dietician to obtain instructions on how to
      consume a low FODMAP diet. After 3 weeks on a low FODMAP diet, all baseline testing will be
      performed a fourth time. We aim to enroll 20 patients. Based on a 70% response rate to low
      FODMAP diet (Halmos et al. 2014), and our experience in previous studies, this number should
      be adequate.

      Please note that the biopsies taken at sigmoidoscopy will be processed at HDH for the
      supernatants, and then frozen for later electrophysiological studies at the Gastro-Intestinal
      Diseases Research Unit (GIDRU) at KGH.
    
  