
    
      The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate whether there are differences in CRH
      (Corticotropin Releasing Hormone) responsiveness in children and adolescents with FD
      (Functional Dyspepsia) as compared to controls. Further, we intend to explore relationships
      between CRH responsiveness, inflammatory cytokines, state and trait anxiety, and
      self-reported symptoms.

      The specific aims of the study are:

        1. To determine if changes in serum cytokine profiles, heart rate variability, stress
           profile parameters, state and trait anxiety, and self-reported symptoms differ between
           patients with FD and controls following CRH infusion.

        2. To determine if changes in serum ACTH (Adreno-corticotropic Hormone) or cortisol
           following CRH infusion differ between patients with FD and controls or as a function of
           the magnitude of state or trait anxiety among FD patients.

      This study is a single-site pilot study.

      Biochemical response to CRH stimulation will be explored for each of the cytokines, mediators
      and hormones detailed herein by calculating their rate of formation, maximal concentration
      (Cmax), time to maximal concentration (Tmax), total body exposure (AUC) and rate of recovery
      (as relevant). Pharmacokinetic analyses will be applied to data where there are clear
      ascending and descending phases on the concentration versus time profile. Concentration
      versus time data will be curve fit using a peeling algorithm to generate initial
      polyexponential parameter estimates. Final estimates of the apparent rate of recovery will be
      determined from an iterative, nonlinear weighted least squares regression algorithm.
      Assessment of goodness of fit for the pharmacokinetic model will be made using standard
      criteria (e.g., Akaike and Schwartz Information Criteria, objective function and the
      coefficients of variation for estimated parameters), the distribution of weighted residual
      estimates and the association between the observed and predicted concentrations.
      Model-independent pharmacokinetic parameters will be calculated using standard (i.e.,
      statistical moment theory) techniques. Individual Cmax and Tmax will be estimated by
      inspection of the observed plasma concentration versus time data. The area under the plasma
      concentration versus time curve will be determined using the mixed log-linear trapezoidal
      rule (no extrapolation of the AUC to infinity will be performed). These analyses will be
      performed in Kinetica v5.0 (ThermoElectron, Philadelphia, PA). Differences between cases and
      controls on continuous response variables will be compared using a two-sided independent
      sample t-tests. Relationships among continuous response variables will be evaluated by
      univariate analysis of variance, linear and nonlinear regression techniques. Categorical
      patient factors and response variables will be compared with the Fisher's exact test on a 2 x
      2 cross-tabulation. All statistical analyses will be conducted using the SSPS software
      package (version 15.0, SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL).

      Sample Size

      A sample size of 12 for each group (controls and FD patients) was chosen. Twelve patients per
      group provides 99% power to detect a 1.5-fold greater ACTH secretion in FD patients as
      compared to controls with the standard deviation assumed to be 20% based on 2 previous adult
      studies (both of which detected approximately a 2-fold increase). Power may be lower for
      secondary analysis, however, this is considered acceptable given the pilot nature of this
      study.

      There will be two groups consisting of subjects who have been seen in the Abdominal Pain
      Clinic for abdominal pain of at least 8 weeks duration and fulfilling symptom-based criteria
      for FD and are scheduled for endoscopy and controls, who have no recent history of abdominal
      pain.

      Both groups will undergo the same tests/procedures.

      Participants will fast for a minimum of 8 hours prior to the evaluation, which will begin
      between 8 and 10 AM. Female participants > 10 years of age will be given a UCG as standard
      practice before receiving any medication or drug. The parent and child will complete the
      BASC-2 and the state and trait versions of the STICSA-C. A biofeedback stress profile will be
      performed. Next, an IV catheter will be placed and the participant will be allowed to relax
      for 30 minutes prior to the next part of the study. The participant then will undergo 30
      minute baseline monitoring of heart rate prior to the CRH stimulation test. Following the 30
      minute baseline period, a blood sample will be obtained for serum cytokines, ACTH, cortisol,
      and CBG. The participant will rate the severity of abdominal pain, nausea, and bloating,
      respectively, on 10-point scales.

      For the CRH stimulation test, corticorelin (an analogue of human CRH) will be administered at
      a dose of 1 mcg per kg body weight (to a maximum of 100mcg) delivered over 1 minute. Blood
      samples will be obtained at 15 minute intervals for 60 minutes for determination of ACTH,
      cortisol, and CBG concentrations. The following will be obtained or recorded at 15, 30, and
      60 minutes: blood samples for cytokine concentrations, ratings (on a 10-point scale) of
      abdominal pain, nausea, and bloating, stress profile parameters, and self-reported state
      anxiety (i.e. STICSA-C Your Mood at this Moment). Heart rate monitoring will be conducted for
      the duration of the 60 minute period.

      The CRH stimulation test is a routinely used diagnostic test in Endocrine. It is not,
      however, routine for either of the two groups of participants in this study.

      Measures

        1. Heart rate variability (HRV)

           The electrocardiogram will be recorded and HRV assessed utilizing an I-330 C2
           Physiograph (J & J Engineering, Poulsbo, WA) and Window USE Physiolab software. MC-5SGW
           electrode cables will be used to connect to 2 wrist electrodes (+ on left) and an EDR
           ground which will be placed on a finger.

           The HRV signal will be derived from the ECG data. Overall power spectral analysis will
           be applied to the HRV signal to extract the sympathovagal parameters: power in low
           frequency (LF) and power in high frequency (HF). LF is defined as the area under the
           curve in the frequency range of 0.04-0.15 Hz and HF is defined as the area under the
           curve in the frequency range of 0.15-0.50 Hz. The power in the LF band (0.04-0.15 Hz)
           represents mainly sympathetic activity and power in the HF band (0.15-0.5 Hz) of the HRV
           power spectrum represents purely parasympathetic or vagal activity. The LF-to-HF ratio
           will also be calculated as a measure of sympathovagal balance.

        2. Stress Profile

           Biofeedback stress profile readings will be recorded with a single I-330 C2 Physiograph
           (J & J Engineering, Poulsbo, WA), utilizing Windows USE 3 Physiolab software.

           The following modalities will be monitored on all patients:

             1. Surface Electromyograph (sEMG)- readings will be measured in microvolts (mcv) using
                wide band placement on the frontalis; after standard skin preparation pre-gelled
                silver/silver chloride Red Dot patch sensors will placed a finger's width above
                each eyebrow, and attached to an MV-1L sEMG cable via CL 50 alligator clips. sEMG
                sensors also will be placed on the pulse points on both wrists to monitor and
                feedback heart beat.

             2. Peripheral skin temperature (TEMP)- will be measured in degrees Fahrenheit (F.) via
                a thermistor (RV-5 TEMP/EDR sensor) attached to the pad of the participant's middle
                finger (or substitute 3rd digit) on the dominant hand.

             3. Electrodermal Response (EDR)- skin conductance activity (SCA) will be measured in
                microohms (µohm) by an (RV-5 TEMP/EDR sensor) attached to the dominant index finger
                by an SE 35 EDG 8mm snap style silver/silver chloride disc imbedded in a Velcro
                fastener with saline based gel on the disk, to ensure skin contact.

        3. Plasma Proteins (cytokines/ mediators/ hormones)

           Approximately 39 mL of blood will be collected through the IV catheter for plasma
           protein determinations including TNF-α, IL-4, IL-5, IL-8, eotaxin-3, MCP-1, MMP-9, ECP,
           MBP, cortisol, ACTH and CBG. Plasma proteins will be measured by commercially available
           immunoassay kits. Table 1 presents a breakdown of the amount of blood that will be
           collected per each time-point. Table 2 presents sample requirements and testing
           laboratory.

        4. Free Plasma Cortisol

           Free plasma cortisol will be calculated using the following formula:

           U = √ Z2 + 0.0122 C - Z(mean)M Where U = molar concentration of unbound cortisol, C =
           molar concentration of total cortisol, T= molar concentration of CBG, and Z = 0.0167 +
           0.182 (T-C)(mean) M

           (0.0167 and 0.182 are constants for the affinity of CBG for cortisol at 37 degrees C and
           the proportion of albumin-bound to unbound cortisol, respectively.)

        5. BASC-2 Profile The parent and child versions of the Behavioral Assessment Scale for
           Children - Second Edition (BASC-2) will be completed by the participant and one parent,
           respectively. The BASC-2 is an objective rating system of psychological functioning in
           youth that provides standardized descriptions of problems and competencies. There are
           different versions for children (ages 8-11), adolescents (ages 12-18), and parents
           (different version for those with children ages 6-11 and 12 -18). (36) Raw scores are
           standardized as T-scores (M=50, SD=10) based on a normative sample of 3,483 children
           aged 4 - 18 stratified according to US Census data. Individual subscales have good
           reliability (internal consistency), with the exception of the Atypicality subscale on
           the BASC-PRS and the Somatization and Self-Reliance subscales on the BASC-SRS (r< .70).
           The BASC has also demonstrated criterion-related and construct validity. The T-scores
           for the anxiety subscales (parent- and self-report) will be used as a measure of trait
           anxiety for analysis.

        6. STICSA-C

           The State-Trait Inventory for Cognitive and Somatic Anxiety, Child Version (STICSA-C)
           was adapted from the adult version of the measure, the STICSA. (37) The STICSA-C is
           comprised of two separate self-report scales, each with 21 items, for measuring two
           distinct anxiety concepts: state anxiety and trait anxiety. The latter asks children to
           respond to items by indicating how they feel, in general; the former asks children to
           respond about how they feel right now, at this very moment. Unique to the STICSA-C,
           items on each scale distinctly and stably assess cognitive and somatic manifestations of
           anxiety. Children are asked to provide their responses using a 4-point scale (i.e., from
           "Never" to "Almost always" on the Trait form, and from "Not at all" to Very much" on the
           State form). The somatic and cognitive subscales of the STICSA-C trait scale will be
           used as a measure of trait anxiety, while these subscales of the state scale will be
           used as a measure of state anxiety, in the statistical analysis.

        7. GI symptom severity

           Symptom severity will be determined for pain, nausea, and bloating, respectively, on 10
           point scales with 0=none and 10=most severe with the Global Response Scale.

        8. Histology

      For those who undergo endoscopy, routine biopsies obtained as part of usual care will be
      evaluated in a blinded fashion for eosinophil density. Immunohistochemistry evaluation of
      tissue will be performed utilizing anti-tryptase and anti-CD4. Cell densities for
      eosinophils, tryptase-positive cells, and CD4-positive cells, respectively, will be
      determined for specimens from the gastric antrum and the duodenal bulb, respectively. A
      minimum of five high power fields will be evaluated with the determination of mean and peak
      cell counts, respectively. Pathologic diagnoses will be determined by pathologist evaluation
      as part of routine care.
    
  