
    
      -  Postoperative acute kidney injury (AKI) is a highly prevalent and prognostically
           important complication in various surgical settings. Patients who developed
           postoperative AKI is independently associated with markedly increased morbidity,
           mortality1-8 and higher economic burden1.

        -  AKI was defined by an increase in serum creatinine (SCr) ≥ 0.3 mg/dl or by an increase
           in SCr ≥ 50% and/or by a decrease in urine output to 0.5 ml/kg/hour for 6 hours, in the
           first 48 hours after surgery.

        -  Patients who developed AKI had a higher total ICU costs, prolonged length of hospital
           and ICU stay, and longer duration of postoperative mechanical ventilation.

        -  AKI has been studied in different surgical procedures especially cardiac & abdominal
           surgeries.

        -  Kovacheva et al 2016 retrospective study included 1656 craniotomy patients from 1998 to
           2011. The AKI used criteria was RIFLE (Risk, Injury, Failure, Loss of kidney function
           and End-Stage Renal Failure), they reported an incidence of 9.9% of postoperative AKI9.

        -  Deng et al 2017 also reported an incidence of AKI up to 13.5% in patients undergoing
           neurosurgical surgery within the first 7 days. It was associated with independent risk
           factors included intraoperative blood loss, postoperative reoperation, use of mannitol
           during operation, concentration of Cystatin-C; a biomarker protein detecting early
           kidney injury before creatinine changes and postoperative APACHE II score10.

        -  As the number of neurosurgical procedures has been increased worldwide and in our
           department as well with new types of prolonged neurosurgery e.g. Skull - Base - Major
           cerebrovascular beside major cranial tumor excision. It becomes a necessary to
           re-evaluate the incidence, factors behind AKI and outcome in such prolonged surgery.

        -  In 2002, The Acute Dialysis Quality Initiative (ADQI) was created with primary goal was
           to create a uniform, accepted definition of AKI; hence RIFLE criteria was born. RIFLE is
           an acronym of Risk, Injury, Failure, Loss of Kidney Function & End-Stage Kidney Failure.

        -  In 2004, The Acute Kidney Injury Network (AKIN) was formed. A report of the AKIN
           proposed the following criteria for AKI.

        -  The AKIN criteria differ from the RIFLE criteria in several ways. The RIFLE criteria are
           defined as changes within 7 days, while the AKIN criteria suggest using 48 hours. The
           AKIN classification includes less severe injury in the criteria and AKIN also avoids
           using the glomerular filtration rate as a marker in AKI, as there is no dependable way
           to measure glomerular filtration rate and estimated glomerular filtration rate are
           unreliable in AKI.

        -  Haase et al. 2009 in their comparative study between RIFLE and AKIN in cardiac surgery;
           found no difference between the AKI scores11.
    
  