
    
      This is an open label phase II trial to evaluate the safety, feasibility, and efficacy of
      ThermoDox in combination wtih thermal ablation for the regional hepatic treatment of mCRC
      liver lesions.

      Eligible colorectal cancer patients will unresectable liver metastases and be candidate for
      either radiofrequency ablation (RFA) or microwave ablation (MWA). All unresectable lesions
      must be targeted for ablation in in nor more than 2 thermal ablation/ThermoDox procedures.

      Approximately 24 hours prior to treatment with ThermoDox, patients will start a regimen of
      prophylaxis (detailed in the Study Drug section below) against immediate hypersensitivity
      reactions.

      Treatment will begin with a 50 mg/m2 ThermoDox infusion administered intravenously (IV) over
      30 minutes. Thermal Ablation will be initiated a minimum of 15 minutes after start of the
      infusion and should be completed no later than 3 hours after starting the infusion. Subjects
      will have follow up visits on Day 14 and at months 1, 4, 7, 10,13, 16, 19, 22, and 25 (+ 7
      days) or until study discontinuation.

      At baseline and at each post-treatment clinic visit, patients will self-report their "quality
      of life" (QoL) using the 8-item FACT-Hepatobiliary Symptom Index (FHSI-8).

      Contrast CT imaging studies or Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)will be used to assess the
      effectiveness of therapy. CT or MRI scans will be obtained at baseline and at months 1, 4, 7,
      10, 13, 16, 19, 22, and 25(+ 7 days)until local recurrence is seen, the subject has
      discontinued, or 2 years of follow-up have elapsed, whichever occurs first. All
      protocol-specified CT/MRI images will be centrally read by an independent radiology assessor.

      Subjects will be followed for each efficacy endpoint local tumor control through 2 years
      after treatment. Secondary endpoints including Overall Survival, Time to Local Recurrence,
      PRO deterioration) will be evaluated until the event occurs, the subject is discontinued, or
      until 3 years following treatment.
    
  