
    
      Background: One of the primary methods to assess airway dimension changes is the Modified
      Mallampati Score (MMS). MMS has been a valuable tool in assessing difficulty of intubation in
      previous studies as it is a simple, reproducible, and reliable preoperative and preanesthetic
      assessment of oral volume. MMS is evaluated by asking the patient to open their mouth and
      protrude their tongue without phonation. A score on a scale of 1-4 is assigned based on
      identifiable intraoral anatomic structures. MMS scores of 3 and 4 are strongly associated
      with difficult laryngoscopy and intubation.

      Extensive observational research in the obstetric population has demonstrated that airway
      changes, including increasing MMS and decreasing oropharyngeal volume, occur during labor. It
      has been found that 63% of parturients experienced an increase in MMS over the course of
      their labor, with the fraction of patients scoring 3 or 4 peaking at 51.7%, compared with
      only 10.3% early in labor. Notably, of those patients that reached a class 4, 21% remained at
      that classification 48 hours postpartum. It has been found that 18% of patients whose airway
      class worsened during labor had not returned to their prelabor class 36-48 hours after
      delivery.

      These obstetric findings have prompted a limited number of studies investigating airway
      changes in patients undergoing surgical procedures. This study will focus on surgeries in the
      prone and Trendelenburg positions, as they would intuitively predispose patients to edema and
      fluid retention in the head and neck. MMS increased in 78% of patients, with 29% increasing
      by two or more classes in patients undergoing lumbar spine surgery in the prone position.
      Furthermore, although laparoscopic surgery has been shown to increase lung and chest wall
      mechanical impedance, which leads to increases in abdominal and intrathoracic pressure, as
      well as an increase in central venous pressure with subsequent increases in intraocular
      pressure, no studies have been performed to specifically track resultant airway changes.
      Lastly, to investigators' knowledge no studies have investigated the postoperative resolution
      of airway changes after either type of procedure.

      Rationale: There is evidence, both investigational and anecdotal, that airway changes may
      occur during certain surgeries or procedures, and that patient positioning may play a large
      role in precipitating them. However, research on this phenomenon in the surgical population,
      unlike the obstetric population, is sparse. Similarly, investigations into the time required
      for airway changes to regress back to baseline has been included in a number of obstetric
      airway studies, but not in any surgical ones. Lastly, it has been suggested that other
      surgical factors, such as fluid balance or procedure duration, may alter the degree of airway
      changes, but results from the few recent studies on the topic have been unclear. Thus, this
      study seeks to further investigate the influence of prone and Trendelenburg positioning, as
      well as surgical variables, on perioperative airway changes, and quantify the time required
      for patients' airways to return to their preoperative state.

      Based on clinical observation, the primary hypothesis is that there will be a significant
      difference between mean scoring class change between 2 study groups from preoperative
      baseline to initial postoperative assessment. Investigators hypothesize that T-burg surgery
      patients will have a mean change of 2 classes compared to a mean change of only one class for
      prone spine surgery patients.

      The secondary hypothesis is that airway changes occurring in patients undergoing prone
      procedures will resolve significantly sooner than (3 - 4 hours) than those of patients
      undergoing Trendelenburg surgeries (> 4 hours).

      Thirdly investigators will investigate the effects of demographic, physiological, and
      surgical & anesthetic variables on postoperative MMS changes and their resolution.
    
  