
    
      Progress in treatment for metastatic CRC has undoubtedly been achieved in the past decade.
      Until 1985, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) was the only agent available for the treatment of
      metastatic CRC. Several trials have attempted to enhance the activity of bolus 5-FU, by the
      addition of levamisole or interferon. Despite of these attempts, no survival advantage was
      established until the introduction of the newer cytotoxic drugs. The addition of folinic acid
      (FA) to 5-FU, the use of infusional rather than bolus 5-FU, and the combination of new active
      agents such as irinotecan and oxaliplatin with 5-FU/FA have resulted in an increase in
      activity of 5-FU. In trials of current combination regimens as first-line therapy, response
      rates exceeding 30% and median survival duration longer than 16 months have been reported. In
      all, despite of rapid advances in the treatment of metastatic CRC during the last decade, the
      efficacy of treatment still needs to be improved. One potential way of increasing the
      survival of metastatic CRC patients is the introduction of a novel targeting agent to the
      standard cytotoxic regimen such as IFL (irinotecan, fluorouracil, and leucovorin). An
      increasingly recognized molecular target for anticancer treatment is the rate-limiting enzyme
      of the mevalonate pathway, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase. The end
      products of the mevalonate pathway are required for a number of essential cellular functions
      such as sterols for membrane integrity, ubiquinone for cell respiration, geranylgeranyl
      isoprenoids for covalent bindings to the ras family, dolichol for glycoprotein synthesis, and
      isopentenyladenine for tRNA function and protein synthesis. Fortunately, inhibitors of the
      key enzyme, the statins, are well established and have been used safely in the clinic for the
      treatment of hypercholesterolemia for decades. Therefore, HMG-CoA reductase may be a decent
      molecular target for anti-cancer therapy and statins may be readily applicable to the clinic
      once its potential role as an anticancer drug is established. The statins have recently
      gained attractions from medical oncologists because large retrospective analyses for efficacy
      trials of statins in coronary artery disease have shown that not only are these agents able
      to reduce cardiac disease-related mortality, but cancer incidence is also reduced by 28 - 33
      %.

      In all, further clinical trials investigating on combining the standard treatment with these
      novel molecular targeting agents, the statins, are definitely warranted.
    
  