
    
      BACKGROUND

      Mental health problems such as anxiety and depression are prevalent and related to
      significant personal and economic burden. Discrepancy between supply and demand of effective
      psychological therapies has led to the proliferation of computerised therapies for
      psychological intervention. Computerised cognitive behaviour therapy (cCBT) packages such as
      'Fearfighter' and 'Beating the Blues' are recommended by NICE for the treatment of depression
      and phobias. However, studies have demonstrated high levels of attrition and although active
      telephone support seems to facilitate their effectiveness this has led to concerns about
      their efficiency and cost effectiveness.

      Most available cCBT interventions are disorder specific and may not provide a good fit for
      the estimated 50% of service users who experience comorbidities. Transdiagnostic
      psychological interventions delivered in traditional and computerised formats have been shown
      to provide equivalent effects to disorder specific interventions of their type and have the
      potential to improve acceptability and efficiency.

      A transdiagnostic form of cognitive therapy called the Method of Levels (MOL) has been used
      in the treatment of a wide range of psychological problems and is suitable for service users
      experiencing more than one problem and problems that do not fit into pre-defined diagnostic
      categories. MOL is differentiated from other cognitive therapies as it originates from a
      unifying theoretical approach known as Perceptual Control Theory (PCT). PCT posits that
      psychological distress is due to sustained conflict in internal control systems that are
      essential to all living things. Therefore, the aim of MOL is to increase a client's sense of
      control through enabling them to talk freely whilst supporting experiences of emotional
      distress necessary to increase awareness of internal conflict.

      The acceptability of computerised interventions to service users is paramount if increased
      uptake, adherence and 'reach' are to be achieved whilst improving efficiency. Computerised
      intervention that offers greater collaboration has the potential to increase its
      acceptability. The investigators propose that one way of achieving greater collaboration in
      computerised interventions is through relational agents. Relational agents are computer
      programmes that simulate conversation. A relational online agent called MYLO (Manage Your
      Life Online) has been developed at the University of Manchester and uses artificial
      intelligence to simulate a MOL style conversation with a user via typed text. MYLO has been
      evaluated in two feasibility trials using student samples and has shown promising results.

      The development of relational agents for use in mental health care is progressing, however,
      academic research has struggled to keep pace with developments in industry. The investigators
      are not aware of any research that has developed or investigated a transdiagnostic relational
      agent in psychological intervention in a mental health setting.

      The evaluation of computerised interventions through standardised criteria has largely
      neglected the exploration of client centred outcome measures and the processes of
      psychological change. A novel methodology that is client orientated and theory led was tested
      in a feasibility study which examined service user perceptions of helpfulness in a single
      session of therapy. The current study will replicate this design and aims to examine service
      users' experiences with MYLO.

      The investigators aim to conduct a detailed examination of what questions participants find
      helpful and unhelpful in intervention with MYLO and whether client perceptions are related to
      key mechanisms of psychological change identified in MOL. The information gathered from this
      study will help to inform understanding of how this type of intervention works and what makes
      it most helpful to service users. These findings will inform improvements to the MYLO
      programme to improve its acceptability to service users.

      AIMS

      The aim of the study is to conduct a process level examination of what questions clients find
      helpful and unhelpful in intervention with MYLO and whether client perceptions are related to
      key mechanisms of psychological change identified in MOL.

      RESEARCH OBJECTIVES & HYPOTHESES

      The primary objective is to conduct a process level examination of what questions clients
      find helpful and unhelpful in intervention with MYLO and whether client perceptions of
      helpfulness are related to key mechanisms of psychological change identified in MOL. To
      investigate this objective, Hypothesis 1 will be tested:

      H1) Four key mechanisms of psychological change (ratings of perceived control, the ability to
      talk freely, maintain a focus on emotion and see their problem in a new way) will be
      positively correlated with ratings of the helpfulness of MYLO's questions.

      Qualitative data on why participants perceived certain questions to be helpful or unhelpful
      and what was happening in those moments will also be obtained to enhance the quantitative
      ratings further.

      Secondary research aims are:

      To compare Reorganisation of Conflict scale scores pre-and post-intervention and to estimate
      the size of the effect of the intervention.

      To examine how effective MYLO is in reducing psychological distress and resolving service
      user defined problems hypothesis 2 will be tested:

      H2) Psychological distress (as measured by total scores on the GAD-7 & PHQ-9) and the effect
      of problems (as measured by the PSYCHLOPS Q1b and 2b) will significantly reduce between Time
      1 and Time 2.

      To explore service user experiences of the MYLO interface qualitative feedback will be
      obtained and analysed using content analysis.

      METHOD

      Study design

      The study will utilise a multi-methods case series design repeated over several cases (n=24).
      This design of study allows for examination of the process of psychological change both
      within and between individuals. Participants will complete questionnaire measures pre-and
      post-intervention with MYLO. A multi-methods design allows for the examination of theory
      driven hypotheses about key mechanisms of psychological change with MYLO.

      Participants

      Participants will be adults accessing a primary care mental health service (Self-Help
      Services). Participants will be experiencing psychological difficulties and a computerised
      intervention will have been identified as a potential intervention option. Practitioners at
      Self-Help Services will establish whether a service user meets study inclusion and exclusion
      criteria.

      Sample

      Based on previous research conducted by the supervisors and a power calculation detailed
      below, it is estimated that 24 participants will be required. Manchester Self-Help Services
      received approximately 10,000 referrals in 2016 with approximately 3,000 (30%) of these
      people opting to access a computerised intervention. Therefore, it is anticipated that
      between 80 and 160 service users will be screened (based on a conservative 50% uptake rate)
      to recruit 24 participants.

      Power calculation

      Taking into account the repeated measures design, to estimate a correlation coefficient of
      0.5 (a medium effect size) between the explanatory variables and perceived helpfulness of
      MYLO's questions with 80% power at a significance level of 0.05, a total of 21 participants
      will be required to complete Time 2 measures. Assuming a 10% attrition prior to Time 2, 24
      participants will be recruited.

      Recruitment

      The investigators aim to recruit from Self-Help Services, an organisation in Manchester
      contracted to provide primary care mental health provision for NHS patients. All service
      users eligible to take part will receive information about MYLO and the study from a
      Self-Help Services practitioner providing an initial appointment. If a service user is
      interested in taking part (they consider the modality and style of MYLO as being potentially
      suited to their needs) they will be given an information flyer and Patient Information Sheet
      (PIS) to keep and asked to contact the investigator or to consent to pass their contact
      details to the investigator.

      Eligible and interested service users will then contact or be contacted by the investigator.
      Interest will be confirmed and a convenient time and place to meet to gain informed consent,
      collect Time 1 measures and provide access to the MYLO programme will be arranged.

      Participants can withdraw consent at any time without giving any reason, as participation in
      the research is voluntary, without their care or legal rights being affected.

      Intervention

      Manage Your Life Online (MYLO). MYLO is accessed online using a username and password. MYLO
      operates by analysing the client's input of text for key terms and themes. It responds with
      questions about the problem aimed at encouraging higher level awareness.

      Participants will be provided with access to the MYLO programme through a unique username and
      password. The investigator will ensure that participants are able to access the programme and
      answer any questions. Based on feedback from a Community Liaison Group (CLG), the
      investigator will also provide a short demonstration of how to access the programme and
      provide all participants with printed instructions on how to access the programme as a
      reminder.

      Participants will decide how often to use the MYLO programme over a two week period. This is
      likely to be a reasonable length of time to allow at least one use of the programme with no
      upper limit on usage. Service user led appointment scheduling provides clients the autonomy
      to decide when and how often to access interventions which increases efficiency whilst
      maintaining efficacy.

      DATA ANALYSIS

      Statistical analyses will be performed in Stata version 14. Age, gender and MYLO engagement
      data will be reported descriptively.

      To address research question one, separate multi-level mixed effects linear regression
      analyses will be conducted to test H1, with helpfulness question rating as the dependent
      variable. This will be followed by a comparison of the unique contributions made by each
      predictor variable in the helpfulness rating using a mixed-effects regression analysis.

      To address H2, a paired samples t-test will be conducted to examine whether scores on the RoC
      scale have significantly increased between Time 1 and Time 2.

      A qualitative interview will examine why participants thought questions were particularly
      helpful or unhelpful and serve to enhance the quantitative findings.

      To address research question two, H3 will be tested. Paired samples t-tests will be conducted
      to examine whether there is a significant difference in scores on the PHQ-9, GAD-7 and
      PSYCHLOPS items 1b and 2b scores between Time 1 and Time 2. In addition, reliable change on
      the PHQ-9 and GAD-7 will be calculated using the Reliable Change Index and used to identify
      whether any change is clinically significant.

      To address research question three, brief qualitative interviews will be analysed using
      content analysis. This method of analysis allows codes to come from the data and be organised
      into categories. This method of analysis will facilitate clear recommendations for the
      enhancement or modification of the MYLO interface.

      DATA PROTECTION & GOVERNANCE

      University policies and procedures regarding information governance will be adhered to. Hard
      copy data will be stored in a locked, fire proof filing cabinet at the School of
      Psychological Sciences, University of Manchester accessible only to members of the research
      team.

      Electronic data will be transported, stored and analysed in accordance with university data
      protection policies. Electronic data will be stored on a secure storage area on a university
      provided research drive accessible only to members of the direct study team. Data files will
      be encrypted with a password using Microsoft Office and data folders will be encrypted using
      7-Zip according to University of Manchester information storage policy.

      University policy and procedures relating to audio recording will be adhered to. Audio
      recordings will be made using an audio recorder. The recorder will be locked away securely
      when not being used and will not be left unattended. Audio files will be transferred as soon
      as possible to a secure computer storage drive accessible only to members of the research
      team. Transcription will be conducted by a member of the research team in a secure
      environment and the identity of the service user will be anonymised.

      The MYLO programme will be hosted on a Virtual Machine (VM) set up and maintained by IT
      services at the University of Manchester. The VM will be connected to university Lightweight
      Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) so only permitted University of Manchester registered users
      will be able to access the VM. All University of Manchester employees have to login to
      university services using GlobalProtect.

      The web address for MYLO will only be provided to study participants. Users accessing MYLO
      will be unable to upload files to MYLO or change any of the interface. User passwords for
      MYLO are encrypted and usernames and passwords are to be held on a password protected
      database which is accessible only to the research team and stored on the secure shared drive.

      MYLO conversation logs are not encrypted and are stored in text file format in a system
      folder within the MYLO database. Conversation files will be transferred from the MYLO
      database by the researcher as soon as practicable following conversation completion to a
      secure storage area on the university provided research drive. Data folders will be encrypted
      using 7-ZIP with password protection. Passwords will be strong i.e.: minimum length of 10
      characters, case sensitive, include a mixture of alphabetic (a-Z, upper and lower case),
      numeric (0-9) and special characters.

      All data obtained will be securely stored for 5 years in accordance with University policy.

      The study will be subject to the audit and monitoring regime of the University of Manchester.
    
  