
    
      JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSA) is an under diagnosed
      disease affecting 5% of the general population. This disease is associated with an increase
      in the risk for cardiovascular disease (high blood pressure, coronary disease, and stroke).
      Two optic neuropathies are associated with OSA: glaucoma and nonarteritic anterior ischemic
      optic neuropathy (NAION). Glaucoma is a frequent progressive optical neuropathy in
      industrialized countries and one of the leading causes of blindness in the world. Normal
      tension glaucoma, a vascular form of glaucoma, is the form most frequently associated with
      OSAS. In addition, in nonglaucomatous OSA patients, there is a diffuse reduction in optic
      nerve layer thickness correlated with OSA severity, strongly suggesting optic nerve
      involvement in these patients. Moreover, recent studies have shown that 90% of patients
      presenting NAION have OSA. These clinical and epidemiological data suggest a causal relation
      between OSA and the onset of optic neuropathy.

      OBJECTIVES: This physiopathological study aims to demonstrate, quantify, and analyze the
      vascular modifications associated with OSA through:

      - A comparative study on glaucoma patients and OSAS patients, with or without NAION, and
      healthy subjects matched for age, sex, and body mass index: the eye vascular modifications
      will be quantified using confocal laser Doppler flowmetry.

      EXPERIMENTAL SCHEDULE The aim of this study is to characterize ocular blood flow (choroid and
      optic nerve) regulation in patients in 4 populations: (1) glaucoma patients (2) OSA patients
      without clinical evidence of optic nerve disease, (3) OSA patients with NAION, (4) matched
      healthy subjects . OSA patients of group 2 and 3 will be studied 3-6 months after nCPAP
      treatment.

        1. Recruitment and screening visit: each subject will undergo a general examination. The
           ocular examination includes visual acuity, intraocular pressure, biomicroscopy and
           fundus examination, visual field (Humphrey 24/2 SITA-STANDARD) and measurement of the
           thickness of the optic nerve fiber layer using optical coherence tomography (OCT 3
           Zeiss). In order to assess the cardiovascular phenotype, the cardiovascular examination
           will be completed, by an electrocardiogram, an ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, and
           echocardiography. A blood sample will be also analyzed: lipid analysis, hemogram,
           ionogram, glucose, cholesterol, triglycerides. A polysomnography will be performed for
           all subjects for the diagnosis of OSA, and the calculation of a respiratory disturbance
           index (RDI, sleep apnea defined as a RDI >15 per hour).

        2. Baseline measurements of blood flow of the optic nerve head:

           Patients are asked to abstain from alcohol and caffeine for at least 12 h before the LDF
           measurements. Systolic (BPsyst) and diastolic (BPdiast) blood pressures are determined
           (DINAMAP®, Critikon, inc. Tampa, Florida, USA) during LDF measurements and immediately
           after, intraocular pressure (IOP) of the fellow eye is measured by applanation
           tonometry: using the Tonopen XL. The mean ocular perfusion pressure (OPP) is calculated
           according to the formula: OPP sitting position = (95/140 x MAP) - IOP in which mean
           arterial pressure (MAP) was calculated as: MAP = BPdiast + 1/3 (BPsyst - BPdiast).

           A newly developed compact laser Doppler flowmeter (LDF) allows the measurement of blood
           flow at the level of the neuroretinal rim of the optic nerve. This system delivers a
           laser beam from a diode laser (670 nm) to a discrete site at the optic nerve head. The
           scattered light is collected by an optical fiber with the image of its aperture
           (approximately 150 µm in diameter) focused onto the illuminated site. This fiber guides
           the scattered light to a photodetector. An area of the fundus (30° in diameter) is
           illuminated in red-free light for observation of the fundus and positioning of the laser
           beam. This instrument detects the light scattered by the red blood cells (RBCs) within
           an annulus centered on the illumination site of the laser. This flowmeter consists of a
           self-aligned confocal system, a fundus illumination (green light) and CCD based
           observation unit, a target fixation system and a CCD camera to observe the pupil. This
           CCD allows monitoring of the position of the probing laser beam at the pupil to insure
           constant entrance point in successive measurements of ONH blood flow. The Doppler signal
           is digitized and a dedicated software operating on a portable computer calculates the
           relative velocity (VEL), volume (VOL) and flow of the red blood cells in the eye
           microcirculation. Synchronization of these parameters with the heart pulse allows
           determination of the flow pulsatility. For the investigation of the effect of increased
           retinal activity on optic nerve blood flow, a system for delivering visual stimuli
           (flicker) has been adapted to the fundus camera-based instrument.

           The baseline measurements consist on 3 measurements of the optic nerve blood flow in a
           resting condition every one minute during 3 minutes (time of measurement 30 sec).

        3. Ocular blood flow reactivity: gas inhalation, isometric exercise and flicker
           stimulation.

           All these experiments will be performed in the 4 groups (glaucoma patients,OSA patients,
           patients with OSA+NAION, healthy subjects). A resting period of at least 20 minutes in a
           sitting position is scheduled for each subject before the study and 30 minutes between
           experiment. Stable baseline conditions are established, which are ensured by repeated
           measurements of blood pressure. Other conditions such as abstinence from coffee, alcohol
           drinking, smoking, refrain from heavy meal, exercise, etc, all of which may affect the
           measurement of blood flow are prohibited. Adequate dilatation of the patient's pupil is
           necessary using a muscarinic antagonist (i.e. tropicamide).

           The gas experiment

           - experimental setting : this experiment will be performed in a randomized, double
           masked, three way cross-over design. Three inhalation periods of different mixtures of
           oxygen and carbon dioxide are scheduled. Three LDF measurements of 30 seconds are
           performed before inhalation, 5 and 10 minutes during the inhalation, and then after
           resting period of 10 minutes. The following gas mixtures are administered for 10 minutes
           each: 100% O2, Bactal (92%O2 +8%CO2), and air (21,8%O2 +78,2%N2). All gases are
           delivered through a partially expanded reservoir bag at atmospheric pressure using a two
           valves system to prevent re-breathing. Transcutaneous carbon dioxide tension (TINA
           PtcCO2 monitoring system, Radiometer, Copenhagen, Denmark), MAP and IOP are monitored at
           5', 10' and at the end of the experiment.

           The isometric exercise (handgripping)

           - experimental setting: this consists on handgripping during 3 minutes. Measurements of
           blood flow is performed each minute during a 30 sec period.

           The flicker experiment

           - experimental setting: The stimulus is a pure green luminance flicker generated by an
           array of ultrabright light-emitting diodes with dominant wavelengths at 524 nm and
           located in the plane of the light source of the fundus camera. The diodes are
           synchronously square-wave modulated at 15 Hz between 0 and 10 lux. The stimulus is
           delivered to the eye in Maxwellian view through the fundus illumination's optical system
           of the camera (Topcon Optical, Tokyo, Japan) and it uniformly illuminates a 25° diameter
           area that included both the fovea and the optic disc. Blood flow is measured at baseline
           before the flicker stimulation, and then during the 2 min period of flicker stimulation.

        4. Similar experiments will be also performed for the OSA group of patients after 3 to 6
           months of nCPAP treatment.

      STUDIED POPULATION :

      This clinical project will include OSA patients with the following inclusion criteria: OSA
      defined by a respiratory-disturbance index > 15/hour (number of episode of partial (hypopnea)
      or complete (apnea) upper airway obstruction), age between 18 and 80 years, affiliation to
      the health care system. The exclusion criteria are: ocular disease (including cataract or
      retinal disease, ametropia > 3 diopters, optic neuropathy other than NAION in group 2),
      uncontrolled high blood pressure, cardiovascular treatment (vasoconstrictors, vasodilatators,
      beta and alpha agonists or antagonists, nitric derived medication), corticosteroids,
      theophylline, sildenafil, immunosuppressors, neuroleptics, non steroid anti inflammatory,
      oestroprogestative treatment, hypnotics (benzodiazepines), local treatment for ocular
      hypertension or glaucoma.

      Glaucoma was defined as:

      Patients were eligible if they had glaucomatous optic nerve head appearance indicative of
      glaucoma in addition to corresponding visual field loss.

      Visual field abnormalitie(s) compatible with glaucomatous damages in accordance to the
      European guidelines :

      Unless one of the following criteria, observed on 2 consecutive automated visual fields (one
      of these will be the baseline automated visual field: Humphrey 30.2 SITA-Standard strategy):

        -  A Glaucoma Hemifield Test (GHT) outside normal limits. or

        -  A cluster of 3 or more nonedge points in a location typical for glaucoma, all of which
           are depressed on the pattern deviation plot at a p < 5% level and 1 of which is
           depressed at a p < 1% level.

      or

      - A Pattern Standard Deviation (PSD) that occurs in less than 5% of normal fields

      Control subjects will be matched with OSA patients for body mass index, gender and age, and
      will undergo complete overnight polysomnography to discard OSA. Other inclusion and exclusion
      criteria are similar to that of OSA patients.

      MAIN CRITERIA OF EVALUATION AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS Normalized data during the experiment
      will be calculated according to baseline data. Changes in blood flow parameters (reflected
      the vascular reactivity) and correlations will be calculated with nonparametric tests
      (Friedman and Wilcoxon tests for paired comparisons) using the SPSS 12.0 software. Comparison
      of OSA group and healthy subjects group will be done using non parametric test (Mann Whitney
      and Chi 2 test). A two-tailed approach test will determine significance, which is set as
      p<0.05.

      The sensitivity (the minimum statistically significant LDF parameters change (S) that can be
      detected) will be calculated using the formula : S = (t * SD) / ((square root)n * P mean) *
      100, where P mean is the mean value of all measurements, SD the SD of the difference between
      paired measurement for all subjects, and t the two-tailed value of the t distribution at a
      0.05 significance level for n-1-1 degree of freedom.

      STRATEGY OF ANALYSIS The clinical experiment aims to compare the vascular regulation of the
      optic nerve in OSA patients with that of a healthy group of human subjects. Subsequently, a
      group of OSA patients with NAION will be analyzed in order to compare the ocular blood flow
      ant its regulation in eyes with ischemic neuropathy (NAION) with eyes of OSA patients without
      optic nerve disease. All these comparisons will allow to characterize the optic nerve blood
      flow in healthy eyes, in eyes of OSA patients and in eyes of OSA patients at the time of
      acute ischemic attack (NAION).The glaucoma patients will be compared with healthy subjects.

      ETHICAL ASPECTS This study will be conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki
      for research involving human subjects and the Good Clinical Practice guidelines. Informed
      consent will be obtained from the subjects after explanation of the study. The study protocol
      was approved by the local Institutional Review Board (Comité de Protection des Personnes,
      Sud-Est V), declared to the French authorities (insurance : N° contract : 124706 Société
      Hospitalière d'Assurances Mutuelles Lyon, France).
    
  