
    
      OUTLINE: This is a multi-center study.

      INVESTIGATIONAL TREATMENT:

      Regorafenib will be administered 160 mg orally once daily for the first 21 days of each
      28-day cycle. Subjects that randomize to receive ginseng will take 1,000 mg orally twice
      daily every day for 4 weeks (2 cycles). Subjects that randomize to NOT receive ginseng will
      not be given ginseng. Subjects will be instructed to take regorafenib with a low-fat meal.

      Subjects will undergo fatigue assessments, using the MFSI-SF instrument and PROMIS. Subjects
      will have a pill count C2D1 and at the end of treatment visit. Subjects will have the
      re-staging scan (CT of chest/abdomen/pelvis) at the end of Cycle 2/ week 8 (±5).

      Adequate bone marrow, liver and renal function assessed by the following laboratory values
      obtained within 7 days prior to registration for protocol therapy:

      Hematopoietic:

        -  Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) count > 1,500/mm^3

        -  Hemoglobin (Hgb) > 9g/dL

        -  Platelet count > 100,000/mm^3

      Renal:

        -  Serum creatinine ≤ 1.5 × the upper limit of normal (ULN)

      Hepatic:

        -  Total bilirubin ≤ 1.5 × the upper limit of normal (ULN).

        -  Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate amino-transferase (AST) ≤ 2.5 x ULN (≤ 5 ×
           ULN for subjects with liver involvement of their cancer)

        -  Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) limit ≤ 2.5 × ULN (≤ 5 × ULN for subjects with liver
           involvement of their cancer)

      Coagulation:

        -  International normalized ratio (INR)/Partial thromboplastin time (PTT) ≤ 1.5 × ULN.
           NOTE: Subjects who are prophylactically treated with an agent such as warfarin or
           heparin will be allowed to participate if no prior evidence of underlying abnormality in
           coagulation parameters exists. Close monitoring of at least weekly evaluations will be
           performed until INR/PTT is stable, based on a measurement that is pre-dose as defined by
           the local standard of care. Warfarin does should not exceed 1 mg.
    
  