
    
      Early onset FGR requiring preterm delivery by 32 weeks gestation complicates 1-5% of
      pregnancies and is an important health problem. Over 60% of children have long-term health
      consequences after being delivered for early onset FGR. There is no prenatal treatment for
      fetal growth restriction. The current management of FGR consists of fetal surveillance to
      detect a decline in the baby's health and deliver when this can be safely done. In a large
      number of early onset FGR, premature delivery is required to prevent the fetus from becoming
      more compromised or even dying in the womb.

      Placental dysfunction leading to early onset FGR is characterized by changes to the blood
      vessels of the placenta, leading to a decline in the amount of blood flow to the placenta.
      The arteries that run in the umbilical cord of the fetus (umbilical arteries) are important
      for nutrient exchange between the fetal and placental circulation. Many fetuses with early
      onset FGR have elevated resistance in the blood vessels entering the placenta. This results
      in decreased blood flow in the umbilical artery (UA). The blood flow in the umbilical artery
      is evaluated by a specialized ultrasound technique called Doppler ultrasound. Doppler
      ultrasound of the umbilical arteries examines the blood flow to see if there is evidence of
      abnormal blood flow into the placenta. When the amount of blood flow at the end of every
      pulse decreases, it is classified as elevated UA blood flow resistance. When the blood flow
      briefly pauses at the end of each pulse, this is called absent end-diastolic velocity (AEDV)
      or UA AEDV. When the blood flow reverses at the end of each pulse, this is called reversed
      end-diastolic velocity (UA REDV). In fetuses with elevated UA blood flow, the placenta can
      usually supply enough nutrients and oxygen for at least 9 weeks. After that time, delivery is
      typically required. The worsening of blood flow to UA AEDV, or even UA REDV, increases the
      risk for fetal deterioration and preterm birth within the next 2-6 weeks. Approximately, 80%
      of early onset FGR fetuses progress to UA AEDV, or even UA REDV, and then require delivery by
      32 weeks. There is no treatment that can stop this progression which is of critical
      importance in determining how much time is left for the fetus before delivery will be
      necessary.
    
  