
    
      Overall lipid profile is important in cardiovascular diseases but particularly serum HDL
      levels have long been recognized as an independent inverse prognostic marker of CVD, when the
      Framigham study, in 1980s showed that HDL below 40-60mg/dl is of prognostic relevance. A rise
      of 1mg/dl in HDL levels is considered to reduce coronary artery disease (CAD) risk to 2-3%.
      Even patients with elevated total cholesterol (TC) and LDL, presenting a high HDL are seen to
      be protected from atherosclerosis. Multiple human population studies have shown the
      concentration of HDL cholesterol as an independent, inverse predictor of the risk of having a
      cardiovascular event. Additionally, HDL has several well-documented functions with the
      potential to protect against cardiovascular diseases. These include an ability to promote the
      efflux of cholesterol from macrophages in the artery wall, inhibit the oxidative modification
      of LDL, inhibit vascular inflammation, inhibit thrombosis, promote endothelial repair,
      promote angiogenesis, anti-oxidant, enhance endothelial function, improve diabetic control,
      and inhibit hematopoietic stem cell proliferation. HDL also exerts direct cardio protective
      effect, which are mediated with its interactions with the myocardium.

      Various studies have emphasised the high incidence of CVD within the South Asian countries.
      The increased risk of cardiovascular events in South Asians at a younger age might be due to
      unknown factors affecting plaque rupture, the interaction between prothrombotic factors and
      atherosclerosis, or may be due to any undiscovered risk factors. Urbanisation and
      westernisation is characterised by a distinct increase in the intake of energy dense foods, a
      decrease in physical activity, and a heightened level of psychosocial stress, all of which
      promote the development of hyperglycaemia, hypertension, and dyslipidaemia. Most common
      dyslipidaemia in South Asians is low HDL-C and high triglycerides. High triglyceride and low
      HDL-C levels are metabolically interlinked. This metabolic phenotype is also associated with
      increased levels of small LDL particles despite relatively normal levels of LDL-C among South
      Asians. This clinical syndrome is accompanied by insulin resistance, a condition frequently
      referred to as atherogenic dyslipidemia, which is a common metabolic derangement among Asian.
      South Asians not only have lower HDL levels but also have a higher concentration of small,
      less-protective HDL particles. One proposed mechanism is presence of dysfunctional HDL
      particles. Another potential explanation for the apparent blunted cardioprotection of HDL in
      South Asians might be related to HDL particle size. Small particles might be less efficient
      in reverse cholesterol transport. In general, HDL particle size tends to be lower in patients
      with CHD and those with low HDL-C levels . Alarmingly, an estimated 60-80% of Pakistani
      population has been reported to have low HDL. There are a number of non-pharmacological and
      pharmacological recommendations for management of low HDL. Non-pharmacological (functional
      food) strategies are reported to increase HDL levels around 10-15% and which include regular
      exercise , body weight reduction in obese individuals , cessation of cigarette smoking in
      smokers and dietary modifications like decrease intake of saturated trans-fatty acids with
      increase intake of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids . There are also a number of
      pharmacological agents being considered as therapeutic options but the tolerability and
      safety issues limit their use in addition to limited success in improving HDL. Therefore, the
      focus of research now days had been toward the use of functional food which can play
      significant role in cardiac protection. Ajwa dates have been recognized to contain the
      nutritional and medicinal properties. These are a rich source of nutrition, containing
      sugars, proteins, vitamins, high dietary fibres, minerals and fats, various phytochemicals
      like sterols, polyphenols, flavonoids and glycosides. Ajwa fruit is gifted by nature and is
      enriched with polyphenols and can act as a protective agent against many diseases. Various
      studies have been conducted to investigate the presence of different polyphenols in Ajwa.
      Different researchers have determined different phenolic components
    
  