
    
      An estimated 40,000 new HIV infections occur annually in the United States. Although
      significant effort has been devoted to improving identification of patients with undiagnosed
      HIV infection, this rate has changed very little in the last decade and new infections appear
      to be increasing most in non-traditional risk groups, including racial and ethnic minorities.
      Most persons infected with HIV still do not get tested until late in their disease courses,
      primarily due to its long asymptomatic period and their relatively poor access to routine
      medical care. Over 100 million people visit emergency departments (EDs) annually, and the ED
      commonly serves as a patient's only source for medical care, and thus the only potential
      opportunity to receive HIV counseling, testing, and referral (CTR). Also, patients who are
      most likely to use the ED as their only source of care are often those for whom the HIV
      epidemic is spreading most. The primary objective of the proposed research is to demonstrate
      clinical effectiveness, clinical efficiency, cost effectiveness, and patient-staff
      satisfaction with performing routine voluntary opt-out rapid HIV CTR in a high-volume urban
      ED, when compared to a targeted rapid HIV CTR program in the same setting. The primary
      hypothesis of the proposed investigations is that opt-out rapid HIV CTR is associated with a
      higher rate of overall testing, identification of patients infected with HIV, identification
      of patients infected with HIV earlier in their disease courses, and successful linkage into
      medical and preventative care for those patients who test positive for HIV infection. The
      secondary hypotheses are that opt-out rapid HIV CTR: (1) is not associated with increased ED
      processes of care, defined by patient waiting times, length of stays, the proportion of
      patients who leave before completing their evaluations, and an overcrowding index; and (2) is
      cost-effective. The tertiary hypotheses are that opt-out rapid HIV CTR is associated with a
      higher level of patient and ED staff satisfaction. To address these hypotheses, we will
      perform a prospective quasi-experimental equivalent time-samples clinical trial in which
      consecutive patients who present to the ED during interventional periods will be offered
      opt-out rapid HIV CTR as part of their visits, and during the control periods, patients will
      be targeted by physicians for rapid HIV CTR using a previously developed and validated CTR
      model. The results obtained from this study will improve our understanding of how best to
      identify patients with HIV infection in ED, and whether opt-out rapid HIV CTR is an effective
      means to achieve the CDC's goals of identifying more asymptomatic HIV-infected patients
      earlier in their disease courses.
    
  