
    
      An application was sent to the Regional Ethics Committee at the Linköping University Hospital
      and the study was approved recently. Informed consent will be obtained from 300 patients (ASA
      status 1-3) in the age group 40-80 years who are undergoing elective surgery for colorectal
      cancer. The exact type of cancer, its staging, degree of spread to proximal or distant sites
      and the pathologic type of cancer will be recorded. Patients on chronic narcotic analgesic
      medication, those with known immunologic diseases, those with known allergy to LA and those
      where epidural catheter placement is contraindicated will be excluded. This study will be a
      multi-centre study in Central Sweden. Patients will be randomized to one of two groups
      according to a computer-generated random number: Group E - Epidural anaesthesia (EDA) or
      Group P - Patient-controlled analgesia (PCA).

      Anaesthesia and surgery will be standardized, other than for group randomization. Surgical
      management of patients in the hospitals will also be standardized. Postoperative parameters
      will include pain intensity, rescue analgesic (morphine) consumption, surgical complications
      (e.g., re-operation, surgical site infection, or bleeding), other perioperative complications
      (e.g., deep vein thrombosis, cardiac complications, or chest infections), cancer recurrence
      diagnosed by CT or MRI (done yearly over 5 years) and mortality, both cancer-related and
      all-cause mortality. In addition, blood will be taken preoperatively for analysis of the
      following inflammatory and immunological markers:

      VEGF will be determined in peritoneal fluid and in serum during surgery. HIF-1A will be
      determined by immunohistochemistry and microRNA measurements in normal and neoplastic colonic
      mucosa.

      In addition, the microRNA mi21 will be analyzed in by quantitative reverse transcriptase-PCR
      in colon adenocarcinomas and adjacent non-cancerous tissues.

      The CTC in whole blood (in 5-7.5 ml) will be measured with the CellSearch System, according
      to the manufacturer´s instructions, and the Cell Tracks Analyzer II (Cristofanilli M et al. N
      Engl J Med 2004:351:781-91).

      Inflammatory mediator assay-ELISA Patient serum or EDTA/Heparin plasma will be assessed for
      cytokine levels by a Luminex multiplex assay (Human Inflammation 12-Plex kit; GM.CSF, IFN-g,
      IL-1b, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12, TNF-a and VEGF from R&D system) and PGE2
      levels will be measured by an ELISA kit from Cayman Chemicals Company. In addition, markers
      of systemic inflammatory response, including CRP, white blood cell count, differential count
      and total platelet count, will also be measured before and after surgery.
    
  