
    
      While all states are responsible for childcare licensing standards, 26 states serving over 1
      million preschool-age children currently implement QRIS. In MDC, QRIS-affiliated childcare
      facilities (collectively called Quality Counts or QC centers from this point forward) provide
      care to 1/3 of MDC's preschool-age children (80% are ethnic minorities) in 417 centers. At
      this time there are no nutrition policies included in the QRIS standards for childcare
      centers. Therefore, in light of the current childhood obesity epidemic, this project will
      address a major gap in knowledge and the disparities in access to healthy food consumption in
      the childcare center setting through HC2 implementation.

      This study builds on previously funded work and will maximize the initial 3-year (2010-2013)
      investment the USDA made in phase I of the project to test effective obesity prevention
      strategies in the early childhood setting utilizing both educators and parents as nutritional
      gatekeeper, healthy lifestyle role models for 2-to-5 year-old children. The goal of this
      proposed project (phase II) is to expand the phase I evidence-based HC2 findings by giving
      ownership of the program/toolkit to the childcare centers via a train-the-trainers model and
      by implementing nutrition and physical activity standards into the Quality Rating Improvement
      System.

      The proposed integrated project is responsive to the USDA's National Institute of Food and
      Agriculture (formerly CSREES) functions by addressing all three areas of the agricultural
      knowledge system, including (1) a scientifically-based and rigorous Research design that
      assesses obesity prevention efforts with young children in a novel setting of childcare
      facilities; (2) the development of an Educational tool kit to improve training and capacity
      of teachers and parents/families. Extension and capacity building will be enhanced through
      HC2 toolkits delivered to the centers and train-the-trainer program manuals for use
      throughout the QRIS network and in cooperation with Florida FNP. Finally, by incorporating
      HC2 practices into permanent QRIS policy, centers can sustain the project's benefits for
      future children, teachers, and families. Additionally, the investigators will collaborate
      with two community nutritionists to provide services to a large number of childcare centers
      in the county therefore, extending project materials. Lastly, the toolkit will sustain
      education and extension functions beyond the life of the project by giving ownership of HC2
      to the childcare centers.
    
  