
    
      In developed counties Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) becomes the most common cause
      of chronic liver disease , but its prevalence in developing countries like India is also
      increasing (10 -20%). Most of the patients are diagnosed clinically and by increased serum
      transaminase and fatty changes in liver on abdominal ultrasound. Till date, there is no
      US-FDA approved therapy for NAFLD but drugs like metformin, pioglitazone, sitagliptin,
      vildagliptin Vitamin E, silymarin, statins and ezetimibe have been studied along with life
      style modification. Life style modifications is the current modality of treatment of NAFLD.
      All the above-mentioned drugs have some beneficial effects with limited use due to its
      adverse effects in patients of NAFLD and the study results are non-conclusive. In this
      scenario, a safe hepatoprotective drug to be evaluated in NAFLD.

      Alpha-lipoic acid (ALA) or 6,8-thioctic acid, is an endogenous molecule which functions as an
      important co-factor for various enzyme complexes in mitochondria and plays an important role
      in energy metabolism. ALA is a nutraceutical agent which also has hepatoprotective and
      anti-inﬂammatory effects. Previous animal studies proved the hepatoprotective effect of alpha
      lipoic acid on various animal models. Inflammatory liver injury involves the production of
      inflammatory mediators like nitric oxide and TNF-alpha. Alpha -Lipoic acid significantly
      inhibits production of nitric oxide and TNF-alpha. The reduced production of nitric oxide and
      TNF-alpha in Kupffer cells may be involved in the hepatoprotective action conveyed by
      alpha-lipoic acid.It has been proved that ALA has potent anti - inflammatory and anti-
      oxidant properties.

      Insulin resistance is associated with impaired hepatic cell damage, intrahepatic cholestasis,
      atherogenic dyslipidaemia and fibrosis in patients of NAFLD. Daily treatment with ALA for 28
      days significantly improved insulin sensitivity performance in mice by decreasing insulin
      resistance, IL-6 levels, acetylcholinesterase enzyme activity and oxidative stress in liver.
      Various studies have shown that the ALA can efficiently improve insulin sensitivity and
      reverse the insulin resistance. Cytokeratin 18 (CK 18) is released into circulation as a
      consequence of oxidative stress, hepatocyte apoptosis or inflammation in response to lipid
      metabolism in NAFLD. CK - 18 level is higher in insulin resistance.

      ALA is a nutraceutic having anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects and also increasing
      insulin sensitivity with lesser adverse effects. The relative scarcity of a promising therapy
      and non-conclusiveness of the previous studies open up an arena of further research using a
      nutraceutic in non-diabetic NAFLD. So, the present study is designed to evaluate safety and
      efficacy of ALA in non-diabetic NAFLD patients.
    
  