
    
      General objective To provide knowledge about the influence of transmission season (high and
      low) on the outcome of treatment assessed by cure rate, re-infection rate, regression and
      reappearance of urinary tract morbidity rate after treatment in order to optimise
      praziquantel treatment strategies for morbidity control in urinary schistosomiasis.

      Specific objectives To determine the prevalence and intensity of Schistosoma haematobium
      infection before chemotherapy and compare cure rates and levels of re-infection after
      chemotherapy administered during high and low transmission seasons.

      To assess urinary tract morbidity due to Schistosoma haematobium by ultrasonography and
      compare the regression and reappearance of urinary tract pathology chemotherapy administered
      during high and low transmission seasons.

      To correlate morbidity determined by ultrasound with infection and morbidity parameters such
      as intensity of infection, micro- and macrohematuria, circulating cathodic antigen (CCA) in
      urine, proteinuria and leucocyturia and determine sensitivity, specificity and positive
      predictive values in relation to urinary tract morbidity.

      Study design The main research question concerning the influence of transmission season on
      treatment outcome will be addressed in a consecutive cohort study with two separate but
      comparable cohorts. The first cohort will be examined and treated with praziquantel during
      the season with high transmission, February/Mach (group A) and the second cohort will be
      examined and treated during the low transmission season, in July approximately 5 months later
      (group B). Each cohort will be examined before treatment and 2, 6 and 18 months after
      treatment.

      The study will be carried out in 4 primary schools; two from Machava J area and two from
      Costa do Sol area. The schools will be selected based on the following criteria: similar
      prevalence (> 50%) and intensity of S. haematobium infection; absence or very low levels of
      S. mansoni infection; a minimum of 2 classes (>35 pupils per class) at each level (3rd and
      4th level) and similar distribution of boys and girls.Examinations will include urine for
      parasitology and haematuria and ultrasonography of upper and lower urinary tract
    
  