
    
      Shigellosis remains a serious and frequent disease throughout the world. Development of
      vaccines has been difficult because shigellae are habitants of and pathogens for humans only
      and there is no consensus about the mechanism/s of immunity to this pathogen.

      Incomplete, but compelling evidence, indicates that a critical level of serum IgG anti-LPS
      confers immunity to shigellosis. A randomized, double-blind, vaccine-controlled study in
      Israel Defense Force (IDF) recruits showed that the S. sonnei-rEPA elicited 74% protection
      against shigellosis occurring about 3 months after vaccination (p=0.001). This vaccine also
      conferred 43% (p=0.04) protection in one company during an outbreak up to 17 days following
      vaccination suggesting that our Shigella conjugates might be of value in epidemics. The
      efficacy of S. sonnei-rEPA was correlated with the level of vaccine-induced IgG antibodies.

      The highest incidence, morbidity, and mortality of shigellosis is in young children. But
      serum antibody responsiveness to it is age dependent and infants and young children respond
      poorly or not at all to polysaccharide antigens following disease, administration of
      attenuated strains of Shigella or vaccination with whole cell vaccines. The safety and
      immunogenicity of similar Shigella conjugates in 4 to 7 years-old children in Israel was
      demonstrated. But, although the fold rise in anti-LPS was similar in the children, the level
      of anti-LPS elicited by the conjugates was lower than in adults. We improved the
      immunogenicity of Shigella conjugates as shown in mice and then in adult humans. Now we apply
      to evaluate the safety, immunogenicity and efficacy of these improved conjugates in 1 to 4
      years-old children in Israel. In addition to monitoring the safety and immunogenicity of the
      two investigational Shigella vaccines, active surveillance of the vaccines for enteric
      infections wil be maintained for at lest 2 years to evaluate the effect of vaccination.
    
  