
    
      Study hypothesis:

      Intracranial interstitial fluid (ISF) flow is crucial for adequate clearance of extracellular
      waste products from the brain parenchyma. Recent demonstrations have shown that its
      deficiency leads to their accumulation in neurodegenerative disorders. The hypothesis of this
      project is MRS and/or MTI can be used to give a quantitative measure of intracranial
      interstitial fluid flow.

      Goals:

      The primary goal is to provide a quantitative measure of ISF flow rate through the brain
      parenchyma. This will be performed by making multiple measurements of the characteristic
      ethanol peak at different time points with MRS or ethanol-related decreases in water
      saturation signal in MTI, following its ingestion. This will allow the transit of ethanol,
      which is equal to the transit of ISF, to be obtained and reported using common transport
      parameters such as time-to-peak (TTP) and mean transit time (MTT).

      Secondary objectives include determining a range of values that may be considered normal
      ranges for ISF flow rates in healthy individuals. This will be helpful in future experiments
      when such values will be compared with rates measuring for individuals with various different
      types of intracranial pathology.

      INVESTIGATION STUDY DESIGN:

      This pilot project will be experimental with the aim of determining the best quantitative
      criteria from ethanol MRS or MTI labeling of intracranial ISF flow data to give a reliable
      clearance metric. To achieve this, the initial proof of concept study will involve 10 healthy
      male volunteers between the ages of 20-75 undergoing the ethanol-MRS or MTI protocol. This
      work will be quantitative in nature, since discrete MR signals will be measured and analyzed.

      Data Collection Study participants will be required to have fasted a minimum of 6 hours prior
      to initiating the experiment and refrained from alcohol ingestion for 12 hours. A quick
      screen will be performed by a research team member of the participant's medications, alcohol
      consumption, and any neurological conditions prior to moving forward with the examination to
      verify all volunteers meet all inclusion criteria for the study.

      Data will be acquired using either magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS), magnetic resonance
      spectroscopic imaging (MRSI), or magnetization transfer imaging (MTI). A relatively short
      acquisition (5-7 minutes) will be repeated to acquire a time course for ethanol transit
      through the brain.

      Each study participant will undergo pre-ethanol ingestion MR acquisition. The volunteer will
      then be given an ethanol-containing beverage. The ethanol content will be approximately 0.5
      g/kg, mixed in 355 mL of a non-caffeinated, sugar-free carbonated drink as done previously in
      other human ethanol MRS experiments (7). The drink must be consumed within 5 minutes and may
      be provided through clear plastic tubing so the subject does not have to be removed from the
      scanner. Blood alcohol concentration (BAC) levels for this work are not expected to exceed
      0.05%, considered a low level, at the end of the experiment.

      After consuming the ethanol-containing beverage, scout images will be acquired again to
      re-localize the voxels for each subsequent spectral image if study participants need to be
      placed back in the MR scanner (ie. did not ingest ethanol through tubing). MRS, MRSI, or MTI
      will be performed at ~5-7 minutes/spectrum or image, repeating the process continuously for
      60-90 minutes. During the scanning, the patient may be asked to breathe through the
      ClearMateTM, a specially designed, MR-compatible non-rebreathing circuit that provides oxygen
      and carbon dioxide that quickly decreases a person's blood alcohol level.

      After the final acquisition, the patient will be taken to a supervised area where he/she will
      remain until blood ethanol levels are registered below 0.05% via a standard breathalyzer
      test. Once the participant has met this requirement and state that they feel safe to leave
      the premises, they will be free to go within the recommendations of the study and their
      participation considered to be complete. Breath sampling will be performed at 30-minute
      intervals if it is still high.

      Finally, since the most accurate way to assess the blood alcohol kinetics is by making
      comparisons of arterial and venous blood levels, peripheral arterial lines will be inserted
      (by a Sunnybrook staff anesthesiologist) in a few select study participants. Periodic
      arterial blood samples from these individuals will be measured for the blood alcohol content
      and compared with the values for blood samples drawn concurrently from the peripheral
      intravenous line.
    
  