
    
      Compelling evidence indicate a key role of energy defects in neurodegenerative diseases
      (NDs). These defects would constitute extremely informative functional biomarkers of disease
      states and progression. Such functional biomarkers could be used as readouts for therapeutic
      efficacy in clinical trials, especially for drugs targeting brain energy metabolism. Magnetic
      Resonance Imaging (MRI) and Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS) are likely the most
      promising approaches to validate brain biomarkers linked to energy metabolism. However,
      existing methods allowing "static" measures of metabolites concentrations offer only a
      fragmented vision of brain energy metabolism in NDs. The validation of novel and "dynamic"
      methods is urgently needed. Our project addresses this challenge for Huntington disease (HD).

      Our study is an observational study consisting of the transfer of methods from preclinical to
      clinical studies and their application in HD.

      This study comprises two period:

        -  Period 1: transfer of 31P saturation transfer and CEST methods from preclinical to
           clinical MRS/MRI platforms and the validation of these methods in healthy individuals;

        -  Period 2: compare brain metabolic markers in early individuals affected by HD,
           presymptomatic individuals and controls, using 31P saturation transfer and CEST methods.

      The primary objectives are:

      Using 31P saturation transfer and CEST methods, the primary objective is to compare novel
      metabolic biomarkers between controls and HD carriers (patients and presymptomatic
      individuals).

      Assessment criterion:

      Comparison between controls, HD patients and HD presymptomatic individuals of the cerebral
      synthesis rate of creatine phosphate and of brain glutamate concentrations and pH values

      The secondary objectives are:

        -  To develop/optimize 31P MRS/CEST methods to study the dynamics of brain energy
           metabolism in humans

        -  To improve the understanding and "modeling" the nature of energy deficits in HD

        -  To look for correlations between brain energy profiles and clinical scores.

      Assessment criteria:

        -  Validation of the 31P MRS and CEST methods in healthy volunteers.

        -  Combination and integration of the 31P MRS and CEST data in order to obtain a model of
           energy deficits in HD.

        -  Correlations between creatine phosphate synthetic rate and clinical parameters (age,
           BMI, UHDRS); correlations between glutamate concentrations and clinical parameters;
           correlations between pH values and clinical parameters.

      Ancillary studies:

      The investigators wish to compare brain energy parameters (creatine phosphate synthetic rate,
      glutamate concentrations, pH values) with systemic metabolic markers (profiles of plasma
      metabolites obtained from metabolomic and lipidomic studies).
    
  