
    
      The current standard of care for recurring GBM is for patients to receive Bevacizumab
      (Avastin) intravenously (IV) at 10mg/kg every two weeks until their tumor grows more than
      25%. At that point, these patients are deemed treatment failures and are given another
      treatment. Because of the blood brain barrier (BBB) where IV drugs do not penetrate the blood
      vessel walls well to get into the brain, no one knows for sure if these IV drugs actually get
      into the brain after infusion. We have recently completed a Phase I clinical trial that has
      shown that SIACI of Bevacizumab is safe and effective up to a dose of 15mg/kg in patients
      with recurrent malignant glioma. This two arm open-label, non-randomized trial is a follow up
      study to that trial and will ask two simple questions: Is it safe to deliver repeated doses
      of Bevacizumab intraarterially using these super selective intraarterial delivery techniques?
      Is it necessary to combine this IA regimen of treatment with biweekly IV Bevacizumab in order
      to improve progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS)? Information from this
      trial will yield important answers to the durability and efficacy of this delivery technique
      and may radically change the way chemotherapy is given to our patients with brain tumors.

      Current Standard of Care:

      Day 0: Intravenous Bevacizumab (10mg/kg) Day 14, 28 (and every two weeks thereafter):
      Intravenous Bevacizumab

      Therefore the experimental aspects of this treatment plan will include:

        1. Subjects will first be treated with Mannitol prior to chemotherapy infusion (Mannitol
           20%; 12.5 mL/s over 2 minutes) in order to disrupt the blood brain barrier. This
           technique has been used in several thousand patients in previous studies for the IA
           delivery of chemotherapy for malignant glioma. We have used this without complication in
           the 30 patients from our Phase I protocol as well.

        2. To treat patients with one of two arms with repeated intraarterial delivery (SIACI) of
           Bevacizumab for patients with recurring or relapsing high grade glioma. Each arm gets IA
           delivery with one arm getting IV Bevacizumab biweekly as well and the other arm not
           getting intervening IV therapy. In each arm, IA therapy is repeated when MRI shows
           progression. Persistent progression after three intraarterial chemotherapies would
           remove the patient from the trial.
    
  