
    
      This is a randomized control study that will be completed within the Department of
      Neurosurgery at Lahey Hospital & Medical Center. Patients will undergo their recommended
      surgery to treat single-level lumbar radiculopathy. Patients who are randomized to and
      consent to receiving a preoperative corticosteroid injection will report to clinic within 2
      weeks prior to date of surgery to receive a corticosteroid injection. These subjects will
      first receive a topical anesthesia to the skin and underlying tissue in a maximum amount of 5
      ml of 1% Lidocaine. Following this application, an 18-20 gauge epidural needle will be used
      to inject a solution containing 80 mg Depo-Medrol in 1 ml of 1% PF Lidocaine and 5ml of
      sterile PF saline. To assure the injection is epidural, we will be using loss of resistance
      technique under fluoroscopy and epidural placement will be confirmed with the live-image
      instillation in the AP and lateral positions of dye, with pattern confirming epidermal needle
      placement.

      All patients will complete health outcome questionnaires (VAS, EQ-5D, ODI) at baseline
      (treatment cohort: prior to injection, control cohort: prior to spine surgery), 1 week
      post-op, 1 month post-op, and 3 months post-op. Patients will be instructed to bring all
      condition-related pain medication containers to each follow-up for research measuring
      purposes. Research personnel will record number of pills remaining in container, number of
      opioid prescription refills, and respective dates. Opioid usage for each subject will be
      tracked and converted to mg oral morphine equivalents using a standard table. Research
      personnel will capture additional clinic information such as length of stay, length of time
      before ambulation, and occurrence of any complications (i.e. DVT, infection). Opioid use,
      muscle relaxants, and other pain medication use will be followed for 3 months. At baseline
      and at each post-op follow up, patients will be asked to define their use of illicit drugs
      over the past 6 months (heroin, cocaine, marijuana, methamphetamine, other). Return to work
      date and work status will be captured out to 3 months. Patients will submit a health-cost
      diary at 1 week, 1 month, and 3 months, and this data will be combined with hospital-based
      cost information to generate a cost analysis. This diary will capture costs such as
      medication costs, copayments, travel, etc. Additionally, all patient surgery cancelations as
      well as reason for cancelation will be recorded. No additional medical testing will be
      required by the patient.
    
  