
    
      Procedural memory is vitally important to the efficacy of rehabilitation following Traumatic
      Brain Injury (TBI). Specifically, during rehabilitation, persons with TBI must re-learn many
      motor skills associated with activities of daily living to improve functional outcomes.
      Emerging research on neuroplasticity after brain damage is beginning to increase our
      understanding of motor learning principles and how they interact with the training that takes
      place in neurorehabilitation.

      There is a strong body of evidence showing the importance of sleep in procedural learning
      among healthy individuals. Within this body of research on sleep and procedural learning,
      there is substantial evidence demonstrating sleep-dependent neuroplasticity. Participants
      trained on a motor learning task show improvements over the training period, as expected.
      However, when re-tested after a period of sleep, performance is significantly better than
      when retested after an equivalent period of time awake. The actual enhancement of a learned
      motor skill in the absence of additional practice trials suggests that one can decrease the
      time necessary for learning a motor skill by incorporating a daytime nap after a period of
      training. The implications of these findings can be ground-breaking when applied to brain
      injury rehabilitation where motor learning may be a major focus of physical and occupational
      therapies. There is evidence of a positive impact of sleep on procedural memory and
      rehabilitation progress among older individuals after stroke, and the investigators have
      pilot data showing a substantial positive effect of a post-training nap on motor learning in
      an acquired brain injury sample. However, the neural mechanisms involved in this process
      after traumatic brain injury are less understood.

      Among healthy individuals, there are numerous studies examining neural biomarkers that can
      quantify the effect of sleep on motor learning. Studies have reported that changes in sleep
      physiology and neural activation after training correlate with the degree of improvement at
      post-intervention testing. Studies showed that, after a nap of 60-90 minutes, speed of
      performance was enhanced, and the degree of enhancement was associated with the duration of
      stage 2 non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep. This relationship with stage 2 NREM sleep has
      also been shown after a 20-minute nap. In addition, changes in neural activation in the
      striatum have been found to be more pronounced when individuals slept after training than
      when they remained awake. In another study in which a night of sleep occurred between
      training and retest, changes in striatal activity were correlated with performance gains on
      the motor learning task. This study also showed evidence of EEG changes during sleep after
      the training period in the amount of sleep-spindle activity, a waveform associated with stage
      2 NREM sleep.

      While our preliminary findings show evidence of off-line motor learning after a nap among
      individuals with acquired brain injury, research into the mechanisms of action driving this
      response among individuals with TBI is lacking. A better understanding of neurophysiology and
      its influence on the magnitude of the effect is a crucial step in determining which
      individuals would be likely to benefit from this behavioral intervention.

      Specific Aim 1-Behavioral Intervention: In a sample of individuals with TBI living in the
      community, demonstrate greater improvement on a motor sequence learning task after a daytime
      nap compared with an equivalent time spent awake and resting. This aim will also explore the
      individual differences in terms of demographics and injury characteristics contributing to
      the magnitude of the effect.

      Hypothesis 1. Individuals exposed to a nap after a period of training on the motor sequence
      learning task will demonstrate greater improvement in speed and accuracy from the end of
      training to the post-nap retesting.

      Research Question 1. How does the magnitude of the effect correlate with demographic factors
      and injury characteristics? Specific Aim 2-Functional Neuroimaging: To examine the neural
      correlates of off-line motor learning among individuals with TBI who were given a nap after
      training on the motor sequence learning task using functional MRI compared with a control
      group who received an equivalent period of time awake.

      Hypothesis 2. Individuals in the nap group will show more pronounced changes in activation
      within the striatum and motor cortex compared with those who remained awake and resting.

      Specific Aim 3-Sleep Physiology: To examine aspects of stage 2 sleep associated with
      performance gains (duration of stage 2 and degree of spindle activity) occurring during the
      nap period after training.

      Hypothesis 3a. Among participants in the nap group, there will be a significant positive
      correlation between the degree of improvement and the duration of stage 2 sleep.

      Hypothesis 3b. Among participants in the nap group, there will be a significant positive
      correlation between the degree of improvement and density of sleep spindles.
    
  