
    
      The study is designed as a prospective monocentric observational cohort study. The primary
      endpoint of the study is to assess the accuracy of preoperative diagnostic procedures in
      terms of sensitivity and specificity in detecting nodal metastases in sporadic NF-PanNEN as
      determined by pathological examination on the specimen.

      Patients with a suspect of a sporadic NF-PanNEN will be considered for the study at the time
      of the first visit. All consecutive patients who will meet inclusion criteria, after informed
      consent, will be included. The preoperative work-up will be performed in our center. All the
      examinations required for this study are necessary for the correct preoperative staging,
      representing the standard diagnostic work-up in patients with PanNEN. Computed tomography
      (CT) images will be obtained by multiphase technique. Non-enhanced, arterial and portal phase
      images will be obtained in all the patients. Computed tomography (CT) images will be obtained
      by multiphase technique. Non-enhanced, late arterial and portal phase images will be obtained
      in all the patients as well. Every lymph nodal finding with short-axis diameter >1cm or with
      pathological contrast enhancement will be considered as pathological. Pancreatic endoscopic
      ultrasound (EUS) is a relatively recent endoscopic technique which combines the
      high-frequency ultrasound technology with the direct endoscopic vision, permitting a
      sensitive evaluation of pancreatic lesions (from the stomach or the duodenum), an accurate
      vascular staging and the assessment of pathologic lymph nodes related to the tumor. Nodes
      larger than 1 cm, with well demarked and/or rounded margins and with typical
      echoic/elastographic features will be reported as metastatic. Moreover, the additive value of
      EUS is the possibility to sample pancreatic masses and lymph nodes with a fine needle
      aspiration (FNA), to obtain a cytological diagnosis. A PET/MRI with 68Ga-DOTATOC is also
      necessary for the staging of the disease. A 18F-FDG PET will be performed according to the
      clinician's discretion, especially in the presence of large lesions and/or liver metastases.

      As soon as the preoperative assessment will be completed, a surgical resection will be
      proposed to the patient according to the international guidelines on the management of
      NF-PanNEN. A standard pancreatic resection will be performed according to the site and the
      extension of the lesion. Nodes will be classified according to the Japanese classification of
      the biliary tract cancers. The extension of lymphadenectomy will be related to the type of
      pancreatic resection.

      LN that will be resected apart from the pancreatic specimen, will be sent for pathological
      examination in a separated cup labelled by the surgeon. In case of preoperative detection of
      nodal involvement in a station not included in the standard lymphadenectomy, the nodes in
      this station will be resected to confirm or not the radiological finding. Reference standard
      for defining the presence of nodal metastases will be represented by the pathological
      examination.

      All data regarding the clinical aspect, the radiological reports and the pathological exam
      will be fully available only to the surgeon. Radiologist, nuclear medicine physician, and
      pathologist will be blinded to the radiological findings.

      Several retrospective studies 11-12 reported a prevalence of nodal metastases in PanNEN of
      about 40%, in case of tumors > 2 cm. No data have been found on the sensitivity and
      specificity of the various examinations in detecting nodal involvement. Given this prevalence
      and assuming a good accuracy based on this institute experience, the simple size required to
      assess the sensitivity and specificity of the methods was found to be of 150 patients,
      considering a 95% confidence interval with a margin of error of 10%.

      A descriptive analysis will be performed of the data obtained. The aim will be to evaluate
      the sensitivity, the specificity and the positive and negative predictive values of the
      preoperative staging (CE-CT scan, EUS, 68Ga DOTATOC/18F-FDG PET/MRI). The comparison between
      the exams in terms of prediction of the nodal status will be calculated with the McNemar
      test. A logistic regression model will be used to assess the risk of nodal positivity at the
      pathological report when the preoperative imaging demonstrates the features of nodal
      metastases. OR and 95% confidence interval will be calculated. The statistical correlation
      between the risk of nodal positivity at the pathological report and some preoperative
      variables will be evaluated with the chi-square test and ROC curves analysis.
    
  