
    
      Objectives:

      • To assess the rate of conception, in female infertility, after individualized homoeopathic
      treatment.

      Need for the study:

        -  To confirm that homeopathy is best alternative for resource limited community to receive
           effective treatment with minimum possible expenditure.

        -  To bring out a repertoire of effective Homoeopathic medicines in the treatment of
           infertility.

        -  To establish a centre for focussed treatment of infertility at Father Muller Homeopathic
           Medical College and Hospital.

      Many cases visiting Homoeopathic OPD have improved under the treatment. In general, there is
      a deficit of well-designed, randomized, controlled trials to evaluate the efficacy and safety
      of complementary and alternative medicine for these indications, which makes it difficult to
      provide evidence-based recommendations.

      Globally there is a need for this study to avoid the side-effects of antibiotics and hormonal
      tablets thus improving the quality of life. In a third world country like India where
      infertile females cannot afford surgery; Homoeopathic medicines are simple, safe and cost
      effective. Homoeopathy can treat the underlying cause of female infertility in these cases
      and thereby prevent the hazards of surgery. In India the female race is always targeted and
      blamed for being infertile. This not only has an impact on the health of the woman but also
      affects her social status. The psychological and mental agony suffered by these infertile
      women and the fear that their husbands' may go in for a second marriage in turn causes great
      stress and anxiety. Hence the efficacy of Homoeopathic medicines on infertile females needs
      to be explored.

      Methodology:

      Approach: This is a prospective study with purposive sampling. Design: Total number of
      beneficiaries is 40, including 20 PCOS cases, 10 cases of Endometriosis, and 10 cases of
      Chronic Pelvic Inflammatory diseases. The numbers of these cases are based on the
      availability and frequency of their visits to our OPD.

      Data collection instruments: case books of the OPD Setting: OPD of Homeopathic Medical
      College, Derlakatte, Kankanady and Thumbe Population: women visiting the OPD for infertility
      treatment Sample: women diagnosed for any of the three causes of infertility Sampling
      technique: purposive sampling Feasibility: the study is feasible in terms of availability of
      patients at our OPD settings Duration of study: total of 3 years. All 40 cases are expected
      to be registered in a span of 6 months to 1 year. Registration will be followed by treatment
      of 18 months, 6 months for analysis and reporting by the end of 3 years.

      Statistical analysis: Data from the sample is collected and subjected to chi square test, and
      frequencies will be calculated.

      Null Hypothesis: No significant difference in cases of female infertility before and after
      treatment.

      Alternate Hypothesis: Significant difference in cases of female infertility before and after
      treatment.

      Procedure:

      Forty infertile women will undergo investigations like Ultrasonography of pelvis, diagnostic
      laparoscopy when needed and urine pregnancy test once in six months. The cases will be
      diagnosed by the principal investigators and co-investigators. Semen analysis in male
      partners will be done as a routine to rule out cases of male infertility. The infertile women
      will be administered appropriate Homoeopathic Simillimum by the principal investigator for 18
      months. The follow-up visits of these patients will be once in two weeks. Effectiveness of
      Homoeopathic treatment and rate of conception in infertile females will be assessed after
      administering the Simillimum. The investigations will be repeated after treatment and cases
      will be reviewed and examined by the co-investigators.

      The treatment given is individually chosen homoeopathic medicine based on the psychophysical
      symptom syndrome each experienced. The drugs are procured from Fr Muller HPD which complies
      with the standards of Homoeopathic Pharmacopoeia. The investigations will be repeated after
      treatment.

      The Homoeopathic treatment includes a detailed interview in which the patient is queried
      about her unique symptoms. The well indicated constitutional remedy will be given on the
      basis of symptoms' similarity, that is, symptoms that were in emotional and mental realm and
      those that affected her entire body. The symptoms will be ordered by intensity and
      prominence. A single dose of Homoeopathic Similimum will be given to each of these patients
      and repeated as and when needed and whenever required the potency will be increased. If there
      is any miasmatic block, anti-miasmatic treatment will be given. Acute remedy will be given
      when needed. All cases of infertility are told to abstain from caffeine and Allopathic
      treatment. Hormonal treatment is to be withdrawn. The investigations will be repeated after
      treatment after six months, twelve months and eighteen months whenever required to assess the
      improvement of the patient.
    
  