
    
      This is a prospective, open label pilot study in which patients with symptoms of acute or
      chronic pouchitis will receive FMT therapy delivered via pouchoscopy.

      Number of Subjects:

      This study will aim to enroll approximately 30 patients with pouchitis.

      Eligibility Criteria for FMT Group:

      Both acute and chronic pouchitis will be eligible for treatment with FMT. Patients eligible
      for FMT will include:

        1. Patients with history of proctocolectomy with Ileal Pouch-Anal Anastomosis (IPAA) (with
           pouchitis confirmed by endoscopy and pathology.

        2. Concurrent therapies with mesalamine, immunomodulators, corticosteroids and biologic
           agents will be allowed to continue during study.

      All patients who have a pouch for Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) will be evaluated in
      Gastroenterology clinic or Colorectal surgery clinic. Patients who are eligible for the study
      will be identified during these regularly scheduled clinic visits. Patients who express
      interest will be set up for a meeting with a clinical research coordinator who will go over
      the study in detail and will obtain informed consent.

      Prior to the FMT procedure stool samples will be checked for ova and parasites, C. difficile
      toxin and fecal calprotectin. Serum tests will include erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR),
      C-reactive protein (CRP), Anti-nuclear antibodies (ANA), complete blood cell count, HIV,
      screening for Hepatitis A, B, C (hep A IgM, hep B surface antigen and antibody, Hep C
      antibody), and creatinine. Eight days before treatment, patients will take a 5 day course of
      rifaximin that is discontinued 3 days before FMT treatment.

      All patients with clinical suspicion for pouchitis will undergo pouchoscopy. Pouchoscopy
      (endoscopic evaluation of the pouch) is considered part of standard of care for management of
      these patients. All participants will undergo a pouchoscopy and this will not be considered a
      study procedure. This will be done in the endoscopic units at Mt. Zion, Parnassus and/or
      Mission Bay. During this procedure, for patients in the FMT group, the fecal transplant will
      take place. For FMT, 250 cc of FMT material (previously screened stool from OpenBiome) will
      be administered via the endoscope. During each FMT procedure 3 pouch biopsies will be
      collected. The scope will then be withdrawn and the patient will recover in the endoscopy
      unit as per protocol.

      All patients who have undergone FMT for pouchitis will be called the next day to ensure no
      adverse events have occurred. A second FMT treatment and a follow up visit will be scheduled
      4 weeks after the initial procedure. A pouchoscopy with 3 pouch biopsies will be conducted 6
      six months after the initial FMT treatment to check for healing.

      One week after the second FMT treatment, patients will be given the option to enroll in a 6
      week, once per week FMT capsule therapy to be administered at a 1 hour clinic visit. Patients
      who receive capsules will be called the following to to ensure no adverse events have
      occurred.

      Study participants will be asked to submit a stool sample prior to treatment, one month after
      treatment and then after that every three months after treatment up to 1 year in duration for
      a total of 6 samples. Additionally, blood serum samples will be collected at baseline and
      again 1 and 6 months after FMT procedure. Study participants will also be administered a
      patient survey to assess their clinical outcomes/symptoms prior to treatment and again 1
      month after receiving treatment. In addition, all patients will receive a phone call 24
      hours, 1 week, 1 month and and then every 3 months for 3 years after FMT treatment.
    
  