
    
      Few studies have investigated social factors in association with musculoskeletal pain in
      adolescents, such as perceived peer acceptance. Adolescence is a vulnerable period of life
      when peer relations is important in order to develop social, emotional and behavioural
      skills. Social relations have been linked to several health outcomes in previous studies.
      Therefore, this study aims to investigate if social acceptance among peers is associated with
      musculoskeletal pain in adolescents.

      The research questions are:

        1. Is there a significant association between perceived social acceptance among peers
           during the first year of high school and persistent MSK pain two years later in
           adolescents?

        2. Is psychological distress a mediator in the relationship between perceived social
           acceptance among peers during the first year of high school and MSK pain two years later
           in adolescents?

      Method:

      This is a prospective cohort study using data from the youth part of the Tromsø Study, Fit
      Futures (FF). Students from the first year of high school were included at baseline in Fit
      Futures 1 (FF1) and followed up for two years later in Fit Futures 2 (FF2). The students
      answered a comprehensive questionnaire, including biological, psychological, and social
      variables. They also underwent measurements of height and weight during school hours.

      Baseline characteristics will be extracted from FF1 with data collected in the period
      2010-2011. Baseline characteristics from adolescents who participated in the study and
      adolescents who were lost to follow-up will be presented and compared. Information about sex,
      parents socioeconomic status (SES), body mass index (BMI), physical activity level, number of
      pain sites, and perceived health will be used to describe the study sample.

      Social acceptance among peers was measured by five questions from the revised Norwegian
      version of Self-perception Profile for Adolescent; scale for social competence and
      psychological distress was measured by the Hopkins Symptoms Checklist-10.

      Statistical analyses:

      All statistical tests will be two-sided, and the nominal p-values will be reported. All
      confidence intervals (CIs) will be reported as 95%. Preliminary analyses of frequencies,
      missing data and normality will be conducted. The assumption of normal distribution will be
      investigated using histograms and QQ-plots. Normally distributed data will be described with
      means and standard deviations (SDs), skewed data will be presented with medians and ranges.
      Categorical data will be reported as counts and percentages. All statistical analyses will be
      conducted using SPSS statistical software (SPSS Inc, Chicago, IL, USA).

      Participants with missing data on the outcome will be excluded from the analyses. Missing
      data on the exposure variable will be handled by multiple imputations unless the missingness
      exceeds 10% and missing at random cannot be assumed. A two-year incidence rate of
      participants who reports no MSK pain at baseline and develops persistent MSK pain during the
      follow-up period will be calculated, presented as percentage with 95% CI.

      Mediation analyses:

      The mediation analysis will be performed as described by Hayes, using PROCESS macro in SPSS.
      In the analysis, social acceptance will be included as the exposure, MSK pain as the outcome,
      and psychological distress as the possible mediator. Sex, SES and comorbidity will be
      included as confounders. Multiple linear regression will be used to investigate the
      association between social acceptance and psychological distress. Multiple binary regression
      will be used to investigate the associations between psychological distress and MSK pain, and
      the association between social acceptance and MSK pain. Further, PROCESS macro will be used
      to estimate: (1) the total effect of social acceptance and MSK pain; (2) the direct effect of
      social acceptance on MSK pain; (3) the specific indirect effects through mediator
      psychological distress. Regression coefficients and ORs will be presented in figures and
      tables, as shown in figure 2 and table 3. Confidence intervals for the indirect effects will
      be constructed using a bias-corrected bootstrap method with 5000 bootstrap samples. If
      analyses show that there are significant interactions between sex and social acceptance, the
      analyses will be stratified by sex.

      Additional analyses:

      There will be conducted subgroup analyses for participants at risk who reports no MSK pain at
      baseline. Sensitivity analyses will be conducted, excluding participants reporting MSK pain
      related to an accident or sports injury at follow-up. Drop-out analyses will be conducted to
      explore possible attrition bias by comparing baseline characteristics between participants
      lost to follow-up and responders at follow-up. The chi-square test will be used for
      comparison of categorical variables, independent samples t-test to compare normally
      distributed continuous variables, and Mann-Whitney U test to compare data with skewed
      distribution.
    
  