
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine if various pharmacotherapeutic agents investigated in primary AIDS
           Malignancy Clinical Trials (AMC) for diseases other than human papillomavirus
           (HPV)-associated neoplasia have any preliminary evidence of activity against anogenital
           HPV infection or anogenital squamous intraepithelial lesions (ASIL) in HIV-positive
           patients participating in these trials.

        -  To describe changes in the types of anal HPV present and the prevalence of ASIL in
           patients treated on these studies.

        -  To evaluate cervical HPV infection and cervical/vulvovaginal disease in HIV-positive
           women participating in these trials.

        -  To describe changes in cervical HPV infection and cervical/vulvovaginal disease in these
           women after undergoing various study treatments.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients undergo anal swab collection at baseline to obtain samples for anal cytology, anal
      human papillomavirus (HPV) typing, and other HPV-related testing (e.g., HPV viral load).
      Digital rectal examinations (DRE) are also performed as part of the baseline physical
      examination. Female patients also undergo cervical swab collection for cervical HPV testing
      and cytology, as well as colposcopy (if available) of the cervix and vulvovaginal region to
      completely assess lower genital tract HPV-related lesions. At sites where high-resolution
      anoscopy (HRA) is available, patients are encouraged, but not required, to have an HRA with
      biopsy of any visualized lesions within 30 days of collection of the swabs.

      After baseline assessments, patients undergo treatment with the investigative agent according
      to the study protocol requirements. If study treatment continues beyond 6 months, additional
      anal and cervical swabs are obtained for anal and cervical HPV and cytology along with DREs
      every 6 months until completion of study treatment and at the final study visit. Patients may
      also undergo additional HRA with biopsy and/or colposcopy of the lower genital tract with
      biopsy (women only) at this time. Patients with an abnormal anal cytology or histology are
      referred for HRA per local standard of care. If HRA is not available at the treatment site,
      patients undergo a DRE, and those with an abnormal DRE are referred for evaluation by a
      surgeon.
    
  