
    
      The Canadian Diabetes Association 2018 Clinical Practice Guidelines state that moderate to
      high levels of physical activity and cardiorespiratory fitness are associated with
      substantially lower morbidity and mortality in people with diabetes. The recommendations
      include a combination of aerobic, resistance, and flexibility exercises. The Guidelines
      specifically advocate for strategies that increase self-efficacy and motivation in order to
      increase physical activity uptake and maintenance.

      Similarly, the importance of exercise counselling in primary care is widely recognized.
      Exercise is frequently identified as a key intervention for many chronic conditions, yet it
      remains under-prescribed. Physical activity counselling during routine diabetes care often
      takes a back seat to other issues, or lacks specific, actionable details that are important
      for patients to successfully integrate regular physical activity into their lifestyle.
      Moreover, even when prescribed, the successful implementation of physical activity behaviour
      changes remains a challenge for patients.

      Eligible Rosemount Family Health Organization adult patients age >=18 years with type 2
      diabetes mellitus will receive an email or mail invitation to self-refer to a structured,
      facility-based, supervised aerobic and resistance exercise program. Interested patients will
      be invited to attend a 1-hour information session at the exercise facility at the time of
      implementation start up where they will complete an initial survey. Patients will then be
      free to attend up to 6 regularly-scheduled, group, free classes per week at a local exercise
      facility for a period of 3-months. Classes will be supervised by experienced trainers.

      Measures of program success will focus around four themes, informed in part by the Institute
      for Healthcare Improvement's Triple Aim: (i) adherence to CDA guidelines for physical
      activity, (ii) patient experience, and (iii) health impact. Our balancing measure will be
      potential costs incurred by patients. Adherence measures, including percentage uptake (i.e.
      attend introductory session and one class), retention (at 1, 2 and 3-months), and percentage
      who meet CDA recommendations for exercise will be collected. Reasons for declined or
      discontinued participation will also be collected voluntarily from patients to help identify
      concrete or perceived barriers to structured exercise programs. Health-related measures will
      include quality of life (EQ-5D-5L) and exercise self-efficacy (Basic Psychological Needs in
      Exercise Scale, BP-NES). These will be measured by patient-report at 0, 1, 2, and 3-months.
      Participants will be asked to rate their "willingness to recommend" (Likert scale 1-10) the
      program to other individuals with T2DM. Additionally, pre- and post-exercise program
      hemoglobin A1c and blood pressure measurements (both of which are routinely collected for all
      patients with T2DM) will be obtained from patient charts. Finally, while this program will be
      free to patients, a hypothetical cost per patient will be estimated in order to gain an
      understanding of the financial costs compared to the value added through patient experience
      and health outcome measures.
    
  