
    
      The effectiveness of drugs used to treat colorectal cancer may be different from person to
      person. Researchers want to learn if certain biomarkers can be used to help predict which
      cancer drugs may work better than other drugs in different people with colorectal cancer.

      Study Participation:

      If you agree to take part in this study, the following tests and procedures will be
      performed:

        -  A leftover sample of tumor tissue from a previous procedure, if available, will be used
           for biomarker testing.

        -  Blood (about 3 tablespoons) will be drawn for biomarker testing, to check for levels of
           cytokines (proteins that may affect the immune system), and to check the circulating
           tumor cells (CTCs) in your blood.

        -  You will be asked how well you are able to perform the normal activities of daily living
           (performance status).

      You will also fill out a questionnaire about the cancer symptoms. This should take about 5
      minutes.

      Biomarker Test Results:

      The study doctor and staff will review the biomarker test results with you.

      If the results seem to show that a certain investigational drug may help to control the
      cancer, and the drug is available through a separate MD Anderson clinical research study
      called a "companion" drug study, your doctor may recommend that you have additional tests and
      procedures performed. The tests and procedures will be performed as part of the companion
      drug study to see if you are eligible to receive that drug. You will be asked to sign a
      separate consent form for the companion drug study.

      It is possible that the biomarker test results may seem to show that more than one drug may
      help to control the cancer. If so, it may be possible that you could receive the other
      drug(s) under other companion studies in the future. The study tests described below would be
      repeated during those other studies as well.

      Even if the biomarker testing shows that a certain drug may be helpful, it is possible that
      you may not be eligible to take part in the separate companion drug study, the study drug may
      not be available, or there may be other reasons you cannot take part in the drug study. You
      may also decide that you do not want to take part in the companion drug study. Your doctor
      will discuss other available treatment options with you.

      Study Visits:

      At study visits for this biomarker research study, the following tests and procedures will be
      performed:

        -  You will fill out the cancer symptom questionnaire.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for biomarker, cytokine, and CTC testing.

      Your schedule of study visits will depend on whether or not you take part in a companion
      study. There is a different schedule of visits for participants who do not take part in a
      companion study but instead either take part in a clinical research study that is not a
      companion study or they receive standard cancer drug(s).

      If you take part in 1 or more companion studies, you will have study visits for this
      biomarker research study on the following schedule:

        -  before you start taking the drug(s) if you join a companion drug study and it has been 2
           or more weeks since you had these tests done (note: the amount of blood drawn will be
           about 2 tablespoons at this visit)

        -  each time you return for imaging scans during the time that you take part in 1 or more
           companion drug studies

        -  after you stop taking part in a companion drug study

      If your first treatment after consenting to this biomarker research study is part of a
      clinical research study that is not a companion study or if you receive standard cancer
      drug(s), you will have study visits for this biomarker research study on the following
      schedule:

        -  before you start taking the drug(s) during your first treatment period at MD Anderson
           and it has been 2 or more weeks since you had these tests done (note: the amount of
           blood drawn will be about 2 tablespoons at this visit)

        -  each time you return for imaging scans during your first treatment period at MD Anderson

        -  after you first stop taking part in a clinical research study that is not a companion
           drug study, or until you first stop taking standard cancer drug(s).

      Length of Treatment:

      The study testing will continue:

        -  for as long as you are taking part in a companion drug study, or

        -  until you first stop taking part in a clinical research study that is not a companion
           drug study, or until you first stop taking standard cancer drug(s), if you do not take
           part in a companion drug study.

      Follow-Up Visit:

      If you stop taking part in this study:

        -  You will fill out the cancer symptom questionnaire.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for biomarker, cytokine, and CTC testing.

      Long-Term Follow-Up:

      After your follow-up visit, from then on, the research staff will collect information on your
      health status, the drug(s) you receive, and the status of the disease. This information may
      be collected at the time of standard clinic visits, by reviewing your medical record and
      imaging scans, and/or by contacting you by phone, mail, and/or email. If you are called, the
      call will last about 10 minutes or less.
    
  