
    
      The project includes two sub-studies:

        1. Retrospective study part: intervention group (reached with the telephone intervention)
           and control group (gamblers attempted to be reached but who were not reached by the
           telephone intervention). Involves objective gambling data post- and pre-intervention, as
           derived from the AB Svenska Spel databases. Includes the study period September,
           2019-April, 2020. Total N of individuals available: 3,626.

           This study part will also include a sub-analysis, where each individual successfully
           reached for the motivational telephone call will be compared to a 1:1-matched individual
           who was not reached (but intended to be reached by the call). Matching is carried out
           based on the reason for including the individual in the intervention, i.e. either
           because of a risk screen in a voluntary self-test, or the level of monthly gambling
           loss. An individual will be matched to a control individual based on the 2,000-SEK
           interval (approximately 190-Euro inteval) of gambling losses or the inclusion criterion
           of self-test risk screen.

        2. Prospective study part: cohort study of individuals reached with the intervention
           prospectively from November, 2020, and who provide informed consent. Web survey study
           which collects data on user satisfaction, acceptability, and self-reported changes in
           gambling (on the same gambling operator and other gambling operators) post-intervention
           compared to self-reported gambling prior to the intervention. Data collected after
           sending the survey on the first business day 10 days after the intervention. Target N
           200.

      The aims of the study are the following:

        1. Retrospective study part: to study 1a) effects of the telephone intervention, with
           respect to individuals' level of gambling (frequency and total amount), uptake of
           responsible gambling tools, and enrolment into self-exclusion, during four weeks after
           the intervention, in comparison to a period of eight weeks prior to the intervention;
           1b) whether the objective effects above differed during the period of COVID-19 pandemic
           in Sweden (week by week throughout March and April, 2020, compared to previous weeks
           during the study)

        2. Prospective study part: to study 2a) participants' subjective attitudes to and
           experience of the telephone intervention 2b) subjective effects of the intervention on
           participants' self-reported change in gambling on the same and other operators, and
           self-reported uptake of self-exclusion
    
  