
    
      Background:

      Nausea and vomiting after surgery and anaesthesia are inconvenient and undesirable
      physiological and psychological events. In addition to causing distress and discomfort for
      the patient, retching and vomiting can increase the risk of pain and bleeding, resultant
      resource use, and prolong stay at the postoperative ward and hospital. The mechanisms behind
      Postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) are complicated, and many of the trigger factors are
      still unknown. Several types of pharmaceutical antiemetics are in use, but drug therapy is
      only partially effective in preventing or treating PONV. In 2008 we conducted a trial to
      assess the effectiveness of acupuncture and acupressure (acustimulation) in reducing
      postoperative retching and vomiting in children undergoing tonsillectomy and/or
      adenoidectomy. The results were promising, and the article is published in Acupuncture in
      Medicine in March 2011.

      Acustimulation:

      Cochrane systematic reviews show the effect of acupuncture and acupressure in postoperative
      antiemetic treatment. The reviews show no clear difference in the effectiveness of P6
      acupoint stimulation for adults and children, or for invasive and non-invasive acupoint
      stimulation. Moreover, there was no reliable evidence for differences in risks of
      postoperative nausea or vomiting after P6 acupoint stimulation compared to antiemetic drugs.

      Aim and objective:

      Acupressure wrist bands are less expensive compared to most antiemetics, and the adverse
      effects of acupoint stimulation are minimal. Accordingly, a reduction in cost-benefit by the
      use of wristband, is apparent. Considering the results from earlier research along with the
      promising results from our trial, we are encouraged to implement acupressure into our
      standard anaesthetic procedures. A reduction of the use of antiemetics will be a parameter on
      the effectiveness of acupressure.

      The aim of this quality improvement study is to implement acupressure as a supplement to the
      ordinary prophylactic treatment of PONV in our hospital. The objective is to observe whether
      use of acupressure wristbands reduces the consumption of antiemetics for the treatment of
      postoperative nausea and vomiting.
    
  