
    
      Dramatic improvement in the timely and effective treatment of patients afflicted with sepsis
      can be achieved with the implementation of modern technologies for identification of
      offending microbial species and their innate genetic antibiotic treatment targets. Our
      collaborative team is planning to address this need using a Point-of-Care (POC) device
      equipped for identification of a bacterial species within 60 minutes of a routine Emergency
      Department laboratory blood draw or other specimen collection, followed by targeted analysis
      of its innate genetic antibiotic resistance elements within as little as 7 hours time. This
      revolutionary improvement in clinical management is critical for improving patient outcomes
      for a disease syndrome that is not only highly prevalent worldwide, consuming a massive
      amount of medical resources daily, but that only threatens to continue to worsen given
      current antibiotic stewardship practices. Early goal-directed therapy (EGDT) is the standard
      by which medical interventions are now shaped across fields in the modern clinical setting,
      ranging from trauma and neurosurgery to cardiology and infectious disease. Rapid and accurate
      diagnoses, paired with aggressive and effective intervention, are manifest to stemming the
      disease process as well as maintaining economically feasible care and improving long-term
      morbidity. The effort to apply EGDT to patients at high risk for systemic infection, sepsis,
      was initiated over a decade ago by Rivers and colleagues in the Emergency Department setting.
      Systematic approaches to early sepsis identification and intervention including
      broad-spectrum antibiotic coverage, and adequate fluid volume resuscitation have yielded
      definite improvements in patient outcomes and health care resource utilization. It has been
      recognized that one of the limiting factors in treatment of sepsis in the hospital setting is
      the timeliness of pathogen identification and implementation of appropriate antimicrobial
      therapy. The current "gold standard" of sepsis microbial identification is blood culture,
      which takes 3-5 days for a definitive species identification. Antimicrobial agent
      susceptibility for the given organism is generally garnered within this same time frame.
      However, in the period it takes from specimen collection to culture results, empiric
      broad-spectrum antibiotic coverage, often involving multiple antibiotics, must be provided to
      ensure organism eradication. This proposal aims to use Point of Care (POC) testing, as
      described by the investigatos' laboratory, to accurately identify pathogenic microorganisms
      in patients with suspected sepsis within 20 minutes of a laboratory blood draw or urine
      collection. The scope of the investigators' proposal is feasible in that 20 organisms account
      for 87% of microbial infections identified by culture-based techniques at Sparrow Hospital,
      representing the greater Lansing, Michigan area, and 50 microorganisms would account for
      virtually every microbial infectious species (Khalife, 2011, unpublished data). In
      preliminary studies the investigators have validated this approach with laboratory-processed
      samples of Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus. The investigators now are creating
      panels for multiple types of infections and have validated these efforts on over 30
      microorganisms. POC testing will now be expanded to include additional microorganisms
      commonly encountered in sepsis patients or those with other identifiable infectious sources.
      Secondarily, antimicrobial resistance genes will be scanned using a functional genomics
      approach with highly-parallel quantitative PCR as performed by the investigators' laboratory
      in a previous study exploring the microbiota of porcine gastrointestinal tract.
    
  