
    
      Sample description and study design for this research was performed at the School of the
      Medicine, University of Split, Croatia.

      Respondents are the students and employees of the School of the Medicine University of Split,
      Croatia. They will be divided in groups where different types of whitening toothpaste will be
      used. One group will use control non-whitening toothpaste. All respondents will use the same
      toothbrush during the research. Before using whitening toothpastes, all participants will use
      the same non-whitening toothpaste for one month. All participants will sign informed consent
      for participation in the research. Their participation will be voluntary. Respondents will be
      able to refuse to participate in the research without any consequences.

      This study is approved by Ethic Committee of the School of Dental Medicine, Zagreb, Croatia
      (09.2018.) and Ethic Committee of the School of the Medicine University of Split, Croatia
      (12.2017). The study is randomized, prospective clinical trial.

      The participants will be randomly selected for the whitening toothpaste groups and for the
      control non-whitening group. A sample of cells from the buccal mucosa area will be taken from
      each patient prior using the toothpastes under test, 30 and 60 days after the beginning and
      30 days after using the toothpastes under test. Color assessment will be performed four times
      using the Vita Easyshade digital spectrophotometer: T0- before treatment (initial); T1- 30
      days after the beginning; T2- 60 days after the beginning and T3- 90 days after the beginning
      of the study (i.e. 30 days after completing the treatment). The color reading will be
      performed in the middle third of the labial surface of the tooth, in the same environment and
      with the same light conditions. The measurement will be performed on all vital six anterior
      maxillary teeth, free of caries and restorations. Participant's satisfaction with the
      treatment and the toothpaste used will be assessed using the prepared questionnaires.

      Participants will use toothpastes under test for two months. Toothpaste will be applied twice
      a day, in the morning and in the evening, for three minutes for 1g (app. 2 cm). During the
      experiment, the examinees will not use any toothpaste other than the one under test.
      Participants will use no other agents for oral hygiene.
    
  