
    
      Pancreatic cancer continues to be a highly lethal disease with an overall 5 year survival of
      only 8%. Since 2004, the incidence of pancreatic cancer has been increasing by 1.5% per year
      and it is estimated that there will be 53,670 new cases diagnosed in the United States in
      2017, with 43,090 expected deaths. Pancreatic cancer is the third most common cause of
      cancer-related deaths in both men and women, and the incidence is about equal in both sexes.
      Of all types of pancreatic cancers, pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) is by far the most
      common, representing 80% of cases. Due to lack of adequate screening techniques, greater than
      80% of patients at the time of diagnosis present with unresectable, advanced disease.
      Standard treatment options for inoperable patients with locally advanced and metastatic PDA
      have been quite limited. Gemcitabine monotherapy, approved by the Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) in 1996, demonstrated a median survival of 5.7 months, and has been the
      mainstay in treating patients with PDA. The first combination regimen to demonstrate any
      survival benefit compared with gemcitabine alone was gemcitabine plus erlotinib, with median
      survival of 6.24 months versus 5.91 months for single agent gemcitabine.

      A meta-analysis of randomized trials by Heinemann and colleagues showed that patients with
      advanced pancreatic cancer and a good performance status may benefit from combination
      chemotherapy with gemcitabine plus a platinum agent or a fluoropyrimidine. Multiple
      combination regimens are being utilized.

      Recently, the regimen of 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin/irinotecan/oxaliplatin (FOLFIRINOX)
      compared with gemcitabine demonstrated improvement in both progression-free survival (PFS,
      6.4 vs. 3.3 months) and overall survival (OS, 11.1 vs. 6.8 months) for patients with a good
      performance status. FOLFIRINOX, however, is associated with substantial grade 3 and 4
      toxicities, including diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, fatigue, neutropenia and febrile
      neutropenia, and cannot be given to patients >76 years of age or in some cases patients with
      head of the pancreas tumors. An international phase III trial comparing paclitaxel protein
      bound (now called paclitaxel protein bound) plus gemcitabine to gemcitabine single agent
      demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in OS (8.5 vs. 6.7 months) for advanced
      pancreatic cancer patients using the gemcitabine and paclitaxel protein bound over
      gemcitabine alone.

      A recently completed phase Ib/II trial of the combination of paclitaxel protein bound plus
      gemcitabine plus cisplatin in previously untreated stage IV pancreatic adenocarcinoma
      patients was presented at the 2017 Gastrointestinal Cancer Symposium. In 24 patients with
      stage IV pancreatic cancer they reported 8.3% complete response (CR), 62.5% partial response
      (PR), 16.7% stable disease and 12.5% progressive disease. The rationale for adding cisplatin
      to paclitaxel protein bound and gemcitabine is that in a study of 1,029 patients whose
      pancreatic cancer tumors underwent molecular profiling, 57% of these tumors were negative for
      expression of the excision repair cross-complementation group 1 (ERCC1), indicating
      sensitivity to a platinum anti-tumor agent. In addition to the above, in our whole
      genome/transcriptome sequencing analysis, we found that abnormal repair pathways were a
      feature of all of the pancreatic cancers that were sequenced. Cisplatin prevents cellular
      deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair by binding to and causing crosslinking of DNA, triggering
      apoptosis. Cisplatin has been used in other combination regimens to treat patients with PDA.
      For example, the cisplatin, epirubicin, 5-fluorouracil and gemcitabine (PEFG) regimen had an
      acceptable toxicity profile and was associated with a 24% partial response rate, 5 month PFS
      and 8.3 month OS as second line therapy.

      Most recently, a study showed that Vitamin D can change the pancreatic tumor microenvironment
      from an immunologically suppressive (tumor promoting) one to an immunologically hostile one
      (e.g. decreased IL-6, decreased CXCL12 etc.). In addition, in the same study, the vitamin D
      ligand calcipotriol decreased production of collagen, decreased myeloid derived suppressor
      cells (MDSCs) and decreased regulatory T cells. Remarkably, in clinical practice, the vitamin
      D analogue paricalcitol was observed to reverse chemotherapy resistance. Two individuals with
      pancreatic adenocarcinoma who were receiving paclitaxel protein bound and gemcitabine based
      combination chemotherapy developed progressive disease which was reversed by the addition of
      paricalcitol.

      Based upon these promising clinical and pre-clinical data we are initiating a clinical trial
      combining paclitaxel protein bound, gemcitabine, and cisplatin for patients with metastatic
      PDA. When these patients develop progressive disease the vitamin D analog paricalcitol will
      be added to the regimen. The treatment will continue until further disease progression.
    
  