
    
      The vitreous body fills the posterior chamber of the eye and consists mainly of water. It is
      kept organized into a gel like structure by numerous collagen fibrils and makes contact with
      the surrounding retina. This interplay known as the vitreo-retinal interface of the human eye
      is a complex organization of bridging molecules anchoring the vitreous to the internal
      limiting membrane. With ageing, the vitreous gel undergoes liquefaction accompanied by
      progressive weakening of the adhesions at the vitreo-retinal interface resulting in a
      stepwise process of adhesion release. Since the most firm attachments in the posterior pole
      are situated at the macular and papillary region, tractional forces exerted during vitreous
      separation could influence retinal functioning.

      Up until now researchers have been looking primarily at the influence of vitreous traction to
      the macular region of the nerve fiber layer.This research has led to the insight that
      vitreo-macular traction can result in macular hole formation, and that patients with this
      condition may benefit from vitreolysis induced by surgery (vitrectomy) or intravitreal
      injection of ocriplasmin.

      More recent reports have focused on the influence of the vitreous on the morphology of the
      optic disc, showing that VPT altered optic disc architecture, increased average and temporal
      retinal nerve fiber layer thickness and was associated with more pronounced visual field
      defects. This could be important as very sensitive scans and diagnostic algorithms were
      developed for staging and follow up of glaucoma patients' optic nerve head, which could be
      influenced by the patients' vitreopapillar interface. As the status of this interface changes
      over time, this could lead to confusion and misinterpretation of the optic disc diagnostic
      scans.

      Besides the diagnostic challenges induced by the vitreopapillar interaction, this interface
      may also be of pathogenetic relevance in glaucoma. Indeed, the optic disc represents the
      collection of all ganglion cell axons, and glaucoma is caused by a degeneration of ganglion
      cells. Some authors have already suggested that vitreopapillary traction (VPT) could play a
      role in the pathogenesis of optic nerve head hemorrhages, which are regarded as an important
      risk factor for glaucoma progression. Moreover, one could hypothesize that VPT can cause
      stress to the ganglion cell axons and therefore contribute more directly to ganglion cell
      degeneration.

      Accordingly, this study aims at investigating the effect of VPT on the ultra-structural level
      of the optic disc. A possible structure-function relation will be investigated with the help
      of central visual field tests and focal retinal nerve fiber layer thickness assessment. With
      increasing knowledge and imaging of VPT, possibly a VPT-staging algorithm can be developed
      and VPT risk factors defined. Finally, this project may have a therapeutic impact, since it
      will shed light on the question whether (surgically or chemically) induced vitreolysis might
      be beneficial in some glaucoma patients with VPT.
    
  