
    
      Twenty-eight HBsAg-positive pregnant women who underwent consultation were recruited from the
      First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong University, Shaanxi, China. Twelve of these women
      willing to receive HBIG administration were assigned to experimental group, while another
      sixteen without HBIG injection were enrolled as control group. The exclusion criteria for
      participants were: 1) infection with toxoplasmosis, syphilis, parvovirus B19, rubella,
      cytomegalovirus, herpes, hepatitis C, HIV, or other viruses; 2) obstetric diseases such as
      pregnancy-related hypertension, placental abruption, threatened miscarriage, and others.

      The 12 pregnant women enrolled willing to receive injections of HBIG (200 IU, S20023028,
      Hualan Biological Engineering Inc.) beginning at week 20 of gestation (at weeks 20, 24, 28,
      32, 34, 36, 38, 39, and 40). The control group only underwent regular examinations without
      any HBIG treatment during pregnancy. All the infants born received combined immunoprophylaxis
      (HBIG, 200 IU, and the first dose of the hepatitis B vaccine, 5 μg, S19983018, Shenzhen
      Kangtai Biological Products Co. Ltd.) at different injection sites within 12 h postpartum.

      Data of mothers were collected from medical records that included complete healthcare
      information before and after delivery. Each infant was consecutively followed up after birth,
      growth index (weight, length and head circumference), feeding patterns and serum level of HBV
      DNA and viral markers were recorded. Serum HBV markers (HBsAg, HBsAb, HBeAg, and HBcAb)
      titers、HBV DNA load and liver function of mothers were regularly measured during pregnancy.
      Serum HBsAg, HBsAb titer and HBV DNA load of infants were tested at birth, the age of 7 and
      12 months. Placental tissue sections were used for immunohistochemical staining of HBsAg
      (mouse, 1:50, ZM-0122, Beijing Zhongshan Golden Bridge Biotechnology Co.), HBIG (rabbit, 4.7
      mg/ml, 1:2500, prepared as described above), and CD68 (mouse, 1:25, ab955, Abcam).

      Adverse outcome, HBV infection rate of infants, HBV markers titers, liver function and HBV
      DNA load of mothers, correlation between mothers and newborns regarding HBsAb titer and
      histopathological changes in placenta samples were compared between experimental group and
      control group.

      Statistical analysis was performed using SPSS 13.0 statistical software (SPSS Inc., Chicago,
      USA). Data were expressed as the mean ± standard deviation (SD). The data were analyzed with
      the Shapiro-Wilk test and the Levene statistic for normality and homogeneity of variance,
      respectively. The difference between two quantitative groups was compared with an
      independent-sample t-test or the Mann-Whitney U-test as appropriate, and correlations were
      analyzed with the Pearson or Spearman correlation test. The chi-square test or Fisher's exact
      test was used to compare the proportions of the two groups. All tests were two-tailed with
      the risk set at 5%, and the statistical significance was set as p < 0.05.
    
  