
    
      Ergothioneine (ET) is a naturally occurring thiol/thione obtained in humans solely through
      diet. It is able to accumulate in specific cells and tissues (including the brain), via a
      specific transporter, OCTN1, at high levels. Although the exact physiological function(s) of
      ET have yet to be elucidated, numerous reports have demonstrated that this compound can
      scavenge reactive oxygen species (such as hydroxyl radicals, hypochlorous acid, and
      peroxynitrite), modulate inflammation, and chelate divalent metal ions. These processes are
      all implicated in the pathology of dementia. Various studies in cell and animal models have
      also highlighted the potential neuroprotective capabilities of ET following insult by various
      neurotoxic agents such as cisplatin and amyloid beta peptide.

      Studies demonstrated that ET dose-dependently protected PC12 cells against beta
      amyloid-induced apoptotic death, and later was shown to protect against neuronal injury
      caused by direct administration of amyloid beta into the mouse hippocampus, thereby
      increasing scores in active avoidance and water maze tests. ET also dose-dependently extend
      lifespan of a transgenic Caenorhabditis elegans model of AD by reducing amyloid oligomer
      formation. Other studies also demonstrated that ET is also able to attenuate oxidative stress
      and prevents cognitive deficits in a D-galactose-induced dementia mouse model; protect
      against N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced cytotoxicity in rat retinal neurons; and prevent
      cisplatin-induced neuronal damage in cell cultures and mice.

      To date no studies have evaluated the therapeutic ability of ET, clinically, to delay or halt
      cognitive decline. Prior studies administering pure ET to humans provide insights into the
      pharmacokinetics and demonstrate the safety of this compound, laying the foundations for this
      clinical study. The present proposal will shed light onto a relatively lesser known natural
      compound and the therapeutic capabilities it possesses, which has the potential to
      significantly impact the economic and societal burdens of dementia.
    
  