
    
      The Study Drug:

      Tolvaptan is designed to help raise salt levels in your blood by removing extra body water as
      urine.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 groups. You will have an equal chance of being assigned to
      either group:

        -  If you are in Group 1, you will take tolvaptan and receive standard of care

        -  If you are in Group 2, you will take a placebo and receive the standard of care for
           patients with hyponatremia. A placebo is a tablet that looks like the study drug but has
           no active ingredients.

      You will not know which group you are assigned. However, if needed for your safety, you will
      be able to find out what you are receiving at any time.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You will take tolvaptan or the placebo 1 time every day by mouth for 14 days.

      If you are receiving the placebo, you will also receive the standard of care for
      hyponatremia. Examples of the standard of care include limiting your water and fluid intake,
      or giving you salt tablets and other drugs such as diuretics. Your doctor will describe these
      in more detail.

      You will be given a drug diary to record when you take the study drug/placebo. You will
      return any unused drug/placebo at the end of 14 days.

      You should avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice while you are taking tolvaptan.

      Study Visits:

      At every visit, you will be asked if you have had any side effects.

      On Days 1, 2, and 3:

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests. On Day 1, this sample will be
           drawn 2 times.

        -  Your weight and vital signs will be measured.

        -  The study staff will record how much fluid you are drinking and how much you are
           urinating.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs that you may be taking.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a physical exam.

      On Day 7:

        -  Your medical history will be reviewed and updated.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs that you may be taking.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests and tests to measure how
           concentrated your blood results are.

        -  Your weight and vital signs will be measured.

      On Day 14:

        -  Your medical history will be reviewed and updated.

        -  Your weight and vital signs will be measured.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) and urine will be collected for routine tests and tests to
           measure how concentrated your blood and urine are.

        -  The study staff will record how much fluid you are drinking and how much you are
           urinating.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs that you may be taking.

        -  You will complete the MMSE.

      If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a physical exam.

      Length of Study:

      You will take the study drug/placebo for 14 days. You will be taken off study if you have
      intolerable side effects, if the disease gets worse, or if the study doctor thinks it is in
      your best interest.

      Your participation on the study will be over once you have completed the end-of-study visit.

      End-of-Study- Day 30 Follow-up Visit:

      At 30 days after the last dose of study drug (or placebo), you will have an end-of-study
      visit in clinic or by telephone. At this visit, the following tests and procedures will be
      performed.

        -  Your medical history will be reviewed and updated.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests and tests to measure how
           concentrated your blood results are.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects that you may be having and any drugs that you
           may be taking.

        -  The study staff will record how much fluid you are drinking and how much you are
           urinating.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a physical exam.

      This is an investigational study. Tolvaptan is FDA approved and commercially available to
      treat hyponatremia (low levels of salt [sodium] in the blood due to too much body water). Its
      use in patients with cancer who have hyponatremia is investigational.

      Up to 170 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  