
    
      -  Dental patients will be recruited in a consecutive manner from the outpatient Diagnostic
           center, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo University.

        -  Medical history will be taken, thorough oral examination will be done, and a full
           questionnaire will be filled for each patient.

        -  Before filling the questionnaire, the aim of the study will be explained to the patient
           and the patient's acceptance to participate in the survey will be received.

        -  Non-respondent patients or patients refusing to participate will be reported with the
           cause of their refusal.

        -  The questionnaire will be filled through a face-to-face personal interview with the
           patient using simple, short, easily comprehended questions.

        -  Full questionnaire will be filled, then full mouth periodontal examination and charting
           will be done for each patient.

        -  The interview questions will be prepared in English, translated into Arabic and then
           reverse translated by a certified translator to ensure accuracy.

        -  All the interviews will be done by the same investigator.

        -  Convetional Clinical examination will be held on a dental unit using the light of the
           unit and a mirror.

        -  Periodontal health status will be evaluated by full mouth charting using UNC 15
           periodontal probe, including assessment of Probing Depth (PD), Clinical Attachment Level
           (CAL), Bleeding on probing (BOP), plaque index (PI), body mass index (BMI) and health
           eating index (HEI).

        -  The questionnaire which was applied in study will include the following:

             1. Questions including section for demographic information of age, gender, marital
                status, income, weight, length.

             2. Dietary habits were self-reported through completion of a short form of a validated
                food frequency questionnaire (Ruiz-Cabello et al., 2017).
    
  