
    
      Objective

      The objective of the protocol is to provide framework in which clinicians in the Department
      of Rehabilitation Medicine (RMD) can serve the clinical needs of patients and the intramural
      clinical research needs of NIH investigators by maintaining state of the art expertise in the
      functional assessment of persons with disabilities and investigating new equipment,
      methodologies and/or techniques for functional assessment.

      Study Population

      We intend to study a total of 500 healthy volunteers and 500 subjects with disabilities,
      including those enrolled in NIH intramural research protocols.

      Design

      The study will consist of individual projects designed designed by RMD staff including one or
      more of the associate investigators. The individual projects will be relatively small and
      designed to test the reliability, reproducibility, efficiency, feasibility, sensitivity,
      specificity, tolerability, validity and/or precision of physical medicine and rehabilitation
      assessment equipment, devices and clinical evaluations of impairment, disability, and/or
      function.

      Outcome Measures

      The specific outcome measure(s) will be chosen to meet the goals of the individual project
      and will generally include one or more of the following:

      i. Subjective assessment by the participant of the test, device, or evaluation based on
      written evaluation tools.

      ii. Comparisons to established evaluations or equipment designed to assess similar areas of
      function, including concurrent validity analyses.

      iii. Subjective assessment by clinicians using the test, device or evaluation, based on
      written evaluation tools.

      iv. Feasibility assessments, including the time required for participants to perform tests,
      time for clinicians to evaluate the results of the tests, and/or prepare reports of the
      results of tests.

      v. Assessments of reliability and/or stability of the technique used, including statistical
      tests of coefficients of variability.

      vi. Assessments of tolerance of tests, including measures such as vital signs or elements of
      a physical examination.
    
  