
    
      Traumatic brain injury (TBI) remains a major health problem across the globe . Intracranial
      pressure (ICP) following TBI can be elevated due to increasing mass effect from hematomas,
      contusions, and diffuse brain swelling. Decompressive craniectomy (DC) is a surgical
      procedure which involves removing a large part of the skull (bone flap) out to make more room
      for the swollen brain.Mass lesions can be acute subdural hematoma (ASDH), intraparenchymal,
      brain oedema, or a combination thereof. The most frequent indication for a DC is an acute
      subdural hematoma (ASDH). The first modern use of DC following TBI was done by Harvey Cushing
      in 1908. Cushing treated head-injured patients with a subtemporal DC and he reported a
      substantial reduction in mortality. The management of TBI progressed significantly in the
      21st century due to advances in neuroimaging, prehospital management, neurointensive care,
      neuroanaesthesia, and rehabilitation. This led to a renaissance of interest in DC for
      improvement patient conditions. One of the serious concerns regarding DC is that it may
      reduce mortality, but increase the subset of patients with severe disability and persistent
      vegetative state. The discrepancy in published outcome may, to some extent, be explained by
      difference in patient selection, indications, timing , and technique of surgery. In terms of
      surgical consideration regarding DC, it is now well accepted that the dura mater has to be
      opened and the minimum diameter of unilateral DC should be around 11-12 cm. Skull
      reconstruction (cranioplasty) after improvement of neurological state is recommended.
      Decompressive craniectomy provides additional space for the swollen brain and can effectively
      reduce ICP, thereby mitigating the risk of herniation. However, despite the positive effect
      of DC on uncontrollable intracranial hypertension, the effect of surgical decompression in
      mortality and overall functional outcome following TBI remained controversial.
    
  