
    
      Much of the burden of disease related to harmful alcohol use is due to the persistent effects
      of alcohol on central nervous system. The concept of alcohol-related brain damage (ARBD) is
      important in the Addiction Psychiatry field. ARBD is a spectrum of disorders. Besides most
      severe forms, 50-70% of patients with alcohol use disorder suffer some kind of cognitive
      impairment, being mild to moderate cognitive impairment the most frequent disorders, and
      often the most difficult to detect. In alcoholic patients, greater cognitive impairment has
      been associated with less treatment compliance and fewer days of abstinence. Considering its
      impact, cognitive screening should be enhanced.

      Recently, standard assessments have been augmented with new interactive technology. The work
      group of the Laboratory of Synthetic, Perceptive, Emotive and Cognitive Systems (SPECS), part
      of Institute for Bioengineering of Catalonia (IBEC), developed a virtual assessment of
      cognitive function, called the Validation Gate task, which evaluates sustained attention,
      working memory and executive functioning. This tool has been used so far in chronic stroke
      patients, showing that, in this group, depression symptoms affect performance in this task.

      Similarly to chronic stroke patients, a diffuse harm of several cognitive domains in ARBD is
      observed. In the addiction psychiatry field, the gold standard to evaluate changes in
      cognitive function are still thorough neuropsychological test batteries. But performing
      thorough neuropsychological evaluations on all patients in daily clinical practice is highly
      resource consuming (need of expert neuropsychologists, time consuming). These last years
      scientific community has also been trying to find biomarkers of ARBD in electrophysiological
      tests, with no conclusive results.

      In this pilot study a small number of ARBD patients and healthy people will undergo a single
      30-minutes-long cognitive assessment session using the Validation Gate task to evaluate
      usability of this tool in Alcohol Use Disorder patients. Resting-state EEG of ARBD patients
      will also be recorded and compared to the ones of age-matched healthy controls in order to
      preliminary explore the existence of possible EEG biomarkers of ARBD.
    
  