
    
      BACKGROUND:

      COPD is one of the most pressing healthcare problems facing our nation. Acute exacerbations
      of COPD (AE-COPD) are responsible for the bulk of healthcare costs, and much of the morbidity
      and decline in health status among individuals with this common disease. The lack of accepted
      animal models of AE-COPD necessitates novel approaches using human samples. Advances in the
      understanding of the pathogenesis have been slowed, in part, due to controversy as to how
      exacerbations should be defined. The prevailing paradigm has defined AE-COPD as event-based.
      Such definitions clearly identify groups of patients with accelerated loss of pulmonary
      function and increased mortality. However, limited data show that symptom-based definitions
      of AE-COPD also capture episodes inducing significant morbidity and functional decline, and
      hence of concern to patients. Fundamental mechanisms are lacking to explain AE-COPD defined
      by either means.

      Controversy also surrounds triggers of AE-COPD. Bacteria and viruses are involved in some
      episodes, but the relative importance of each is intertwined with disputes over the
      definition of AE-COPD. Progress at linking specific pathogens to molecular pathogenesis has
      been slow, both due to their diversity, and to the high rates of bacterial colonization of
      patients with COPD, even in the stable state. Moreover, in many AE-COPD cases, no pathogen
      can be identified. Without negating the value of analyzing infections with specific species
      of pathogens, it appears that progress in molecular pathogenesis could be accelerated by
      focusing on unifying features of the pulmonary immune response during AE-COPD.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The purpose of this experiment is to determine whether the AMø of patients with COPD show
      abnormal responsiveness to bacterial and viral products, relative to smokers with normal
      pulmonary function. Specifically, the study will determine the dose-response characteristics
      of AMø from these two groups of subjects for production of interleukin (IL)-6, IL-18, and
      IL-23 (pro-inflammatory cytokines) on stimulation by purified Lipopolysaccharide, a synthetic
      lipopeptide (PAM3-Cys), or poly I:C. These stimuli mimic the response to Gram-negative
      bacteria, Gram-positive bacteria, and RNA viruses, respectively.

      This research protocol involves adding a research bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) to clinically
      indicated bronchoscopy that is being performed for evaluation of lung nodules suspected to
      possibly be malignant. The research BAL will be performed during the same procedure, but on
      the opposite lung from the radiographic lesion that motivated the bronchoscopy. Subjects will
      be COPD patients or smokers with normal pulmonary function recruited from the Pulmonary
      Clinic. Smoking history will be taken to mean at least 20 pack-years exposure, and could
      include current or ex-smokers. Bronchoscopy will be performed under conscious sedation using
      a fiberoptic bronchoscope, in almost all cases on outpatients (although stable inpatients
      could be considered for consent if they otherwise meet eligibility criteria). The setting is
      the Endoscopy suite at the Ann Arbor VA Hospital.

      The procedures in this protocol involve the following upon enrollment: bronchoalveolar lavage
      (200 ml maximal instilled volume) and collection of blood for hematocrit, serum albumin,
      C-reactive protein, and IL-6.
    
  