
    
      The overarching goal of the proposed research is to develop and test an innovative
      implementation model (IMAT) for the effective integration of HIV care and treatment with
      methadone services in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. The investigators will utilize the PRECEDE
      framework to inform the intervention to improve linkage of HIV-positive methadone patients to
      ART. This model suggests that strategies intended to improve health care delivery should
      consider a combination of three factors: 1) 'predisposing factors' - characteristics such as
      knowledge, attitudes, beliefs and motivation to change, 2) 'enabling factors' -
      characteristics that enable someone to act on their desired behavior and 3) 'reinforcing
      factors' - factors that encourage repetition or persistence of behavior. Therefore, our IMAT
      approach uses 1) targeted education and mentoring for providers that predispose them to
      timely ART initiation, 2) POC CD4 count platforms (PIMA, Alere) providing real-time screening
      and results that enable ART initiation and 3) an alerts and reminder dashboard (e.g., a
      summary of key indicators for improved decision making) for providers that reinforce ART
      initiation. Additionally, our approach will lay the foundation for developing implementation
      strategies for future point-of-care technologies such as viral load.

      The study will combine a mixture of qualitative and quantitative methodologies to inform and
      evaluate the IMAT intervention.

      A baseline qualitative study using in-depth interviews will be conducted among providers and
      methadone clients to understand predisposing, enabling and reinforcing factors related to
      integration of HIV care and treatment into the methadone clinic. Information gained from
      these qualitative assessments will inform and support the IMAT strategy. In addition,
      HIV-positive methadone clients will be randomly selected to complete a baseline
      cross-sectional survey to collect data on patient satisfaction, access to HIV care, current
      treatment navigation access, and HIV care literacy.

      The investigators will assess the effectiveness of IMAT with a quasi-experimental pre-post
      cohort design and a pre-post cross-sectional survey to examine changes in patient- and
      provider-level outcomes after implementation of IMAT compared to before IMAT. In addition,
      The investigators will assess the feasibility and acceptability of the IMAT strategy using a
      post-implementation cross-sectional survey with a particular emphasis on satisfaction with
      services; a time motion study to understand the timeliness of care provision; and in-depth
      interviews with patients and providers to understand experiences with the IMAT strategy.
    
  