
    
      Colorectal cancer is among the most commonly diagnosed cancer in both men and women .
      Increasing studies have been focused on the causes and therapies of this disease in order to
      improve the prognosis. In recent decades, laparoscopy has been commonly used in both
      colorectal and gastric surgery due to the benefit of minimal invasive technology progression
      . Its comparable safety and effectiveness have been proved in many studies. The advantages of
      minimal invasive surgery such as faster recovery, less bleeding and less pain, have also been
      admitted by numerous surgeons . However, the accomplishment of operation procedures mainly
      depend on subjective experiences. Even skilled surgeons can be impeded in operation due to
      the deficiency of tactile sense . As a result, accurate intra-operative localization of tumor
      would be a tough task if it was invisible on the serosal surface or difficult to approach,
      such as small or flat neoplasms, tumor confined to the mucosa and submucosa and
      endoscopically resected polyps which required additional surgery . At present, three dominant
      methods can be available to locate tumor: preoperative endoscopic clip placement,
      intraoperative endoscopy and endoscopic tattooing. All of these methods have their advantages
      but also some unavoidable limitations, such as localization error and problems in the
      assessment of incision margin using preoperative clip placement, unsatisfactory operation
      exposure after intraoperative endoscopy, ink spillage or failure in finding lesions with dye
      endoscopic injection et al. Usually surgeons choose different methods according to the
      objective conditions such as the ability to perform endoscopy or the availability of suitable
      tattooing material.

      Apart from the precise localization of tumor, adequate lymph node dissection is another
      crucial point in colorectal operation. According to AJCC recommendation and NCCN guideline,
      the number of lymph nodes, which has been proved of prognostic and therapeutic importance, is
      clearly defined in colorectal cancer to make sure of the accurate pathological staging.
      Previous studies have found that the number of lymph nodes evaluated after surgical resection
      was positively associated with the survival of patients. Besides Total Mesorectal Excision
      (TME) and D3 lymph node clearance, which are standards in colorectal surgery over decades of
      research and accumulated data, the harvest of lymph nodes is still associated with
      pathological doctors' experience and pathological examination skills. However,
      population-based data suggest that lymph node evaluation is not adequate in the majority of
      patients . Some micro lymph nodes, especially with diameter less than 5 mm, are more easily
      missed in specimen process while rate of metastasis is comparably higher in these lymph
      nodes. As a result, clinicians are trying to find a lymph node tracer to help improve the
      amount of lymph node harvest as well as the rate of micro-metastasis in lymph node.

      Carbon nanoparticle has been used as a lymph node tracer for decades. As a lymphatic vessel
      specific dye material, there is no doubt in its effect on lymph node mapping. In recent
      years, surgeons have applied this tracer widely in breast and thyroid operations for sentinel
      lymph node mapping to determine dissection extent. The effectiveness and accuracy of this
      method has been verified in thyroid and breast surgery while there is rare study focused on
      its application in colorectal surgery. The application of tattooing material, such as
      methylene blue, India ink and nano-materials in tumor localization has also attracted
      attentions of clinicians. In our study, three groups based on different tumor localization
      means are compared on short-term benefits, cost-effectiveness and lymph node clearance in
      order to choose the best approach to locate tumor and validate lymph node staining effect of
      carbon nanoparticles.
    
  