
    
      This study directly compares standard CT scanning with PET/CT scanning with gating (computer
      adjusted for breathing excursions) in patients with advanced EOC. The primary objective of
      this study is to obtain definitive evidence on the value of gated PET/CT compared to current
      standard imaging (CT scan) for the diagnosis of extra-abdominal and thoracic involvement.
      This study will give precise estimates on the sensitivity and specificity of CT compared with
      gated PET/CT, and allow calculation of the positive predictive value and negative predictive
      value. The proportion of patients upstaged to Stage IV (extra-abdominal involvement) from
      Stage III by gated PET/CT will be calculated.

      Secondary objectives are to establish:

        -  The impact of gated PET/CT images on clinical management (changes to planned treatment;
           detection of metastatic spread to "unexpected" sites).

        -  The validity of gated PET/CT positive (FDG avid) findings through histological
           evaluation.

        -  We will also receive information of "unusual" (unexpected) FDG positive metastatic
           lesions that would normally not noticed on CT scans.

      Current standard treatment for patients with advanced EOC is upfront surgery as long as all
      tumour is confined to the pelvis and the abdomen. Unfortunately, EOC is often found at
      distant sites where it was not suspected during surgery (which is too late). If the surgeon
      had had prior knowledge of this disease distribution, the surgeon would not have subjected
      the patient to a long and invasive surgical procedure. Instead they but would have referred
      the patient to upfront chemotherapy, which is widely accepted clinical practice throughout
      Australia.

      This study aims to increase the diagnostic accuracy of preoperative medical imaging and
      subject a larger group of patients with advanced EOC to accurate management.
    
  