
    
      Despite large efforts to eradicate leprosy, this curable mycobacterial infection still
      affects 250,000 new individuals annually. Half of the globe's leprosy patients live in Brazil
      and India. In 2013, 33,033 new leprosy cases diagnosed in Brazil, with an average incidence
      of 1.05 cases / 10 000 inhabitants. Most new cases occur in economically restricted regions
      of the world, but because at least 5% of the general population is genetically susceptible to
      the causative agent, new cases may occur anywhere worldwide. This is especially true in times
      of high human geographic dislocation. Thus, leprosy should rank among the differential
      diagnosis list of general practitioners and specialists treating skin and peripheral nerve
      disorders even in non-endemic areas.

      Mycobacterium leprae is an obligatory intracellular bacterium that invades macrophages and
      Schwann cells. Although myelinating Schwann cells are relatively resistant to invasion,
      viable M. leprae cause marked myelin destruction and lead to secondary neuronal phenotypic
      changes, degeneration, and nerve dysfunction.

      Leprosy patients have historically been characterized by cutaneous insensibility in body
      areas of deformity, and the presence of pain in these patients has been neglected for a long
      time. It has only been recently acknowledged that leprosy can be associated with pain in
      general and neuropathic pain in particular. Leprosy patients frequently experience neuropathy
      in wide areas of the body, which may or may not present with pain. When pain exists, it may
      be acute or chronic, neuropathic or inflammatory. Leprosy has different clinical
      presentations (according to the host's innate immune response) that range from localized skin
      lesions and adjacent intra-epidermal nerve fiber injury to widespread neuropathy distributed
      in large areas of low body-surface temperature. Neuropathic pain in leprosy may affect 11-22%
      of patients, and up to 56% of those with chronic pain. Importantly, more than 85% of patients
      with leprosy-related neuropathic pain developed it after the end of the antimicrobial
      treatment period. This means that the majority of patients who developed neuropathic pain did
      so after they were formally cured of the disease, and, in many cases, discharged from medical
      assistance. Therefore, pain in leprosy can also be inserted as part of the "care after cure"
      program initiative, along with stigma, deformity and incapacity management strategies.

      In recent years several easy-to use screening tools have been developed to screen for
      neuropathic pain in leprosy patients, such as the douleur neuropathique-4 (DN-4) and others.
      These tools allow for the rapid (usually 20 seconds to administer) and reliable (high
      sensitivity) assessment of pain in leprosy patients.

      Additionally, very few reports have described he effects of treatment used for neuropathic
      pain in these patients, and no clinical trials have been conducted for this specific
      condition to date. One could argue that leprosy patients with neuropathic pain should respond
      to usual drugs such as tricyclic antidepressants and anticonvulsants (and they usually do),
      but the selection of the appropriate treatment regimen, the proper timing of treatment
      initiation and the most cost-effective drug is not an obvious task. Also, and very important,
      the lack of formal evidence-based data attesting the efficacy of tricyclics and
      anticonvulsants for the treatment of leprosy associated neuropathic pain hampers further a
      wider availability of these drugs in economically-restricted areas. All these limitations can
      be overcome if the current scientific interest in pain in leprosy is maintained and the
      present high-level research in the area continues to grow similarly to the previous decades.

      Here we designed the first placebo-controlled, double blinded randomized trial in the use of
      flexible-dose amitriptyline (tricyclic antidepressant) for the treatment of neuropathic pain
      related to leprosy. This study is currently approved by our local Ethics Review Board (CAAE:
      45393415.9.0000.0068) and has stared the recruitment phase on March 2017.

      Recruitment time will be extended by 12 months due to dropouts related to the Covid pandemic.
      We have had dropouts due to a few patients developing covid and also due to patients having
      fear to become infected while attending hospital visits."
    
  