
    
      OBJECTIVES

      Primary objective:

      To assess the antibody response after SARS-CoV-2 vaccination in patients with CKD stages 4/5,
      on dialysis or alive with a kidney transplant as compared to controls.

      Secondary Objectives:

      To assess in these groups of subjects after SARS-CoV 2 vaccination:

        -  durability of the antibody response

        -  the SARS-CoV-2-specific T and B cell response

        -  adverse events

      Exploratory Objectives:

      To assess in these groups of subjects after SARS-CoV 2 vaccination:

        -  the association between baseline (immune) parameters and the immune response to
           SARS-CoV-2 vaccination

        -  the neutralizing capacity of anti-COVID-19 antibodies

        -  the incidence of SARS-CoV-2 infection and outcome of COVID-19 disease during 12 months
           after SARS-CoV-2 vaccination

      STUDY DESIGN

      This is a prospective, controlled multicenter cohort study to evaluate the efficacy and
      safety after SARS-CoV-2 vaccination in patients with CKD4/5, dialysis patients and kidney
      transplant recipients as compared to controls. Therefore, 4 cohorts will be included in this
      study.

        -  Cohort A: Patients with CKD stages 4 and 5 (eGFR <30 ml/min*1.73m2) (n = 175)

        -  Cohort B: Patients on hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis (n = 175)

        -  Cohort C: Kidney Transplant Recipients (n= 300)

        -  Cohort D: Controls (n = 200)

      Assessment of immune response:

      Blood samples will be collected at baseline (i.e. prior to first vaccination) and 28 days,
      and 6 and 12 months after the second vaccination.

      Evaluation other parameters:

      To evaluate hematology parameters, liver and kidney function, additional blood samples will
      be collected at baseline, and 28 days and 6 months after the second vaccination.

      Information on clinical course, incidence of SARS-CoV-2 infection, outcome of COVID-19 will
      be collected up to 12 months after vaccination for descriptive purposes.

      METHODS

      Main study parameter/endpoint:

      The primary endpoint is the antibody based immune response to vaccination against COVID-19 on
      day 28 after the second vaccination as compared to controls.

      Secondary study parameters/endpoints:

        1. Duration and in-depth assessment of immune response through:

             -  Measurement of SARS-CoV2 specific antibodies at 6 and 12 months after vaccination
                to test the durability of response

             -  Assessment of SARS-CoV2 specific T and B cell response, 28 days, and 6 and 12
                months after the second vaccination using a high throughput Interferon ɣ, IL-21
                SARSCoV-2 specific T cell ELISPOT and SARS-CoV2 specific B cell memory ELISPOT.

        2. Safety assessment through:

             -  Incidence and severity of solicited AEs during 7 days after each vaccination

      Exploratory study parameters:

        -  Baseline (immune) parameters associated with vaccination response

        -  Neutralizing capacity of antibodies to test functionality

        -  In-depth flow-cytometric analyses for functional and phenotypical characterization of
           SARS-CoV-2 specific T cell responses will be performed followed by assessment of
           proliferative capacity, cytokine production and phenotypical markers in a subset of
           patients.

        -  Information on incidence of SARS-CoV-2 infection and outcome of COVID-19 disease during
           12 months after vaccination will be collected.

        -  In a substudy in Radboudumc nasal strips will be collected and mucosal antibody response
           to COVID-19 analysed
    
  