
    
      The purpose of this study is to examine a new chemical entity with 5HT agonist activity and
      an inhibition of the nitric oxide synthase enzyme (NOS) in patients suffering from migraine
      with aura. Nitric oxide has diverse roles both in normal and pathological processes including
      the regulation of blood pressure, neurotransmission, and macrophage defense systems. NO is
      synthesized by three isoforms of the NOS enzyme: neuronal (n), inducible (i) and endothelial
      (e). Neuronal NOS (nNOS) is found mainly in neuronal tissue and regulates changes in response
      sensitivity and cellular plasticity; iNOS is found in macrophages and other tissue, produces
      NO in response to stress and injury and is one source of inflammation; eNOS is found in
      endothelial cells, responsible for vascular homeostasis and the presumed mechanism for the
      effects of nitroglycerine therapy in angina; nitroglycerine is an NO donor. NXN-188 is
      selectively inhibits nNOS.

      There is ample scientific and clinical evidence that NO is involved in the pathogenesis of
      migraine pain, as well as other pain states characterized by central sensitization (e.g.,
      neuropathic pain). NO donors such as trinitroglycerine induce headache followed by migraine
      in migraineurs with or without aura ; moreover, platelet nitrates (a signal for increased NO)
      increase before and during a migraine attack. In addition, increasing NO levels can enhance
      pain responses in animals, including allodynia in rats; NO is a component of several pathways
      where pain systems converge in the PNS and CNS and regulates the activity of numerous
      transmitter systems ; NO is involved in central sensitization particularly those involving
      NMDA and calcium channels and thought to be a major component of the formation of neuropathic
      pain states Non-specific NOS inhibitors have been reported to relieve migraine and chronic
      tension type headaches in human studies. In animals, NOS inhibitors reduce pain-related
      behaviors in multiple neuropathic pain models and spinal cord ischemia as well as reducing
      pain related behaviors in chemically-induced pain models, particularly in secondary pain
      states.

      The development of central sensitization in the course of a migraine attack suggests a role
      for the neuronal isoform of the NOS enzyme.

      NXN-188 can bind to both 5-HT1D and 5-HT1B receptors with potency similar to sumatriptan; it
      also selectively binds to nNOS with a level of nNOS inhibition similar to L-NMMA. NXN-188 is
      devoid of any relevant eNOS inhibition in in vitro cloned human enzyme assays or ex vivo in
      human coronary arteries and is expected to be effective in treating migraine by inhibition of
      the nNOS enzyme without vasoconstrictive effects associated with non-selective compounds such
      as L-NMMA.

      The following study is being conducted to further explore NXN-188 response in subjects with a
      migraine history of aura. In this study subjects will treat two attacks of migraine with aura
      during the aura phase - once with placebo and once with NXN-188.
    
  