
    
      Study Design: This study will be a Phase 1, pre-post intervention trial in patients with
      asthma who will be treated with TUDCA 1750 mg per day for 12 weeks. The investigators have
      obtained TUDCA from Bruschettini (http://www.bruschettini.com), which is an authorized
      Italian pharmaceutical company that can provide validation of the drug's manufacture and
      purity. Bruschettini markets TUDCA under the brand name Taurolite. The investigators have
      received an IND from the FDA for use of Taurolite in this study (see document).

      Protocol: All participants will undergo an initial screening visit by telephone to determine.
      Participants will then present to the Vermont Lung Center in Colchester for 2 study visits,
      during which the following testing and information will be obtained:

      Visit 1 (Baseline)

        -  Demographics: age, sex, height, weight

        -  Concomitant medical problems and medications

        -  Asthma control by ACT

        -  Lung function testing: spirometry (FEV1, FVC, FEV1/FVC) (43), forced oscillation
           technique (FOT) (R5, R20, X5, AX, Fres) (44)

        -  Fraction of exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO) as a general measure of eosinophilic
           inflammation(45)

        -  Blood sample collection for routine chemistries (10 cc), and for analysis of serum
           markers of inflammation (10 cc).

        -  Nasal brushing for collection of epithelial cells for analysis of serum markers of ER
           stress and UPR The participant will then receive a supply of medication, TUDCA 250 mg,
           to be taken 500 mg with breakfast, 500 mg with lunch, 750 mg with dinner, daily, for 12
           weeks.

      The participant will also receive a daily diary to use to record daily symptoms of asthma and
      any side effects, as well as compliance with taking the medication.

      Visit 2 (Week 4) and Visit 3 (Week 8)

        -  Review of diary for side effects, adverse events

        -  Asthma control by ACT, spirometry, FeNO

        -  Blood for routine chemistries as part of ongoing safety monitoring Visit 4 (Week 12) All
           testing as listed for Visit 1 will be repeated, with collection of any remaining drug
           and all diary data.

      Telephone Calls (Weeks 2,6,10) The investigators will call participants every 2 weeks in
      between study visits to assess tolerability and remind participants to complete their daily
      diaries. The investigators will use a standardized questionnaire for study coordinators to
      use during each assessment by telephone to determine whether there have been any adverse
      events.
    
  