
    
      We will direct a clinical trial of Whole Body Hyperthermia (WBH) for the treatment
      Fibromyalgia. Although we have not yet studied WBH for Fibromyalgia we have data indicating
      that WBH is effective for the acute treatment of major depression (MDD). Given the high
      overlap of symptoms between Fibromyalgia and Major Depressive Disorder (MDD), we have reasons
      for expecting that WBH may also be of benefit for Fibromyalgia. The primary objective of the
      proposed study is to determine if WBH produces improvement in core Fibromyalgia symptoms,
      just as it appears to do in MDD. Indeed, in preliminary studies, a single exposure to WBH
      resulted in a downward shift in body temperature (Figure 6) and a decrease in depressive
      symptoms as measured using the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (known as
      the ADS in Germany where this study was conducted) 5 days later (Figure 7). In addition,
      following exclusion of one patient with bronchopulmonary inflammation that did not show a
      decrease in body temperature following treatment, a correlation between the shift in body
      temperature and ΔADS approached statistical significance (Figure 9). These preliminary data
      are consistent with previous studies showing that 1) patients with seasonal affective
      disorder in winter during depression have blunted thermoregulatory cooling but have
      thermoregulatory cooling that is similar in efficiency to control subjects after successful
      antidepressant response to phototherapy (the retina has direct projections to DRVL
      serotonergic neurons), 2) ECT increases the circadian amplitude of core body temperature, and
      decreases mean core body temperature, particularly during the nighttime thermoregulatory
      cooling period, and 3) thermoregulatory cooling, as evidenced by the number of active sweat
      glands in depressed patients, increases upon clinical recovery, but not earlier, following
      ECT. We hypothesize that these relationships in preliminary data and in previous studies are
      due to dysfunction of the afferent signaling arm of the thermoregulatory system in MDD,
      specifically the warm afferent system projecting to the LPB and, secondarily, to the
      DRVL/VLPAG and DRI subsets of serotonergic neurons that have been implicated in anxiolytic
      and antidepressant actions, respectively, and to normalization of warm afferent signaling
      following treatment. Again given the high degree of overlap between Fibromyalgia and MDD, we
      expect that WBH may confer therapeutic benefits in Fibromyalgia as it appears to do in MDD.

      This clinical trial will only include individuals with Fibromyalgia (i.e. no normal controls)
      in order to determine whether there is a significant effect of a single treatment with WBH
      administered in an open manner on Fibromyalgia symptoms. Based on our data from patients with
      MDD, we expect that if WBH has an effect on Fibromyalgia symptoms this will be apparent
      immediately after the treatment and will persist for at least a week. Therefore we will
      assess Fibromyalgia symptoms prior to and at 1 and 2 weeks following a single treatment with
      WBH. To evaluate whether treatment effects are longer lasting we will also assess symptoms
      two weeks following the WBH treatment.

      Useful preliminary results were obtained from a pilot study comparing mildly to severely
      depressed patients receiving hyperthermic treatment (N=11) to depressed patients receiving
      psychotherapy as usual (N=3). Baseline scores on the German language ADS depression scale
      were similar for the two groups (mean=30.64, sd=9.18, N=11, vs. mean =32.33, sd=17.04, N=3).
      Raw change on the ADS was significantly greater for the hyperthermia group (mean=-11.91,
      sd=6.55, N=11, vs. mean=-1.33, sd=4.51, N=3; t=2.60, df=12, P=0.023), resulting in a very
      large standardized treatment difference (Cohen d) of 1.69 (95% CI=1.00 - 2.48). Percent
      change was also significant (mean=-39.4, sd=18.9, N=11, vs. mean=-8.6, sd=17.0, N=3; t=2.54;
      df=12, P=0.026), for a Cohen d of 1.66 (95% CI=0.93 - 2.39). The percentage of the
      hyperthermia vs. psychotherapy group achieving a clinical response (>50% reduction from
      baseline) was 27.3% vs. 0%, and the percentage achieving at least a partial response (>25%
      improvement) was 81.8% vs. 33.3%.

      These data suggest that our proposed sample size of 10 individuals with Fibromyalgia should
      be sufficient to identify a potential therapeutic effect, assuming that such an effect would
      be of similar magnitude to the effect seen in MDD. To obtain a cohort of 10 subjects with
      complete baseline and post-treatment data we anticipate enrolling between 12 and 15 subjects.
    
  