
    
      Prospectively two groups of patients with hip osteoarthritis were included in the study. Hip
      osteoarthritis was classified according to the Croft classification. The investigators
      primary goal is to evaluate T+ 2 ( 2 cm above trochanter minor) results between the two
      groups. Standard effect sizes (standard effect size) assumed to be at least 0.75. 30 cases
      for each group took power with 80% margin of 5% error. Patients with malignant tumors,
      previously known bone disease, drug consumption affecting bone mineralization or Crowe type
      III hip dislocations with greater than 4 cm of limb length discrepancy (LLD) were excluded.
      Prior to the operation, all patients underwent an X ray investigation to exclude any bone
      abnormalities. All patients were operated by the same team, which was composed of two senior
      surgeons and 2 fellows. Patients with odd-numbered were the first group and even numbers were
      the second group in order of receipt surgery. All patients were operated on the lateral
      decubitus position with a posterior approach and a metaphyseal locking femoral stem (Depuy
      Synthess SUMMIT Tapered Hip System, US). In the first group, no preoperative templating was
      performed, and the final conformation of the stem size and position was decided freehand
      intraoperatively based on anatomic landmarks. In the second group, there was also no
      preoperative templating, but after both senior surgeons agreed on the final stem size
      intraoperatively, C-arm fluoroscopy images were obtained with the last rasp size before stem
      implantation. The alignment and stem fitting of the femoral canal were evaluated. While
      evaluating the limb leg discrepancy anterior - posterior fluoroscopy image must include both
      hips and both lesser trochanters. Once this was achieved, the interteardrop line was used and
      vertical distance between interteardrop line and lesser trochanters measured for limb length
      discrepancy. Horizontal distance between tip of trochanter major and center of rotation was
      evaluated as lateral offset. For stem alignment, the femoral stem axis being parallel with
      the axis of the femoral canal was assessed. Also centralization of femoral stem tip in the
      femoral canal was assessed. Determination of stem was assessed according to full contact of
      broach teeth in sub trochanteric region. The stem was size changed unless all criteria above
      was achieved on fluoroscopy. After the operation, all patients were evaluated with X ray and
      CT(computerized tomography).

      Medial canal flare index (MCFI) can be used for metaphyseal lacking femoral stems. The
      alignment of the femoral stem with the femoral canal, the limb length discrepancy ( LLD) and
      the lateral offsets were evaluated on X ray. The stem/endosteal areas at 2 cm above the
      trochanter minor (T+2) and 2 cm below the trochanter minor (T-2) and the deviation of the
      stem tip from the center of the femoral canal were evaluated on CT(Computerized tomography)
      images.
    
  