
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled presurgical trial of 0.228%
      4-hydroxy-tamoxifen (4-OHT) gel vs. oral tamoxifen (TAM) 20 mg daily. The study population
      will consist of 112 pre- and postmenopausal women with any grade DCIS, ER positive,
      non-palpable DCIS with no evidence of invasion found on diagnostic core needle biopsy (DCNB).
      In order to accrue a total of 112 participants with DCIS over a period of 22 months, 20
      eligible participants total will be screened at the three participating institutions per
      month with a planned average monthly recruitment of 5 participants total per month. We assume
      that 22 women (20% of the recruited population, 11 women per arm) will be inevaluable because
      of the presence of unanticipated invasive disease in the therapeutic surgical excisional
      (TSE) specimen, or the absence of residual DCIS in the TSE, so that a total of 90 women (45
      per arm) will be evaluable for the study endpoints. These estimates are based on numbers from
      the Lynn Sage Database of NU: over the six-year period 2000-2005, the fraction of women
      diagnosed with DCIS on core needle biopsy who were found to have no residual DCIS in the TSE
      was 2.5% and that of women with invasive disease (T1a or greater) in the TSE when the DCNB
      showed pure DCIS was 13.3%, very similar to the data reported by Bonnett et. al. [56] who
      found that 13% of pure DCIS lesions seen on DCNB (29/122) were in fact invasive in the TSE.
      With regard to racial/ethnic groups, 25.6% of the DCIS population at NU were of non-European
      ancestry (18% African, 4% Hispanic, 3.5% other). WU has higher fractions of African American
      women with DCIS (24% and 21% respectively).

      The participants will be consented following diagnostic core needle biopsy at the time of
      initial surgical consultation. Baseline assessments include medical history, nipple aspirate
      fluid (NAF) collection, explanation of gel application, BESS questionnaire (symptom
      assessment) and blood draw for clinical and research labs including plasma estradiol,
      progesterone and FSH (rushed), CBC, chemistry profile, liver and renal function tests, Factor
      VIII, von Willebrand Factor, Factor IX, and total protein S, plasma for insulin-like growth
      factor (IGF-1) and sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), and DNA extraction for assessment of
      polymorphisms in tamoxifen metabolism genes. At Northwestern plasma and RNA from blood will
      be collected pre- and post-treatment and will be stored for future proteomic and gene
      expression fingerprinting

      No run-in period is planned. The intervention phase will begin within 5 days following
      randomization and end on the day prior to surgical resection. The 4-OHT group will apply
      active gel 2 mg daily to each breast for 4-10 weeks and take oral placebo. The TAM group will
      take 20 mg TAM orally daily and apply gel placebo. The last dose of study medication will be
      used on the morning of the day prior to surgery.

      Participants will be shipped two 100 ml canisters of 4-OHT or placebo gel plus 130 capsules
      of tamoxifen or oral placebo at the time of randomization. Participants will take study
      agents for 4-10 week (minimum). However, if surgery needs to be delayed beyond the 8 week
      study period for clinical reasons (eg scheduling with plastic surgery) the participant will
      be sent additional medication by mail to allow continuation of therapy until the day before
      surgery up to a maximum duration of 10 weeks.

      On the day prior to surgery, baseline assessments will be repeated (with the exception of
      menopausal determination and tamoxifen metabolism gene polymorphisms, but with the addition
      of blood draw for tamoxifen metabolites and E and Z 4-OHT isomer determination). Under
      unavoidable circumstances, the end of intervention visit will be allowed on the day of
      surgery prior to TSE. During the TSE breast adipose tissue from the surgical sample will be
      snap frozen and stored at -800C for measurement of TAM metabolites. The paraffin block of the
      DCNB and TSE samples will be acquired by the recruiting institution and 10 sections from each
      specimen submitted to the NU Pathology Core Facility (NU PCF). The sections will be cut in
      batches (with pre- and post-samples in the same batch), shipped cold, and processed for
      immunohistochemistry within a week of sectioning.

      Compliance assessment will occur through patient diaries, pill counts and the weighing of
      returned drug (gel) canisters.

      Patients will be assessed for adverse events at the post-surgical visit (approximately 7-14
      days after surgery) and by phone at 30 days following the last dose of study agent.
    
  