
    
      IMRiS is a prospective multicentre phase II trial of Intensity Modulated Radiotherapy (IMRT).
      The trial is aiming to evaluate the role of intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) in soft
      tissue and bone sarcomas. Three separate sarcoma cohorts will be studied and will be analysed
      separately. Patients will be enrolled in one of three cohorts depending on the type of
      sarcoma they have:

      Cohort 1- Patients with Limb/limb girdle soft tissue sarcoma receiving (neo)-adjuvant
      radiotherapy. (closed to recruitment)

      Cohort 2- Patients with Ewing sarcoma of the spine/pelvis receiving definitive radical or
      (neo)-adjuvant radiotherapy.

      Cohort 3- Patients with non-Ewing primary bone sarcomas of the spine/pelvis receiving
      definitive radical or adjuvant radiotherapy.

      Dose schedules for each Cohort have been indicated in the Trial Arm description.

      Radiotherapy will be delivered with fixed beam IMRT, arc IMRT techniques, or tomotherapy. All
      trial patients will be followed up until death or a maximum of three years from the date of
      registration in the trial.

      The theoretical advantage to IMRT is the potential reduction in late toxicity and subsequent
      potential for functional improvement. There have been no prospective studies to date powered
      to address this, particularly where IMRT is used post-operatively. IMRiS cohort 1 will
      address this question and establish if the use of IMRT will reduce late normal tissue
      toxicity.

      In cohorts 2 & 3, the aim is to establish if the use of IMRT will enable the achievement of a
      radiotherapy treatment plan that delivers the optimal dose while keeping within normal tissue
      tolerances. There have been no clinical trials of IMRT in Ewing sarcoma and there is very
      little published on the use of IMRT in high grade bone sarcomas and chordomas. It is
      important to establish the feasibility of IMRT to achieve the required radiation doses to the
      tumour, and to prospectively document the side effects of treatment in this setting. IMRiS
      will address this in cohort 2 and cohort 3.
    
  