
    
      This abridged program was designed by Dr. Rezvan Ameli who is an expert in mindfulness-based
      practices/therapies and was in response to the expressed needs of the NIH clinical staff and
      the NIH fellowship training program.

      Participants completed all primary and secondary outcome measure questionnaires at week -1, 5
      and 13. The life as usual control group completed all primary and secondary outcome measures
      at week -1, and 5.

      The program is described below:

      The program consisted of 5 sessions. A class binder was prepared for the participants and
      included information about mindfulness and its practice, practices covered in each session,
      Practice Plan work sheets to design home practices, pertinent reference list, guide to online
      services, programs and apps, selected poetry, and information regarding recorded instructions
      for body scan and mindful breathing by the instructor which was made available on the
      institution's website and could be downloaded by the participants. Each session was 1.5 hours
      in length and was offered on Fridays from 3-4:30 pm. Classes were instructed by Rezvan Ameli,
      Ph.D., clinical psychologist, an experienced mindfulness practitioner since 2003 and teacher
      since 2008. In addition to her background as a licensed clinical psychologist, mindfulness
      practitioner, teacher and writer (Ameli 2013), RA is a certified yoga teacher and is
      registered with the Yoga Alliance (RYT-200).

      Common Elements of the Sessions

      The first 4 classes began with 20-25 minutes of mindful movement/ light yoga (TNH sounds
      true, ITP kata). We did not include movements in the 5th (last) session due to time
      constraints. The emphasis during mindful movements was on the coordination of movement and
      the breath with the instruction that when the mind wandered away to gently bring it back and
      refocus on the breath and movements. Participants were encouraged to only engage in movements
      that felt comfortable but not straining, painful, or felt unsafe. Each class had a period of
      "check in". During the first check in, participants shared their names, a brief statement
      about the reason for their participation, and their current self-care practice/s if any.
      Class guidelines including confidentiality were reviewed at this time. In subsequent
      check-ins the participants addressed their questions regarding mindfulness practices and
      class teachings, described their practice with a focus on self-care, their existing self-care
      practices and new learnings from the class, and any obstacles to their practice and to their
      self-care during the preceding week. Other common elements of the sessions included a period
      of inquiry, i.e. question and answer, after each new practice was introduced, planning a week
      of practice based on class learnings, post class ratings, and concluding the class with a
      relevant poem. Home practice planning was done in dyads of participants who were then
      encouraged to stay in touch, become a "buddy" to their class partner, and communicate during
      the week about their practice. Every session included a period of mindful breathing. The
      length of mindful breathing (sitting meditation) was gradually increased from 10 minutes in
      the 1st session to 30 minutes in the 5th session.

      Session Specific Practices

      In addition to these common elements, each session included a theme and other specific
      mindfulness practices as follows:

        -  Session 1- Theme: Introduction to mindfulness. This session included definition of
           mindfulness and its foundations (Kabat-Zin, 1992), mindful breathing and body scan.

        -  Session 2- Theme: Enhancing Awareness & Focused Attention. This session included
           mindfulness of sounds, a short body scan, mindful breathing, and mindful eating, i.e.
           the "raisin exercise" (ref). In addition, a discussion of mindful consumption and its
           relevance to self-care was explored (Ameli 2013).

        -  Session 3 -Theme: Awareness of pleasurable experiences. This session included
           mindfulness of the breath (briefly incorporating sounds, body sensation, thoughts,
           feelings and then focusing on the breath), and mindful walking. The importance of
           awareness of pleasurable experiences were discussed and an exercise to enhance attention
           to pleasurable experiences was performed in dyads (Ameli 2013).

        -  Session 4- Theme: Transformation of difficult emotions through mindfulness. In this
           session the concept of transforming difficult emotions through the practice of
           mindfulness was discussed, explored, and practiced. The acronym RAIN (recognize,
           accept/allow, investigate, and non-identification) was utilized to facilitate this
           practice.

        -  Session 5- Theme: Compassion. This session mindful breathing and a general discussion of
           compassion, compassion towards self and other, and the practice of loving kindness
           (Ameli 2013). The class was concluded with a "check-out" where participants briefly
           shared their overall experiences and learnings and their goals/vision for future
           self-care activities and practices.
    
  