
    
      Resistance to anti-HIV agents occurs with increasing duration of use. In vitro studies have
      shown that cross-resistance occurs among protease inhibitors, although no clinical trials
      have been conducted to examine antiretroviral activity with sequential use of protease
      inhibitors or to determine whether saquinavir resistance can be overcome with higher
      concentrations of the drug.

      Patients who are currently receiving hard capsule saquinavir are randomized to continue
      receiving hard capsule saquinavir or to switch to soft gelatin capsule saquinavir or
      indinavir. At week 8, patients receiving the hard capsule formulation will switch to
      open-label indinavir for weeks 8-24. Patients on the other two arms will remain on their
      assigned regimen for the entire 24 weeks unless they have no virologic response by week 8, in
      which case they will be crossed-over to open-label therapy with the alternative drug (i.e.,
      either soft gelatin capsule saquinavir or indinavir).

      AS PER AMENDMENT 12/23/96: Viral RNA from weeks 16 and 24 will be assayed in batch after week
      24. Patients who exhibit an antiviral response based on this assay will be allowed to
      continue their current drug assignment for a total of 12 months.

      AS PER AMENDMENT 5/7/97: Based on an interim analysis performed after 72 patients had
      completed 8 weeks of therapy, the study was closed as of March 7, 1997. Patients currently
      enrolled may stop their participation in the trial and seek other anti-retroviral therapies
      or may continue on study. Patients on hard capsule saquinavir who remain on study will be
      switched to indinavir at 8 weeks. Patients on soft gel capsule saquinavir may switch
      immediately to indinavir or, when results of HIV RNA and CD4 cell counts are available, may
      choose to switch to indinavir or remain on soft gel capsule saquinavir. Patients receiving
      indinavir will continue that agent. Follow-up for all patients will end on 7/4/97.
    
  