
    
      This study examines the effect of a multimodal psycho-music therapy intervention on
      respiratory symptoms (dyspnea), depression, and quality of life of patients with pulmonary
      disease during Pumonary Rehabilitation, in the combined effort of two departments of Mount
      Sinai Beth Israel: The Alice Lawrence Center for Health and Rehabilitation and The Louis
      Armstrong Center for Music and Medicine

      1. Desing The study cohort included patient with at least moderate COPD according to the GOLD
      classification as well as other chronic disabling respiratory diseases. Inclusion criteria
      were defined as being enrolled in a Pulmonary Rehabilitation (PR) program as well as the
      ability to attend music therapy sessions at least once a week for 5 of 6 weekly sessions. The
      patients were required to be medically stable simultaneously allowing them to participate in
      the pulmonary rehabilitation program. Standard, routine pulmonary rehabilitative medical care
      was used as the control to music therapy plus PR and patient selection was provided by a
      computer generated randomization protocol. The intervention included live music listening
      with visualization, wind playing and singing undertaken to study their effects on perceived
      dyspnea, depression and quality of life. Patients were allowed to choose between easy to play
      wind instruments i.e recorder, slide whistle, harmonica, etc. and instructed on their use.
      Ninety- eight subjects were evaluated as potential candidates for the study. Thirty of them
      were excluded because they would not commit to participate in the required number of music
      therapy sessions either due to the anticipated time commitment or personal/medical concerns.
      The 68 patients who agreed to participate in the investigation (Age Mean: 70.1), were
      randomize and 38 were allocated to the treatment group and 30 to the control group. These 68
      patients who were newly enrolled in the Alice Lawrence Center had voluntarily sought to
      participate active PR through advertising and flyers posted in the community and throughout
      the hospital and affiliated office practices. The weekly music therapy sessions lasted 45
      min, for a period of 6 weeks, in groups of 6 participants or less.

      2- Method At the beginning and end of each session the patients were asked to score the
      intensity of current breathlessness by drawing a circle on different pictures of lungs that
      represented extent of dyspnea (VAS) These recorded measures would be collected at the end of
      each session, in order to evaluate the subjective effect of the treatment on the patients
      perception of dyspnea. CRQ and BDI were also administered at the beginning of the PR program
      and subsequently at 6 weeks, the end of the PR program. In the music therapy group, every
      session included music visualizations, wind instrument playing, and singing, providing direct
      methods of working with the breath control and offering active music-making experiences to
      support optimal breathing, foster self-expression, and increase opportunities for coping with
      the challenges of chronic respiratory disease.

      3-Outcome measures

      Primary outcomes were depressive symptoms, disease-specific quality of life factors, and
      patients' perceived dyspnea:

        -  Depressive symptoms were evaluated using the Beck Depression Inventory 2nd edition-Fast
           Screen (BDI-FS), a 7-item subscale of the BDI-II. The BDI-FS measures signs and symptoms
           such as sadness, pessimism, past failure, anhedonia, self-dislike, self-criticalness,
           and suicidal thoughts or ideation.

        -  Disease-specific quality of life as measured by the Chronic Respiratory Questionnaire
           Self-Reported (CRQ-SR) is divided into four dimensions of dyspnea, fatigue, emotional
           function and mastery, with a 7-point Likert scale response for each question. Dyspnea
           relates to a patient's symptoms of shortness of breath and difficulty breathing. Mastery
           relates to a patient's sense of having control over his or her disease and symptoms.
           Emotion relates to a patient's general mood. Fatigue relates to a patient's energy
           level. We measured CRQ-SR domain scores at the time of enrolment in the study and again
           at completion, immediately following the final session after six weeks).

        -  Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) scale. This measures perceived dyspnea or breathlessness in
           participants during the music therapy sessions. The VAS is widely used in the
           measurement of breathlessness as well as other symptoms, e.g. pain, anxiety (annotate to
           appendix)

           4-Statistical analysis Each of the dependent measures of primary outcomes (Depression,
           Dyspnea, and Health-Related Quality of Life) was analyzed using a generalized linear
           mixed model (SAS Proc GLIMMIX, SAS 9.3) involving a single between subjects factor
           (Treatment vs. Control) and a single within subjects factor (Period - enrollment vs.
           follow up 6 weeks later) Test of Treatment Group differences at Enrollment and at 6
           weeks were made using planned contrast on the Least-Square means.
    
  