
    
      The rapid formation of new memories and the recall of old memories to inform decisions is
      essential for human cognition, but the underlying neural mechanisms remain poorly understood.
      The long-term goal of this research is a circuit-level understanding of human memory to
      enable the development of new treatments for the devastating effects of memory disorders. The
      study experiments utilize the rare opportunity to record in-vivo from human single neurons
      simultaneously in multiple brain areas in patients undergoing treatment for drug resistant
      epilepsy. The overall objective is to continue and expand a multi-institutional (Cedars
      Sinai/Caltech, Johns Hopkins, U Toronto, Children's/Harvard, UC Denver, UCSB), integrated,
      and multi-disciplinary team. Jointly, the investigators have the expertise and patient volume
      to test key predictions on the neural substrate of human memory. The study will utilize a
      combination of (i) in-vivo recordings in awake behaving humans assessing memory strength
      through confidence ratings, (ii) focal electrical stimulation to test causality, and (iii)
      computational analysis and modeling.

      These techniques will be applied to investigate three overarching hypotheses on the
      mechanisms of episodic memory. First, to determine the role of persistent neuronal activity
      in translating working memories into longterm declarative memories (Aim 1). Second, to
      determine how declarative memories are translated into decisions (Aim 2). Third, to
      investigate how event segmentation, temporal binding and reinstatement during temporally
      extended experience facilitate episodic memory.

      The expected outcomes of this work are an unprecedented characterization of how episodic
      memories are formed, retrieved and used for decisions, and how temporally extended
      experiences are segmented to form distinct but linked episodes. This work is significant
      because it moves beyond a "parts list" of neurons and brain areas by testing circuit-based
      hypotheses by simultaneously recording single-neurons from multiple frontal cortical and
      subcortical temporal lobe areas in humans who are forming, declaring and describing their
      memories. The proposed work is unusually innovative because it combines single-neuron
      recordings in multiple areas in behaving humans, develops new methods for non-invasive
      localization of implanted electrodes and electrical stimulation and directly test
      long-standing theoretical predictions on the role of evidence accumulation in memory
      retrieval.

      A second significant innovation is the study team, which combines the patient volume and
      expertise of several major centers to maximally utilize the rare neurosurgical opportunities
      available to directly study the human nervous system. This innovative approach permits
      investigation of circuit-level mechanisms of human memory that cannot be studied
      non-invasively in humans nor in animal models. This integrated multi-disciplinary combination
      of human in-vivo single-neuron physiology, behavior, and modeling will contribute
      significantly to the understanding of the circuits and patterns of neural activity that give
      rise to human memory, which is a central goal of human neuroscience in general and the BRAIN
      initiative in particular.
    
  