
    
      Identification of cases:

      Placental abruption cases will be identified by interrogation of two databases of Brest
      University Hospital between January 2013 and December 2018.

      The women diagnosed with placental abruption will be first identified by interrogation of the
      Medical Registry Department (MRD) of Brest University Hospital and of five other maternities
      of our county between January 2013 and December 2018, using the keyword "placental
      abruption".

      Simultaneously, placental abruption cases will be identified from the Pathology department
      files of Brest University Hospital using a computerized database (ADICAP system).

      Cases of placental abruption included in the study will be clinically defined and will not be
      only diagnosed by histological examination. All cases will be reviewed by an experienced
      obstetrician in order to confirm the diagnosis.

      Duplicates, medical termination of pregnancy, marginal abruption, placenta previa, cases
      without histological examination of the placenta, histological cases without compatible
      clinical signs and cases from an unselected maternity will be excluded.

      Women identified with placental abruption in the period of study will be sent an information
      letter explaining the study and its purpose. Women who express their opposition to
      participate to the study will be excluded.

      Clinical parameters:

      The following data will be recorded from medical files on a computerized database: baseline
      maternal characteristics including preconceptional Body Mass Index (BMI), tobacco use, drug
      use (cocaine, cannabis, buprenorphine) medical history (chronic hypertension, chronic
      nephropathy, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, autoimmune disease, previous venous
      thromboembolism), blood and rhesus group, obstetrical history, especially past
      vasculoplacental disorder and past placental abruption, age at delivery. The following
      pregnancy characteristics will also be collected: method of conception, medication during
      pregnancy (in particular aspirin and low molecular-weight heparin (LMWH)), gestational
      diabetes, premature rupture of membrane, pre-eclampsia (according to the American College of
      Obstetricians and Gynecologists' definition published in 2013, term at pre-eclampsia
      diagnosis, term at delivery and method of delivery, postpartum complications including
      postpartum hemorrhage (defined by a blood loss > 500 ml, whatever the mode of delivery),
      disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIVC), thromboembolic event after delivery and before
      hospital discharge, intensive care admission and length of stay.

      The following fetal characteristics will be recorded: presence and term at diagnosis of
      intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR), stillbirth, birthweight and sex of the newborn. IUGR
      will be defined according to the 2013 French College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists
      guidelines by an estimated fetal weight below the 10th percentile using locally-accepted
      curve (AUDIPOG) associated with signs of fetal growth pathological restriction.

      Placental parameters:

      Histopathological examination of the placentas had been performed by two senior perinatal
      pathologists at Brest University Hospital. Histological findings were recorded by
      interrogation of the pathology computerized database APIX V7.

      Placentas were fixed in 4% buffered formalin. Standard sampling of three blocks in the
      central area was performed and slides were Hematoxylin, Eosin and Saffron (HES) stained.

      Recorded macroscopic findings will correspond to the following items: placenta weight,
      fetoplacental weight ratio, placental abruption, abnormal placental set-up (only
      circumvallation), abnormal umbilical cord (villamentous implantation, thin umbilical cord
      with < 0,8 cm in diameter, presence of a knot), presence and number of placental infarcts,
      intervillous thrombi and thrombi in a vessel of the chorionic plate affecting ≥ one third of
      the placental surface.

      Recorded microscopic lesions will correspond to the following items according to Amsterdam
      consensus: maternal vascular malperfusion lesions such as microscopic infarcts, decidual
      arteriopathy, abnormal villous maturation (hypermature villi or villous agglutination),
      presence of fetal vascular malperfusion signs such as obliterative fetal vasculopathy or
      avascular villi, chorangiosis and erythroblastosis, excessive fibrin deposition, chronic
      inflammation such as villitis or chronic intervillositis of unknown etiology, chronic
      chorioamniotitis or chronic deciduitis, acute inflammation such as acute villitis, acute
      chorioamniotitis or funiculitis.

      Biological parameters:

      First trimester Down syndrome screening results will be collected for each pregnancy.

      First trimester pregnancy associated plasma protein-A (PAPP-A) and β-human chorionic
      gonadotrophin (βhCG) levels had been measured in international unit/liter and converted to
      multiples of the median (MoM) using the crown-rump length or biparietal diameter measurement
      when the blood sample was obtained as an estimate of gestational age.

      Available blood samples collected at the end of first trimester of pregnancy (between 11
      weeks of gestation (WG) and 13+6 WG) for Down syndrome screening stored at -20°C in
      Biochemistry department of Brest University Hospital will be used for Placental Growth Factor
      (PlGF) quantification. Measurements will be done with the automated B.R.A.H.M.S KRYPTOR
      compact PLUS system (B.R.A.H.M.S PlGF plus KRYPTOR: Thermo Fisher Scientific, Hennigsdorf,
      Berlin) according to the manufacturer's instructions described elsewhere. PlGF levels will be
      expressed in pg/ml.

      Informed written consents were obtained from women whose blood samples had been collected at
      the end of first trimester.
    
  