
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the pathologic complete response probability in patients with stage II or III
           adenocarcinoma of the esophagus or gastroesophageal junction treated with neoadjuvant
           oxaliplatin, fluorouracil, and radiotherapy followed by definitive surgical resection.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the frequency and severity of toxic effects associated with this neoadjuvant
           regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the overall survival and progression-free survival of patients treated with
           this regimen.

      Exploratory Analyses (subject to funding availability)

        -  Correlate, preliminarily, initial messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) levels of the genes
           for thymidylate synthase (TS), γ-glutamyl transpeptidase (γGT), γ-glutamyl cysteine
           (γ-GCS), DNA excision repair cross-complementing (ERCC-1), and xeroderma pigmentosum
           (XPA) with response and survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Correlate, preliminarily, the mRNA levels of TS, γGT, γ-GCS, ERCC-1, and XPA before and
           after treatment with this regimen with survival of these patients.

        -  Correlate, preliminarily, specific genetic polymorphisms of TS and ERCC-1 with tumor
           response and overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on days 1,
           15, and 29 and fluorouracil (5-FU) IV continuously on days 8-43. Beginning on day 8,
           patients also undergo radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, for 5 weeks.

        -  Surgery: Patients with stable disease or better undergo surgical resection 4-10 weeks
           after completion of chemoradiotherapy.

        -  Adjuvant chemotherapy: Beginning 4-10 weeks after surgery, patients receive chemotherapy
           comprising oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on days 1, 15, and 29 and 5-FU IV continuously on
           days 1-36.

      Treatment continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 45-85 patients will be accrued for this study within 17-21
      months.
    
  