
    
      The study subjects will be recruited from various research centers in western and central
      Mexico.

      Each research center has a monitoring plan specified according to the recruitment
      capabilities of the same, which must be at least once a month, where the queries of your data
      entered into the electronic case report report will be reported to the center. (e-CRF) for
      which it has as time limit the next monitoring visit to make the pertinent changes.

      The report of adverse events will be made according to the standard operating procedure (PNO)
      where it specifies, according to Official Mexican Standard 220 (NOM 220), that the signs or
      symptoms of adverse events will be reported based on the Medical Dictionary. for Regulatory
      Activities, for which the sponsor has version 20.1 in Spanish. For serious adverse events
      (SAEs) will be reported in accordance with the standardized operation procedure of
      pharmacovigilance of the sponsor, which adheres to the guidelines of NOM 220 and
      international regulations, these will be reported in the regulatory framework to the
      regulatory entity within a period of time no more than 7 days.

      The study is registered in the National Registry of Clinical Trials (RNEC), entity equivalent
      to Clinical Trials in Mexico.

      The quality assurance plan is carried out by the sponsor through the Quality Assurance agent
      in Clinical Research, whose function is to conduct inspections and audits of the research
      sites to document and generate reports of deviations from the protocol. In addition to the
      visits of the monitoring plan, the reliability of the data is guaranteed.

      To verify the integrity, veracity and reliability of the data entered into the e-CRF, the
      monitors of each center will check the information uploaded to the portal with that reported
      in the source document of the principal investigator (PI), such as clinical notes, clinical
      history and documents. and formats attached to the research protocol, physical case report
      format, as well as those provided by the sponsor to the PI (subject's diary and quality and
      satisfaction survey).

      The e-CRF used for this clinical study is provided by an internationally certified provider
      with the highest quality standards, protection of information under current regulations and
      confidentiality guarantee. The information that the PIs enter into the e-CRF is collated and
      verified by the clinical monitors and by the service provider's personnel, later reviewed and
      approved by the medical ophthalmologist researcher and by the Clinical Security
      Pharmacologist, who authorize the monitored data of clinical information and safety of the
      study molecule, respectively.
    
  