
    
      Acute lung injury (ALI) is frequently associated with the use of extracorporeal circulation
      during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) surgery and develops postoperatively in 2-3% of cardiac
      surgical patients. Histological evidence shows that CPB increases pulmonary vascular
      permeability and extravascular lung water content while diminishing pulmonary compliance.
      Furthermore, some patients can develop acute respiratory distress syndrome, which has a
      mortality rate of 50-70%. Recruitment of intrapulmonary neutrophils is a characteristic of
      ALI following CPB. Blood contact with non-physiological surfaces, cooling and rewarming and
      mechanical shear stress activate neutrophils. The recruitment of activated neutrophils from
      blood vessels to local tissue involves a chain of well-coordinated events, including
      adhesion, tethering, rolling and crawling, followed by trans-endothelial and trans-epithelial
      migration. Activation of sequestered neutrophils causes the release of specific proteolytic
      enzymes and oxygen free radicals, which leads to increased alveolar-endothelial permeability
      and parenchymal damage. During CPB, the lungs are almost completely excluded from the
      systemic circulation, which causes the blood within them to be almost 'static'. Pulmonary
      tissue hypoxia and re-oxygenation combined with vascular ischemia and reperfusion induce the
      generation of chemokines, which contributes to subsequent injury by accumulating and
      entrapping activated neutrophils. The accumuled and entrapped activated neutrophils in the
      lungs and the subsequent release of toxic substances render the lungs highly susceptible to
      this damage. However, the mechanism that drives neutrophil migration to the lungs after CPB
      is not well studied. This study will delineate the mechanisms of neutrophil migration to the
      lung and subsequent lung injury after CPB.
    
  