
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the rate of progression free survival at 18 months from study entry after
      therapy with ixazomib citrate (ixazomib [MLN9708]) in combination with pomalidomide and
      dexamethasone followed by a single autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) and
      consolidation with ixazomib in combination with pomalidomide and dexamethasone and
      maintenance with ixazomib in relapsed refractory ASCT naive multiple myeloma (MM) patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the best overall response rates (>= partial response [PR]) and deep responses
      (very good partial response [VGPR], complete response [CR], stringent complete response
      [sCR]) at various stages of treatment: after induction, after stem cell transplantation
      (SCT), after consolidation and during maintenance.

      II. To determine the overall survival from study entry.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assessment of minimal residual disease (MRD) by flow cytometry at various stages of
      treatment: after induction, day # 100 after SCT, after consolidation and during maintenance
      at year 1 and 2 from initiation of maintenance therapy.

      II. To determine the engraftment kinetics (white blood cells [WBC] and platelet) following
      single salvage ASCT for relapsed disease.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION (COURSES 1-4): Patients receive ixazomib citrate orally (PO) on days 1, 8, and 15,
      pomalidomide (PO) on days 1-21, and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days (courses 1-3) and 56 days (course 4) for up to 4 courses in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      TRANSPLANTATION (COURSE 5): Between 2-4 weeks following Induction, patients undergo ASCT.

      CONSOLIDATION (COURSES 6-9): Beginning 60-120 days following ASCT, patients receive ixazomib
      citrate, pomalidomide, and dexamethasone as in Induction. Treatment repeats every 28 days
      (courses 6-8) and 56 days (course 9) for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE (COURSES 10+): Beginning 0-4 weeks following Consolidation, patients receive
      ixazomib citrate as in Induction. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months until
      progressive disease, and then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  