
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the disease control rate in patients with completely resected recurrent
      osteosarcoma treated with ch14.18 (dinutuximab) in combination with sargramostim
      (granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor [GM-CSF]) as compared to historical
      Children's Oncology Group (COG) experience.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of ch14.18 (dinutuximab) in patients with recurrent
      osteosarcoma.

      II. To determine the occurrence of unacceptable toxicity (UT) in patients with recurrent
      osteosarcoma treated with ch14.18 (dinutuximab) in combination with sargramostim.

      III. To assess the relationship between probability of disease control and tumor ganglioside
      GD2 (GD2) expression.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the relationship between probability of disease control and tumor GD2
      expression.

      II. To assess KIR and Fcgamma receptor (FcgammaR) genotypes, NKp30 isoforms and its
      circulating ligand, B7-H6, and their relationships to the probability of disease control.

      III. To attempt banking of tumor samples for future research studies from patients enrolled
      on study who undergo biopsy or resection of suspected metastatic disease recurrence while on
      protocol therapy or during the evaluation period.

      IV. To determine a descriptive profile of human anti-chimeric antibody (HACA) during
      immunotherapy.

      V. To bank serial plasma samples for future studies of circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic
      acid (ctDNA) detection as a marker of disease progression and response.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive sargramostim subcutaneously (SC) once daily (QD) on days 1-14 and
      dinutuximab intravenously (IV) over 10 hours on days 4-7 (dinutuximab infusion may be
      extended up to a total of 20 hours per day for anticipated toxicities). Treatment repeats
      every 28 days for up to 5 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 8 and 12 months.
    
  