
    
      The current standard for breast augmentation involves placement of an implant. Although
      implants are safe, they are foreign bodies and thus have inherent risks including infection,
      failure, malposition, etc. In order to avoid the inherent risks of an implanted device, some
      surgeons and patients have elected to proceed with breast augmentation from autologous
      tissue. Early reports of autologous fat transplantation to the breasts were successful, but
      increases in breast volume were modest (Bircoll, 1987). There were also hypothetical concerns
      about changes in the breast tissue that would interfere with mammographic screening for
      breast cancer.

      Spear et al (2005) performed autologous fat transplantation to reconstructed breasts in 37
      patients with 2-dimensional photographic evidence of improved breast shape and volume
      suggesting that this technique can be effectively performed. However, these patients had all
      received mastectomies so mammographic screening was not indicated. Coleman and Saboeiro
      (2007) performed autologous fat transplantation to the breasts in 17 patients. Fifteen of the
      17 patients received post-operative mammograms, 7 (47%) of which were abnormal. However, none
      of these abnormal findings interfered with cancer screening. Furthermore, 2 patients in the
      study did develop breast cancer which was successfully detected by mammography. Other studies
      have confirmed the ability to differentiate benign from malignant findings on mammogram after
      autologous fat transplantation. Pulagam et al (2006) reported long term (10 and 8 year)
      findings on 2 patients that underwent autologous fat transplantation to the breasts.
      Mammography and ultrasound were used to differentiate benign from malignant appearing
      calcifications. Some authors have speculated that autologous fat transplantation to the
      breast would lead to mammographic changes similar to routine breast procedures such as breast
      reduction and mastopexy (Coleman and Saboeiro, 2007).
    
  