
    
      Background: In patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma, sorafenib is now the standard
      treatment with an increased median overall survival but an overall incidence of
      treatment-related adverse events of 80%. There is growing interest for RADIOEMBOLIZAION with
      90 Yttrium microspheres. It involves infusion of embolic microparticles of glass or resin
      impregnated with the isotope yttrium-90 through a catheter directly into the hepatic
      arteries. A substantial number of open-label single-group studies showed supporting evidence
      for a potential efficacy on overall survival and acceptable or low toxicity. Trial design:
      multicenter, prospective, controlled, open label randomized trial of Y90 RADIOEMBOLIZATION
      versus sorafenib. Participants: Adult patients with 1) advanced HCC according to BCLC staging
      system (stage C) with or without portal vein thrombosis 2) ECOG performance status of 2 or
      less 3) adequate haematological, renal and hepatic functions 4) liver cirrhosis Child Pugh A
      - B7 and 5) no extrahepatic metastasis. Interventions: In the sorafenib group, patients will
      receive continuous oral treatment with 400 mg of sorafenib twice daily. In the Y90
      RADIOEMBOLIZATION group, patients will first undergo angiography and scintigraphy for
      eligibility assessment (absence of or acceptable lung shunting) and preconditioning
      (embolization). RADIOEMBOLIZATION therapy with infusion of Y90 microspheres will be performed
      secondly. Objectives: The primary objective is to compare the efficacy of Y90
      RADIOEMBOLIZATION to sorafenib in the treatment of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma.
      Secondary objectives include the comparison of safety profiles, quality of life and health
      care costs between the two therapeutic groups. Outcomes: The primary endpoint is the median
      overall survival time. Secondary endpoints include adverse events reported according to the
      NCI CTC, progression-free survival at 6 months, response rates, general and hepatic-specific
      quality of life scores, health care costs which comprise the MICROCOSTING of Y90
      RADIOEMBOLIZATION from the viewpoint of the hospital and the full cost of each strategy.
      Sample size: 400 participants (200 par arm). The trial have 80% power to detect a clinically
      meaningful increase in median survival time of 4 months between sorafenib (expected median
      survival time 10.7 months) and Y90 RADIOEMBOLIZATION (expected median survival time 15
      months) with a two-tailed type I error risk of 5%. Randomization: 1 to 1 randomization will
      be stratified according to recruiting center, ECOG performance status (a score of 0 vs. a
      score of 1 or 2), presence or absence of macroscopic vascular invasion (obstruction of portal
      vein or any branch vs none) and previous chemoembolisation failure . Randomly permuted blocks
      of random sizes will be used. Study duration and Setting: Accrual period 24 months.
      Additional follow-up period: 12 months. 14 centres involving both clinicians (hepatologists,
      hepatobiliary surgeons, and oncologists) and radiologists and Nuclear medicine physicians on
      each site.
    
  