
    
      To investigate the effectiveness of an intervention aimed at improving the recognition of
      suicidal ideation and depression in elderly patients and facilitating the implementation of a
      treatment algorithm based on the AHCPR (Agency for Health Care Policy and Research)
      guidelines. To implement procedures aimed at educating patients, families, and physicians on
      depression and suicidal ideation.

      There is a need to test models of depression recognition and treatment to prevent and reduce
      suicidal behavior in older patients in primary care settings. Elderly suicide most frequently
      occurs in the context of mild to moderate depression. In primary care patients, suicidal
      ideation is a risk factor for suicide and has been identified almost exclusively in patients
      with depressive symptoms and signs. Since most suicide victims are seen by their primary care
      physicians within a few weeks prior to their death, intervening at the doctor's office may be
      life-saving.

      The intervention is offered in 6 primary care practices from 3 geographic areas (metropolitan
      and suburban New York, Philadelphia, and Pittsburgh) and its impact is contrasted to that of
      6 comparable practices offering usual care. Patients are selected through an age-stratified,
      two-stage sampling design and followed for 2 years. The group consists of 1,200 subjects and
      is comprised of patients with depressive symptoms and signs and a random sample of patients
      without significant depressive symptomatology. Depression Specialists (DS) collaborate with
      physicians and help them increase recognition, offer timely and appropriately-targeted
      treatment recommendations, and encourage patients to adhere to treatment. Beyond direct
      systematic clinical assessment of patients, information is obtained on health services
      utilization from practice-based medical records and on cause of death from death
      certificates. Data are also collected to document the impact of intervention on patient care,
      and on physician knowledge, attitudes, and satisfaction and test hypotheses derived from
      preliminary studies of the three Intervention Research Centers (IRCs), Cornell, University of
      Pennsylvania, and University of Pittsburgh, where the study will be conducted.
    
  