
    
      The Study Drug:

      Minocycline is an antibiotic and has been shown to interrupt cytokine production, which may
      help to reduce multiple symptoms.

      Study Groups:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a
      coin) to 1 of 2 groups. Group 1 will take minocycline. Group 2 will take a placebo. A placebo
      is a substance that looks like the study drug but has no active ingredients.

      Neither you nor the study staff will know if you are receiving the study drug or the placebo.
      However, if needed for your safety, the study staff will be able to find out what you are
      receiving.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You will take the study drug/placebo, by mouth, every day for 7 weeks starting at the first
      week of radiation therapy. You may take the study drug/placebo with a full glass (8 ounces)
      of water. You may take it with or without food. If it causes an upset stomach, you should
      take it with food. If you have trouble swallowing the dose of study drug/placebo, you can
      open the capsule right before you take them. You should not lie down for at least 30 minutes
      after taking the study drug/placebo to prevent possible irritation of the inside of the
      esophagus, a known side effect. You will be given pamphlets with more information about how
      to take the study drug/placebo.

      You will be given a daily diary to write down what time you take the study drug/placebo. You
      must bring the diary with you to every study visit for the study doctor and research staff to
      review.

      You must bring the study drug/placebo container to every study visit.

      Study Visits:

      Before you start your radiation treatment:

        -  You will have blood (about 2 teaspoons) drawn to check your liver function, if this test
           has not been done in the last 3 months.

        -  If you are able to become pregnant, you will have a urine pregnancy test. The study
           staff will give you the pregnancy test kit, and will review and record the results of
           the test before you can pick up the study drug from the pharmacy. If you are pregnant,
           you will not be given the study drug.

        -  You will also complete 5 questionnaires about pain and other symptoms, your alcohol and
           tobacco history, your health status, and your quality of life. It should take about 15
           minutes to complete all of the questionnaires.

      During radiation treatment (approximately Weeks 1- 7 of radiation):

      You will complete the symptom questionnaire in the clinic or by telephone 2 times a week. You
      will be asked about symptoms you may be experiencing and how they may be interfering with
      your normal daily activities. You will complete the symptom questionnaire during one of your
      regular clinic visits. If you do not have a clinic visit scheduled around the time that the
      questionnaire needs to be completed, a member of the study staff will call you at your home
      at a time that is convenient for you. The symptom questionnaire should take about 5 minutes
      to complete each time.

      At about Week 4 of radiation, you will complete 4 additional questionnaires about pain and
      other symptoms, your tobacco use, and a quality of life questionnaire. It should take about 5
      minutes to complete all of the questionnaires.

      During the last week of radiation (about Week 6-7), you will complete 4 additional
      questionnaires about pain and other symptoms, your health status, and your quality of life.
      It should take about 10 minutes to complete all of the questionnaires.

      Starting after the last week of radiation (about Weeks 7-10), the study staff will call you 2
      times each week to check on you. This phone call should last about 5 minutes. If you have had
      several side effects from the radiation therapy, this phone call may take longer.

      Follow-Up Phone Calls:

      During Weeks 11-15, you will complete the pain and other symptoms questionnaire 1 time a week
      by phone. A member of the study staff will call you at your home at a time that is convenient
      for you. The symptom questionnaire should take about 5 minutes to complete by phone each
      time.

      End of Study Visit:

      Your last study visit will be the same day that you have your last clinic visit with the
      radiation doctor (around Weeks 13-15). At this visit, you will complete the pain and other
      symptoms questionnaire, your health status and the 2 smoking questionnaires. It should take
      about 5 minutes to complete both questionnaires.

      Length of Study:

      You will be on study for up to 15 weeks. You will take the study drug/placebo for up to 7
      weeks and continue to complete the symptom survey until 15 weeks. You will be taken off study
      early if you experience intolerable side effects or the study doctor thinks it is in your
      best interest.

      This is an investigational study. Minocycline is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of bacterial infection. Using minocycline for the treatment of the symptoms of
      radiation treatment for oropharynx cancer, nasopharynx cancer, or unknown primary cancer of
      head and neck, is investigational.

      Up to 60 patients will take part in this research study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson
      main campus as well as the regional care centers.
    
  