
    
      Temperature management is an important aspect of perioperative care that falls under the
      purview of the anesthesiologist. Temperature is recognized as one of four primary vital signs
      and significant deviations from normal values may result in patient harm. General anesthesia
      disrupts the body's temperature homeostasis by inhibiting temperature regulation mechanisms
      such as vasoconstriction/-dilation, shivering and behavioral interventions (donning clothes
      or leaving an area with excessive heat, for example). Anesthetized patient have a tendency to
      become hypothermic, especially during long surgical procedures. This results from both the
      redistribution of cooler peripheral temperatures into the core (due to vasodilation) as well
      as actual temperature loss to a cold operating room environment (which is maintained at a
      lower temperature for the comfort of fully gowned surgeons and nurses). In addition, large
      surgical incisions predispose the patient to hypothermia through evaporation and convection.

      Hypothermia is a recognized risk factor that predisposes the patient to an increased
      metabolic rate, increased oxygen demand, coagulopathies, impaired wound healing, impaired
      immune function and increased risk of infection. Therefore, maintenance of normal body
      temperature is an important goal of every general anesthetic - and is a well-accepted quality
      metric associated with patient care. Because of the greater surface area to volume
      relationship, children are thought to be a greater risk of intraoperative hypothermia.

      The most widely used method of maintaining body temperature during surgery (and a routine at
      this institution) is by using a forced-air warming blanket (Bair Hugger warming blanket, 3M).
      Despite its widespread use, the forced-air warming blanket has its limitations. For example,
      during certain surgical procedures, the location of the surgical field precludes placement of
      the warming blanket. In addition, the warming blanket often cannot be placed immediately
      after the induction of anesthesia (when complex patient positioning is required) - leaving
      the patient exposed to hypothermic conditions for short (10-15min) or long (30-60min) periods
      of time. There is hence a need for alternative warming systems that could be implemented
      immediately following anesthetic induction.

      Westmed, Inc. has developed an alternative system that utilizes a heated, humidified
      breathing circuit to regulate a patient's body temperature in the intraoperative setting.
      This system is active from the moment the trachea is intubated following anesthetic
      induction, i.e. there are no delays in instituting thermal management.
    
  