
    
      Pediatric Cardiac Arrest and intraoperative arrest Cardiac arrest in the operating room is a
      rare but potentially catastrophic event with mortality rate of more than 50% . Each year, it
      is estimated that >15,000 infants and children in North America receive cardiopulmonary
      resuscitation (CPR) as a treatment of cardiopulmonary arrest (CPA). The incidence of
      pediatric perioperative cardiac arrest can be as high as 20.9 per 10,000 cases. Recent CPR
      guidelines published by the American Heart Association (AHA) and the Heart and Stroke
      Foundation of Canada (HSFC) describe how high quality chest compressions (CC) with adequate
      compression depth (5-6 cm) and rate (100-120 beats/min) improves survival rates and
      neurological outcomes from CPA. Patients receiving CC with adequate depth are more likely to
      survive than those who aren't (70% vs 16% 24-hour survival), while those receiving CC within
      the target rate range demonstrate the highest rates of survival.

      Despite CPR training, adherence rates with performance guidelines are alarmingly low at
      pediatric hospitals. Professional rescuers observed that CPR quality during simulated and
      real cardiac arrests frequently fall well short of guidelines in leading institutions. In
      addition to performance errors, medication errors have been reported to be as high as 50%
      during cardiopulmonary arrest. Because of the resuscitation environment, errors in
      prescribing, doing, preparing, labeling and administering the drugs are prone to occur. A
      2015 Institute of Medicine (IOM) Report entitled: "Strategies to Improve Cardiac Arrest
      Survival: A Time to Act", recommended translational research focusing on the function of
      resuscitation teams be undertaken to improve outcomes from CPA.

      1) Goals, Objectives, and Project Outputs Goal To identify, describe and quantify patterns of
      inattentional blindness related to critical errors for resuscitation teams during the
      management of perioperative pediatric cardiac arrest.

      Objectives

        1. To determine the frequency of CC-related errors that are undetected by resuscitation
           teams during management of a simulated pediatric cardiac arrest with average noise level
           (85 dBA) vs high noise (100 dBA) in the operating room during resuscitation.

        2. To determine the frequency of medication-related errors that are undetected by
           resuscitation teams during management of a simulated pediatric cardiac arrest with
           average noise level (85dBA) vs high noise (100 dBA) level in the operating room during
           resuscitation.

        3. To determine the frequency of "look but not act" events (for CC related errors/
           medication) during the management of simulated perioperative cardiac arrest.

        4. To describe the underlying cause for "look but not act" events as it relates to CC
           related errors in management of simulated perioperative cardiac arrest.

      Proposed Project Outputs

        1. The investigators hypothesize that CC and medication errors are frequently left
           undetected and uncorrected, and that the less noise distractions during resuscitation
           improves but does not eliminate this pattern of inattentional blindness in resuscitation
           teams during simulated perioperative pediatric cardiac arrest.

        2. They hypothesize that "look but not act" events are a frequent occurrence during
           simulated pediatric cardiac arrest, and that healthcare providers will have varying
           reasons that explain the occurrence of "look but not act" events.
    
  