
    
      Cervical cancer is the third most common cancer worldwide. The causative agent responsible
      for cervical cancer is the persistent infection with oncogenic Human Papillomavirus (HPV).
      Rates of cervical cancer and HPV infection are increased in HIV-infected women due to
      immunosuppression and cervical cancer is an AIDS-defining diagnosis. Despite the promise of
      HPV vaccine in the prevention of cervical cancer, the widespread availability of this vaccine
      is limited due to cost and accessibility. Therefore, prevention strategies to reduce cervical
      cancer after HPV exposure entail treatment at the most severe premalignant state (high grade
      squamous intraepithelial lesion or HSIL). As this procedure is expensive and not widely
      available in resource-limited areas there is a need for an inexpensive, non-invasive
      alternative method to treat these premalignant cervical lesions.

      Curcumin, an extract from turmeric, a popular culinary spice, has been used in traditional
      Indian medicine for its anti-inflammatory and anti-infectious properties. Recent studies have
      shown the potential effect of curcumin to reduce tumors and precancerous lesions in animal
      and human cancer cells. It is postulated that curcumin achieves its effect on cancer cells by
      modulating different cellular pathways as well as altering HPV effect on tissue cells.

      This study will explore the effect of curcumin as a potential medical treatment in
      HIV-infected women with HSIL lesions of the cervix. 40 women with high grade squamous
      intraepithelial lesion (HSIL) of the cervix will be enrolled to either insert 2000 mg capsule
      of curcumin or a placebo in their vagina once a week for 12 weeks. After a 4 week long
      washout period the participants will then undergo removal of the precancerous cells as
      recommended standard of care. Participants will have regular monthly visits for the duration
      of the study.
    
  