
    
      It's a prospective and observational study, with 100 patients that undergo thoracic surgery.

      The respiratory rate will be set to maintain PaCO2 at values close to eucapnia.

      Controlled pressure ventilation (Pinsp ≤ 35 cmH2O) will be used only if the maximum airway
      pressures are reached and exceeded with controlled ventilation.

      The inspiratory mixture will consist of O2: Air and possibly the halogenated anesthetic.

      At the end of the operation, the patients will be transferred to Intensive Care Unit for
      post-operative monitoring. During the transfer will be supported with mechanical ventilation
      manually performed by the Anesthesiologist.

      The extubation will be performed in TICCH, according to the practice of the center.

      Patients will be asked to join the study by giving informed consent.

      The data will be collected through a special data collection form (Case Report Form, CRF).

      The following information will be collected:

      In the section dedicated to the preoperative patient data will be inserted related to:

        -  age, weight, height, sex;

        -  general health conditions

        -  previous and concurrent diseases

        -  positive respiratory history for: previous pleuro-parenchymal diseases in the 30 days
           prior to surgery, previous interventions on the thorax, pleura or lung, presence of
           pleural effusion; asthma; Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

        -  history of cigarette smoking: active smoker (number of cigarettes), ex-smoker or
           non-smoker;

        -  Preoperative Therapy

        -  SpO2, PaO2, PaO2 / FiO2, PaCO2 (if available);

        -  cardiological anamnesis (echocardiography, ECG, etc.) other medical information relevant
           to the study

      The following data will be collected on the intra-operative card:

        -  incidence of EFL and respiratory mechanics parameters, collected by the ventilator;

        -  type of surgical intervention;

        -  transfusion of blood derivatives;

        -  eventual administration of cardio / vasoactive drugs;

        -  duration of the surgery; other information related to the intra-operative relevant for
           the purpose of the study

      The EFL will be registered at the following time-points:

        -  after the induction of anesthesia;

        -  after lateral positioning of the patient;

        -  start of One Lung Ventilation;

        -  5 ' after cutting skin;

        -  30 ' after cutting skin;

        -  5 ' after closing skin;

        -  Bipulmonary ventilation;

        -  Positioning of the back of the patient.

      The following data will be recorded in the postoperative card:

        -  Post-operative mechanical ventilation time

        -  postoperative respiratory complications;

        -  postoperative non-respiratory (cardiovascular, infectious, renal, surgical)
           complications;

        -  need for re-intubation in the postoperative period;

        -  need for ventilatory support (non-invasive ventilation, invasive ventilation) in the
           postoperative period;

        -  need for hospitalization in intensive care (expected, unexpected, cause of
           hospitalization, length of stay);

        -  duration of hospital stay; other postoperative information relevant for the purpose of
           the study.

      Data will be analyzed using statistical software.
    
  