
    
      This is an open-label, non-randomised, single centre study of intravenous reovirus
      (Reolysin®) with or without Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) given
      to patients prior to surgery for metastatic melanoma. Patients will be eligible if undergoing
      surgery for local control of lymph node involvement (with or without stage 4 metastases) or
      if planned for resection of cutaneous, subcutaneous, musculoskeletal or visceral metastases
      for local control, palliation of symptoms or personal choice.

      All patients will receive an initial low 'immunisation' dose of intravenous reovirus (1x108
      TCID50), to ensure that neutralising antibody (NAB) levels have risen by the time a full
      cycle of reovirus +/- GM-CSF is given. All patients will receive only 1 cycle of treatment
      which will comprise: i) For reovirus alone patients (Group A), 1x1010 TCID50 as a 1-hour IV
      infusion on 2 consecutive days; ii) For reovirus plus GM-CSF patients (Group B), subcutaneous
      GM-CSF (50mcg/day) for 3 days, followed by 2 days of reovirus. Both doses of reovirus will be
      at 1x1010 TCID50.

      Patients will be enrolled sequentially into each of the two cohorts receiving intravenous
      reovirus alone, or reovirus plus GM-CSF. The addition of GM-CSF is designed to address
      effects on the translational objectives/endpoints of this study, rather than primary
      toxicity, although all patients will be monitored for safety. Clinical assessment will be
      performed at screening (within 14 days of start of treatment), at day 1 (1st GM-CSF
      dose/none), day 8 and at the final study visit (40 days (+/- 14 days) post treatment with
      reovirus). Safety bloods will be taken at screening, at treatment (Day 1), before each dose
      of reovirus (Day 4 & 5), at Day 8 and at the final study visit (Day 40). Immunological
      assays, including reovirus antibody levels, will be performed before low-dose reovirus
      priming (Day -10 to -6), pre-treatment on Day 1, on Day 4 and 5 (pre-reovirus infusion and 60
      minutes post-infusion), Day 8, and at the final study visit (Day 40). Patients with
      accessible skin or subcutaneous metastases will be asked for an optional additional
      pre-treatment biopsy which will be taken before low-dose reovirus priming.

      All procedures will be performed as an outpatient or day case, apart from surgery in melanoma
      patients requiring admission as part of standard clinical care. Imaging will be as for
      standard clinical care only. Following surgical resection the tumour will be assessed for
      viral status and anti-tumour effects by e.g. standard histology, immunohistochemistry, RT-PCR
      and electron microscopy. Further imaging and follow-up beyond the final study visit (Day 40
      +/- 14 days) will be as for standard clinical care only.
    
  