
    
      Haemorrhoidal disease (HD) is the most common type of anorectal complaint in the Netherlands,
      with an annual prevalence of 10% in general practice. There is level I evidence in literature
      that the first management step of HD is basic treatment,including laxatives and high fibre
      diet. The general practitioner usually offers basic treatment. If basic treatment fails
      patients are referred to the hospital. About 50.000 patients are referred to a hospital for
      HD in the Netherlands annually. The next treatment modality after basic treatment in case of
      persistent symptoms is rubber band ligation (RBL), which can be repeated if necessary. RBL is
      an easy, cheap and outpatient-based procedure. Thirty per cent of the patients, approximately
      15.000 patients a year, develop recurrent symptoms after basic treatment and repeat RBL.
      There is currently no consensus and a lack of evidence regarding the best treatment option
      for these patients having recurrent HD: continuing RBL or a surgical intervention. Literature
      indicates that haemorrhoidectomy is the surgical treatment of choice based on outcomes like
      recurrencerate. The major drawback of this technique is that it is very painful and more
      costly compared to RBL. A relatively novel, but regular surgical alternative is the sutured
      mucopexy. Although hospital costs of sutured mucopexy are comparable to haemorrhoidectomy,
      the operation is less painful and requires less recuperation time. The recurrence rate of
      sutured mucopexy is ranked between that of RBL and haemorrhoidectomy.

      A Dutch national survey conducted by our research group evaluating the management practices
      of HD demonstrated considerable variation in the best (surgical) treatment option regarding
      recurrent HD, resulting in potentially undesirable practice variation. The treatment of
      recurrent grade 2 or 3 HD currently depends on the preference and the experience of the
      surgeon and of the patient, without high level evidence substantiating this practice
      variation. This implies a need for a high quality study regarding the treatment of recurrent
      grade 2 or 3 HD. Diminishing this practice variation will endorse cost-effectiveness in
      healthcare settings.To our knowledge, this will be the first RCT worldwide comparing RBL,
      sutured mucopexy and haemorrhoidectomy in recurrent grade 2 or 3 HD and generating high-level
      evidence of the (cost-) effectiveness. The investigators consider combining 2 trials in one
      with a direct comparison between these three interventions to be an efficient research
      approach.

      Up till now, trials were mostly powered on traditional outcomes like recurrence, a definition
      that differs widely between studies.To improve transparency between studies and facilitate
      the ability to compare and combine (future) studies, our research group developed a European
      Society of Coloproctology (ESCP) Core Outcome Set (COS) for HD. This international COS for HD
      selected 'patient-reported symptoms' as primary outcome. Additionally, the investigators
      recently developed a patient reported symptom score for HD: the PROM-HISS. This PROM is based
      on most cited symptoms in literature and patient interviews. The patient advisory board (PAB)
      of this project underlines the clinical relevance of this PROM. As the PROM-HISS has not yet
      been used in other studies and has to be validated, the investigators will additionally use
      patient-reported symptoms assessed by the PROM-HISS, next to recurrence, as primary outcome
      in this trial.
    
  