
    
      Proximal spinal muscular atrophy is an autosomal recessive disorder with an overall incidence
      of 1 in 10000 live births and a carrier frequency of 1 in 50. This severe neuromuscular
      disease is characterized by a degeneration and loss of alpha motor neurons of the spinal cord
      anterior horn cells, which results in progressive symmetrical weakness, atrophy of the
      proximal voluntary muscles, and infant death. Here, we present a new, rapid, simple and high
      reliable method to detect the SMN1 deletion and to determine the copy number of the SMN1 and
      SMN2 by denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography (DHPLC). We demonstrate that this
      assay is able to accurately distinguish 2 gene copies from 4 gene copies and it can identify
      SMA carriers and normal populations by the accurate determination of SMN copy number.

      Fecal DNA testing is a promising tool for colorectal cancer screening. Researchers have shown
      that DNA to be a good marker since it is stable in the stool; it shed continuously; and,
      through the use of amplification tests, it can be detected in minute amounts. Many DNA
      mutations associated with the process of colon cancer carcinogenesis have been characterized.
      K-ras oncogene, adenomatous polyposis coli (APC), p53, and microsatellite markers are
      examples of genes targeted as DNA markers in stool testing because they are critical to the
      control of colorectal cell growth. Early clinical studies have shown that multitarget DNA
      testing has a 71% to 91% sensitivity for detection of cancer and a 55% to 82% sensitivity for
      detecting adenoma 1cm or larger. We design this study, by using the automated DHPLC analysis
      and the microsatellite markers set already at first, to stepwisely set-up a high throughput
      but sensitive and specific screen method for colorectal cancer screen.

      Neonatal hyperbilirubinemia is a common problem and is of concern not only to pediatricians
      but also to the parents of neonates. Two key enzymes, UDP-glucuronosyl transferase 1A1 and
      heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), that involve bilirubin metabolism are highly noticed. First, UGT1A1
      is the key enzyme for bilirubin conjugation and mutations of UGT1A1 cause the unconjugated
      hyperbilirubinemias known as Crigler-Najjar syndrome and Gilbert's syndrome. The high
      allele-frequency of Gly71Arg and promoter polymorphism in UGT1A1 gene was found to be
      responsible for neonatal hyperbilirubinemia without obvious cause. Second, HO-1 is a
      rate-limiting enzyme in the heme metabolism and allows for the degradation of heme to
      biliverdin. Recently, Maruo et al. demonstrated that (16/17) breastfed Japanese infants with
      apparent prolonged jaundice had at least one mutation of the UGT1A1. These data suggested
      that that defects of UGT1A1 may be an underlying cause of the prolonged unconjugated
      hyperbilirubinemia associated with breast milk. However, to date the association between
      breastfed infants with severe hyperbilirubinemia and UGT1A1 gene mutation is still unclear.
      In this study, we will analyze the UGT1A1 and HO-1 genes of infants with unconjugated
      hyperbilirubinemia associated with breast milk to ascertain whether genetic factors are
      involved.

      This project will contribute to apply DHPLC on establishing various novels, fast, and
      reliable applications for diagnosis of SMA and carrier detection of SMN1 and SMN2 genes,
      sensitive and specific screen method for colorectal cancer screen, and analyze the UGT1A1 and
      HO-1 genes of infants with unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia associated with breast milk.
    
  