
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Among the dose levels tested, to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and
      recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of ruxolitinib (ruxolitinib phosphate), when given in
      combination with tacrolimus and sirolimus (TAC/SIR) as acute graft-versus-host disease
      (aGVHD) prophylaxis as part of reduced intensity allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplant
      (HCT), in patients with myelofibrosis or other related myeloid neoplasm with marrow fibrosis.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if the addition of ruxolitinib, to the standard aGVHD prophylactic regimen of
      TAC/SIR, is safe by evaluation of toxicities including: type, frequency, severity,
      attribution, time course and duration.

      II. To estimate the cumulative incidence of aGVHD and non-relapse mortality (NRM) at 100-days
      post transplant.

      III. To estimate the cumulative incidence of chronic GVHD at 1- and 2-years post transplant.

      IV. To characterize and evaluate hematologic recovery, donor cell engraftment and immune
      reconstitution by cell count and flow cytometry of lymphocyte subsets.

      V. To estimate the probabilities of overall and progression-free survival (OS/PFS) at 1- and
      2-years post transplant.

      VI. To characterize changes in aGVHD biomarkers (regenerating islet-derived 3-alpha
      [Reg-3alpha], soluble tumor necrosis factor receptor I [sTNF RI], interleukin 2 receptor
      alpha [IL2Ralpha]), Janus-associated kinase (JAK)-regulated pro-inflammatory cytokines (i.e.
      interleukin [IL]-6, tumor necrosis factor [TNF] alpha, C-reactive protein [CRP], beta 2
      microglobulin) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) phosphorylation
      (downstream of JAK signaling) over time and by aGVHD status/grade.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of ruxolitinib phosphate.

      PREPARATIVE REGIMEN: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV) on days -9 to
      -5 and melphalan IV over 20 minutes on day -4. Beginning greater than 48 hours after
      completion of melphalan, patients undergo peripheral blood stem cell or bone marrow
      transplant according to standard guidelines on day 0.

      GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Patients receive ruxolitinib phosphate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on
      days -3 to 30 tapered to day 60, tacrolimus IV continuously or PO BID on days -3 to 100 , and
      sirolimus PO once daily (QD) on day -3 to 100. Treatment continues in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up 2 years.
    
  