
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine response rates, duration of response, and performance status in
      patients with stage I-III esophageal cancer after treatment with cisplatin, fluorouracil,
      interferon alfa, and leucovorin calcium. II. Determine toxicities of this regimen in these
      patients. III. Determine relapse and survival rates in this patient population treated with
      this regimen. IV. Determine response rates, duration of response, performance status, and
      relapse and survival rates for inoperable candidates in this patient population treated with
      this regimen followed by radiotherapy. V. Determine the toxicities of this regimen followed
      by radiotherapy in these patients. VI. Evaluate recurrence following this treatment regimen
      in this patient population. VII. Compare roentgenographic and ultrasound responses to
      histopathologic responses with this regimen in this patient population. VIII. Evaluate the
      effects of this regimen and its relation to the ability to achieve negative surgical margins
      and evaluate the extent of multifocality, nodal disease, tumor size, and tumor grade. IX.
      Determine the incidence of perioperative complications following this regimen, including
      surgical as well as operative time, blood loss, perioperative transfusions, and length of
      hospital stay.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive leucovorin calcium IV continuously on days 1-5.5, interferon alfa
      subcutaneously daily on days 1-6, cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day 1, and fluorouracil IV
      continuously on days 1-5. Treatment continues every 21 days for 3 courses in the absence of
      unacceptable toxicity. Approximately 4 weeks after chemotherapy, esophagectomy is performed
      in patients without evidence of locally advanced unresectable esophageal cancer or distant
      metastases. Patients determined to have residual disease following esophagectomy will be
      considered for radiotherapy. Patients not undergoing esophagectomy receive chemoradiotherapy
      21-28 days after completion of initial chemotherapy. Patients receive oral hydroxyurea every
      12 hours on days 0-5 and fluorouracil IV continuously on days 1-5. Patients undergo
      radiotherapy to esophagus daily on days 1-5. Treatment continues every 14 days for 7 courses
      in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 15-45 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  