
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD)
      profile of AMG 386 (trebananib) when administered alone and in combination with low-dose
      cytarabine in adult patients with: untreated AML considered ineligible for standard induction
      chemotherapy; refractory and/or relapsed AML following at least one cycle of prior therapy
      who are not currently eligible for stem cell transplantation.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate clinical responses in AML patients following AMG 386 therapy alone or in
      combination with low-dose cytarabine therapy.

      II. To characterize the biological changes occurring in AML patients treated with AMG 386
      alone or in combination with low-dose cytarabine, specifically: alteration in angiopoietin
      (Ang)1, Ang2, Tie2, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and VEGF receptor (VEGFR)
      expression; changes in bone marrow vascularization and hypoxia; changes in gene and/or micro
      ribonucleic acid (microRNA) expression; PK/PD modeling to characterize the time course of AMG
      386 concentrations in relation to target inhibition and hematological response.

      III. To determine whether the above biological changes correlate with and/or predict for
      clinical response in AML patients treated on this study.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of trebananib. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive trebananib intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15,
      and 22.

      ARM B: Patients receive trebananib as in Arm A. Patients also receive cytarabine
      subcutaneously (SC) twice daily (BID) on days 1-14 of course 1 and days 1-7 of each
      subsequent course.

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 28 days* for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *Course 1 is 35 days.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days, every month for 1
      year, every 3 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  