
    
      Oral Abilify (aripiprazole) is effective in the treatment of patients with BD when prescribed
      as an acute anti-manic agent and for the maintenance treatment of bipolar disorder. Abilify
      Maintena is an intramuscular (IM) depot formulation of oral aripiprazole (Abilify). Abilify
      Maintena appears to be as effective as standard oral Abilify and may maximize patient
      adherence. Recent clinical trials suggest that Abilify Maintena is effective for the
      treatment of patients with BD.

      Customized Adherence Enhancement (CAE) is a brief behavioral intervention that improves
      adherence approximately 30% more than an educational control in adults with BD. The CAE
      program is a brief, practical intervention consisting of a series of up to four psychosocial
      treatment modules based upon an adult's unique adherence barriers: 1) Psychoeducation on BD
      Medications; 2) Communication with Providers; 3) Strategies to Enhance Medication Routines;
      and 4) Targeting Substance Use Problems with Modified Motivational Enhancement Therapy.
      Multiple studies conducted by these investigators has shown that CAE is effective in in
      treating poorly adherent BD adults.

      In addition, studies by these investigators have shown that combining LAI + CAE dramatically
      improves adherence, symptoms and functional outcomes in people with schizophrenia and
      schizoaffective disorder. In summary, LAI can maximize medication adherence, while CAE
      addresses individual barriers to sustained adherence and behavioral change. Combining LAI +
      CAE improves adherence, symptoms and functioning in high-risk people with primary psychotic
      disorders. The proposed project will test the efficacy of combining Abilify Maintena with CAE
      to help improve outcomes in poorly adherent patients with BD. Pilot data suggest that
      adherence with concomitantly prescribed psychotropic drugs improves with LAI + CAE. The
      findings have particular relevance to BD because many BD patients are on concomitant oral
      psychotropic drugs in addition to antipsychotic. Thus, it is expected that combining CAE with
      LAI will lead to a "halo effect" in that these BD patients will engage in their own care more
      broadly.
    
  