
    
      The scientific testing will take place in the water tank of Foxtrot chamber at the Duke
      Center for Hyperbaric Medicine & Environmental Physiology. This Center (referred to as "Duke
      Hyperbarics") has a long history of testing various aspects of undersea physiology and causes
      of injury and death. Duke Hyperbarics will conduct the physical tests, and DAN (Divers Alert
      Network) personnel will also supervise the scientific testing.

      The experimental test subjects will be divided into two categories. Before testing, both
      categories will come in for a screening day, where they will go through the informed consent
      process and be medically screened for safety to perform activity. For the first category of
      subjects (Group A), five volunteer subjects will be recruited with no restrictions on age or
      fitness level. An effort will be made to include representative test subjects from older age
      ranges (>35 years old) in this group. To ensure they can safely perform light activity, they
      will be screened for cardiovascular disease, both by questionnaire and by a physical exam
      during the screening day.

      The second group (Group B) will be age 18-40, non-smoking, and screened for fitness using a
      physical exam and a VO2max test. The reason for these two groups is to ensure that a spectrum
      of test subjects is examined across the comprehensive range of ages and fitness levels that
      may participate in snorkeling as recreation.

      The testing will be designed to assess the function of the FFSMs produced by multiple brands
      compared to each other as well as compared to conventional snorkels. Test subjects will be
      positioned horizontally in warm water. They will be face-down on a bicycle ergometer,
      grasping handlebars for stability. On the test day, each subject will undergo three test
      procedures, using first a conventional snorkel then two different brands of FFSM while
      pedaling the underwater bicycle. Group A will be asked to pedal at a rate that is comfortable
      for them, while Group B will be given a targeted higher work rate to achieve.

      For each FFSM test, the test subject will be asked to place the mask on themselves but
      provided no further instruction. The pressure exerted by the mask on the forehead will also
      be measured by placing a small, flexible, force-sensitive gauge between the skirt and the
      skin (this gauge needs to be in place for only a few seconds and will be removed before
      snorkeling). At the end of each test, the subjects will be asked to remove the FFSM quickly
      in response to an audible or visual alarm that will appear three times at randomized
      intervals. Their ability to remove the masks quickly will be timed.
    
  