
    
      This study was designed to prospectively evaluate the safety and effectiveness of microwave
      ablation therapy in the treatment of metastatic lung lesions secondary to sarcoma. This
      technique has been proven to be successful in producing greater areas of ablation, increasing
      the chances of success and reducing the possibility of local recurrence, especially when
      compared to radiofrequency ablation. There will be 60 consecutive patients diagnosed and
      treated at the oncology clinic at the São Paulo State Cancer Institute that are going to
      participate in this study, after meeting the inclusion/ exclusion criteria. This number may
      be increased up to approximately about 20 patients, according to the sample behavior in the
      initial analysis and follow-up. All patients will be informed about the benefits, risks,
      complications and limitations related to the procedure and written informed consent will be
      applied. Patients will also be informed that microwave ablation is a new technology in
      Brazil, despite the extensive international experience and the results already validated in
      the medical literature.

      Logistic regression will be used to evaluate the success of the microwave ablation according
      to the characteristics of the lesion before the procedure. Logistic regressions for
      correlated data will be used to (a) evaluate the success of ablation according to all
      registered lesion characteristics, i.e., numeric characteristics (including tumor size and
      location) and categorical characteristics (histopathology of the primary tumor); (b) verify
      if combinations of two or more features of the lesions pose significant independent
      predictors for the success of ablation; and (c) construct a model to estimate the probability
      of success of the microwave ablation based on lesion characteristics before the procedure.
      The survival of patients will be assessed according to (a) the end result of the procedure
      (patients will be classified in two groups: an effective ablation group and a non-effective
      ablation group) and (b) the histopathological nature of the primary tumor. The survival rates
      will be calculated using the Kaplan-Meier test. The log-rank test (x² value of Cox-Mantel)
      will be used to determine statistically significant differences between the patients'
      survival rates. The value of P less than 0.05 will be considered to indicate a statistically
      significant difference for all analyses. Statistical software (Bias for Windows, version 8.4,
      Epsilon Verlag, Frankfurt, Germany) will be used.
    
  