
    
      After approval of the Internal Review Board, the patients and families will be given the
      opportunity to participate in the proposed research study if inclusion criteria are met. The
      patient/family will sign the anesthesia consent form, as per protocol, by initialing the box
      at the bottom that states 'I do want, if indicated, regional anesthetic techniques employed
      for anesthetic maintenance and/or port operative pain relief for my child.' The primary
      anesthesia team (anesthesiologist/CNRA/resident) will be made aware that the need for a
      pressure transducer for the caudal epidural injection will be required and that a member of
      the research team will be documenting pressures during the procedure. Premedication with
      midazolam will be at the discretion of the attending anesthesiologist covering the case.
      Anesthesia induction may be performed with either intravenous medications or mask inhalation
      at the attending anesthesiologist's discretion; however no narcotics will be administered
      during induction, as is common when a caudal epidural is utilized for post-operative pain
      control. The airway will be secured using an oral endotracheal tube or laryngeal mask airway
      (LMA).

      The single shot caudal epidural block with pressure monitoring will be performed by one of
      the study investigators. Ropivicaine/Bupivacaine 0.125-0.25% will be used as the local
      anesthetic for the caudal epidural with a total dose not to exceed 1 ml/kg. Pressure
      transduction will be constantly in place, with pressures being recorded by a research nurse:
      1) prior to entering the epidural space, but after needle introduction under the skin, 2)
      after loss of resistance upon entering the epidural space, 3) at 5 second intervals during
      injection of the 1 mL/kg bolus of local anesthetic 4) continuing with pressure monitoring for
      an additional minute, in 10 second increments, after the injection is completed. Following
      placement of the block, a band-aidwill be placed, where appropriate, and the patient will be
      prepped for the surgical procedure. The primary anesthesia team will continue delivering the
      general anesthetic for the remainder of the case. Maintenance anesthesia will be carried out
      per our usual routine.

      Upon completion of the surgical procedure, the patient's airway device will be removed and
      the patient will be transferred to the post-anesthesia care unit (PACU). In the PACU, the
      principal or co-investigator will review the patient's treatment needs for pain in the PACU
      to determine whether the block was efficacious; fentanyl 0.5 µg/kg, or the
      morphine-equivalent dose, will be administered as necessary based on the pain assessment. The
      patients will be discharged from PACU when discharge criteria are met per the Aldrete score.
    
  