
    
      Screening evaluation will occur during the preoperative visit prior to surgery which
      generally occurs within 28 days prior to surgery. No separate screening is indicated in this
      study.

      Patients will be asked to participate in the study if they are having ACL Reconstruction
      surgery with one of the orthopedic surgeons who is participating in the study. They will be
      informed and consented in the office or in the preoperative holding area prior to surgery.

      Patients undergo ACL reconstruction at either Plainview, Franklin, Huntington, Long Island
      Jewish, or North Shore University Hospital.

      Any medical condition that is present at the time that the participant is screened will be
      considered as baseline and not reported as an adverse event (AE). However, if the study
      participant's condition deteriorates at any time during the study, it will be recorded as an
      AE.

      Changes in the severity of an AE will be documented to allow an assessment of the duration of
      the event at each level of severity to be performed. AEs characterized as intermittent
      require documentation of onset and duration of each episode.

      The investigator who is making phone calls to the given participant will record all
      reportable events with start dates occurring any time after informed consent is obtained
      until 7 (for non-serious AEs) or 30 days (for SAEs) after the last day of study
      participation. At each study visit/phone call, the investigator will inquire about the
      occurrence of AE/SAEs since the last visit/phone call. Events will be followed for outcome
      information until resolution or stabilization.

      Study procedures and evaluations

        -  All patients who are enrolled in this study will have been evaluated and determined to
           be a candidate for ACL reconstruction surgery. The indications for surgery,
           determination of need for surgery and physical examination determining this need are
           independent from the interventions and outcomes being assessed by this study.

        -  Efficacy Assessment plan- All patients will be called on postoperative days 1,2,3,4, 7
           via and be assessed in person at the post-operative visit. They will be surveyed for
           primary and secondary outcomes by a study investigator. Primary outcome will be assessed
           using visual analog scale 0-10. Secondary outcomes; Opiate consumption will be assessed
           documented during the phone call, Sleep will be assessed by either yes or no answer if
           the patient had a disturbance in their sleep or had trouble getting to sleep based on
           pain of the surgical knee in the past 24 hours.

        -  Screening evaluation will occur during the preoperative visit prior to surgery which
           generally occurs within 28 days prior to surgery. No separate screening is indicated in
           this study.

        -  Procedure for administering study intervention and follow-up procedures. The participant
           will be seen in the preoperative holding suite prior to surgery to ensure that patient
           is still willing to undergo randomization for the study. The patient will then undergo
           randomization by a computer-based software and the anesthesiologist will be informed of
           the plan. The participant will undergo anesthesia at the discretion of the
           anesthesiologist per routine given the participant's clinical baseline. The participant
           will undergo ACL reconstruction based on the standard of care treatment. Following
           surgery but prior to leaving the operating room the anesthesiologist will place the
           adductor canal block and the catheter based on the participant's randomization under
           ultrasound guidance to ensure proper placement of the block. The participant will then
           undergo routine post-operative care in the recovery suite with routine recovery room
           vital checks. For participants who are randomized to the continuous pump group, the pump
           will be assembled and filled by pharmacy and attached to the previously placed catheter
           while the participant is in the recovery room. Once the participants are awake and alert
           in the recovery room, a study investigator will review the study specifics again,
           including the phone calls with written information on the questions that will be asked.
           They will also be given written instructions on how to use the continuous pumps and how
           to remove it. If the patient is uncomfortable removing it themselves, they can come to
           the office to have it removed. For participants who received a continuous pump the
           investigator will go over the function of the pump, troubleshooting, and how to remove
           the pump at home. All participants will be discharged home from the recovery room after
           they have met the routine discharge criteria following existing standard of care
           recovery room protocols.

        -  All data will be recorded in an encrypted database which is HIPPA and IRB compliant. All
           participant information will be labeled with a participant study identification number
           with no identifiable information documented.
    
  