
    
      1. Randomization

           Randomization is done by person who is not involved in study. So it is done by the
           person in Center for Clinical Trial in National Cancer Center. The patient is enrolled
           in the out-patient clinic after getting informed consent of the clinical study from the
           patient. Surgeon factor is not considered as a randomization factor because this
           clinical study will be performed intramurally. In Center for Gastric Cancer, National
           Cancer Center, Surgical techniques and extent of resections are generally standardized
           and surgical outcomes are same in terms of complication and recovery.

        2. Follow-up schedule

           Patients are followed up in the outpatient department at four weeks, three months, six
           months, and twelve months after the operation, and every six months thereafter. On each
           visit, history was reviewed and physical examination was done. A complete blood count
           (CBC) and serum chemistry were evaluated also. An esophago-gastro-duodenoscopy (EGD) was
           performed at three months after the operation and yearly thereafter. Abdominal computed
           tomography (ACT) was evaluated annually.

        3. Assessment of QOL The European EORTC QLQ-C30 (version 3.0) questionnaire is a 30-item
           cancer-specific integrated system for assessing the health-related QOL of cancer
           patients. The questionnaire incorporates five scales of function (physical, role,
           cognitive, emotional and social), three symptom scales (fatigue, pain and nausea and
           vomiting), a global health and QOL scale, and single items for the assessment of
           additional symptoms commonly reported by cancer patients (e.g., dyspnea, appetite loss,
           sleep disturbance, constipation and diarrhea), as well as the perceived financial impact
           of the disease and treatment. All items were scored on four-point Likert scales, with
           the exception of two items in the global health QOL scale, which used modified
           seven-point linear analog scales. The EORTC QLQ-STO22 with a 22-item stomach
           cancer-specific questionnaire was also used. It incorporates five hypothesized
           scales-(dysphasia, eating restrictions, pain, reflux and anxiety) and four single items
           (having a dry mouth, body image, taste, and hair loss) covering disease and
           treatment-related symptoms and specific emotional consequences of gastric cancer.12 All
           instruments of the questionnaire were administered preoperatively and postoperatively at
           seven days, 30 days, 90 days and yearly. Those time points were chosen at usual
           follow-up schedule for every gastrectomized patients in our institute, to maximize
           compliance for the questionnaire, and to compare other parameters at the same time.

        4. Statistical analyses The EORTC QLQ-C30 symptom subscale and the EORTC QLQ-STO22 subscale
           scores are reported using a scale from 0 to 100. Statistical analyses of the QOL
           outcomes evaluated the differences between the LADG and the ODG groups with respect to
           the overall changes from the preoperative scores (baseline) to those obtained at
           follow-up. To adjust for possible baseline differences, we included the baseline values
           in the model. All comparisons between groups were based on 'intent-to-treat' analyses in
           which patients were analyzed according to their assigned treatment group. Categorical
           variables were compared using the χ2 test, and continuous variables were analyzed using
           the Student's t-test. Analysis of Covariance (ANCOVA) with repeated measures was used to
           compare the two groups of patients with respect to overall changes in their short term
           quality of life after the surgery. The SAS (SAS Institute Inc., Cary, NC, USA) program
           called 'PROC GLM' was used.
    
  