
    
      The cornea, the clear front window of the eye, consists of finely intertwined collagen
      fibers, which give the cornea a microstructure that provides mechanical integrity necessary
      to maintain its typical dome-shape against the intraocular pressure (IOP). Changes in the
      biomechanical properties can lead to an abnormal corneal shape and refractive errors. As a
      result, light is not perfectly focused onto the retina and the vision is affected. A typical
      example of alterations in the cornea's biomechanical properties is found in patients with an
      eye disorder called Keratoconus, which leads to progressive thinning of the cornea. Numerous
      studies have shown that promising interventions like collagen crosslinking (CXL) can slow
      down an arrest progression of ectatic eye diseases. Keratoconus, as a typical example,
      although it cannot be cured, could be at least halted by CXL. Therefore, early diagnosis of
      ectasia is crucial for the patient. Current diagnostic methods of ectasia are based on
      morphological rather than biomechanical analysis. The irregular patterns of the cornea can be
      detected by pachymetry and topography before clinical signs occur, but these tests cannot
      reliably differentiate truly weak or keratoconic corneas from atypical normal ones.

      These are compelling needs for improved diagnostic methods. More recently, and triggered by
      those unmet needs, an interest in the mechanical properties of the cornea has emerged.
      Typical examples of mechanical properties are elastic modulus and corneal stiffness.

      In this pilot study the investigators will test the ability of a new OCT Vibrography system
      to determine cornea material parameters. More precisely, the investigators will study the
      oscillation response in human corneas in-vivo using a stimulus mechanism used to induce
      vibrations by touching the surface of the cornea. A localized vibration source paired
      together with phase-sensitive OCT to measure the frequency response function of the human
      cornea and to analyze the dependency of the frequency response function on age. Additionally
      the investigators will use Brillouin Microscopy data for computer simulations to validate OCT
      Vibrography results.
    
  