
    
      Patients who meet the eligibility criteria and are randomized to one of the treatment arms,
      will receive either topotecan alone intravenously at 1.25 mg/m2 on days 1 to 5 of a 21-day
      cycle or pembrolizumab alone administered intravenously at 200mg every 21 days.

      During the study period, patients will be evaluated clinically by physical exam and with
      routine blood work every 21 days. Adverse events will be monitored throughout the trial and
      graded in severity according to the guidelines outlined in the NCI Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4. Pre-specified adverse events of clinical
      interest include: 1) Grade ≥ 2 diarrhea, 2) Grade ≥ 2 colitis, 3) Grade ≥ 2 pneumonitis, 4)
      Grade ≥ 2 hepatitis 5) Grade ≥ 3 hypo- or hyperthyroidism.

      Patients will be evaluated every 6 weeks (42 ± 7 days) with radiographic imaging to assess
      response to treatment. Investigators will make all treatment-based decisions using RECIST
      1.1. Patients will continue to receive topotecan or pembrolizumab every three weeks until
      documented disease progression, unacceptable side effects, intercurrent illness that prevents
      further administration of treatment, investigator's decision to withdraw the patient, patient
      withdraws consent, pregnancy of the patient, non-compliance with trial treatment or procedure
      requirements or administrative reasons. Patients on the topotecan arm who progress on study
      will be allowed to cross-over to the pembrolizumab arm.

      After the end of treatment, each patient will be followed for a minimum of 30 days for
      adverse event monitoring. Serious adverse events will be collected for up to 90 days after
      the end of treatment or 30 days after the end of treatment if the subject initiates new
      anticancer therapy, whichever is earlier. Immune related serious adverse events will be
      followed for 90 days after end of treatment. Subjects who discontinue treatment for reasons
      other than disease progression will have posttreatment follow-up every 6 weeks for disease
      status until progression, initiating a non-study cancer treatment, withdrawing consent, or
      becoming lost to follow-up. All subjects will be followed by telephone contact every 3 months
      for overall survival until death or withdrawal of consent.

      Although subjects will be enrolled regardless of PD-L1 status, subjects will be required to
      provide tissue of a tumor lesion (either archived tissue or a new biopsy before initiating
      therapy). Tumor samples will be required before initiating therapy (preferably a new
      specimen) and a repeat biopsy will be performed, if clinically feasible, on-treatment (during
      weeks 4 to 6) for those in the pembrolizumab arm and at the time of disease progression for
      those in the topotecan arm. PD-L1 expression status by immunohistochemistry will be
      determined on tumors at baseline, on treatment and at the time of topotecan progression.
      Numerous other correlative studies also will be performed, as outlined below. Peripheral
      blood mononuclear cell samples will be collected at screening, at day 1 of cycles 1, 2 and 3,
      and at the time of each imaging study (while on study), for characterization of T-cell
      phenotypes to understand how changes may correlate with clinical response.
    
  