
    
      Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) affect approximately 1.1% of late adolescents and young
      adults, making it one of the most common neurodevelopmental disorders. Comorbid anxiety
      disorders affect many higher-functioning adolescents and young adults with ASD, causing
      substantial distress and impairment over and above that caused by an ASD diagnosis alone.
      While cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) is a first-line treatment for anxiety disorders
      among typically developing late adolescents, and work by the investigative team supports its
      utility in children with ASD and comorbid anxiety, very few evidence-based treatment
      approaches exist for late adolescents with ASD and comorbid anxiety. Accordingly, the
      investigators are proposing to develop a CBT protocol for clinical anxiety that is
      personalized to the unique clinical characteristics of late adolescents (ages 16-21 years)
      with ASD namely, the Treatment of Anxiety in Late Adolescents with Autism (TALAA). Initial
      TALAA development efforts will focus on adapting relevant treatment elements from an
      efficacious CBT program for early adolescents with ASD and comorbid anxiety to the
      characteristics and clinical needs of the age group. Developmentally appropriate, novel
      treatment components will be added, including those focusing on fostering successful
      transitions to adulthood (e.g., work readiness). In response to the NIH Roadmap Initiative,
      attention will be paid to protocol adaptability with varying clinical presentations. Measures
      of treatment integrity and competence will be developed. Thereafter, protocol and measure
      development will be refined through our experiences treating 8 young adults (ages 16-21
      years) with ASD and comorbid anxiety disorder(s) as well as through clinician, patient, and
      expert feedback. The feasibility of implementing TALAA will then be examined in the context
      of a pilot study incorporating all the features of the planned future efficacy trial
      comparing TALAA to treatment as usual, but with a limited sample size (N=44).
    
  