
    
      Aims:

      First, to determine whether Lanreotide attenuates progression of the renal phenotype in ADPKD
      patients as measured by change in rate of renal function decline and change in renal volume
      growth.

      Second, to determine whether Lanreotide modifies progression of the liver phenotype in the
      subset of ADPKD patients with moderate to severe polycystic liver disease as measured by
      change in liver volume.

      Methods:

      Investigator driven, randomized, multi-center, controlled clinical trial.

      Study population:

      300 subjects, diagnosed with ADPKD, based on the revised Ravine criteria, with advanced
      disease and high likelihood of rapid disease progression (eGFR between 30 and 60 ml/min/1.73
      m2 and age between 18 and 60 years).

      Intervention:

      Patients will be randomized (1:1) into two groups. One group will receive a dose of
      Lanreotide 120 mg sc every 28 days for 30 months. The dose of Lanreotide will be eGFR (BSA
      unadjusted) dependent. Subjects that reach an eGFR <30ml/min during the study will receive
      Lanreotide 90 mg sc every 28 days. Down-titration will also occur in case of dose related
      side effects. The other group of patients will receive standard care.

      Main study endpoint:

      Change in renal function in Lanreotide versus not treated patients, as assessed as slope
      through serial eGFR measurements over time during the treatment phase of the trial, with the
      value obtained at month 3 as first eGFR value for slope analysis.

      Main secondary outcome variables:

        -  to determine whether Lanreotide modifies ADPKD progression as measured by change in
           renal volume in the overall study population,

        -  to determine whether Lanreotide modifies ADPKD progression as measured by change in
           liver volume in the subset of ADPKD patients with moderate to severe polycystic liver
           disease

        -  to determine whether Lanreotide changes the quality of life

        -  to determine whether Lanreotide is well tolerated
    
  