
    
      Little is known about Zika virus (ZIKV) biology and its pathogenesis in humans. ZIKV has been
      detected in blood, urine, semen, cerebral spinal fluid, saliva, amniotic fluid, and breast
      milk. In most ZIKV infected individuals, the virus is detected in the blood from a several
      days to one week after the onset of symptoms and has also been found to persist longer in
      urine and semen. Without a more granular understanding of the kinetics of ZIKV infection
      across biologic compartments it will be difficult to devise rational measures to prevent the
      transmission of the virus.

      This will be an observational cohort study of men and women, aged 18 years and above,
      including symptomatic participants with positive reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain
      reaction (RT-PCR) test in blood and/or urine and their symptomatic or asymptomatic
      household/sexual contacts with positive RT-PCR in blood and/or urine. Specimens to be
      collected at pre-established intervals and tested for ZIKV RNA by RT-PCR are blood, semen,
      vaginal secretions, oral fluid (saliva and crevicular fluid), tears, sweat, urine, rectal
      swab, menstrual blood and breast milk (if applicable). Participants will be recruited from
      collaborating clinics in selected locations with high population density, high circulation of
      the virus, strong community network, and serviced by laboratory facilities with capacity to
      perform the necessary tests.

      All participants will be followed up for 12 months, to assess detectability at longer time
      intervals, reactivation or reinfection. Analyses of antibody response, including circulating
      immunoglobulins M and G (IgM and IgG), will be performed in parallel to RT-PCR tests. Plaque
      reduction neutralization test will be performed in specimens of participants who are found to
      be simultaneously positive for ZIKV and dengue.

      Specific analysis will be performed to determine if socio-demographic characteristics,
      comorbidities and co-infections influence the persistence of the virus in the body fluids.
    
  