
    
      Introduction:

      Tonsillar abscess is the most common complication of acute bacterial angina. The abscess is
      located in the majority of cases in the capsular space and occasionally within the tonsil
      itself. The ethiopathogenesis is polymicrobial, composed mainly of Streptococcus Pyogenes
      (aerobic) and Fusobacterium Necrophorum (anaerobe). This condition mainly affects young
      adults, smokers and significantly impacts quality of life. Symptoms are noisy, characterized
      by severe odynodysphagia, often limited mouth opening (trismus), and occasionally dyspnea,
      fever, and decreased general condition. Its complications include upper airway obstruction,
      spread of infection into the deep tissues of the neck and mediastinum, septic venous
      thrombosis, and arterial hemorrhage from contact necrosis. The descriptions of the management
      of this pathology are centuries old, but even today there is a need to drain the pus. We
      estimate that around 200 patients per year present to our University Hospital in Geneva
      (Switzerland) with suspected tonsillar abscess.

      Diagnosis:

      The medical literature describes several diagnostic methods without clear consensus on the
      most effective. The doctor's clinical suspicion varies according to the examiner's
      experience, although certain criteria are recognized as good predictors of the presence of an
      abscess (trismus, edema, uvula deviation, "hot potato voice", reflex otalgia), but with
      limited sensitivity and specificity. When clinically suspected, confirmation of the presence
      of pus can be determined by direct puncture or drainage, allowing immediate diagnosis, but
      with a high proportion of false negatives and requiring a painful invasive procedure.
      Ultrasound (US) and Computed Tomography (CT) provide a painless diagnosis, but US requires a
      specific oral probe and may be unfeasible in case of trismus, and its interpretation is very
      examiner-dependent. CT remains an irradiating, costly and time-consuming exam, but it is
      sensitive and can formally exclude any associated complication (venous thrombosis, retro- or
      parapharyngeal extension, contralateral involvement). The gold-standard for the diagnosis of
      a tonsillar abscess is the direct visualization of pus during drainage.

      Treatment:

      Regarding the treatment, here too the evidence-based literature is not clear about the most
      effective (except in children, in whom local anesthesia intervention is most of the time
      impractical). It usually consists of a combination of medical and surgical therapy. Medical
      therapy generally includes - in addition to hydration and pain-killers - intravenous
      antibiotics and requires approximately 3 days of hospitalization. There are several described
      technics for the surgical drainage. Repeated needle punctures, incisional drainage under
      local anesthesia, and tonsillectomy under general anesthesia. The latter two are favored
      because they are more effective on immediate pain. To our knowledge, only two prospective
      randomized studies (partially for one) of 51 and 53 patients have studied the efficacy of
      these two interventions and their conclusions only relate to the absence of difference in the
      length of hospital stay.

      The retrospective data show good efficacy of both modalities (incision drainage under local
      anesthesia vs tonsillectomy under general anesthesia) and the choice of their execution is
      strongly center- and physician-dependent. Incision drainage avoids general anesthesia but is
      extremely unpleasant, requiring repeated rinsing which is painful for the patient and
      time-consuming for the medical team. This modality is grafted with a failure rate of around
      20% in the literature as well as in our own experience, requiring further tonsillectomy under
      general anesthesia. Furthermore, the recurrence rate is estimated at 9-22%. Conversely, the
      first-line tonsillectomy requires a general anesthesia but immediately relieves some of the
      pain and the trismus, allows an almost certain resolution of the infection, prevents any
      recurrence, seems economically more advantageous and does not require the collaboration of
      the patient during the procedure.

      As the medical literature does not offer clear guidelines based on prospective trials, the
      proposed study aims to prospectively evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of the tonsillectomy
      compared to the drainage under local anesthesia.

      This is a prospective, randomized clinical trial by adults in a tertiary care center in
      Geneva (Switzerland).
    
  