
    
      The incidence of pain is due to traumatic actions, surgical interventions, new habits of
      life, increased longevity of the individuals and the reduction of the tolerance of the
      suffering by the man. Musculoskeletal pain is more evident in adult individuals, being the
      main cause of chronic pain throughout society, generating an impact on the quality of life,
      interfering in the daily activity of 30 to 50% of the patients. Pain measurement can be
      divided into four levels, which include the nominal, the ordinal, the interval and the ratio,
      with both one-dimensional and multidimensional versions. In the health area, diagnosis and
      treatment of diseases involve various levels of imprecision and uncertainties. A single
      disease or symptom may manifest totally differently in different patients and with varying
      degrees of severity. These effects usually generate many uncertainties and inaccuracies
      affecting the interpretations of the exams and the diagnosis, as well as the treatment. Fuzzy
      Systems Theory, also known as nebulous logic, is used to interpret the approximate mode of
      human reasoning, to take it to a numerical format and to obtain answers in an environment of
      uncertainties that serve as a subsidy to decision-making . A Fuzzy system based on Fuzzy
      logic. It can also be considered as a kind of expert, knowledge-based system. The development
      of the proposed Fuzzy Scale for Skeletal Muscle Pain Evaluation used the Mamdani method that
      allowed the representation of specialist knowledge (s) to construct the rule base. The
      construction of this system was based on the numerical scale of pain adopted and spread
      worldwide, and on the range of motion represented by the action of the muscles and articular
      components of the human body. The diffuse model proposed by the Fuzzy Scale for Muscle
      Skeletal Pain Evaluation uses 25 rules using binary XOR logic. For the volunteer tests, the
      proposed model was a non-randomized single intervention transverse study to analyze and
      compare the model of diffuse pain evaluation with the numerical pain scale performed with 535
      volunteers.
    
  