
    
      Volatile organic compound (VOCs) emitted from the human body have been of interest to
      researchers for several decades. In 1971, Pauling et al reported that breath and urine
      contained approximately 250 and 280 VOCs respectively in normal human subjects. VOCs are
      traditionally measured in food industry and counter-terrorism. Routine clinical applications
      include the alcohol breathalyser, 13-C urea breath test for H. pylori, nitric oxide in
      asthma, and hydrogen/methane test for bacteria overgrowth.

      Preliminary work has suggested that there is alteration in the VOC profile of patients with
      liver disease. It is suggested that as fibrosis increases, liver function is impaired,
      resulting in increased levels of certain compounds. These compounds are then present at
      higher levels within the blood stream and when they reach the lungs, they are exhaled. There
      has also been work demonstrating a change in the profile of VOCs within cancers,
      demonstrating specific "breath signatures" in patients with oesophageal cancer. At Imperial
      College London, Marker et al have developed a breath test as screening test for oesophageal
      cancer with comparable sensitivity and specificity to other screening methods (e.g. faecal
      occult blood testing). The investigators would aim to achieve similar with hepatobiliary
      disease via a prospective cross-sectional study aimed at determining the diagnostic accuracy
      of exhaled breath volatile organic compounds (VOC) for the detection of liver disease.

      Patients will be recruited from outpatient clinics and hospital wards based across Imperial
      College Healthcare Trust. They may also be recruited from the radiology department when
      attending for liver biopsies or hepatocellular carcinoma surveillance ultrasound scans. When
      attending for their appointment, a member of the research team will discuss the research
      project with the patient, explain that is requires the patient to provide a breath +/- urine
      sample. Patients will be provided with a patient information leaflet. If the patient is to
      agree to this, they will be asked to sign a written consent form. If a recent PHES test has
      not been performed, one will be conducted otherwise no additional investigations, invasive or
      otherwise will be required of the patients.

      For patients under regular follow up within the trust, they may be asked to consent to
      further breath samples being taken at future appointments to facilitate longitudinal follow
      up. Patients will be entitled to withdraw at any point.

      Patients attending for endoscopy, fibroscan or liver biopsy will have been nil by mouth for
      4-6 hours prior to the procedure as per local guidelines. For those attending outpatient
      appointments, if identified prior to their appointment by their clinical team, the
      investigators will aim to contact the patients and request that they fast. Should they not be
      fasted, they may be asked to perform basic oral hygiene techniques (e.g. rinsing mouth with
      water), prior to the breath sample being taken. A food diary of the preceding 24 hours will
      be taken as part of the pre-sampling questionnaire.

      As part of the consent process, patients will also be asked permission to access their
      hospital records for the purpose of the research study only, including their blood tests,
      radiology and pathology results. All data will be anonymised and all hospital records shall
      be handled with strict confidentiality in accordance with the Data Protection Act 1998 and
      the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).

      Patients will be asked to give a number of exhalations into a breath sampling device until a
      defined volume of breath has been sampled. This may be done via one of several techniques.
      The investigators preferred option is that they breathe into a custom designed nalophan bag
      which is attached to thermal desorption tubes and a breath sampling device. Alternatively,
      patient may be asked to perform normal tidal breathing whilst wearing a face mask, which
      takes around 2 minutes on average. Patients located at St Mary's Hospital may also be asked
      to breathe directly into a mass spectrometer machine (SYFT Voice200Ultra). This mass
      spectrometer instrument is a self-contained mobile device which can be moved between clinical
      areas within St Mary's Hospital. Sampling by this method will involve a single deep nasal
      inhalation followed by complete exhalation via their mouth into a plastic cylinder connected
      to a tube leading to the mass spectrometer itself. This is repeated three times within a 60
      second window. The investigators expect the breath sampling process to take no longer than
      5-10 minutes in total. Patients will be requested to pass urine into a standardised 60ml
      urine specimen vial, which will be immediately sealed. 20ml of urine will be aliquoted into a
      standard 60ml specimen vial.

      The VOCs from the breath will be trapped onto adsorbent tubes inserted into the breath taking
      device. After sampling the adsorbent tube is removed from the device, capped and transported
      back to the laboratory at St Mary's Hospital London for analysis. Samples will be transported
      by courier or by a member of the research team. The sample(s) shall undergo analysis via mass
      spectrometry instruments, at St Mary's Hospital London.

      Breath VOCs sampled on adsorbent tubes will be analysed within 48 hours of collection. The
      sample constituents are destroyed within the mass spectrometer for detection meaning that no
      clinical material will remain after analysis by the mass spectrometry instruments. Urine
      samples will be stored within a registered tissue bank in accordance with the Human Tissue
      Act and disposed of following analysis.

      As part of the study, the investigators will aim to follow patients up longitudinally to
      ascertain if a participant's VOC profile changes with progression or regression of liver
      disease. At each appointment, before sample is taken, the participant's consent will be
      reviewed and if the participant is still willing to continue in the study, further breath and
      urine samples will then be collected. This would be for a maximum of 24 months.
    
  