
    
      Background:

      Invasive mold infections (IMI, grouping infections due to Aspergillus spp [IA] and
      non-Aspergillus mold) are a major concern in hematological patients, such as those with acute
      myeloid leukemia (AML) or myelodysplastic syndrome in transformation (MDSit), collectively
      named AML/MDSit in this protocol, or those undergoing hematopoietic cell transplantation
      (HCT), with incidence and mortality rates ranging between 3-15% and 25-45%, respectively.
      Primary antifungal prophylaxis has become the standard of care in such patients.
      Historically, fluconazole (inactive against IA) was used as prophylaxis and allowed for
      significant decrease in invasive candidiasis (IC). More recently, posaconazole (a
      broad-spectrum azole active against IA and other non-Aspergillus filamentous molds) was
      approved for primary antifungal prophylaxis in high-risk patient categories. However,
      universal prophylaxis with posaconazole has been challenged, based on the relatively low
      incidence of IMI and the large number of patients needed to treat. Moreover, administration
      of broad-spectrum azoles is costly and associated with a large number of complications.
      Hence, there is an urgent need to optimize antifungal prophylaxis by identifying those
      patients with the highest risk for IMI to receive a broad-spectrum azole. Pentraxin-3 (PTX3),
      a pattern recognition receptor, recognizes and binds to Aspergillus conidia, facilitates
      opsonization and subsequently leads to complement and phagocyte activation. Two single
      nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the gene encoding PTX3 have been identified as strong
      predictors for IA and/or IMI in human studies. What makes PTX3 SNPs different and important
      in clinical practice is: (i) the extent and reproducibility of basic science data with
      regards to PTX3 and IA, (ii) the validation of PTX3 SNPs associations with IA in many
      different patient populations, and (iii) the high frequency of minor allele in the general
      population. The investigators hypothesize that PTX3 SNPs could be used to identify patients
      at high risk for IMI, who will benefit the most from antifungal prophylaxis with
      broad-spectrum azoles.

      Overall objective:

      The overall aim of this project is to assess the effectiveness of PTX3 SNPs testing to
      stratify the use of posaconazole-based antifungal prophylaxis in AML/MDSit patients according
      to low or high risk genotypes.

      Methods:

      Eligible patients will be tested by competitive allele-specific Polymerase Chain Reaction
      (PCR) from blood-extracted DNA samples for the presence of PTX3 SNPs rs230561 and rs3816527.
      Randomisation based on genetic testing will be performed at the latest 24h after the first
      neutropenia day (D0). Patients will be stratified based on genotyping results in two
      unbalanced strata: stratum A (high-risk PTX3 SNPs) to be randomized 1:1 posaconazole
      prophylaxis vs fluconazole and stratum-B (low-risk PTX3 SNPs) to be randomized 1:3 in favour
      of Fluconazole. Patients will be assessed for a diagnosis of possible, probable or proven
      Invasive Fungal Infections (IFI) based on consensus definition guidelines by the European
      Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer/Mycoses Study Group (EORTC/MSG) groups
      during 180 days after prophylaxis initiation.

      Impact:

      The results of this study may contribute to the optimization of primary antifungal
      prophylaxis, by preventing IMI while limiting the use of broad-spectrum azoles, thus
      decreasing complications and costs. This study is one of the first interventional clinical
      trials to use genetic factors for risk stratification in the field of hematology and
      infectious diseases, a concept frequently emphasized, however barely transcribed in practice,
      as precision medicine. Furthermore, the scope of the proposed study expands beyond the
      specific patient population. The results of this study could be used in the design and
      initiation of similar efforts in other high-risk patient categories, including allogeneic HCT
      and solid organ transplant (SOT) recipients.
    
  