
    
      The HMG CoA (3-hydroxy-3-methylglutarylcoenzyme A) reductase inhibitors (statins) have been
      found to significantly reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality (1,2). While these
      clinical benefits are mediated in part by changes in lipids, particularly reductions in
      low-density lipoproteins (LDL), recent studies have suggested broader anti-inflammatory
      effects may also play a role by modifying various inflammatory pathways (3). Statins inhibit
      the synthesis of several proinflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-alpha
      (TNF-alpha), IL-6, and IL-8 (4,5). Statins have also been shown to reduce inflammation by
      down regulating expression of MHC II molecules (6). Statins inhibit the production of
      chemokines and C-reactive protein (CRP), both molecules involved in inflammation (7-9).

      On the basis of this data, several investigators have evaluated the effects of statin therapy
      in several inflammatory diseases. Recent studies evaluating inflammatory arthritis found that
      statins significantly decreased inflammation in an animal model (10). Statins also appear to
      reduce the severity of chemically induced peritonitis in rats, primarily by interfering with
      leukocyte adhesion and extravasation (11).

      In humans, two small studies evaluating the use of statins in patients with rheumatoid
      arthritis and several other autoimmune diseases found that short-term use of statins was
      associated with significant decreases in disease activity and biochemical markers of
      inflammation (12,13). A subsequent randomized, double-blinded study evaluating the role of
      atorvastatin in 116 patients with rheumatoid arthritis found significant reductions in the
      number of swollen joints and levels of several markers of inflammation, including ESR and
      CRP, after 6 months of therapy compared with placebo (14). This animal and human data confirm
      HMG CoA-reductase inhibitors play a role in modulating inflammatory pathways, and suggest
      statins may have significant therapeutic potential in a range of chronic inflammatory
      diseases.

      The use of pravastatin has been shown to inhibit the development of colitis in a rat model
      (15). Dextran sulfate (DSS) is a chemical that causes intestinal injury when given enterally
      to animals, and DSS-induced colitis has been found to share many characteristics with
      inflammatory bowel disease. Rats given DSS typically become cachectic, develop hematochezia,
      and develop abnormalities of intestinal epithelial permeability. Rats do not develop
      intestinal injury when DSS is given concomitantly with pravastatin. Pravastatin appears to
      prevent intestinal injury at least in part by increased eNOS expression, which is typically
      degraded by DSS administration (15). This animal model suggests that statins could
      potentially play a role in reducing the inflammation associated with active inflammatory
      bowel disease, and could potentially be a safe and well tolerated adjunctive therapy for the
      treatment of inflammatory bowel disease.

      This study is an open label pilot study designed to assess the safety and efficacy of
      pravastatin on patients with active Crohn's disease. Patients enrolled in the study will be
      given pravastatin 80mg daily for a total of six weeks. The primary endpoint will be reduction
      in clinical disease activity, as measured by the Harvey-Bradshaw Index (HBI). Patients will
      also be assessed for biochemical markers of inflammation before and at completion of the
      study to assess the impact of pravastatin on these markers.
    
  