
    
      Human oral cavity is a great habitat for more than 600 species of bacteria, known as oral
      microbiota, living in equilibrium. Oral microbiota plays an important role in maintaining
      oral health; however when the balance in oral bacterial population is disturbed- known as
      dysbiosis- oral and systemic diseases may arise.

      Some systemic diseases were proven to be associated with oral dysbiosis. Among these diseases
      are diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular diseases, breast cancer, pancreatic cancer, autoimmune
      liver diseases, hepatic encephalopathy and hepatitis B infection.

      Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is considered an epidemic disease in Egypt; affecting about 10% of
      Egyptians ranging between 15 and 59 years of age. HCV infection damages the liver
      progressively causing liver cirrhosis, hepatic encephalopathy and may proceed to
      hepatocellular carcinoma.

      Due to being a serious disease, together with the promising results of the newly discovered
      directly acting antiviral agents in treatment of chronic HCV, medicine has been concerned
      with finding efficient methods for its early diagnosis; in order to ensure early effective
      treatment and prevent serious complications.

      Evidence suggests that a link exists between dysbiotic oral microenvironment and liver
      disease through oral-liver-gut axis. Attempts have been made to investigate the complex oral
      microbiota. With the advent of whole-genome sequencing technology, the genome of microbes
      have been possible to be sequenced in what is known as microbiome. Analyzing the genome of
      complex environment containing multiple individual microbes is called metagenomics.

      Oral microbiome depends on sequencing of the 16S rRNA to provide a map of all oral microbiota
      available in the oral cavity. The technology of oral microbiome sequencing advanced from
      Sanger sequencing, that had shallow sequencing effort, to high throughput sequencing combined
      with bioinformatic tools, that allowed for comprehensive study of the complex microbiome.

      Dysbiosis has been used for diagnosis of liver diseases through stool analysis. Only one
      study used oral dysbiosis to diagnose hepatic encephalopathy and another one used it in
      testing hepatitis B infection. However, oral dysbiosis has not been used to diagnose HCV
      infection before.

      Understanding the oral microbiome at state of health and its change at state of disease can
      help predict the early stages of disease and treat it before further damage and disease
      progression occur. It can also help treat each patient according to the specific microbiome
      detected through personalized medicine. Furthermore, targeted treatment to each patient's
      specific microbiome can be introduced using specific prebiotics and probiotics to maintain
      the bacterial symbiosis and so assist the immune system in its continuous antiviral battle.
    
  