
    
      Atrial fibrillation affects approximately 1% of the general population, and the prevalence of
      AF increases with increasing age, such that 10-15% of individuals aged 80 years or greater
      suffer from AF. Various projections estimate at least a doubling of the prevalence of AF over
      the next 30-40 years. Stroke is a serious, often disabling complication of AF. The Framingham
      Heart Study demonstrates a roughly five-fold increase in the risk of stroke in patients with
      AF. The proportion of strokes attributable to AF also increases with age, such that one
      quarter to one third of all strokes in octogenarians are related to atrial fibrillation.

      AF-related strokes tend to be more severe than ischemic strokes of other etiologies,
      resulting in a higher rate of stroke-related disability. Vitamin K antagonists have been
      shown to be highly effective in reducing the risk of stroke in patients with AF. A recent
      meta-analysis of 6 trials of VKA versus placebo, in over 2900 patients with AF, demonstrated
      a roughly 65% reduction in thromboembolic stroke. Thus, vitamin K antagonists (VKA) have been
      universally recommended for most AF patients felt to be at moderate to high risk for stroke.
      The CHADS2 risk score fairly accurately distinguishes patients at low, moderate and high risk
      for stroke using clinical variables in a bedside risk score. In recent years, VKA have been
      recommended for AF patients with a CHADS2 risk score of at least 2 or greater, with the
      optional use of either ASA or VKA for those with a score of 1. Most recently, the Canadian
      Cardiovascular Society's 2010 AF Guidelines now recommend anticoagulation for patients with a
      CHADS2 risk score of 1 or greater, in the absence of increased bleeding risk. The 2012 update
      to the Canadian Cardiovascular Society Guidelines additionally recommends the use of the
      CHA2DS2-Vasc score in patients with a CHADS2 risk score of 0, and subsequent use of OAC even
      in a proportion of these patients.

      The benefits of VKA are largely dependent upon achieving adequate anticoagulation, ideally an
      INR of between 2 and 3, for the majority of treatment time. However, achieving and
      maintaining therapeutic anticoagulation in clinical practice can be quite challenging.
      Warfarin and other VKA have a variety of limitations in clinical practice. The individual
      patient's response to warfarin is often unpredictable, with a narrow therapeutic window. The
      drug has a slow onset and offset of action, with the need for regular INR monitoring and
      frequent dose adjustments. There are often numerous food and drug interactions with warfarin.
      Patients may be non-compliant with routine INR monitoring. Physicians may be wary of the risk
      of bleeding complications, particularly the risk of intracranial haemorrhage, which rises
      substantially once INR approaches 4 or beyond. Such fear of bleeding may lead physicians to
      underprescribe warfarin to patients at increased stroke risk. Adverse events with warfarin
      are common, leading to a high rate of discontinuation. As a result of these limitations, it
      is estimated that only half of eligible AF patients worldwide receive any VKA at all. In
      those patients receiving VKA, only 40-60% actually achieve therapeutic anticoagulation. The
      adequacy of anticoagulation with VKA is often termed "Time in Therapeutic Range (TTR)", which
      estimates the overall period of time that an individual patient or group of patients spend
      with an INR between 2 and 3. Numerous practice audits and observational registries suggest
      that the average TTR globally is roughly 45-55%, whereas it is estimated that a TTR of 65% is
      required to optimally reduce the risk of AF-related stroke.

      In addition, a variety of other issues must be considered in the management of patients with
      AF, such as rate vs. rhythm control, drug selection, device therapy, and management of
      associated co-morbidities, in particular, hypertension.

      Recently, two new classes of oral anticoagulants have entered the Canadian marketplace. These
      include dabigatran, a direct thrombin inhibitor, and rivaroxaban, a factor Xa inhibitor. Both
      drugs offer distinct advantages over warfarin, provide predictable anticoagulation without
      the need for monitoring, and have different safety and tolerability profiles. It is unknown
      how Canadian physicians currently assess and manage stroke risk in patients with AF, and it
      is also unknown how physicians will adopt new oral anticoagulants into their practices.
      Recent guidelines also highlight the need for physicians to assess bleeding risk in AF
      patients, something that most physicians do not perform in a systematic manner. Thus, in this
      new era of stroke prevention strategies and guidelines, a prospective AF registry is clearly
      warranted to better understand physician approaches to the use of OAC in clinical practice,
      and to characterize patient variables determining the use of specific agents.
    
  