
    
      This protocol will provide a means for screening potential candidates for NIDCD Head and Neck
      Surgery Branch (HNSB), and inter-institute protocols with NCI and NIDCR. No investigational
      treatments will be administered on this protocol. The Principal Investigator may, however,
      approve a patient who has been determined to be ineligible for investigational protocols to
      undergo standard treatment because they present a unique clinical experience for maintaining
      clinical skills of HNSB physicians and training of clinical fellows.

      Background:

      Potential research candidates are referred to the NIDCD HNSB by physicians and by patients
      themselves. Up to half of all research subjects now admitted to NIH protocols are
      self-referred. Each patient undergoes thorough telephone screening including a request for
      the results of outside laboratory tests, scans, x-rays and protocols. Some protocols may
      require additional diagnostic tests or that tests be repeated to obtain more current results
      in an effort to establish eligibility according to protocol specifications. The purpose of
      this protocol is to provide a means for patients to undergo: (1) evaluation to meet the
      eligibility requirements of active NIDCD HNSB and inter-institute protocols; and (2) standard
      treatment to ensure adequate expertise and training of surgeons and clinical associates and
      to provide an environment that stimulates ideas for clinical research.

      Objectives:

      -To permit evaluation of patients referred to the NIDCD Head and Neck Surgery Branch

      (HNSB) in order to identify individuals who will be suitable candidates for HNSB

      clinical research protocols and inter-institute protocols with NCI and NIDCR.

      -To permit standard treatment in specific circumstances for patients not eligible for a

      current investigational protocol, but who present a unique clinical training opportunity or

      who present a clinical condition during screening that requires immediate intervention to

      prevent compromise to the patient s well-being.

      Eligibility:

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Age 18 and older

        -  Patients at risk, suspected of having, or with a biopsy proven neoplastic disease of the

      head and neck.

      -Patient is able to provide informed consent.

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  Women who are pregnant are not eligible

        -  Candidates who do not meet the inclusion criteria.

      Design:

      -Patients enrolled on this protocol will be evaluated by NIDCD HNSB physicians to

      determine the individual s suitability for participation in a clinical research protocol.

      Specific clinical pathology and research diagnostic tests may be required to meet the

      eligibility criteria of a protocol. These may include, but are not limited to:

        -  Blood tests

        -  Computerized Tomography scans without or with contrast

        -  Magnetic Resonance Imaging without or with gadolinium contrast

        -  Positron Emission Tomography

        -  Arterio- or Angiogram

        -  Nuclear Medicine scans (e.g. Technecium, Gallium)

        -  Pulmonary Function Tests

        -  Endoscopy of upper aerodigestive tract

        -  Fine needle aspiration or Tissue Biopsy

      Other tests that are clinically indicated may be performed.
    
  