
    
      Patients:

      This study will be conducted in the surgical intensive care unit (SICU) at Yale New Haven
      Hospital in a prospective observational fashion. As this is a pilot study to determine the
      accuracy of CGM in our patient population we have based our enrollment projection to complete
      the study within an approximately 8 month time frame. We will identify three groups of 15
      patients who are candidates for enrollment. The primary outcome is the degree of correlation
      between the continuous glucose monitor and capillary or arterial blood samples.

      The first group will be patients who present to the SICU and are hemodynamically unstable.
      Hemodynamic instability will be defined as systolic blood pressure less than 90 mmHg or the
      requirement of continuous infusion of vasopressors to maintain the systolic blood pressure
      over 90 mmHg. The second group of patients will be a similar group that is expected to
      require massive fluid or blood resuscitation (>6L crystalloid or >6 units of blood) to
      maintain systolic blood pressure over 90 mmHg. This second group of patients will consist
      mainly of trauma patients. These patients or their closest available relative will be
      approached for consent to participate in the trial. For patients enrolled through a surrogate
      who regain their decision making capacity they will be informed of their participation in the
      study by one of the investigators.

      The third group will be patients undergoing elective surgical procedures that will likely
      require a post-operative admission to the SICU. This group will include patients undergoing
      open abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, esophagectomy, or other major abdominal or thoracic
      operation that will likely require a SICU stay of more than 24 hours. At least half of this
      group will consist of diabetic patients. These patients will be selected by one of the
      investigators based on their likelihood of requiring more than 24 hours of SICU care. Based
      on the experience of the investigators we believe we will be able to accurately predict which
      patients will require an ICU stay of at least 24 hours. Most commonly these patients will
      have significant co-morbid medical conditions including coronary artery disease,
      hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, obesity, etc. An attempt will be made to contact these
      patients pre-operatively by telephone within 1 week of their planned surgery at which time
      details of the research will be explained. Their willingness to participate will be
      ascertained and they will be formally enrolled and sign consent on the morning of surgery if
      possible. On some occasions patients will require ICU stays post-operatively that were not
      predicted pre-operatively. These patients and any patients that were not identified
      pre-operatively by the research team will be enrolled post-operatively often through their
      surrogate similar to the other study groups. Similarly if patient are enrolled
      pre-operatively and subsequently do not require SICU admission they will not undergo any of
      the study procedures and not be counted towards the total enrollment.

      Study Procedures:

      Upon arrival in the surgical ICU a subcutaneous glucose sensor (Guardian RT® CGMS) will be
      placed by one of the investigators after informed consent has been obtained. Insertion will
      be in the lower lateral abdomen using the insertion device provided with the Guardian RT®
      system. For patients for whom lower abdominal insertion is impossible, e.g. those with open
      abdomens, a site will be chosen in the proximal thigh or proximal arm based on the estimated
      thickness of the subcutaneous fat. The sensor transmits a signal wirelessly to a
      receiver/monitor. This receiver/monitor will be maintained in the patient's room. The meter
      will be calibrated based on an arterial or capillary blood glucose obtained within one hour
      of sensor insertion per pre-existing SICU routine care. The meter will then be recalibrated
      every 12 hours based on blood glucose measurements obtained per existing SICU routine. The
      existing protocol in the SICU is measurement of a blood glucose every hour while on an
      insulin infusion until stable then every 2 hours thereafter. For patients requiring only
      sub-cutaneous insulin blood glucose is measured at a minimum of every 4 hours. If necessary
      the sensor will be replaced a maximum of three times within 12 hours before placement will be
      considered a failure. Capillary or arterial blood glucose will be measured every hour if the
      patient is requiring a fluctuating insulin infusion. If the patient is on a stable insulin
      infusion blood glucose samples will be obtained every 2 hours. If the patient is not on an
      insulin infusion glucose levels will be obtained at least every 4 hours per pre-existing SICU
      protocols. All arterial or capillary glucose levels will be entered into the Guardian RT®
      system. Blood glucose measurements will be per the SICU routine. All SICU staff, physicians
      and study personnel will be blinded to the CGMS readings. Sensors will be changed after 72
      hours and when the system identifies a problem with the sensor that can not be corrected
      through standard system diagnostics per manufacturer recommendations. Total attempts at
      sensor placement will be limited to a maximum of 4 over the course of each subject's
      participation in the study. Sensors will be removed when the patient is transferred from the
      SICU, if the patient expires, or if the patient's care is transitioned to comfort measures
      only. At the end of the second sensor life-time (144 hours) the sensor will be removed and
      data collection will be terminated.

      In addition to the glucose data, administration of all insulin and other medications likely
      to affect blood glucose levels or perfusion status will be recorded as will all infusions
      containing dextrose, including parenteral nutrition and all enteral feeding. All other
      clinical events such as return trips to the operating room, or development of a new
      infection, or new organ failure, will be recorded by the investigative team. Additional data
      collected will include age, gender, race, prior medical history, reason for SICU admission,
      medications during the study and prior, complications, days on mechanical ventilation, length
      of stay, daily vital signs, including weight and any vital sign abnormalities, body mass
      index, liver failure, renal failure and use of renal replacement therapy. If a patient
      develops a skin reaction to the device or the adhesive maintaining the device, it will be
      removed and a new site will be employed if possible with tape replacing the standard
      transparent dressing.

      Data analyses:

      Data from each sensor will be downloaded and blood glucose values obtained using proprietary
      software from Medtronic. Because the CGMS system records glucose readings every 5 minutes
      capillary or arterial glucose samples obtained will be compared with the closest CGMS reading
      within 2.5 minutes of the time the sample was obtained. This will generate a set of paired
      glucose levels for analysis. If the sample falls immediately between 2 readings the later of
      the CGMS readings will be used to minimize the effect of the lag time for interstitial
      glucose.

      Several methods will be used to assess accuracy of the CGMS. The International Organization
      for Standardization (ISO) has put forth requirements for blood glucose monitoring systems.
      For reference values ≤75mg/dl sensor values should be within ±15mg/dl, and for reference
      values >75mg/dl sensor values should be within ±20%. We will initially determine the
      percentage of glucose pairs that meet these criteria. To determine the degree of agreement
      between sensor and reference the mean difference (MD, average of sensor values - reference
      values), mean relative difference (MRD, MD divided by the reference value multiplied by 100)
      will be calculated. The MD and MRD allow determination of a general under or overestimation
      by the sensor. The mean absolute difference (MAD, mean of the absolute value of: sensor value
      - reference value) will be calculated. The mean and median absolute relative difference (ARD,
      mean and median of the absolute value of: (sensor value - reference value) *100 / reference
      value) will also be calculated. These absolute differences provide insight into the overall
      accuracy of each individual meter reading. In the previous study in the medical intensive
      care unit 22 patients resulted in 546 glucose pairs for analysis. The calculated MAD was 19.7
      with a standard deviation of 18.3. This resulted in a 95% confidence interval of [18.2-21.2].
      In our study if we use a relatively conservative estimate of 45 patients studied for 1 day
      (24 hours) each with blood glucose measurements every 2 hours this results in 540
      meter-sensor glucose pairs. Based on these data our study will result in a similarly narrow
      confidence interval for the MAD.

      Bland-Altman plots will be constructed. These are plots of the difference between the values
      of each glucose pair (y-axis) versus the average of the two members of the pair (x-axis).
      These plots are helpful to identify particular areas of inaccuracy in the range of glucose
      reading e.g. at very high or very low glucose levels. The accuracy of the reference reading
      must be considered when analyzing these plots.

      Clarke error grids have become one of the most accepted methods of analyzing continuous
      glucose data. These grids are plots of the CGMS reading versus the reference value. Areas on
      the grid are constructed based on the clinical effects of each paired blood glucose. The
      paired glucose readings are thereby classified as in good agreement or erroneous with varying
      levels of clinical consequence. In order to identify inaccuracy based on the time delay of
      the CGMS we will randomly select one or two multiple hour time periods from each patient. We
      will compare plots of the CGMS readings with time shifted plots of the capillary or arterial
      blood glucose readings and attempt to obtain matches to identify the effect of the time
      delay. We will also analyze the effect of fluid loading and interstitial edema on the
      accuracy of the meters as well as the time delay.

      We will define significant interstitial edema as an increase in body mass by 15% or more
      above admission body weight.

      It is anticipated that we will be able to enroll 2 patients per month in each group
      generating study enrollment duration of at least 8 months. Enrollment in this fashion will
      require approximately 5 monitors and 75 sensors.
    
  