
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Preterm labor is a major public health concern in the United States. The delay of labor,
      particularly for idiopathic preterm labor, is important because it allows further fetal
      development and the opportunity to administer steroids which improve fetal lung maturity. It
      is now common for MgSO4 to be administered to delay labor. The most dangerous adverse event
      with MgSO4 treatment is the development of pulmonary edema which may lead to maternal adult
      respiratory distress syndrome and death with associated fetal morbidity and mortality. The
      estimates of the frequency of this complication vary from 0 to 8 percent. Therefore, improved
      understanding of the pulmonary toxicity of this therapeutic agent is clinically important.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      There were three phases in the study. The first, a retrospective cohort study, examined the
      incidence rate of pulmonary edema when MgSO4 was administered as a tocolytic agent. The
      second, a case-control study nested within the cohort, examined the relationship between the
      patient and other clinical factors and the incidence of pulmonary edema in patients treated
      with MgSO4. The third phase used the results of the case-control study to develop and
      validate a predictive index to define a group of patients at increased risk of developing
      pulmonary edema associated with MgSO4.

      Patients were identified using ICD-9-CM codes for preterm labor and delivery. The medical
      record was reviewed to determine exposure to MgSO4 as a tocolytic agent, excluding patients
      who received MgSO4 for other indications. Cases were defined as probable when patients met
      the clinical definition for pulmonary edema, including chest X-ray findings. The medical
      charts of both cases and a random sample of non cases were then reviewed in detail and the
      data from these groups were compared. The primary analysis of these case-control data
      included unadjusted analysis and multivariable explanatory models to provide insight into the
      risk factors for pulmonary edema associated with MgSO4. The data from the case-control study
      were used to develop a clinical predictive index. The predictive rule was then validated in a
      separate patient population.
    
  