
    
      Laparoscopic surgeries are becoming more attractive because of an early recovery . However,
      post laparoscopic shoulder and upper abdominal pain may cause more discomfort to the patient
      than the pain at the incision site.

      Proper pain relief is a major concern and area of focus. Pre-operatively, one of the most
      common questions asked by patients about the amount of pain they will experience after the
      surgery. Pain has been found to be one of the three most common medical causes of delayed
      discharge after ambulatory surgery, the other two being drowsiness and nausea and vomiting.
      Unfortunately prevention and treatment of postoperative pain continues to be a major
      challenge in postoperative care.

      Good pain control after surgery is important to prevent negative outcomes such as
      tachycardia, hypertension, myocardial ischemia, decrease in alveolar ventilation, and poor
      wound healing.

      Pain also can prolong hospital stay, which is particularly important in day case procedures.

      The mechanism of laparoscopy induced shoulder pain is mainly derived from carbon dioxide
      retention within the abdomen, subsequently irritating the phrenic nerve and causing referred
      pain in the C4 dermatome. Moreover, carbon dioxide trapped between the liver and the right
      diaphragm, irritating the diaphragm, also causes upper abdominal pain.

      Although there are many analgesic drugs available for postoperative pain, many patients still
      find them to be suboptimal for controlling pain.

      Many strategies, including treatment with non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, have been
      used to try to reduce laparoscopy-induced shoulder pain however, no sufficiently reliable
      methods have been reported yet .

      Also Intraperitoneal local anesthetic was tried as an important addition for postoperative
      pain in the era of modern surgery. The method of delivering local anesthetic directly to the
      intraperitoneal cavity was first described in 1951 by Griffin et al. ; however, this method
      was forgotten for many years until its implementation in minimal access surgery was
      reappeared. It significantly reduces postoperative pain and opioid consumption after
      laparoscopic gynecological and general surgical operations.

      Another effective method is the pulmonary recruitment maneuver (PRM) which can mechanically
      remove residual carbon dioxide and therefore decreasing peritoneal irritation, and shoulder
      pain.

      Intravenous steroids have been used successfully for postoperative pain relief in different
      kinds of surgery . Also intraperitoneal hydrocortisone was has been used effectively to
      reduce pain after laparoscopic cholecystectomy.

      In addition combination of intraperitoneal local anesthetics with hydrocortisone was proved
      to be a successful method in controlling upper abdominal and shoulder pain after laparoscopic
      procedures.
    
  