
    
      This study utilizes a single-blind randomized clinical trial to evaluate whether the DBACL
      reconstruction surgery is more suitable than SBACL reconstruction in the subclinical aspect
      of cartilage damage through a biomolecular examination from the synovial joint fluid COMP and
      MRI T2 mapping.

      This study's estimated time is between two to three years ranging from January 2018 until the
      end of June 2021.

      The samples are randomly divided into two groups: the SBACLR group and the DBACLR group. The
      sample size for each group was 26 subjects. For the subjects, the accepted inclusion criteria
      were male, age 18-40 years, total primary AC rupture, injury time 1-12 months, willingness to
      attend the study, and signed informed consent.

      Exclusion criteria include subjects having other ligament injuries in the knee, history of
      rheumatoid arthritis, severe osteoarthritis Kellgren-Lawrence grading> 2, Body Mass Index
      (BMI) ≥ 25, fracture around the knee joint or osteochondral avulsion, history of injury with
      either or both semitendinosus or gracilis muscle, patellofemoral instability,
      contraindication of anesthesia, and partial ACL rupture.

      Drop Out criteria includes: subjects not returning to control, undergoing treatment outside
      the program, not complying with study protocols, re-injury to the studied knee causing
      ligament, meniscus or cartilage injury, and postoperative knee infection.

      Prospective subjects have been diagnosed with the total loss of ACL and meet the research
      criteria are explained about the aims and objectives of the study and sign a consent form to
      participate in the study.

      Each subject was assigned to one of the study groups through a simple randomization method:
      the SBACL reconstruction surgery action group or the DBACL reconstruction surgery action
      group.

      All subjects were examined the Lachman test, pivot test, Rolimeter measurement, MRI T2
      mapping, and knee joint fluid for ELISA examination of sfCOMP (synovial fluid COMP) at the
      time before surgery, the third month, and the sixth month postoperatively.
    
  