
    
      Objectives:

        1. Establish the relationship between inappropriate empirical cefuroxime therapy in adult
           patients hospitalized with pyelonephritis and hospital stay.

        2. Establish the relationship between inappropriate empirical cefuroxime therapy in adult
           patients hospitalized with pyelonephritis and readmission due to pyelonephritis.

        3. Establish the relationship between inappropriate empirical therapy with cefuroxime in
           adult patients hospitalized with pyelonephritis and the time to readmission caused
           pyelonephritis.

      The investigators proposed a retrospective cohort of hospitalized pyelonephritis patients
      with empirical antimicrobial management with cefuroxime in one institution of third
      complexity level. Exposure is understood as resistance to cefuroxime, that is, the impact of
      inappropriate empirical cefuroxime therapy on patients receiving this antibiotic. Patients
      who are admitted to the cohort had the diagnosis of pyelonephritis and were hospitalized for
      intravenous antimicrobial treatment and are followed up to the following outcomes: hospital
      discharge, or readmission due to pyelonephritis to the same or another institution of the
      insurance network.

      The study will be conducted following the Good Clinical Practices for Research and approval
      by the Research Ethics Committee (REC) or Investigation Research Boards (IRB) of the
      participating institutions. The clinical information will be collected through online forms
      based on the information in the electronic medical record. Microbiological information will
      be taken from clinical laboratory reports (Whonet ver 5.5., WHO). The accuracy of the
      information collected will be verified by evaluating 100% of the formats. A pilot test will
      be carried out after approval by the IRB (25 february, 2020). The information will be stored
      anonymously, discarding from the database personal information of the patient that might
      allow the identification. Variables collected from the Electronic Medical Record include
      demographic, clinical (comorbidities, clinical status) and microbiological information. Other
      variables include time to change antibiotic (if done) and time of use of antibiotic.
      Information for the outcomes proposed include length of stay (in days), readmission (new
      admission because of pyelonephritis in the following 30 days after the first episode), and
      time to readmission (in days).

      A propensity score matching will be performed to diminish the risk of selection bias and
      unbalanced subjects. Alternatively, and inverse probability treatment weighting can be used
      to balance the variables included. Both models will be constructed using a logistic
      regression for the probability of cefuroxime resistant. Final comparison between the exposed
      population and control population will be done using survival curves for the time to hospital
      discharge.
    
  