
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess the rate of complete and overall response in patients with B-cell chronic
           lymphocytic leukemia or small lymphocytic lymphoma treated with pentostatin,
           cyclophosphamide, and rituximab with or without bevacizumab.

        -  To assess the proportion of patients who achieve a negative minimal residual disease
           state after treatment with these regimens.

        -  To monitor and assess the adverse events of these regimens.

      Secondary

        -  To determine if molecular prognostic parameters (ZAP-70, CD38, cytogenetic abnormalities
           identified by FISH, and IgVH mutation status) relate to response in these patients.

        -  To determine the progression-free survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To complete additional correlative studies to gain insight into disease biology and how
           it influences drug sensitivity.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to Rai risk group (high [Rai stage III or IV] vs
      low [Rai stage 0] or intermediate [Rai stage I or II]) and FISH prognosis group (favorable
      [normal, +12, 13q-, or other] vs unfavorable [17p- or 11q-]). Patients are randomized to 1 of
      2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1 of courses 1-5 and on
           days 1, 22, and 43 of course 6; rituximab IV over 2-4 hours on days 2 and 3 of course 1
           and on day 1 of courses 2-6; and pentostatin IV over 30 minutes and cyclophosphamide IV
           over 30 minutes on day 2 of course 1 and on day 1 of courses 2-6. Patients also receive
           pegfilgrastim subcutaneously (SC) on day 3 of course 1 and on day 2 of courses 2-6.
           Treatment repeats every 21 days* for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *Course 6 is 56 days in duration

        -  Arm II: Patients receive rituximab IV over 2-4 hours on days 1 and 2 of course 1 and on
           day 1 of courses 2-6 and pentostatin IV over 30 minutes and cyclophosphamide IV over 30
           minutes on day 1. Patients also receive pegfilgrastim SC on day 2. Treatment repeats
           every 21 days* for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      NOTE: *Course 6 is 56 days in duration

      Patients undergo blood sample collection and bone marrow biopsy/aspiration periodically for
      translational research studies. Samples are analyzed by flow cytometry for assessment of
      minimal residual disease. Molecular prognostic markers (including CD38, ZAP-70, IgVH gene
      mutation status, and cytogenetic abnormalities by FISH), Tcl-1 and CD49d protein expression,
      and immunoglobulin heavy chain D and J family gene usage are also analyzed. Plasma samples
      are stored for future studies evaluating levels of VEGF, bFGF, and thrombospondin by ELISA.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years.
    
  