
    
      Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is a leading cause of liver associated morbidity
      and mortality. Currently available first-line therapies for treatment of chronic hepatitis B
      include pegylated interferon-alpha and the nucleos(t)ide analogues (NUCs) entecavir and
      tenofovir. These were shown to effectively suppress viral replication, but their ability to
      induce durable off-treatment response is limited to a small subset of patients. Combination
      treatment with peginterferon and NUCs has been attempted in several randomized controlled
      trials, with no apparent advantage over either agent given alone. In these studies however,
      treatment with peginterferon was initiated either simultaneously or shortly after NUCs
      administration. The efficacy of peginterferon following long-term viral suppression with NUCs
      was only tested in one small pilot study, nevertheless showing 60% hepatitis B s antigen
      (HBsAg) loss rate.

      The underlying mechanisms responsible for improved efficacy of peginterferon in this setting
      are unknown and warrant further investigation. In this single arm study we propose to
      evaluate the efficacy and mechanisms associated with response to peginterferon add-on therapy
      following a minimum of 192 weeks of viral suppression induced by NUCs in a group of chronic
      HBV infected patients. Sixty patients with either hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) positive
      (n=30) or negative (n=30) chronic HBV infection will be enrolled to this study. After medical
      evaluation and pretreatment liver biopsy, treatment with subcutaneous injections of pegylated
      interferon alpha-2a 180 g per week will be given for a total of 24 weeks, followed by an
      off-treatment evaluation period of 48 weeks. A second liver biopsy will be performed six
      hours following the first peginterferon injection. Primary end-point for this study will be
      the change in interferon-stimulated-genes response before and after first interferon
      injection in responders versus non-responders to treatment. The responsiveness to IFN-based
      therapy of treatment responders vs nonresponders will additionally be evaluated by studying
      intrahepatic and peripheral blood natural killer cells. The study will also assess HBeAg and
      HBsAg loss and seroconversion rates in comparison to historical controls treated with either
      peginterferon or NUCs monotherapy. Finally, we will assess whether treatment responders
      develop an HBV-specific T cell response similar in quantity and quality to that of patients
      who spontaneously resolve HBV infection.
    
  