
    
      This will be a single-blinded randomized-control trial enrolling all patients presenting to
      otolaryngology in London, ON with a PTA. Patients will be managed in a consistent protocol
      amongst team members. Diagnosis of a PTA will be made by the attending physician and/or ENT
      team. Patients presenting symptomatology will be recorded (e.g. trismus, dysarthria,
      dysphagia, documented fever, etc). Previous use of antibiotics prior to presentation will
      also be documented, as well as use of IV antibiotics at the time of initial assessment by the
      ER team. After the patient has been diagnosed, the patient will be given the option to enrol
      in the study. If the patient agrees to enrol in the study, the following will occur. Each
      patient will be randomized into one of two arms - those that will receive post-drainage
      antibiotics versus those that will receive placebo. If randomized to the antibiotic treatment
      arm, then each patient will be given Amoxicillin-clavulanic acid as the antibiotic treatment
      of choice for 7 days unless the patient has a pencillin-allergy. If so, they will be given
      clindamycin. All patients will be counselled to return to hospital if their symptoms persist.
      In addition, each patient will be contacted after 7 days to assess if their symptoms have
      resolved.

      The patient's abscess aspirate will be sent for culture and sensitivity. The patient's
      identification number will be emailed to the study administrator via confidential hospital
      email and the patient will be given a unique study identification code. Pertinent
      epidemiological data will be collected from the emergency room consultation note dictated by
      the treating physician and stored in a separate database.

      In the microbiology laboratory, the fluid aspirate will undergo aerobic culture. Anaerobic
      culture will be completed on each patient's sample that arrives, providing funding for each
      test has been obtained. The aerobic culture of the fluid aspirate will undergo gram stain
      with reporting of the specific types of bacteria seen and the bacteria will then be plated,
      cultured and tested for sensitivities. All patients will be contacted one week after
      treatment to ensure clinical resolution of disease. This will be defined as resolution of
      symptoms, specifically trismus, odynophagia, referred otalgia, absence of dysarthria, and
      overall physical improvement. If persistent symptoms of recurrent abscesses are noted,
      appropriate follow-up will be arranged for the patient with an otolaryngologist. No
      confidential identifying information will be recorded in the study database. Any
      complications suffered by the patient will be recorded in the database.

      The study will be carried out for a total of two years. Once the study is complete, all
      identifying data on the SIN sheet will be confidentially destroyed. No access to the study
      database will be available once the study is complete.
    
  