
    
      In our previous series of studies, we introduced a new, simple and effective 90 degree
      rotational insertion technique and the insertion success rate was great and less pain
      occurred with the rotational technique in adult. In this study, we investigated whether the
      90 degree rotational technique will improve the insertion success rate than the standard
      technique in pediatric patients.

      We hypothesized that the 90 degree rotational technique will improve the insertion success
      rate and decrease the complication of 2 to 3 size PLMA than the standard index finger
      insertion technique in children.

      One hundred twenty six Asian pediatric patients were randomly allocated to a standard
      technique group or rotation technique group. The size of the PLMA was from 2 to 3 according
      to body weight of children. In the standard technique group (n = 63), the PLMA was inserted
      by index finger insertion technique. In the rotation technique group (n = 63), the entire
      cuff of the PLMA was placed in the mouth without finger insertion in a midline approach and
      was rotated 90 degrees counterclockwise around the tongue. The PLMA was then advanced and
      rotated back until resistance was felt.

      The primary outcome was success at first insertion. Secondary outcome measures were insertion
      time and complications.

      Success at first insertion was significantly higher for the rotation technique than the
      standard technique, and significantly less time was required. With the rotation technique,
      the incidence of PLMA repositioning and blood staining was significantly less than for the
      standard technique.

      The rotational insertion technique for PLMA is more successful than the standard insertion
      technique and is associated with fewer blood staining on the PLMA which suggests that it
      causes less pharyngeal trauma in pediatric patients.
    
  