
    
      Most patients with complex congenital heart disease and cardiomyopathy from acquired heart
      disease have reduced exercise capacity (VO2 max). Furthermore, exercise capacity is
      associated with respiratory muscle strength and function (maximal inspiratory (MIP) and
      maximal respiratory (MEP) pressures. If structured respiratory muscle training positively
      influences respiratory muscle function in patients with complex congenital heart disease or
      cardiomyopathy from acquired heart disease is not well known.

      Aim: The aim of this study is to investigate the influence of a structured phonation and
      respiratory training with regular singing lessons on respiratory muscle strength and function
      (MIP and MEP), exercise capacity (VO2 max), NT-proBNP and quality of life.

      This is an interventional, single-centre, randomized study. Patients will be recruited from
      the heart failure and congenital heart disease clinic of the University hospital Basel.
      Patients will be asked to participate in a structured phonation and respiratory muscle
      training for 12 weeks. The structured phonation and respiratory muscle training includes
      weekly singing lessons in a choir, held by a professional instructor, with additional
      instructions for daily respiratory muscle strength training at home. Respiratory muscle
      function (MIP and MEP), exercise capacity (VO2max) and quality of life will be measured at
      the beginning of the intervention and after 12 weeks of interventional training. In parallel,
      respiratory muscle function, exercise capacity, NT-proBNP and quality of life will be
      measured in a gender and age matched group of patients without performing the intervention
      and in a healthy control group who co-participate the choir lessons and the respiratory
      muscle training. Primary endpoint is the change of maximal inspiratory pressures (MIP)
      between patients with and without a structured phonation and respiratory muscle training.
      Secondary endpoints are changes of MEP, VO2max, NT-proBNP and quality of life between
      patients with and without the intervention; changes of all measured variables between
      patients and the healthy control group, and changes of all measured variables before and
      after the intervention in patients. Inclusion criteria: Patients >18 years with known
      cardiomyopathy from acquired heart disease (ischemic or dilated) or complex forms of
      congenital heart disease. Exclusion criteria: Acute coronary syndrome ≤6 months or heart
      failure hospitalization ≤12 months.

      Structural singing lesions and respiratory muscle function training may improve respiratory
      muscle strength, exercise capacity and quality of life in patients with heart failure or
      complex congenital heart disease. The intervention comes at low costs, can be applied by most
      of the patients and is feasible even for disabled patients who are not able to participate in
      regular exercise training. Furthermore, singing may improve respiratory muscle strength and
      exercise capacity even in the healthy population.
    
  