
    
      Introduction: Stroke is the second cause of death and the third of years of life lost
      worldwide. In Chile, stroke is the second cause of death. Ischemic stroke represents roughly
      80% of all strokes. The 11 risk factors responsible for 91.8% of the population attributable
      risk of ischemic stroke are: Age, Blood Pressure ≥140/90mmHg, smoking, waist to hip ratio,
      Diabetes Mellitus, physical activity, alcohol intake, psychosocial factors, Apo-lipoproteins,
      Cardiac causes and noteworthy a healthy diet (35.8% of the population attributable risk).
      Recent global burden of disease analysis of disability adjusted life years (DALYs), showed
      that dietary risk have the highest DALYs in ischemic stroke among behavioral risk factors.
      The MediDiet is associated with a decreased risk of total mortality as well as stroke
      incidence and mortality. Although not part of the classical Mediterranean diet they are
      another nutrient-dense source of mono unsaturated fatty acids (MUFA), rich in vitamins,
      minerals, fiber, phytosterols and polyphenols extensively consumed in the Americas.
      Avocado-substituted diets significantly decrease cholesterol levels in diabetic and obese
      patients. Secondary stroke prevention studies with diet as an intervention are lacking and
      there is very little information of what patients eat before or after an ischemic stroke.
      Recurrent stroke represent 20% of all ischemic strokes at a population level and depending on
      the etiology, recurrent stroke can occur from 2 to 20% at 3 months of the initial event.
      Lowering Low Density Cholesterol (LDL-C) levels decreases stroke recurrence.

      Goals: The aim is to determine the effect of a Mediterranean style diet based on Avocados as
      a source of poli unsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) on lipid profile particularly LDL-C in
      patients who have had an ischemic stroke and are at high recurrence risk.

      Methodology: Academic, open-label, blinded outcome assessment (prospective, randomized,
      open-blinded end-point [PROBE design]), clinical trial. Participants will be patients with an
      acute ischemic stroke admitted to Clínica Alemana de Santiago, who fulfills the eligibility
      criteria. Eligible patients will be randomly assigned to either diet intervention in a 1:1
      ratio. The interventions will be: A) Avocado based Mediterranean diet with intake of ½
      portion of a Hass avocado per day and B) Standard recommendation of low fat-high complex
      carbohydrate diet recommended by the National Cholesterol Education Program and the American
      Heart Association. The main efficacy outcome will be the level of plasma LDL cholesterol
      level at 3 months of the dietary intervention. Secondary outcomes will be changes in: Levels
      of serum lipid profile, serum inflammation markers, glycemic control, anthropomorphic
      measures of the metabolic syndrome, stroke recurrence, cardiovascular events, adverse events,
      compliance. A sample size of 100 patients per group (200 in total) was estimated to provide
      80% power and 5% level of significance with 10% loss and 5% crossover to detect the same
      difference in LDL-C after 3 months of intervention in patients with acute stroke. The
      following measurements will be performed at baseline and at 3 months in all patients: Blood
      pressure, weight, height, waist circumference, cholesterol and triglyceride levels, glucose
      level, serum insulin level, Apo- lipoproteins A1 and B levels, soluble intercellular adhesion
      molecule-1, vascular cell adhesion molecule-1, Apo lipoproteins A and B, and interleukin-6
      levels; In a random sample of participants (35%), investigators will measure the oleic acid
      plasma content as a measure of adherence to Avocado intake.
    
  