
    
      The investigators' understanding of the neuroendocrine pathophysiology of depression has made
      significant progress in recent years, which should help to develop new remedies. Alterations
      of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis are the most consistent pathological
      endocrine findings in depression. Hence, attempts have been made to treat depression by
      directly targeting HPA-axis activity. Currently, three major pathways are investigated:

        -  Administration of CRH-antagonists;

        -  Administration of glucocorticoid-receptor-antagonists; and

        -  Treatment with steroid-synthesis inhibitors like ketoconazole, aminogluthethimide or
           metyrapone.

      The investigators' aim was to conduct the first prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled,
      double-blind clinical trial of metyrapone as additive treatment in depression. Metyrapone was
      preferred, since this compound inhibits selectively the 11β-hydroxylase and the
      11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11β-HSD-1), thereby exerting direct effects within
      the central nervous system (CNS). The additive approach was applied because the intended
      inclusion of severely depressed patients made a pure placebo group ethically challenging.
      Furthermore, the continuous use of an antidepressant allowed a standardized follow up after
      the double-blind period.

      The hypotheses to be tested were, whether metyrapone exerts potentiating effects during a
      standard antidepressant therapy and whether an earlier onset-of-action and an improved
      overall and sustained treatment response can be achieved. Since GR/MR distribution as well as
      11β-HSD-1 activities are subject to sexual dimorphism in humans, the sample was prospectively
      stratified for gender and balanced for treatment with two selected serotonergic
      antidepressants, allowing further analysis of gender effects and neuroendocrine treatment
      effects.
    
  