
    
      New or worsening chest discomfort is the most common symptom of coronary artery disease
      (CAD), which is plaque build-up in the arteries that supply the heart muscle with blood.
      Chest pain is one of the most common reasons for emergency department (ED) visits, with an
      estimated 8 million new cases every year. Evaluation of chest pain is expensive and time
      consuming, even though 75% of the time it is not due to CAD. It is necessary to carefully
      define the amount of CAD, even if initial tests reveal no heart attack, because this symptom
      may progress to heart attack and death if missed.

      Coronary artery computed tomography angiography of the heart (CCTA) is one of the most
      sensitive tests to detect serious CAD in appropriately selected patients.In 85% of acute
      chest pain (ACP) ED cases tested by CCTA, no CAD or very mild CAD is found, leading to rapid
      discharge or an alternative diagnosis. However, in the 15% of patients with significant CAD
      found on CCTA, further evaluation with either stress testing or heart catheterization, and/or
      hospital admission is required. Since 2015, Beaumont Health hospitals have employed a new
      FDA-approved test, called CT fractional flow reserve (CTFFR), that can analyze flow down the
      heart arteries by computer analysis of the original CT images. Results from an analysis of
      147 patients suggest that 67% of the time, CTFFR showed no significant flow limitation,
      providing for the potential to defer invasive testing or treatment for a trial of medical
      therapy.

      The use of CTFFR on ED patients is novel, and it is not yet part of the standard of care
      (SOC). Standard care of patients with definite CAD on CCTA continues to be hospital
      admission, stress testing and/or heart catheterization for further diagnosis. Both CTFFR and
      standard care continue to be used at Beaumont Health, and it is important to determine if one
      or the other diagnostic strategy is superior. This study is designed to directly compare
      standard care and CTFFR for diagnosis and management of ACP patients with definite CAD on
      CCTA.
    
  