
    
      Goals

        1. To identify the best strategy to wean patients from ventilators.

        2. To fully engage patients and family members (PFM) in our trial.

      Rationale: Nearly 40% of the time on invasive ventilation is spent weaning. In minimizing
      patients' exposure to invasive ventilation, clinicians are challenged by a trade-off between
      the complications associated with protracted ventilation and the risks [ventilator-associated
      pneumonia (VAP), mortality] of premature, failed attempts at extubation. Although randomized
      trials have been conducted to evaluate different screening practices and spontaneous
      breathing trial (SBT) techniques, most trials were small, predated daily screening, and have
      limited generalizability to the North American (NA) context where weaning involves
      respiratory therapists (RTs) and physicians.

      In a systematic review of 17 trials (n=2,434), we found that screening protocols, compared to
      usual care, were associated with a 26% reduction in total duration of ventilation, a 70%
      reduction in weaning time, and an 11% reduction in ICU stay. Only 1 trial (n=385) compared
      twice daily screening to usual care and found that patients screened twice daily spent
      significantly less time on ventilators. Once daily screening is poorly aligned with the
      continuous care ICU environment. In our international survey, Pressure Support (PS) with
      positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) and T-piece were the most commonly used SBT
      techniques. Concerns exist that PS and T-piece SBTs may over and underestimate, respectively,
      patients' ability to breathe after extubation. Only 1 trial (n=484) has compared T-piece and
      PS SBTs and found no difference in outcomes. This trial was conducted in Europe, predated
      daily screening, and was underpowered.

      Design: The investigators will conduct a factorial design trial involving 760 patients in 20
      NA ICUs.

      Population: The investigators will enroll critically ill adults receiving invasive
      ventilation for > 24 hours who can initiate or trigger breaths on commonly used weaning
      modes.

      Comparators: Patients will be randomized to undergo a screening frequency (once vs. at least
      twice daily) AND an SBT technique (T-piece vs. PS ± PEEP).

      Outcomes: The primary outcome will be the time to successful extubation. Secondary outcomes
      will include general and ventilation-specific outcomes that are important to citizens. We
      expect that more frequent screening, regardless of SBT technique, will reduce time to
      successful extubation.

      This trial will identify the best strategy to reduce the time patients spend on ventilators
      and in ICUs, clarify best weaning practices, enhance care delivery, and launch a new paradigm
      of engagement into our research.
    
  