
    
      Background. Though buprenorphine effectively treats opioid dependence, some abstinent
      patients relapse to maladaptive use of opioids during treatment. Relapse may be triggered by
      stress. Rodent studies have demonstrated that stress can induce relapse to heroin and cocaine
      use (Erb, et al., 1996; Shaham, et al., 1996; Shaham and Stewart, 1995). In a rodent model,
      stress-induced relapse to heroin and cocaine seeking is blocked by the alpha-2 adrenergic
      agonist clonidine. In this study, clonidine will be compared to placebo in preventing relapse
      to opioid abuse in opioid maintained patients who have achieved abstinence while on
      buprenorphine and contingency management.

      Scientific goals. To determine whether clonidine, given to abstinent patients maintained on
      buprenorphine, prevents relapse to opioid use more effectively than placebo.

      Participant population. 300 opioid-dependent outpatients (120 evaluable). Target enrollment
      will include 40 persent women and 60 percent minorities (mostly African-American).

      Experimental design and methods. The study will be a randomized double-blind clinical trial.
      Two treatment groups will be studied (60/group), one receiving clonidine and the other
      receiving placebo. Assignment to treatment group will be randomized. All patients will
      receive buprenorphine daily (8 mg to 24 mg SL) and individual counseling weekly throughout 28
      weeks of treatment. In order to establish abstinence prior to clonidine induction, after one
      week of stabilization on buprenorphine, they will receive contingent vouchers for
      opioid-negative urine specimens for 8 weeks (weeks 1-8). Patients who are abstinent from
      illicit opioids during weeks 5 and 6 will be randomized to receive clonidine (0.3 mg oral
      dose) or clonidine placebo from weeks 9 through 20. Participants who are not abstinent will
      be switched to methadone for four weeks (usual dose from 50 mg to 100 mg) followed by an
      eight week methadone taper. Assignment to clonidine or placebo will be double-blind. Weeks 21
      and 22 will include a clonidine taper to avoid rebound hypertension. From weeks 23-28,
      participants will receive buprenorphine and counseling only, and then will be offered
      assistance to transfer to another program; those who do not transfer will undergo an 8-week
      buprenorphine taper. The primary outcome measures will be longest duration of opioid
      abstinence, time to relapse, and the proportion of opioid-negative urine specimens over time
      during the Intervention phase. In addition, fluctuations in drug use, drug craving, stress,
      and HIV-risk behaviors such as injection drug use will be assessed via ecological momentary
      assessment (EMA).

      Benefits to participants and/or society. Participants will receive buprenorphine, drug
      counseling, and contingency-management therapy. The buprenorphine and voucher interventions
      are likely to reduce participants' use of opioids. Counseling will include reduction of HIV
      risk behaviors.

      Risks to participants. Participants may experience side effects from clonidine,
      buprenorphine, or methadone and discomfort during withdrawal from each drug. In particular,
      discontinuation of clonidine may cause rebound hypertension. The EMA component of the study
      may generate some assessment burden.
    
  