
    
      The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that approximately 2.3 billion people are
      infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Approximately 1.7 million people die of TB each
      year, the second most common infectious cause of death in the world. In order to improve TB
      control worldwide, an affordable, effective, short course treatment for latent TB infection
      (LTBI) is a global priority.

      Candidates for LTBI treatment are those persons with a positive TST or IGRA, particularly if
      they also have risk factors for progressing to active TB, including individuals likely to be
      recently infected. The Prevent TB Study (TBTC Study 26) was an open-label, randomized, phase
      III controlled clinical trial with over 8,000 high risk TST reactors enrolled. The study
      compared rifapentine and INH (3RPT/INH) given once-weekly by directly observed treatment
      (DOT) for 3 months (12 doses) compared with 9 months of daily, self-administered INH. The
      results demonstrated the safety and efficacy of the shorter regimen. Moreover, the once
      weekly therapy had significantly higher treatment completion rates than the standard 9 INH
      regimen.

      One of the most effective strategies for assuring adherence with therapy is to have each dose
      of medication directly administered by a health care worker who observes and records the
      ingestion of the drugs. DOT for active TB has been successfully used in many settings to
      improve treatment completion, however cost and logistical constraints of DOT remain. The
      estimated cost of giving 12 weekly DOT doses to all LTBI patients is likely prohibitive for
      TB control programs worldwide. This may lead to a decreased uptake of the new regimen or
      implementation using SAT where adherence has not been studied. Therefore, to apply the
      Prevent TB study results more broadly, a new study evaluating treatment completion of 3
      RPT/INH given as SAT is conducted.

      Medication adherence is defined by whether patients take a treatment as prescribed. The
      effectiveness of any treatment is determined largely by adherence. In clinical practice and
      research, indirect measures of adherence are commonly used. Indirect measures of adherence
      include patient self-report, evaluation of pharmacy dispensation records, pill counts, and
      the use of electronic prescription bottle monitors. Patient self-reported adherence is
      accurate when non-adherence is reported but tends to overestimate true adherence. Self-report
      is not discerning enough to be utilized as a sole measure of adherence in research settings
      where adherence is the primary outcome. Pill counts have been utilized successfully in
      research and clinical settings for real-time assessment but also tend to overestimate
      adherence. Electronic drug monitors such as the Medication Event Monitoring System (MEMS) are
      the best available tools to assess the timing and patterns of adherence. This study uses a
      combination of indirect measures including MEMS, pill counts, and self-report to provide the
      most accurate assessment of adherence to once weekly, self-administered RPT/INH.

      The number of cellular phone users globally has increased dramatically in the last decade.
      Cell phones and SMS reminders have been used successfully in randomized controlled clinical
      trials to improve adherence to vaccines, HIV medications, and asthma treatment. SMS appear to
      be cost-effective ways to reach patients in remote locations. This study examines effect of
      SMS on medication adherence.

      The goal of this open label clinical trial is to compare the adherence to 3RPT/INH given by
      DOT versus SAT or SAT with a weekly SMS reminder. The primary assessment of adherence will be
      treatment completion which is defined as taking at least 90% of the doses (11/12 doses of
      each drug) within 16 weeks of initiation. Secondary objectives include evaluating the
      patterns of adherence in participants who fail to complete, determining the feasibility and
      impact of using SMS reminders on treatment completion with SAT, evaluating the tolerability
      and any adverse events associated with each treatment arm, monitoring for the development of
      active TB, determining the drug susceptibility for participants who develop active TB, and
      measuring important patient-related expenditures associated with each study arm. The trial
      will be conducted in patients diagnosed with LTBI and recommended for treatment.
    
  