
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine if the combination of M6620 with topotecan hydrochloride (topotecan) will
      result in an improvement in progression-free survival (PFS) compared to topotecan alone in
      patients with relapsed small cell lung cancer (SCLC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the objective response rate (ORR) and overall survival (OS) with the
      combination of M6220 and topotecan in patients with relapsed SCLC and extrapulmonary small
      cell cancers.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To perform molecular profiling assays on malignant and normal tissues, including, but not
      limited to ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing (RNA-Seq):

      Ia. To assess expression of genes Schlafen family member 11 (SLFN11), MYC, and
      ataxia-telangiesctasia mutated (ATM) among others.

      Ib. To identify potential predictive biomarkers of response to a combination of M6620 with
      topotecan.

      Ic. Identify mechanisms of drug sensitivity and resistance using deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)-
      and RNA-based assessment platforms.

      II. To contribute genetic analysis data from de-identified biospecimens to Genomic Data
      Commons (GDC), a well annotated cancer molecular and clinical data repository, for current
      and future research; specimens will be annotated with key clinical data, including
      presentation, diagnosis, staging, summary treatment, and if possible, outcome.

      III. To bank formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue, blood (for cell-free DNA
      analysis), and nucleic acids obtained from patients at the Experimental Therapeutics Clinical
      Trial Network (ETCTN) Biorepository at Nationwide Children's Hospital.

      IV. To characterize circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) and circulating tumor cells in patients
      with relapsed SCLC and extrapulmonary small cell cancers.

      V. To identify potential predictive biomarkers of response to a combination of M6620 with
      topotecan in patients with extrapulmonary small cell cancers.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms. Patients with extrapulmonary small cell
      cancer are assigned to Arm II while patients with relapsed small cell lung cancer are
      assigned to both arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive topotecan hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days
      1-5. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients may crossover to Arm II at disease progression.

      ARM II: Patients receive topotecan hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5 and M6620 IV
      over 60 minutes on days 2 and 5. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks and then every 12
      weeks thereafter.
    
  