
    
      Background: Lateral Epicondylalgia, or "tennis elbow", has been shown to affect up to 3% of
      the population and is a common musculoskeletal condition which also affects military service
      members. This study will compare clinical effectiveness of two treatment programs in
      individuals with lateral elbow pain.

      Design: Prospective randomized controlled clinical trial

      Methods: Participants, between the ages of 18-65, presenting to the NMCSD or NHCP
      Occupational or Physical Therapy Clinics with complaint of lateral elbow pain will be
      eligible for consideration to participate in this research. Patients that meet the inclusion
      criteria and elect to participate in the study will be randomized to either (1) a
      standardized, evidence based rehabilitation program or (2) an exercise volume matched group
      using personalized blood flow restriction (BFR) exercise.

      Upon entry to the program subjects will complete measurements of height, body weight,
      physical activity level (Marx Activity Scale), annotation of their dominant upper extremity
      (UE), the patient-rated tennis elbow evaluation (PRTEE) questionnaire, Numerical Pain Rating
      Scale (NPRS), Patient-Reported Outcome Measurement Information System version 1.2- Global
      Health (PROMIS scale v1.2- Global Health), and grip strength using the JAMAR dynamometer. At
      the end of each treatment session subjects will complete the Numerical Pain Rating Scale
      (NPRS) and the OMNI-Resistance Exercise Scale (OMNI-RES) rating of perceived exertion (RPE)
      survey.

      The standard rehabilitation group will perform active wrist extension, forearm supination,
      and gripping. These exercises may include isometric, concentric, or eccentric forms of
      strengthening contingent upon clinical decision making. Specifics of exercise performance (to
      include magnitude of resistance and volume of exercise) will be documented in the treatment
      record.

      The Delphi Personalized Tourniquet System (PTS) will be utilized for the BFR exercises. The
      Delphi PTS measures an individual's personalized tourniquet pressure (PTP) using doppler
      technology similar to a blood pressure cuff. In the BFR exercise condition, subjects will
      perform a 30-15-15-15 repetition progression of 1-3 exercises as selected by the therapist.

      Participants will be provided in-clinic treatment for a maximum of 12 sessions, one to three
      treatment sessions weekly, and may be discharged prior to that based upon shared decision
      making between the participant and therapist. The NPRS, grip strength, PROMIS scale v1.2-
      Global Health, and PRTEE will be completed at the last clinical appointment, as well as three
      and six-week, and three and six month follow up appointments. Twelve months following
      completion of occupational/physical therapy clinical care participants will be contacted and
      asked to complete a verbal NPRS, PROMIS scale v1.2- Global Health and the PRTEE outcome
      scale. Additionally, at 12 months following discharge from Physical or Occupational Therapy,
      the participants' EMR will be reviewed for follow-up visits related to the same condition
      (LET).

      Data Analysis: A mixed effects longitudinal model will be utilized to assess for differences
      in the primary outcome measures (grip strength, NPRS, and PRTEE) between the time points of
      intake, end of occupational/physical therapy treatment, and three and six months post
      completion of treatment. Secondary analysis of change in OMNI-RES RPE and NPRS during the
      course of treatment will also be analyzed with a mixed effects longitudinal model. Healthcare
      provider(s) will be analyzed as a co-variate. Microsoft Excel and SPSS will function as the
      main data analysis instruments.

      Clinical Implications: Results of this study are expected to guide clinician's selection of
      rehabilitation techniques to improve outcomes (increase strength, improve function, and
      decrease pain), improve mission readiness by earlier return to duty, reduce healthcare
      service costs, and also reduce lost duty/work time.
    
  