
    
      Missed doses of prescribed Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) pharmacologic prophylaxis is a
      significant problem. Data on patients admitted to The Johns Hopkins Hospital found
      approximately 12% of prescribed doses of pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis were not administered.
      There were several reasons for these missed doses. The leading reason (nearly 60% of missed
      doses) was patient or family member refusal for any reason.

      Based on data collected by the Maryland Health Services Cost Review Commission (HSCRC) in the
      Maryland hospital-acquired conditions (MHAC) program, during 2011 half of patients who
      developed confirmed VTE at The Johns Hopkins Hospital were not administered one or more doses
      of prescribed VTE prophylaxis. These data indicate that missed or refused doses of VTE
      prophylaxis represent a significant and under-recognized contributor to sub-optimal VTE
      prophylaxis that will erode the beneficial impact of current efforts to improve rates of VTE
      prophylaxis ordering by physicians.

      As part of a Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI)-funded project, the
      investigators have developed a registry of missed doses of VTE prophylaxis that includes data
      on missed doses of VTE prophylaxis.

      Primary hypothesis Both interventions (PEB and NFC) will improve medication administration
      (as measured by missed doses)

      Secondary hypotheses

        1. Combining both interventions (PEB and NFC) will decrease patient refusal of VTE
           prophylaxis

        2. Combining both interventions (PEB and NFC) will decrease missed doses for reasons other
           than patient refusal

        3. Overall, PEB intervention will be more effective than NFC in reducing missed doses for
           any reason:

             1. The PEB intervention will be more effective than NFC in reducing in reducing
                patient refusal

             2. The NFC intervention will be more effective than PEB in reducing missed doses for
                other reasons of missed doses other than patient refusal

        4. There will be a differential effect on medicine and surgery floors

        5. There will be a differential effect by patient level characteristics (race, age, sex)

        6. There will be a differential effect on high vs. low performing floors

        7. There will be a differential effect dependent on pharmacological dosing regimen (i.e.
           medication, frequency)

        8. There will be an overall decline in the incidence of VTE events (all, DVT, PE)

      Design A single institution, crossover, cluster randomized controlled trial (x-cRCT).

      Intervention

      In the PEB arm, the intervention will include:

      A charge nurse will intervene in real-time via an EHR-triggered alert when there is
      documentation that a dose of VTE prophylaxis medication is not given for any reason. The
      charge nurse will speak to the bedside nurse and one of them will provide the patient with
      the education bundle including one-on-one personalized discussion, supplemented by a 2-page
      paper handout and patient education video.

      In the NFC arm, the intervention will include:

      Nurse leadership (i.e. managers, directors) will provide data to all nurses on their personal
      clinical effectiveness with the proportion of doses of VTE prophylaxis administered. The data
      will have comparisons to their nurse peers on the same floor. Coaching for nurses will
      include one-on-one conversations with bedside nurses with lower performance than their peers.
    
  