
    
      Despite global gains in female-controlled HIV prevention strategies, the incidence of HIV in
      adolescent girls and young women (AGYW) continues to rise. Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP)
      has been shown to reduce the risk of HIV acquisition in trial settings, however real-world
      effectiveness at scale is limited by poor adherence.

      An important barrier to uptake and adherence to HIV prevention services among AGYW is the
      experience of judgmental, and non-empathetic interactions with health care workers (HCWs).
      New strategies are needed to improve provider counseling and communication skills to support
      PrEP adherence among AGYW. Standardized patient actors (SPs) have been used in a variety of
      settings to improve clinical assessment and care skills, as well as patient outcomes.

      The "PrIYA-SP" study aims to improve HCW communication skills and adherence to PrEP
      guidelines through a cluster randomized trial of a SP actor training intervention.
      Twenty-four facilities that currently offer PrEP to AGYW in Kisumu County, Kenya will be
      selected. The first phase will include a cross-sectional assessment by unannounced SPs who
      will present to clinics portraying AGYW seeking PrEP, according to case scripts. Following
      the baseline assessment, 12 facilities will be randomized to the SP training intervention.
      The two-day intervention consists of didactic sessions covering national guidelines and
      communication skills, values clarification exercises, role playing sessions with SPs, and a
      group debriefing with HCW participants. Following the intervention, unannounced SPs will
      repeat the cross-sectional assessment.

      The primary outcome is quality of counseling, defined as adherence to national guidelines for
      PrEP delivery and use of non-judgmental communication skills. An intention-to-treat (ITT)
      analysis will be used to evaluate whether the SP training intervention resulted in higher
      quality counseling at intervention compared to control facilities, adjusted for relevant
      baseline characteristics and quality measures. The investigators hypothesize that this SP
      training intervention will improve quality delivery of PrEP to AGYW compared to standard of
      care.

      Results from this study will directly inform operational guidelines for PrEP delivery to AGYW
      in low-resource settings and offer a potentially scalable strategy to improve PrEP service
      delivery and adherence among AGYW.
    
  