
    
      OBJECTIVES AND PURPOSE

      The aim is to determine whether a brief course of antibiotics following therapeutic ERCP can
      reduce post-ERCP cholangitis in patients for whom antibiotics are not already indicated.

      STUDY DESIGN

      The study will be a prospective, randomized trial consisting of 452 patients who are
      scheduled to undergo therapeutic ERCP at the LAC+USC Medical Center for standard indications.
      Patients undergoing ERCP for therapy of bile duct problems including choledocholithiasis,
      malignant obstruction, jaundice, and bile leak will be eligible. Those with mandatory
      antibiotic requirement will be excluded.

      Patients will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio using a computer generated randomization
      schedule and allocation will be concealed.

      Patients will be randomized during the ERCP procedure, once decompression of the duct is
      achieved (either obstruction cleared or stent placed), to ensure that patients who are at
      increased risk (because of inability to decompress the duct with a stent or clearance) will
      be excluded from the study. Those randomized to the antibiotics arm will receive intravenous
      antibiotics (ceftriaxone 1gm) immediately following the ERCP procedure and will take oral
      antibiotics (levofloxacin 500mg) once daily for 3 subsequent days. This regimen is chosen to
      most closely reflect the actual clinical practice in our center. Those in the no antibiotics
      arm will not receive antibiotics. However, if they develop findings of cholangitis or other
      infection they will be treated with antibiotics. Comprehensive data including procedure
      indication will be recorded.

      The primary outcome will be the development of post-ERCP cholangitis. Post-ERCP cholangitis
      will be defined by the 2013 Tokyo Guidelines

      The secondary outcomes will include length of hospital stay and adverse events attributable
      to antibiotic use such as allergic reactions or diarrhea. All patients will be assessed 1, 3,
      and 7 days after the procedure by in-person visits for inpatients and telephone calls for
      outpatients. Patients who have fever, pain, jaundice, or signs of an adverse antibiotic
      outcome will be evaluated as would be done per standard clinical care.

      Randomization scheme. Patients will be randomly assigned using a computer generated
      randomization schedule with concealed 1:1 allocation to receive a prophylactic course of
      antibiotics or no antibiotics.

      ASSESSMENT OF EFFICACY AND SAFETY

      Side effects/Toxicities to be monitored.

      Major adverse outcomes which could be associated with antibiotic therapy will be recorded
      including unexpected allergies (such as rash or angioedema), adverse drug reactions (such as
      diarrhea, nausea). Patients who have diarrhea will be tested for Clostridium difficile
      colitis. The overall rate of these antibiotic associated events is estimated at
      0.5-2%.2,13-15

      CRITERIA FOR EVALUATION AND ENDPOINT DEFINITIONS

      The outcome status (in terms of rates of cholangitis and pancreatitis as well as antibiotic
      toxicity and adverse events) of all eligible patients will be reported. All eligible patients
      who begin treatment will be included in the analysis of survival and time-to-failure.

      Endpoint Definitions

      Primary outcome: The primary outcome will be the development of DEFINITE post-ERCP
      cholangitis in <7 days.

      Post-ERCP cholangitis will be defined by the 2013 Updated Tokyo Guidelines (TG13) which are
      the international standard.12 As the patients in this study are by definition undergoing
      therapeutic ERCP, criterion C will have been fulfilled.

      A) Systemic Inflammation

      B) Cholestasis

      C) Imaging-biliary dilation and/or evidence of etiology

      Secondary Outcome #1: We will compare the proportions of mild, moderate, and severe
      cholangitis in the two groups based on the Tokyo Guidelines (see below)12

      Secondary Outcome #2: "Suspected cholangitis", as defined by the Tokyo guidelines (see table
      1 above) within 7 days of ERCP.

      Secondary Outcome #3: The requirement for a repeat procedure as defined by ERCP, percutaneous
      drainage, surgery for cholangitis within 7 days of ERCP.

      Secondary Outcome #4: The length of hospital stay after ERCP.

      Secondary Outcome #5: The rate of post-ERCP pancreatitis, defined as: new onset upper
      abdominal pain, an amylase or lipase ≥3 times the upper limit of normal, and hospitalization
      for ≥2 nights following ERCP.

      Secondary Outcome #6: The rate of allergic reactions, serious adverse events, and C.
      difficile colitis attributable to antibiotic use.

      The time period of all outcomes will be within 7 days of ERCP. Inpatient or telephone
      assessments will be done at 1, 3, and 7 days after ERCP for all patients. Any patients who
      are suspected to have pancreatitis or cholangitis will be advised to return to the endoscopy
      area immediately for a physical examination as well as vitals signs and laboratory assessment
      (see telephone form). In cases where there is potentially evidence of cholangitis or
      pancreatitis, the PI and study team will define whether the clinical constellation is most
      suggestive of cholangitis, pancreatitis or both processes.

      STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS

      The goal of this randomized study to determine whether a prophylactic antibiotic course can
      prevent cholangitis following therapeutic ERCP. Review of 200 patients at LAC USC in whom
      antibiotic course was given revealed a rate of cholangitis of 1%. A meta-analysis of
      randomized trials of antibiotics to prevent ERCP cholangitis suggested a rate of 5.8% in the
      control (no antibiotics group) with the largest individual trial reporting a rate of 6%.8
      Pubished rates for cholangitis without antibiotics of approximately 6%. Thus at an α=0.05,
      β=0.8 and assuming attrition of 5% we estimate that a sample size 452 (226 per group) will be
      adequate to detect a statistically significant difference in the rate of post-ERCP
      cholangitis (assuming a difference of 1% versus 6%) within 7 days.

      Intent-to-treat analyses of dichotomous outcomes will be compared using a Fischer's exact
      test and continuous outcomes will be compared using a Wilcoxan rank sum or T tests, depending
      on distribution. Multivariate logistic regression will be used for sensitivity analysis for
      the primary outcome if there is any imbalance in baseline characteristics, as well as if
      there are differential patterns of missing data or adherence between groups.
    
  