
    
      The Hamilton Depression Scale is the most widely used scale for measuring the severity of
      depression worldwide. It was designed to measure the severity of depression in already
      diagnosed patients with major depressive disorder. It includes 17 entries rated from 0 to 2
      or from 0 to 4, thus giving a total score ranging from 0-50.

      The scores are scored through the symptoms reported by the patient during the interview, the
      evaluator's observations and the information collected from third parties (relatives,
      nurses). The markings do not distinguish between the intensity and frequency of the symptoms,
      but these two should be equally at the discretion of the assessor. The scale covers the
      condition of the patient in the week preceding the mark for most symptoms, except for sleep
      disorders related to the last three days.Health-related quality of life is calculated using
      weighted questionnaires focusing on the general health level of the individual or the impact
      of specific diseases on the quality of life of the patient.

      These questionnaires are based on a common theoretical background, according to which the
      measurement of biological functionality is a basic, but not sufficient, assessment of health.
      Apart from the good functioning of organic systems, which represents the traditional
      biomedical model of health, the need for an assessment of the general well-being and
      functioning of the individual in all areas of his life is also important.

      The EQ-5D questionnaire is a self-completed tool for measuring the quality of life and
      consists of two parts:

      The first part records the person's health profile. Five dimensions are used, referring to
      (a) mobility, (b) self-handling, (c) routine activities, (d) pain-discomfort and (e)
      stress-depression. Each of these dimensions takes three values: 1 = no problem, 2 = some
      problems, 3 = significant problems. Altogether, three health situations are recorded,
      representing 243 cases. The best mental state is described as "11111", meaning that there is
      no problem in terms of mobility, self-care, routine activities, pain and anxiety. The worst
      mental health status gets the "33333" values, which means significant problems in the above
      five dimensions.

      The second part presents a visual analogue scale (VAS) in the form of a "health thermometer",
      which takes values from 0 = worse mental health to 100 = excellent mental health.
      Intermediate values of the optical proportional scale indicate intermediate health status.
      This scale is based on the person's subjective assessments of his / her state of health.

      Using the EQ-5D, it is possible to estimate the benefit enjoyed by the individual from
      different health situations.

      The HAM-A scale was one of the first assessment scales developed to measure the severity of
      anxiety symptoms and is still used up to now in both clinical and research environments.

      The scale consists of 14 elements, which are determined by a series of symptoms, and measures
      both mental (mental stimulation and psychological discomfort as well as physical anxiety
      (physical anxiety disorders).

      Each question is scored on a scale of 0 (none) to 4 (very serious), with a total score of 0
      to 56. A score of less than 17 indicates mild severity, 18-24 mild to moderate severity and
      25-30 mild to severe.
    
  