
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety of multiple combination regimens of IO-agents (PF04518600 [Ox40
      agonist monoclonal antibody (mAb)], avelumab [PD-L1 antagonist mAb], hypomethylator therapy
      (azacitidine), anti CD33 mAb (gemtuzumab ozogamycin, GO), Bcl-2 inhibitor (venetoclax) and
      smoothened pathway inhibitor (glasdegib) in patients with relapsed/refractory (RR) acute
      myeloid leukemia (AML).

      II. To evaluate the composite complete response (CRc) defined as complete response (CR) +
      complete response with incomplete recovery of platelets (CRp) + complete response with
      incomplete recovery of counts (CRi) within 3 months of therapy initiation in patients with RR
      AML of: Arm A. PF-04518600 alone, Arm B. azacitidine + venetoclax + GO, Arm C. azacitidine +
      aveluma + GO, Arm D. azacitidine + venetoclax + avelumab, Arm E. Azacitidine + avelumab +
      PF-04518600, Arm F. GO + glasdegib.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the morphologic leukemia free survival (MLFS), partial response (PR),
      hematologic improvement (HI) rate of patients with RR AML treated on arms A-F.

      II. To assess relapse-free survival (RFS), time to next therapy (TNT), 4-week and 8-week
      mortality, and overall survival (OS) of patients with RR AML treated on arms A-F.

      III. To assess minimal residual disease (MRD) by multiparametric flow-cytometry at response
      (+/- 1 month) and assess correlation of MRD to OS in arms A-F.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To study immunological and molecular features at baseline and at predefined time-points
      on-therapy with each combination in the peripheral blood and bone marrow to include
      quantification of immune ligand expression by the AML/myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) blasts
      and AML/MDS stromal components (myeloid-derived suppressor cell [MDSC]s, monocytes and
      mesenchymal stem cell [MSC]s) including galectin 9, 4-1BBL, ICOSL, PD-L1, PD-L2, OX-40L,
      CD137L, others.

      II. To study immunological and molecular features at baseline and at predefined time-points
      on-therapy with each combination in the peripheral blood and bone marrow to include
      determination of the quantitative expression of positive and negative co-stimulatory
      molecules including 4-1BB, CTLA-4, ICOS, PD-1, OX40, LAG-3, TIM-3, HLA-DR, Ki67, others on
      T-lymphocyte subsets.

      III. To study immunological and molecular features at baseline and at predefined time-points
      on-therapy with each combination in the peripheral blood and bone marrow to include
      identification of the immunophenotype of tumor-infiltrating T-lymphocytes (TILs) pre- and
      post-therapy including CD8+, CD4+ effector, CD4+ regulatory TILs and central memory, effector
      memory, and naive T-cell subsets among the CD4 and CD8 populations.

      IV. To develop a micro-array based gene expression profile (GEP) predictor of response to the
      immune combinations using either baseline ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing and/or
      nanostring.

      V. To perform a validated next generation sequencing (NGS)-based analysis for the detection
      of somatic mutations in the coding sequences of 28 genes commonly mutated in AML at baseline
      and on treatment to identify baseline predictors and clonal evolution on treatment and/or
      whole exome sequencing (WES) in selected cases.

      VI. To identify clonal T-cells by performing T-cell repertoire analysis at baseline and
      longitudinally on therapy on the peripheral blood and/o bone marrow samples.

      VII. To assess levels of cytokines at baseline and longitudinally on therapy in peripheral
      blood and/or bone marrow.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose escalation study of anti-OX40 antibody PF-04518600 followed
      by a phase II study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 6 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive anti-OX40 antibody PF-04518600 intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on
      days 1 and 14. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive azacitidine IV over 10-40 minutes or via injection subcutaneously
      (SC) on days 1-7 or 1-5 and 8-9. Patients also receive venetoclax orally (PO) on days 1-28
      and GO IV over 2 hours on day 8. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM C: Patients receive azacitidine and GO as in Arm B. Patients also receive avelumab IV
      over 60 minutes on days 1 and 14. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM D: Patients receive azacitidine and venetoclax as in Arm A and avelumab as in Arm C.
      Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM E: Patientss receive azacitidine and avelumab as in Arm C and anti-OX40 antibody
      PF-04518600 as in Arm A. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM F: Patients receive GO IV over 2 hours on days 1, 4, and 7, and glasdegib PO on days
      1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After conclusion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then every 3-6
      months for up to 5 years.
    
  