
    
      Background: Food addiction is the concept that individuals can be "addicted" to foods,
      particularly highly processed foods. This concept has attracted growing research interest
      given rising obesity rates and engineering of food products in industrialized countries. Food
      addiction is assessed using the validated Yale Food Addiction Scale (YFAS), which applies
      substance use disorder criteria from the most recent Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of
      Mental Disorders to the consumption of these types of foods. Prevalence estimates of food
      addiction range from 8-15% in two nationally representative samples in the U.S. and Germany.
      Although food addiction is not a currently recognized mental disorder, individuals do
      identify as being addicted to foods and self-help organizations such as Overeaters Anonymous
      have existed since 1960 to purportedly treat it (i.e., through abstinence). However, little
      research has been conducted on how abstinence approaches work and such methods may even be
      harmful for individuals with eating concerns, given the risk of disordered eating. Currently,
      there are no empirically supported treatments for food addiction. However, evidence-based
      treatments do exist for addictions and eating disorders, such as Adapted Motivational
      Interviewing (AMI) and Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT), which may prove beneficial for
      food addiction, given neural similarities between substance addiction and binge eating, and
      the potential for high ambivalence. AMI is designed to allow clients to voice their own
      motivations for change and the use of AMI skills by therapists has been shown in
      meta-analyses to predict this type of change talk, which then predicts positive behavioural
      outcomes, Given that food addiction is also associated with internalized weight bias and
      lower eating self-efficacy, AMI techniques in fostering acceptance, highlighting client
      strengths, and providing psychoeducation may help to lower self-blame and bolster confidence
      to change one's eating habits.

      Method: The current study proposes a randomized controlled trial using a four-session AMI and
      CBT intervention for food addiction. Due to COVID-19 limitations, all intervention sessions
      will be conducted virtually over secure videoconferencing technology or by telephone,
      expanding access to all adult community members across the province of Ontario in Canada. The
      intervention combines the personalized assessment feedback and person-centred counselling of
      AMI with CBT skills for eating disorders, such as self-monitoring of food intake and stimulus
      control. The aim is to motivate participants to enact behavioural change, such as moderate
      consumption of processed foods in a harm reduction approach. Twenty randomly selected session
      tapes will be reviewed by two trained coders to assess for MI adherence using the most
      commonly used MI fidelity measure. The intervention condition will be compared to a wait-list
      control (WLC) group. Both groups will be assessed at pre- and postintervention periods, as
      well as over a 3-month follow-up period to assess maintenance effects.

      Hypotheses

      Primary Hypotheses - Food Addiction and Binge Eating Frequency (H1-H3)

        -  H1: Compared to WLC, AMI will lead to a significantly greater reduction in food
           addiction symptoms (using the YFAS 2.0) at postintervention and up to 3 months
           postintervention.

        -  H2: Compared to WLC, AMI will lead to a significantly greater reduction in self-reported
           consumption of highly processed foods specified in the YFAS 2.0 (using the Canadian Diet
           History Questionnaire II) at postintervention and up to 3 months postintervention.

        -  H3: Compared to WLC, AMI will lead a to significantly greater reduction in number of
           binge eating episodes (using select Eating Disorder Examination Questionnaire questions)
           at postintervention and up to 3 months postintervention.

      Secondary Hypotheses - Readiness for Change, Eating Self-Efficacy, and Weight Bias
      Internalization (H4-H6)

        -  H4: Compared to WLC, AMI will lead to a greater increase in motivation for changing
           one's food addiction symptoms (e.g., reducing consumption of highly processed foods;
           using Motivational Rulers) at postintervention.

        -  H5: Compared to WLC, AMI will lead to a significantly greater increase in eating
           self-efficacy (using the Weight Efficacy Lifestyle Questionnaire) at postintervention.

        -  H6: Compared to WLC, AMI will lead to a greater reduction in weight bias internalization
           (using the Modified Weight Bias Internalization Scale) at postintervention.

      Secondary Hypotheses - Other Eating-Related Constructs (H7-H14)

      It is hypothesized that AMI will lead to significantly greater reductions in other
      eating-related constructs compared to WLC at postintervention and up to 3 months
      postintervention, in terms of:

        -  H7: self-identified food addiction,

        -  H8: addiction-like eating behaviour (AEBS),

        -  H9: binge eating symptoms (Binge Eating Scale),

        -  H10: loss-of-control eating (Loss of Control over Eating Scale),

        -  H11: emotional eating (Emotional Eating Scale),

        -  H12: general appetite for palatable foods or hedonic hunger (Power of Food Scale),

        -  H13: cravings for specific highly processed foods (Food Craving Inventory),

        -  H14: Body Mass Index (BMI)

      Tertiary Hypothesis - Working Alliance (H15-17)

      Given that a collaborative partnership is key component of MI and that there is a robust
      positive association between working alliance and treatment outcomes, it is hypothesized that
      there will be positive associations between postintervention working alliance (using the
      Working Alliance Scale Short Form Revised) and postintervention motivation for change (H15),
      eating self-efficacy (H16), and weight bias internalization (H17).

      Sample Size: Based on a power analysis and previous effect sizes following AMI interventions
      for binge eating (Cohen's d = 0.76), a total sample size of n = 58 is needed. Accounting for
      previous withdrawal rates and an inclusion rate of 44.6% in a similar study, a total of 131
      individuals should be recruited. Recruitment is estimated to take place over 5 months
      beginning in March 2021. Given the 3-month follow-up, participation is estimated to end in
      March 2022.

      Analyses: To determine whether both AMI and WLC groups are equivalent in terms of sample
      characteristics as a result of randomization, independent samples t tests will be conducted
      on baseline variables such as age, BMI, YFAS severity, and binge eating frequency. To
      determine whether sample characteristics differ between treatment completers and dropouts,
      independent samples t tests will be conducted on the same baseline variables and working
      alliance. Lastly, to determine if equal proportions dropped out of the AMI and WLC groups, a
      chi square test will be conducted.

      Primary, Secondary, and Tertiary Outcomes: For the primary outcomes (i.e., YFAS symptoms,
      binge eating frequency, and consumption of highly processed foods), given the between-groups
      and repeated-measures mixed design, a 2 (group: WLC vs. AMI) x 4 (time: baseline,
      postintervention, and 1- and-, 3-month follow-up) mixed analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be
      conducted on SPSS statistical software. For the secondary outcomes (i.e., readiness for
      change, eating self-efficacy, and weight bias internalization), a 2 (group: WLC vs. AMI) x 2
      (time: baseline, postintervention) mixed ANOVA will be used to compare the WLC and AMI groups
      from pre- to postintervention. For the other secondary eating-related outcomes, the same 2
      (group) x 4 (time) mixed ANOVAs described above will be used to compare WLC and AMI groups
      across time. For the tertiary outcomes, to determine if there is a positive association
      between working alliance and readiness for change, eating self-efficacy, and weight bias
      internalization, two-tailed, bivariate, Pearson's correlation analyses will be performed. To
      explore the changes in readiness for change, eating self-efficacy, weight bias
      internalization, and working alliance from pre- to postintervention, paired samples t tests
      will be used for the AMI group for these four constructs. Prior to data analyses, data will
      be checked for bias and corrected as necessary. Any interactions from the ANOVAs will be
      followed up with planned contrasts, with the control group and baseline as the base
      categories for the between-groups and repeated-measures variables, respectively.

      Assuming that there are no valid reasons to ignore missing data and to conduct complete case
      analysis (e.g., if less than 5% of data are missing), and assuming that data are missing at
      random, multiple imputation will be conducted on SPSS for the missing values, with at least
      50 imputed datasets in order to reduce sampling variability in the imputation process.
      Results from complete case analyses and multiple imputation analyses will be compared for
      differences. To reduce bias of the imputation model, the model will include any variables
      that predict missing data. SPSS will automatically scan the data for a monotone pattern of
      missing values, and if such a pattern is present, a monotonic multiple imputation will be
      conducted. The default number of iterations per missing variable used will be 10 but at least
      50 imputed datasets will be computed. If data are not assumed to be missing at random,
      sensitivity analyses will be performed for missing binary data.

      Satisfaction Evaluation: Descriptive statistics will be obtained for the three quantitative
      satisfaction questions (e.g., an average score for how satisfied participants were with the
      research study). Qualitative responses from the open-ended questions will be analysed as per
      thematic analysis methodology.

      Treatment Adherence: The minimum threshold of MI adherence will be based on the Motivational
      Interviewing Treatment Integrity Code (MITI) basic competence and proficiency thresholds for
      clinicians. Specifically, summary scores must fall in at least the "fair" scores (i.e., the
      Relational score must be 3.5/5, the Technical score must be 3/5, 40% of the reflections must
      be complex reflections, and the reflection-to-question ratio must be 1:1). If all four
      domains meet these thresholds, then the session will be rated as 100% fairly adherent, which
      will be the minimum goal. An average percentage of "fair" adherence across raters and tapes
      will be calculated to determine if sessions met this threshold. To determine interrater
      reliability for each summary score, a two-way mixed-effects model, using the mean of two
      raters (k = 2) and absolute agreement will be used. Intraclass correlation coefficients and
      their 95% confidence intervals will be reported from the SPSS output.
    
  