
    
      1. Development of suitable mushroom-meat substitutions. In this phase, guided by
           information gathered from test subjects (see 2. below) we will devise and internally
           taste-test test meals that entail mushroom substitutions that result in potential energy
           savings of at least 125 kcal per meal.

        2. Study the palatability, consumer acceptance, and satiating properties of each
           mushroom-substituted meal using a panel of obese and normal weight men, women, seniors,
           and teenagers.

        3. Test in a controlled fashion the percent compensation over a 4-day period for the
           calorie and fat deficit that results when these mushroom-substituted meals are consumed
           compared with unsubstituted meals among obese and normal weight adults.

      In this phase, the following two hypotheses will be tested:

      Hyp 1. Use of white button mushrooms as a substitute for meat at a single meal will result in
      significant reduction in total daily energy intake during the same 24 h period.

      Hyp 2. The amount of calories and fat grams compensated for will be significantly less than
      100% when the substitution of mushrooms for meat is continued on a one-meal daily basis for a
      period of 4 days.

      Summary of experimental design: Controlled intervention study, crossover design with each
      subject serving as his or her own control. Subjects: n=40 healthy men and women, aged 18-65,
      stratified by BMI Intervention: 11-day feeding study divided into two, 4-day intervention
      periods (Mondays through Thursdays), separated by a 3-day washout period (Friday through
      Sunday); subjects fed a standard lunch meal on site, and precise food records gathered for
      any meals or snacks taken off-site. One of the two 4-day intervention periods will include
      one meal per day that substitutes one of the 7 mushroom meals devised in phases 1 and 2 in
      place of meat meals, while the other 4-day intervention period will be the same except for
      not having any substituted meals. The order of the interventions will be randomized to
      eliminate order effects. Satiety measures will be obtained as in experiment #3, as well as
      measures of diet satisfaction. Weight will be measured.
    
  