
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To assess the feasibility of applying screening tools (Groningen Frailty Indicator [GFI]
           and G8) and their relationship to treatment outcome in older patients with cancer
           undergoing standard treatment versus geriatric interventions.

        -  To compare the screening tools (GFI and G8) with a comprehensive geriatric assessment
           (CGA).

        -  To evaluate the predictive value of the screening tool to undergo standard anticancer
           treatment in terms of toxicity.

        -  To identify patients that can benefit from a geriatric intervention in order to be able
           to undergo standard anticancer treatment.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      All patients complete screening questionnaires (GFI, G8, and the standardized CGA which
      consists of the ADL (Katz index) and IADL; the Timed Up and Go; the Cancer and Leukemia Group
      B adaptation of Charlson Co-morbidity; the Mini Nutritional Assessment; the RAND Social
      Support Survey Instrument; the Folstein Mini Mental State Examination; and the Geriatric
      Depression Scale) before the start of anticancer treatment, prior to each course of
      treatment, and after 1 month of treatment. Patients also undergo physical and cognitive
      performance measures by a trained member of the research team. Patients are assigned to a
      group based on fitness for treatment. They may be reassigned after each round of assessments.

        -  Group 1 (fit to undergo standard treatment): Patients undergo standard treatment.

        -  Group 2 (vulnerable): Patients receive specialized care and individualized treatment.

        -  Group 3 (frail): Patients receive palliative care and no anticancer chemotherapy or
           targeted agents.

      Patients' medical history, vital signs, performance status, physical examination, and body
      weight are obtained and recorded. In patients receiving anticancer treatment, all adverse
      events are graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria
      (NCI-CTC) and recorded and serious adverse events will be reported according to European
      Rules.
    
  