
    
      Women with suspicious breast lesions following mammography and ultrasound will be eligible
      for the study. Those who consent to participate will be randomised either to receive Contrast
      Enhanced Spectral Mammography (CESM) in addition to standard care or to receive standard care
      alone.

      Women randomised to receive CESM will undergo the procedure either during the same visit or
      if necessary on another date within a week. Any additional suspicious lesions detected by
      CESM will be biopsied along with the original lesion either under ultrasound or x-ray
      guidance. Biopsy of suspicious lesions is standard care and not part of the research
      protocol. Those randomised to receive standard care will undergo ultrasound or x-ray guided
      biopsy of any suspicious lesion identified by ultrasound or mammography.

      Results of all biopsies will be discussed at the next multidisciplinary (MDT) meeting where a
      treatment decision (conservation surgery, mastectomy or neoadjuvent therapy) will be made for
      those with confirmed disease. MRI will be performed on appropriate women in line with
      standard practice. Additional disease detected by MRI will be biopsied, either under
      ultrasound or MRI guidance, if this will influence patient management. The results from these
      cases will be discussed at the next MDT meeting.

      For those women in either arm of the study with benign biopsy results standard care will be
      followed.

      A proforma will be used to record patient pathway, biopsy results and MDT patient management
      decisions for each case.

      For women who received both CESM and MRI, a retrospective review of these images will be made
      in order to compare diagnostic accuracy. Images from each imaging modality will be read by a
      different reader for each case. CESM images will be read without the knowledge of MRI results
      and vice versa. A proforma will be completed by readers to record findings.
    
  