
    
      The classic surgical treatment of hemorrhoidal disease is the excisional hemorrhoidectomy,
      that consist in the surgical removal of one or more hemorrhoidal cushion, it is considered a
      safe, radical and definitive treatment; however, it is not exempt of complications and the
      postoperative pain is considerable. During the last two decades the concept of treatment has
      evolved to control hemorrhoidal symptoms with less invasive techniques, such as hemorrhoidal
      bands, arterial ligation Doppler guided hemorrhoidal and more recently, the association of
      anorectal repair or mucopexia for treating hemorrhoidal mucosal prolapse .

      The results of the doppler guided transanal dearterialization and rectoanal repair (HAL-RAR)
      in the treatment of hemorrhoidal disease, show good control of symptoms, less postoperative
      pain and low rates of complications in the treatment of grade II, III and IV hemorrhoids.1
      -10

      The advantages of the HAL- RAR could be more limited in advanced hemorrhoidal disease (stage
      IV), in this stage have been reported a recurrence rate of up to 38 % 4.

      The studies with more patients treated with HAL- RAR are those of Faucheron et al3 (100
      patients) and Roka et al6 (77 patients). These studies reported good results in the treatment
      of grade IV hemorrhoids with a high rate of outpatient treatment, good control of symptoms
      (89 %) and a low rate of complications. Te complications presented 9% in the immediate
      postoperative period and 4% in the long term, all were treated conservatively.

      Currently there are few prospective randomized studies that demonstrate the results of HAL-
      RAR compared with open hemorrhoidectomy, the long-term results remain to be demonstrated.

      In the literature there are two prospective randomized studies comparing the HAL- RAR with
      excision hemorrhoidectomy1 -2. In both studies, good results were observed with these
      techniques with regard to symptom control; postoperative pain and long-term results were
      similar with both techniques.

      The publication of more randomized prospective studies to allow proper evaluation of the
      results in patients who underwent HAL- RAR is required.
    
  