
    
      Short-acting GnRH-a will be administered daily since the mid-luteal phase for pituitary
      down-regulation. 14 days after down-regulation,serum levels of follicle stimulating hormone
      (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH) and E2 will be measured. Meanwhile, about 2ml of peripheral
      blood will be preserved for SNP analysis of the GnRH receptor genes. Once the patients are
      judged to achieve pituitary down-regulation, ovarian stimulation will be started. B-mode
      ultrasonography and determination of hormone levels will be performed regularly according to
      the course of follicle maturation. An appropriate dose of human menopause gonadotropin (HMG)
      (75~150IU) will be added when follicles are larger than 12~14mm in diameter. When one leading
      follicle is >18mm in diameter, or two follicles are >17mm in diameter, or three follicles are
      >16mm in diameter, final ovulation will be triggered by a single injection of human chorionic
      gonadotropin (HCG) 4,000~10,000 IU or Ovidrel® 250μg (equivalent to HCG 6,500IU).Oocyte
      retrieval guided by vaginal ultrasonography will be conducted 35~36 hours after HCG or
      Ovidrel®injection.Fertilization and embryo culture will be performed according to the
      standard IVF or intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) protocol.Embryo transfer and
      cryopreservation will be performed 3~5 days after oocyte retrieval. Luteal support will be
      provided after embryo transfer according to the Center's routine practice. Serum β-HCG level
      will be measured 12~14 days after embryo transfer to determine biochemical pregnancy, and
      transvaginal ultrasonography will be performed 4~5 weeks after embryo transfer to determine
      clinical pregnancy.

      For data analysis, patients will be divided into two groups according to their serum LH level
      on day 14 after pituitary down-regulation - one group of patients with an LH level above the
      median of the group and another group of patients with an LH level below the median of the
      group.Comparisons will be made between the two groups in the following aspects: 1) age; BMI;
      basal levels of LH, FSH and prolactin (PRL); serum levels of FSH, LH, E2 and progesterone on
      the day of HCG injection; the numbers of oocytes retrieved, the number of cleavage, the
      number of transferrable embryos, the number of embryos transferred and the clinical pregnancy
      rate; and 2) genotyping results at the 11 SNP loci of the GnRH receptor genes.
    
  