
    
      The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) have estimated that 25.6 million
      Americans aged 20 years or older have either been diagnosed or undiagnosed with diabetes
      mellitus. As such, it is crucial for patients to receive routine eye exams during their
      annual health assessment or diabetes follow-up visit with their primary care physician to
      check for diabetic retinopathy (DR). Of those Type 2 patients with a known duration of
      diabetes of less than 5 years, DR was diagnosed in 40% of patients taking insulin and 24% of
      patients not taking insulin. These percentages are especially concerning since data presented
      by Schoenfeld and colleagues indicates that approximately 35% of Americans with diabetes
      mellitus do not receive timely and recommended eye care to detect and treat their DR.10
      Reasons for noncompliance include transfer to a retinal specialist, limited personal
      mobility, and insurance. In addition, patients regularly fail to follow-up with their
      ophthalmologist or optometrist due to the lack of visual symptoms-the lack of symptoms does
      not exclude the possibility of early diabetic retinopathy. Per the American Diabetes
      Association (ADA) guidelines, it is recommended that all Type 2 patients receive annual
      dilated eye exams. These eye exams must be completed by a knowledgeable and experienced eye
      care professional (i.e. ophthalmologist or optometrist). Early detection of DR and the
      preventative effects of therapy is an important aspect for long term vision outcomes.

      The long-term goal is to improve the detection of diabetic retinopathy through better-quality
      measures of patient compliance and screening protocols in the prime care clinic. It is
      hypothesized that in type II diabetic patients without documented retinal pathology, a
      hand-held non-mydriatic fundus camera is superior to a referred dilated eye exams for the
      screening and detection of DR.
    
  