
    
      Primary Objective:

      To evaluate the effect of iferanserin ointment on cessation of bleeding when administered
      intra-anally twice daily (BID) for 7 or 14 days in subjects with symptomatic internal
      hemorrhoids. Safety Secondary Objective To determine the safety of iferanserin ointment
      administered intra-anally BID for 7 or 14 days in subjects with symptomatic internal
      hemorrhoids.

      Exploratory Objectives:

      To evaluate the frequency of recurrence of bleeding in subjects with symptomatic internal
      hemorrhoids. To evaluate time to bleeding recurrence in subjects with symptomatic internal
      hemorrhoids. To evaluate efficacy of iferanserin ointment in the treatment of recurrence when
      administered intra-anally BID for 7 days in subjects with symptomatic internal hemorrhoids.
      To evaluate the parameters of the Symptom Satisfaction Questionnaire

      Methodology:

      Double-Blind: Phase 3, multicenter, double-blind, randomized, parallel group,
      placebo-controlled part of the study. Extension: Multicenter, open-label part of the study.

      Criteria for Evaluation:

      Primary Endpoint:

      The primary endpoint is the cessation of bleeding by the end of Day 7 that persists for the
      remainder of the treatment period (through Day 14).

      Secondary Endpoints:

      Key Secondary Endpoints Cessation of itching by the end of Day 7 that persists for the
      remainder of the treatment period (through Day 14). Cessation of pain by the end of Day 7
      that persists for the remainder of the treatment period (through Day 14). Safety Secondary
      Endpoints Adverse events (AEs). Serious Adverse events (SAEs). Physical examination.
      Hematology, serum chemistry, and urinalysis. Vital signs. Electrocardiogram.

      Exploratory Endpoints:

      Bleeding recurrence rate of symptomatic internal hemorrhoids. Time to bleeding recurrence of
      symptomatic internal hemorrhoids. Response to open-label iferanserin ointment in the
      treatment of recurrence of symptomatic internal hemorrhoids. Overall improvement score for
      the parameters of the Symptom Satisfaction Questionnaire.
    
  