
    
      Morbid obesity is defined as a body mass index (BMI: weight [kg] / height [m]2) ≥ 40 or ≥ 35
      if associated with comorbidities, and it is widely prevalent, nationally and globally.
      Overweight or obese individuals have increased morbidity and mortality. Among the many
      available treatment options, surgical management of obesity has been shown to be the most
      reliably effective in achieving sustained weight loss and improvements in glycemic,
      lipidemic, and blood pressure control, and improves five and ten year survival in contrast to
      matched controls who did not have surgery. Various surgical approaches have been used to
      provide long-term control of morbid obesity and its associated comorbidities, including
      laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy.

      During a sleeve gastrectomy the greater curvature of the stomach is separated from the lesser
      curvature and antrum, thereby eliminating ~85% of the total stomach, including the
      grehlin-producing portion of the stomach. A common complication of the procedure is
      postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV), occurring in nearly 80% of patients undergoing the
      procedure. Risk factors for PONV include: female sex, history of PONV or motion sickness,
      nonsmoking, younger age, general vs. regional anesthesia, use of volatile anesthetics and
      nitrous oxide, administration of postoperative opioids, duration of anesthesia, and type of
      surgery (including cholecystectomy, laparoscopic, and gynecological). At the individual
      level, PONV adversely impacts both patient satisfaction and quality of life scores. At the
      systems level, PONV is associated with increased length of stay (LOS) in the post-anesthesia
      care unit and hospital, and can result in increased costs.

      Both pharmacological and surgical approaches have been studied in an effort to reduce the
      incidence of PONV in sleeve gastrectomy patients. Omentopexy was unsuccessful, and
      pharmacologic prophylaxis with two [dexamethasone + odansetron; dexamethasone + granisetron;
      aprepitant + odansetron; or three (dexamethasone + odansetron + haloperidol; antiemetic
      agents was more effective than a single agent (odansetron or granisetron) alone in decreasing
      both nausea and vomiting. Even with triple therapy, just over 50% of patients were nauseous
      and 20% vomited within the first 36 hours following surgery, and hospital LOS was unaffected.
      Thus, there is a pressing need for improved control of PONV in sleeve gastrectomy patients.

      Acetaminophen (N-(4-hydroxyphenyl)acetamide; paracetamol) is a mild analgesic whose main, but
      not sole, mechanism of action is thought to arise from inhibition of the cyclooxygenase
      pathway; the intravenous (iv) formulation (acetaminophen iv; ACP-iv) received US Food and
      Drug Administration (FDA) approval in November 2010 but has been available in Europe since
      2002. It is approved by the FDA for the management of mild to moderate pain as a single agent
      and the management of moderate to severe pain with adjunctive opioid analgesics. Recently,
      two meta-analyses have evaluated the use of ACP-iv in the postoperative period for its
      efficacy in preventing postoperative pain [45] or reducing PONV [46]. In the study by De
      Oliveria et al., ACP-iv administration was found to significantly reduce postoperative pain,
      opioid consumption, and PONV. Similarly, the study by Apfel and colleagues indicated that
      iv-ACP, when administered prophylactically, reduced PONV as a consequence of improved pain
      control. With direct relevance to sleeve gastrectomy patients, a retrospective analysis of
      patients undergoing bariatric surgery (sleeve gastrectomy or laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric
      bypass) found that ACP-iv administration reduced opiate consumption and hospital LOS.

      The investigators hypothesize that administration of ACP-iv in the perioperative period will
      reduce hospital LOS in sleeve gastrectomy subjects and will be associated with a reduction in
      hospital costs. The secondary hypothesis is that administration of ACP-iv will reduce PONV
      and improve subject satisfaction scores in the same subject population.
    
  