
    
      Glaucoma is a leading cause of irreversible blindness, afflicting an estimated 60.5 million
      people worldwide. Further, glaucoma is significantly associated with symptoms of depression,
      altered mood, and anxiety. Meditation, specifically, Automatic Self Transcending Meditation
      (ASTM) may help reduce depression, anxiety, stress, and may improve quality of life. ASTM is
      a class of meditation that helps quiet the mind and induces physiological and mental
      relaxation whilst the eyes are shut. It utilizes a specific sound value (mantra) to draw
      attention inward and permit the mind to experience a restful but alert state of
      consciousness. Research suggests that ASTM is easier to learn and to teach. We will offer
      patients a specific standardized form of ASTM called Sahaj Samadhi Meditation. In this study
      we shall measure HRQoL of patients with glaucoma in both ASTM and no intervention arms. HRQoL
      is an essential measure of quality of life related to health; it helps physician identify
      hidden morbidities in clinical care as well as improves patient-physician communications.
      However, majority of current ophthalmic literature describes changes in clinical variables
      with any intervention whilst lacking information on HRQoL. We think there is a high necessity
      to assess if there is an association between HRQoL and routinely measured clinical data. A
      primary purpose of this study is to assess if ASTM confers beneficial effects on HRQoL of
      glaucoma patients compared to a no intervention arm. Additionally, we will assess changes, if
      any, that ASTM confers on self-reported depression and anxiety symptoms as a secondary
      outcome measure. PRIMARY HYPOTHESIS: We hypothesize that in patients with glaucoma ASTM + TAU
      will lead to significant improvement in HRQoL compared to TAU alone from baseline to 24 weeks
      after the initial ASTM training. SECONDARY HYPOTHESES: We hypothesize that in patients with
      glaucoma 1) HRQoL is associated with regularly measured clinical variables 2) ASTM+TAU leads
      to significant improvement in depression and anxiety symptoms at 24 weeks compared to TAU
      alone 3) The beneficial effects of ASTM on all studied variables will be sustained at 24
      weeks post intervention. STUDY DESIGN: We plan to conduct a single-center, single blind
      longitudinal randomized controlled trial. Research participants will be 142 men and women (71
      in each group). STUDY RECRUITMENT: Potential participants with mild to severe glaucoma as
      well as glaucoma suspects above the age of 18 years will be screened from the office practice
      of Dr. Hutnik as per inclusion and exclusion criteria by Dr. Hutnik at the Ivey Eye
      Institute, London, ON. Letter of information (LOI) will be given to potential participants.
      An ophthalmic examination - offered as a routine care - for each potential participant (i.e.,
      measuring best-corrected Snellen visual acuity (VA) and pinhole acuities) will be conducted.
      Data on clinical variables such as visual field and optical coherence tomography (OCT)
      measurements, including central macular thickening, will be obtained. Questionnaire: Patients
      will undergo a standardized interview performed by a trained interviewer to measure HRQoL
      using the time trade-off method (TTO). During the first office visit only, also a screening
      visit, in the interview, patients will be asked demographic questions including age, gender,
      and associated medical conditions, such as concurrent ocular conditions, ocular disease other
      than glaucoma, previous ocular surgery, inflammation, intraoperative complications,
      preoperative ocular pathology, chronic pain, general diseases that could affect the immune
      system, and actual infection. In addition, patients will be asked about co-morbidities such
      as, whether they have high blood pressure, diabetes, arthritis, heart condition, stroke, and
      other non-ocular medical conditions. Further, the following self-rated scales will be
      administered at the first office visit: Visual Function Questionnaire (VFQ-25), the Patient
      Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9), Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD-7), and Community Integration
      Questionnaire (CIQ). RANDOMIZATION: Participants will be randomized to either ASTM + TAU or
      TAU alone equally (1:1) using computer generated randomization numbers available at
      random.org. A telephone number will be available for study concerns/queries. Pre-randomized
      information will be stored using unique de-identifiers and downloaded on a secure database.
      It will not be possible to blind participants to intervention status. Outcome assessors and
      investigators will be blinded to treatment. It will not be possible to blind participants or
      staff providing treatment to the intervention status. TREATMENT ARMS: 1. ASTM: Following the
      initial measurements (common to both ASTM and control group), participants in the ASTM group
      will undergo ASTM training in groups of 10 or more by certified teachers under the
      supervision of one of the study collaborator at a room in St. Joseph's Hospital or at the
      Ivey Eye Institute, 268 Grosvenor Street, London, ON. This involves participating in four,
      90-120 minute sessions each of four consecutive days. This will be followed by weekly 60-75
      minute follow up sessions for 12 weeks and bi-weekly follow-up sessions for 13 to 24 weeks.
      Participants will be required to attend 75% of weekly, and 80% of bi-weekly sessions. In
      addition, participants will be asked to practice ASTM at home for 20 minutes twice daily over
      the study period (24 weeks). Participants will be asked to log practice frequency and any
      other noteworthy observations in the log sheet provided to them. Further, the following
      self-rated scales will be administered by a trained rater at the fourth ASTM session (week 0)
      as well as at weeks 12, and 24: TTO, VFQ-25, PHQ-9, GAD-7. 2. Control Intervention:
      Participants randomized to control arm (Treatment as Usual, TAU) will continue to receive
      their treatment as usual including glaucoma medications. They will follow assessment and
      study procedures as listed below. Following a duration of week 24 into the study participants
      in TAU arm will also be offered the opportunity to learn ASTM. No study procedures will be
      applied or any other information collected during this period. STUDY RECRUITMENT: We
      anticipate to recruit participants at a rate of at least 2 participants/week over a period of
      36 weeks allowing attainment of sample size of n=71. There is no obligation for the
      participants to take part in the study; all participation is voluntary. PRIMARY (HRQoL)
      measures at first office visit: Patients from both arms will undergo a standardized interview
      performed by a trained interviewer to measure HRQoL at the first office visit and study
      visits (week 0, 4, 6, 8, 12, and 24 weeks). SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES (first office visit
      and study visits: week 0, 4, 6, 8, 12, and 24): VFQ-25, PHQ-9, and GAD-7 will be assessed by
      a trained interviewer at the first office visit plus the study visit days (week 0, 4, 6, 8,
      12, and 24). Note that the PHQ-9 and GAD-7 are self-rated scales and participants will be
      asked to complete these in presence of the rater. ADDITIONAL PROTOCOL CONDITIONS: Individual
      patients will be withdrawn from the study interventions if it appears that to continue would
      be deleterious for their mental health or safety. This can be determined by the patient, the
      treating clinician and/or the research team and will be supported using the PHQ-9
      particularly if there is an increase in the score. Variable Specification: A dependent
      variable is created based on the HRQoL, an interval scale variable taking values between 0.0
      and 1.0. Independent variables: Visual acuity in a better-seeing eye, visual field, optical
      coherence tomography (OCT) measurements, and patients' demographic characteristics, including
      age, gender, and associated medical conditions are the independent variables. Visual field,
      optical coherence tomography (OCT) measurements, and patients' demographic characteristics,
      including age, are considered as continuous variables. Gender is categorized as male and
      female and associated medical conditions are categorized as "current medical conditions,"
      which includes concurrent ocular conditions, inflammation; "other diseases," which includes
      ocular diseases other than glaucoma, chronic pain, general diseases that could affect the
      immune system, and actual infection; and "medical history," which includes previous ocular
      surgery, preoperative ocular pathology, and intraoperative complications. Data Grouping:
      Based on BCVA, study participants will be grouped to visual acuity in better seeing eye
      (group 1, 20/20 to 20/40; group 2, 20/50 to 20/100; group 3, 20/200 to no light perception).
      Better seeing will be used since a correlation has been shown between utility score and
      better seeing eye. These 3 groups were chosen since group 1 represents legal driving vision,
      group 2 represents moderate visual acuity loss, and group 3 represents legal blindness. Data
      Analysis: As has been done in many other studies, HRQoL will be calculated by dividing the
      number of years a patient is willing to trade in return for improved quality of life by the
      estimated numbers of years of remaining life subtracted by 1.0. Mean, standard deviation, and
      95% confidence interval for continuous variables such as visual field, OCT measurements, age,
      and utility value, will be calculated. For categorical variables, visual acuity in the
      better-seeing eye, gender, and associated medical conditions, proportions will be calculated.
      The chi-square test statistic for independence will be used to compare unwillingness to trade
      time in TTO. The unpaired, two-tailed Student t-test will be used to evaluate the effect of
      visual acuity in the better eye in four groups and gender on mean of time trade-off utility
      values. Non-response issues: Non-respondent patients' characteristics will be compared with
      respondent patients,' and if they do not appear to be statistically significantly different,
      then these results will be generalized to the sample and population. Data will be analyzed
      using STATA Software (Version 12.0). The unit of analysis is the HRQoL. Univariate and
      bivariate analysis will be performed for each independent variable against the dependent
      variable to elicit the impact of each factor on the pattern of HRQoL without adjusting for
      the effect of other variables. Models will be deemed statistically significant if they are
      associated with a significant F value (p < 0.01) and if they explain over 15% variability of
      the dependent variable. Only those independent variables that are statistically significantly
      associated with the HRQoL (p < 0.05) will be used for model construction. Since the dependent
      variable is continuous, we plan to use a non-linear regression model to assess the effect of
      each independent variable on the dependent variable, while controlling for the confounders.
      Multicollinearity, high correlation between independent variables, and interaction effects
      will be evaluated for the model. Validation Analysis: Validation will be performed on the
      developed NLR model. The collected data will be divided into two portions: one portion,
      called the "main data," will contain 80% of the samples of the total collected utility values
      and its associated data; the other portion, called the "test data," will contain the
      remaining 20%. Validation will be done using test data but having the same coefficient values
      as the main data to calculate the percentage of correct cases.
    
  