
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare central review-based progression-free survival in poor prognosis carcinoid
      patients treated with either depot octreotide (octreotide acetate) plus bevacizumab, or depot
      octreotide plus interferon (recombinant interferon alfa-2b).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare overall survival, time to treatment failure and traditionally reported
      progression-free survival in poor prognosis carcinoid patients treated with either depot
      octreotide plus bevacizumab, or depot octreotide plus interferon.

      II. To compare objective response (confirmed and unconfirmed complete response [CR] and
      partial response [PR]) in poor prognosis carcinoid patients treated with either depot
      octreotide plus bevacizumab, or depot octreotide plus interferon.

      III. To compare the toxicity profile of patients treated with these two regimens.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the prognostic and predictive value of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)
      expression in relation to progression-free survival and treatment effect.

      II. To compare response of 5HIAA, chromogranin A and neuronspecific enolase among patients
      with elevated levels at baseline between patients treated with octreotide plus interferon
      versus octreotide plus bevacizumab.

      III. To assess and compare the prognostic and predictive value of the combination of In-111
      pentetreotide somatostatin-receptor scintigraphy (SRS) and computed tomography (CT) vs. CT in
      relation to progression-free survival (PFS).

      IV. To assess and compare the prognostic and predictive value of the combination of SRS and
      CT vs. CT in relation to overall survival (OS) and time to treatment failure (TTF).

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive octreotide acetate intramuscularly (IM) and bevacizumab intravenously
      (IV) over 30-90 minutes on day 1.

      ARM II: Patients receive octreotide acetate IM on day 1 and recombinant interferon alfa-2b
      subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 3, 5, 8, 10, 12, 15, 17, and 19.

      Treatment in both arms repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2-6 months for up to 3
      years.
    
  