
    
      -  Multicentric,randomized, prospective and controlled study.

        -  After Institutional Review Board approval, signed written informed consents will be
           obtained from 165 adult patients with American Society of Anesthesiologists physical
           status 1-3 who are scheduled for elective surgery requiring endotracheal intubation.

        -  The following parameters will assessed and documented during the preoperative airway
           evaluation: BMI, mouth opening, thyromental distance, range of neck movement, and
           modified Mallampati classification. An 8cm non-compressible pillow.

        -  Patients will be randomized following coin toss into two groups depending on intubation
           position; Group Sniffing position(S) for obverse side and group flat position(F) for
           reverse side

        -  After premedication, American Society of Anesthesiologists' standard monitors will be
           applied, and preoxygenation for 3 to 5 minutes will be performed. After anesthesia
           induction and complete muscle relaxation as evidenced by loss of all evoked adductor
           pollicis responses to train of four stimulation of the ulnar nerve:

        -  Group sniffing (S): investigator will start by performing first videolaryngoscopy to
           find best view in flat position then the anesthesiologist will remove the Glidescope and
           the patient will be positioned in sniffing position using the pillow and another
           videolaryngoscopy will be attempted in sniffing position to find best view in this
           position and the patient will be intubated in this position.

        -  Group flat (F): same procedure will be done but starting from sniffing position and the
           patient will be intubated in flat position.

        -  The laryngoscopist will be asked not to use external laryngeal manipulation and to use
           the same lifting force throughout the study period. If these maneuvers deemed necessary
           for tracheal intubation (no visualization of vocal cords from full inflation to full
           deflation or the reverse, the laryngoscopist will be asked grade the view before
           applying the maneuver then use the required maneuver and record which intervention was
           needed and utilized.

        -  The estimated time to review theses different head elevation degrees is around 45
           seconds.

        -  After preoxygenation technique we have a margin of 6 to 8 minutes of apnea without
           significant desaturation. Investigator will exclude also patients with high risk of
           desaturation (obesity and initial low saturation).

        -  The indirect laryngoscopic views will be graded using the same grading method used for
           direct laryngoscopy i.e. modified Cormack and Lehane. POGO score (percent of glottis
           opening viewed) will be also used to subcategorize subjects whose views lie between
           grade 1 and 3 C&L.

      Analysis of the recorded videolaryngoscopic attempts will be performed later by a blinded
      researcher who was not involved with airway management.
    
  