
    
      Phenylketonuria(PKU) is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by a defect in the enzyme
      phenylalanine hydroxylase(PAH). this incidence of PKU in the US is about 1:15,000 births. The
      disease is pan ethnic with more prevalence among individuals of European ancestry. Recently,
      a number of patients with PKU showed a marked decrease in their blood Phe levels when the
      cofactor for PAH, tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) was given orally. All these patients had
      mutations in PAH while the metabolism of BH4 was normal. These observations were confirmed by
      several centers including a pilot study conducted in our institutions. In the study in our
      centers, we have identified 21 of 36 patients tested who responded favorably to BH4.

      Recognizing the difficulties with phenylalanine restricted diet, an NIH Consensus Conference
      on PKU held in 1999, encouraged exploring different modalities for treating PKU, and BH4 is
      among these modalities. This proposal is a three year, double blind placebo control,
      multi-center study. An oral load of 10 mg/kg BH4 wil be given to patients with PKU to
      identify those that respond with lowering of blood Phe greater or equal to 30%. Blood Phe,
      tyrosine and dietary intake will be determined at zero time and 24 hours post load. From this
      group of BH4 responsive individuals, thirty-six will be enrolled in the double blind study.
      subjects will be randomized to the treatment of placebo group. Those who enter the trial will
      have zero time assessments including blood Phe and tyrosine, dietary intake, physical exam,
      kidney function, liver function and complete blood count (CBC). Phe and tyrosine and diet
      intakes, two prior to the study and the zero time, will be averaged and used as the baseline
      measures.

      The subjects will be assigned randomly to take either 10mg/kg of BH4 orally or a placebo
      without BH4. Blood Phe, tyrosine and dietary intake will be obtained every other week
      throughout the 12 week study period. Liver function and kidney function and CBC's will be
      obtained monthly. Side effects will be evaluated and noted. Subjects will be instructed to
      record two day diet diaries prior to blood Phe sampling throughout the study. The NIH
      Consensus Report suggests maintaining blood Phe< 36 umol/l when less than 12 years of age or
      up to 900 umol/l after 12 years of age. These levels will be used to determine the efficacy
      end points of the study. At the end of three months, blood Phe and tyrosine, dietary intake,
      physical exam, kidney function, liver function and CBC will be performed. At this time
      efficacy of BH4 will be determined and all subjects will continue in an open label 12 weeks
      BH4 treatment, (10mg/kg/day), with assessments collected as in the first phase of the study.
      After the subject has had both phases they will be followed for an additional 3 months. The
      additional 3 month trial on BH4 will provide long term safety data from 18 subjects who took
      BH4 in both the first and second phase in a continuous fashion.
    
  