
    
      Obsessive-compulsive disorder is the fourth most common psychiatric disorder, affecting 1-3%
      of children and adolescents globally. The recommended first-line treatment is cognitive
      behavioral therapy with exposure and response prevention. Yet, more than 40% of patients do
      not, or only partially, benefit from therapy. A better understanding of the mechanisms
      underlying response to cognitive behavioral therapy is needed to improve treatment. In the
      TECTO study, we will conduct a combined randomized clinical trial and longitudinal
      case-control study to elucidate how neural, cognitive, emotional, and neuroendocrine factors
      moderate and mediate treatment response. At baseline, 128 children and adolescents with
      obsessive-compulsive disorder will be compared to 128 healthy control participants to map
      neurobiological, cognitive, and emotional markers of obsessive-compulsive disorder. After
      baseline assessment, patients are randomly assigned to 16 weeks of either cognitive
      behavioral therapy with exposure and response prevention or an active control treatment with
      psychoeducation and relaxation training. This design allows us to test how factors that are
      specific to cognitive behavioral therapy (e.g. exposure and response prevention) contribute
      to observed treatment effects. Our primary outcome is OCD symptom severity measured with the
      Children's Yale-Brown Obessive-Compulsive Scale. Secondary outcomes are health-related
      quality of life and negative treatment effects. To detect neural and cognitive mediators of
      treatment, we will measure brain structure and function, and cognitive performance, at
      baseline and end-of-treatment. Furthermore, we will monitor a range of therapeutic,
      emotional, family, and neuroendocrine factors before, during, and after treatment. We expect
      that findings from TECTO will have important theoretical implications and will help refine
      our understanding of OCD as a heterogeneous and multidimensional disorder. Finally, we expect
      that our findings will contribute significantly to the improvement of psychotherapy and
      development of more targeted interventions for pediatric obsessive-compulsive disorder, which
      can minimize the use of medication, prevent chronicity, and reduce the substantial
      socioeconomic burden of the disorder.
    
  