
    
      RECRUITMENT

      The participants will be recruited from the travel medicine clinic at The Ottawa Hospital
      General Campus, the National Capital Region Occupational Health Clinic, and through The
      International Association for Medical Assistance to Travellers (IAMAT), a non-profit
      organization dedicated to travel health. The study will undergo a recruitment process that is
      estimated to last for approximately one year, or until at least 100 patients complete all
      three questionnaires.

      Recruitment begins at the time of initial contact with the travel clinic or IAMAT. Travelers
      routinely phone, email or fax the travel clinic to book their pre-travel consultation and the
      clerk at the clinic records pertinent information.

      Recruitment at The Ottawa Hospital - General Campus Recruitment begins at the time of initial
      contact with the travel clinic. Travellers routinely phone the travel clinic to book their
      pre-travel consultation and the clerk at the clinic records pertinent information. At the
      time of booking, the clerk fills out a "Traveller Information Form", which contains an
      individual's name and contact information, lists the dates they will travel, and the
      countries that they plan to travel to. All travelers will be asked by the clerk if they would
      agree to be contacted by a researcher for a study. If they say yes, and the countries listed
      on the form are in line with those chosen for recruiting participants, the research assistant
      will contact them by the email or telephone number listed. The research assistant will
      send/read an email/telephone script which introduces the study and will ask participants if
      they would be interested in learning more. If they say yes, they will be provided with the
      study website information (a small paragraph describing the study with a link to study
      registration). Because the investigators recognize the difficulty of writing down website
      addresses, the traveller will have the option to provide the research assistant with their
      email address, if the research assistant does not have it already, and have the study website
      address sent to them electronically by the research assistant. The research assistant will
      not retain any personal information for any clients contacted at any time in the recruitment
      stage. The only information collected during recruitment will be the net number of clients
      called/emailed, and the net number who indicated that they would be interested in
      participating.

      Recruitment at the National Capital Region Clinic Recruitment begins at the time of initial
      contact with the travel clinic. Travellers routinely email the travel clinic. Then they are
      sent a form to complete and email or fax. For all travellers planning to visit an area with
      chloroquine-resistant malaria for one year or less, the clerk will send an email attachment
      of the study recruitment information, including the study website information. No personal
      information about the individuals contacted will be collected by the study team. The clerk
      only will relay the net number of individuals contacted to the study research assistant.

      Recruitment through travel health advertising: eNewsletters and social media Recruitment will
      begin through social media and email newsletters to subscribing members. Travel medicine
      associations with members who subscribe to receive travel health information will post the
      recruitment script in eNewsletters and on social media websites as part of their normal
      advertising procedures. When travellers observe the recruitment script in the newsletter or
      on a social media website, they can click on the link located within it, which will bring
      them to the study website. If they pass the eligibility criteria, individuals are invited to
      proceed to complete the recruitment process as described below.

      An example of one organization which will post the recruitment message is The International
      Association for Medical Assistance to Travellers (IAMAT), a non-profit organization dedicated
      to travel health. IAMAT specializes in providing pre-trip travel health advice and
      coordinates an international network of physicians and travel clinics. IAMAT would add the
      currently approved recruitment text to their eNewsletter, and put the text on their social
      media websites. Only subscribing members to their email listserv or visitors to their social
      media accounts will receive the information about the study.

      ----------

      STUDY PROGRESSION

      All potential study participants will be sent a link by email to the study website. In the
      case of IAMAT, subscribing members will receive information about the study containing the
      study link. Upon clicking on the link, they will be directed to the traveler information and
      consent form page. The page contains information about why the research is being conducted,
      the purpose of the study, a description of the study, outlines the risks and benefits of
      participation, and asks participants for voluntary consent to participate.

      If interested in participating, then they will be asked to acknowledge that they have
      reviewed the traveler information and consent form page. Those agreeing to participate will
      be directed to an eligibility page. They will be asked questions to ensure that they are
      eligible for study participation. If they are eligible, they will be invited to participate
      and register their email address for the study. They will be informed that by logging on to
      the website, they will be providing their implied consent for participation in the study.

      Once a participant enters their registration information, they will be sent a link to their
      email address that they must click on in order to begin the first survey.

      All groups will complete all three surveys at the times described below. The randomization
      process will take place during the Baseline survey.

        -  The Baseline survey is to be done before the pre-travel clinic consultation;

        -  The Post-Consult survey is to be completed immediately after the travel medicine
           consultation; and

        -  The Post-chemoprophylaxis questionnaire is to be completed one week after the expected
           date of finishing chemoprophylaxis.

      Once a participant completes all three surveys, in return for their time and dedication to
      the study, participants who reside in Canada will be offered a $5 gift card to a popular
      Canadian coffee chain (Tim Horton's).

      ----------

      RANDOMIZATION PROCESS

      Upon beginning the Baseline questionnaire, all participants will be randomized centrally into
      two groups.

        -  Group 1 will receive standard pre-travel information through the pre-travel consultation
           process.

        -  Group 2 will receive The Ottawa Malaria Decision Aid plus standard pre-travel
           information through the pre-travel consultation process.

      For those randomized to Group 2, the decision aid has been embedded in the baseline survey.
      The Decision Aid provides comparative information about malaria pill options; communicates
      probabilities for the risk of malaria; and clarifies values.

      All other questionnaires and standard medical care will remain the same for both groups of
      participants.

      ----------

      CONFIDENTIALITY

      All data collected will be coded with an independent study number and kept anonymous. The
      file linking codes to patient names will be stored in a locked filling cabinet at The Ottawa
      Hospital and stored separately from the main project files in one of Dr. McCarthy's offices.
      Only the research team will have access to these files.

      Electronic files will contain anonymized information and will be password protected and
      stored in the secure TOH servers behind the The Ottawa Hospital firewall. These data will
      only contain assigned study numbers to identify data sets. Only the research team will have
      access to this information.

      Study records may be audited by the Ottawa Hospital Research Ethics Board (OHREB).

      Participants will not be able to be identified in any of the publications resulting from this
      project.

      ----------

      PATIENT RISK

      There are no risks anticipated in this study. Participation in the study is voluntary and
      will not affect the participant's routine medical care. Patients expressing concerns about
      the information in the decision aid will be referred to their individual physician or travel
      clinic physician or nurse.
    
  