
    
      1. Contributions of white matter lesions to cognitive impairment in patients with
           subcortical ischemic vascular disease

             1. Extensive neuropsychological tests including MMSE and covering 5 cognitive domains
                including memory, executive, visuospatial, attention and language function would be
                performed on patients with SIVD and normal elderly controls matched in age and
                gender. The patients would be divided into VaD and VCIND group.

             2. Age-related white matter change rating scale, which is a visual rating scale
                developed by Wahlund, would be used to qualitative measure and locate the WML.

             3. Correlation analysis and hierarchical multiple regression analysis would be used to
                examine the relationship between general cognitive function and WML.

        2. Evaluation of microstructural white matter lesions in patients with subcortical vascular
           cognitive impairment using diffusion tensor imaging

             1. SIVD patients divided into VaD and VCIND group and normal elderly controls matched
                in age and gender would be recruited. DTI images would be acquired, and fractional
                anisotropy (FA), mean diffusivity (MD) of normal-appearing white matter in cerebral
                lobes would be determined.

             2. These diffusion measurements were compared across the 3 groups, and significant
                differences would be further performed for correlation with tests of comprehensive
                cognitive function.

        3. Evaluation of the lesions in thalamus and paraventricular white matter region in SIVD
           patients using 1H magnetic resonance spectroscopy and diffusion tensor imaging

             1. SIVD patients divided into VaD and VCIND group and normal elderly controls matched
                in age and gender would be recruited. The quantitative analysis of
                N-acetylaspartate (NAA), myoinositol (mI), Choline (Cho) and Creatine (Cr)
                resonance signals in region of interests located in thalamus and paraventricular
                white matter region would be measured. Ratios of NAA/ Cr, mI/ Cr and Cho/ Cr would
                be calculated in three groups.

             2. Conventional MRI and DTI scanning were received, FA and MD values of white matter
                in the same bilateral regions would be measured respectively.

             3. These diffusion measurements would be compared across the 3 groups, and significant
                differences would be further performed for correlation with tests of comprehensive
                cognitive function.

        4. Clinical significance of serum inflammatory markers in SIVD patients

             1. SIVD patients divided into VaD and VCIND group and normal elderly controls matched
                in age and gender would be recruited. The serum levels of sCD40L, IL-6, hsCRP were
                detected by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and fixed time nephelometry
                methods in all subjects, respectively.

             2. The relationship would be described among these inflammatory factors and WML,
                cognitive impairment in patients with SIVD.
    
  