
    
      Patients will be randomised to continue on TKI (same daily dose) versus one of the
      alternative novel treatment approaches. If a patient is not eligible for one of the
      treatments, he can be randomised for the options for which he is eligible. All treatment
      options may be open at all times. Investigators must specify before randomization for which
      treatment option they want their patient be included and randomized.

      Perspectives New treatment options will be introduced over time. The decision to introduce a
      new option will depend on the general pace of recruitment and the assessment of the potential
      efficacy and safety of the new treatment in this patient population, and will be implemented
      after scientific review by a protocol amendment.

      The available treatment arms are:

        1. TKI alone same daily dose (control arm)

        2. TKI in combination with pioglitazone

        3. TKI in combination with Avelumab (anti-PD-L1 antibody)

      Planned treatment arms for the future may be :

        1. TKI in combination with pegylated interferon

        2. TKI in combination with arsenic trioxide

        3. TKI in combination with Homoharringtonine

      Protocol plan:

        1. Control arm (Imatinib, nilotinib, dasatinib, bosutinib or ponatinib):

           Daily dose and schedule identical to the daily dose and schedule administered during the
           last 3 months

        2. Pioglitazone arm

             -  TKI : Daily dose and schedule identical to the daily dose and schedule administered
                during the last 3 months

             -  PIOGLITAZONE (Actos®):

                30 mg per day for 12 months. The dose will be increased to 45 mg per day after 2
                months in the absence of grade >1 related AE.

             -  After 12 Months :

           Continue TKI at the same daily dose and STOP pioglitazone.

        3. AVELUMAB arm

             -  TKI : Daily dose and schedule identical to the daily dose and schedule administered
                during the last 3 months

             -  AVELUMAB: 10mg/kg every 2 weeks, for a maximum of 8 IV infusions over a 4 months'
                period. (If MR4.5 is acheived by the first 3 months the 7th and 8th infusions will
                be omitted)

             -  After 12 Months :Continue TKI at the same daily dose.

        4. Other experimental arm TKI : Daily dose and schedule identical to the daily dose and
           schedule administered during the last 3 months

             -  Arsenic trioxide : to be determined after amendment

             -  Pegylated Interferon : to be determined after amendment

             -  Homoharringtonine : to be determined after amendment

             -  Drug X

             -  Drug Y
    
  