
    
      Despite remarkable advances in the procedural and clinical outcomes of percutaneous
      revascularization, chronically occluded coronary arteries remain a formidable challenge and
      unresolved dilemma in interventional cardiology. Although a TCO is identified in
      approximately one-third of diagnostic cardiac catheterizations, still an attempted
      revascularization accounts for less than 8% of all percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI).
      Such a disparity between their frequency and treatment not only underscores the technical and
      procedural frustrations associated with these complex lesions, but also the clinical
      uncertainties regarding clinical benefits with conventional TCO revascularization and the
      ongoing inadequacies of current PCI methods for sustaining restenosis-free patency following
      initial success.

      Until recently, few clinical investigations have been performed to support clinical benefit
      of TCO revascularization. In addition to relief of symptomatic ischemia, theoretical
      advantages have included enhanced left ventricular function, reduced predisposition to
      arrhythmic events, and improved tolerance of future ischemic events. In the Survival and
      Ventricular Enlargement (SAVE) trial, persistent occlusion of the infarct-related artery was
      associated with a relative risk of 1.47 in adjusted 4-year mortality (P=0.04). Since then, a
      limited number of studies documenting long-term outcomes following intended TCO
      revascularization have been performed.

      This investigational protocol is designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the Cypher®
      sirolimus eluting coronary stent (Cordis Corporation, Miami Lakes, FL) in patients undergoing
      elective revascularization of nonacute total coronary occlusions (TCO). Specifically,
      approximately 200 patients will undergo Cypher® sirolimus eluting coronary stent(s)
      implantation following successful crossing of native total occlusions with a coronary
      guidewire. The study will be conducted at approximately 17 sites in North America. Patients
      included in this trial will be scheduled for percutaneous revascularization of a non-acute de
      novo TCO in a native vessel visually estimated to accommodate a ≥3.0 mm diameter angioplasty
      balloon. Important exclusion criteria will include recent myocardial infarction (<72 hours)
      and any general contraindication to the procedure or scheduled clinical and angiographic
      follow-up. Patients may also undergo treatment of a non-target vessel lesion simultaneous
      with the index procedure within certain protocol-specified provisions. All patients will
      undergo planned angiographic follow-up 6 months following the index procedure to evaluate the
      primary endpoint of restenosis (>50% diameter stenosis) within the treated/working length
      segment compared with results obtained using the same methodology among patients undergoing
      TCO revascularization with the heparin-coated Palmaz-Schatz coronary stent (Cordis
      Corporation, Miami Lakes, FL) in the Total Occlusion Study of Canada-1 (TOSCA) (1). Important
      secondary endpoints include the occurrence of major adverse cardiac events (MACE) and target
      vessel failure (TVF) at 30 days, 6 months and 12 months post-procedure. In addition,
      angiographic outcomes of in-stent and segment restenosis within the stent and segment will be
      examined. Further, patients enrolled in the trial will have clinical follow-up annually to
      five years.
    
  