
    
      The patient will be treated in visits designated as follows:

      Visit 1: Preoperative records, clinical, radiographic examination (panoramic and periapical
      x-rays for evaluation the crown-root ratio, the apical condition of the abutment and their
      alveolar bone support of abutment) and primary impression will be performed with irreversible
      hydro-colloid impression material (alginate), The impressions will be poured with type IV
      dental stone to obtain diagnostic casts .

      Visit 2: Maxillary Face-bow will be recorded. The diagnostic casts will be mounted on semi
      adjustable articulator in centric occluding relation to evaluate the interarch distance and
      occlusal plane.

      Visit 3: primary surveying is performed. Special trays will be constructed and Mouth
      preparation will be performed by preparing guiding planes and rests seats will be prepared
      opposing to the edentulous area. Final impression will be taken by elastomeric impression
      material. The impression will be poured into type IV dental stone in order to obtain master
      cast. The master cast will be surveyed. The proposed design will be as follows: metal
      framework base saddle for edentulous areas on both sides connected with palatal strap. Aker's
      clasp on all abutments with buccal retention.

      Visit 4: the metal framework is tried into the patient's mouth. Jaw relation is recorded.

      Visit 5: The denture base will be tried in with acrylic teeth in patient's mouth.

      Visit 6: the denture base of the partial denture will be processed incorporation with the
      metal framework into the two different materials to be evaluated. The first group will
      receive the partial denture in which the metal framework incorporated with the denture base
      fabricated from PEEK material. The second group will receive the partial denture in which the
      metal framework incorporated with the denture base material fabricated from BRE-FLEX.

      Visit7,8,9: clinical measurement will be performed for one month in three visits.
    
  