
    
      Current therapies for children with Fanconi anemia (FA) and bone marrow failure, i.e.
      androgens or bone marrow transplantation, are associated with significant morbidity and
      mortality.

      This is a pilot study aiming to assess feasibility, toxicity and pharmacokinetics of oral
      Quercetin therapy in patients with FA. This is a first step towards a clinical study of the
      efficacy of Quercetin therapy in delaying progression of BMF in FA.

      Additional correlative studies will include assessment of impact of Quercetin on reduction of
      Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS), maintenance or improvement of hematopoietic stem cell (HSC)
      reserve, improvement of hematopoiesis (i.e. peripheral counts) and insulin
      sensitivity/glucose tolerance.

      This study is an open-label single arm study.

      Funding Source - FDA OOPD

      Accrual closed for the main study. Expansion cohort added to observe additional patients at
      the desired dose.

      Expansion Cohort:

      The second and third cohort of participants completed the study treatment as expected,
      tolerating Quercetin well without any DLT. Based on the PK and ROS analyses, the dose was
      increased for the fourth cohort (subjects #10-12). To observe additional patients at the
      desired dose, an expansion cohort is being added. Up to 20 patients will be enrolled in the
      expansion cohort. The purpose of the expansion cohort is to assess the effects of quercetin
      supplement at the desired dose on clinical and biological endpoints.

      Patients in the expansion cohort will receive quercetin treatment for the first 26 weeks.
      Patients will be able to continue quercetin supplement after the completion of the study
      period of 26 weeks if they wish. If patients decide to continue quercetin after the first 26
      weeks, quercetin will be provided by the investigational pharmacy for up to 1 year. Patients
      who continue quercetin supplement after 26 weeks, but discontinue quercetin before 1 year
      will be followed through the 1 year visit. Patients who discontinue quercetin supplement any
      time after the 1 year visit will be followed through the 2 year visit.

      Patients previously enrolled in the initial phase of the study (cohorts 1-4) may be
      considered for enrollment on the expansion cohort of the study provided they meet all
      inclusion and exclusion criteria.
    
  