
    
      Post-operative pain relief management remains challenging after Caesarean-section. The
      perfect postoperative analgesic regimen is yet to be elucidated, but opioids remain a
      cornerstone whether they are administered intra-thecally, or systemically or both.
      Unfortunately, opioids are associated with significant adverse effects such as respiratory
      depression, post-operative nausea and vomiting (PONV), sedation and pruritus. Therefore, the
      search for opioid sparing analgesic techniques is important.

      The study treatment consists of a quadratus lumborum block (QLB) of either 0.25%
      Levobupivacaine or a simulated sham QLB after C-section under spinal anaesthesia. The
      participants will be randomized into one of two groups with an internet based randomisation
      tool, and then allocated to either group as per the allocation in a sealed opaque envelope.

      Spinal anaesthesia will be performed in a standardised manner using 10-15mg hyperbaric
      bupivacaine, 20ug fentanyl and 100ug preservative free morphine. Anaesthetic and surgical
      management will be conducted as per the usual manner. Diclofenac 100mg suppositories and IV
      Paracetamol 1g will be administered at the end of surgery. A Morphine PCA will be connected
      to the patient in the recovery room after the intervention.

      The bilateral posterior QLB will be performed after surgery in the supine position in an
      aseptic manner. The patient will be blinded to the group intervention as the sterile drapes
      will be left hanging blocking the patient's view of the procedure. The block from the spinal
      anaesthetic will mean the patient is unaware of the procedure being carried out. A
      curvilinear ultrasound probe will be used to identify the quadratus lumborum muscle.

      Intervention group:

      Aseptic, ultrasound guided, bilateral QLB using a posterior approach. This is known as the
      QLB 2 approach. A maximum volume of 20 ml of 0.25% Levobupivacaine will be administered each
      side. After the procedure a sterile dressing will be placed on the puncture site.

      Placebo group:

      The patient will be sterilized, draped and scanned in the same manner as the intervention
      group, until the target injection point is identified. The operator will use a blunt needle
      to apply pressure to the skin, (without breaking the skin), for one minute as if they are
      performing the procedure. This will be performed bilaterally. After the procedure, a sterile
      dressing will be placed over the pressure area.
    
  