
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare whether palifermin versus placebo administered to pediatric patients three days
      prior to conditioning and three days after autologous or allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation (HSCT) is associated with a reduction in the incidence of WHO grade 3 or 4
      oral mucositis.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of palifermin. II. To evaluate the long-term
      effects of palifermin on disease outcome and survival.

      III. To compare the incidence, total dose, and duration of parenteral opioid analgesic use
      (morphine equivalents), and incidence and duration of total parenteral nutrition (TPN)
      administration in patients treated with these regimens.

      IV. To compare the incidence of febrile neutropenia and invasive bacterial infections in
      patients treated with these regimens.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether palifermin versus placebo reduces the incidence of WHO grade 3 or 4
      oral mucositis among allogeneic HSCT pediatric patients receiving methotrexate as
      graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis.

      II. To determine whether palifermin versus placebo reduces acute and chronic GVHD after
      allogeneic HSCT.

      III. To describe health care utilization (hospitalization duration, and administration of
      antibiotics, TPN, nasogastric-, nasojejunal- or gastrostomy-administered enteral nutrition,
      and blood products) in pediatric patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age in years (1 to
      2 vs 3 to 11 vs 12 to 16), type of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) (autologous
      vs allogeneic), conditioning regimen (either total-body irradiation [TBI] or melphalan vs
      neither TBI nor melphalan). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive palifermin IV once daily for 3 days prior to chemotherapy and/or
      radiotherapy in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive palifermin IV on
      days 0, 1, and 2 after autologous or allogeneic HSCT.

      ARM II: Patients receive placebo IV once daily for 3 days prior to chemotherapy and/or
      radiotherapy in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive placebo IV on
      days 0, 1, and 2 after autologous or allogeneic HSCT.

      Blood samples are collected at baseline, 32 days, and 100 days after HSCT to evaluate the
      immunogenicity of palifermin. Oral mucositis is assessed at baseline, daily for 8 days prior
      to and 32 days after HSCT, or until oral mucositis has resolved by the WHO Mucositis Scale,
      Oral Mucositis Assessment Scale (OMAS), modified Walsh mucositis scale, Oral Mucositis Daily
      Questionnaire (OMDQ), and the pain categorical rating scale.

      After completion of HSCT, patients are followed periodically for up to 10 years.
    
  