
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare pathological response, recurrence-free interval, and survival in
      patients with optimal stage III epithelial ovarian cancer or primary peritoneal carcinoma
      receiving intravenous (IV) paclitaxel and cisplatin vs IV paclitaxel and intraperitoneal (IP)
      cisplatin plus IP paclitaxel. II. Compare the toxic effects and complications of these 2
      treatment regimens in these patients. III. Determine the frequency and prognostic
      significance of BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations in these patients. IV. Determine the effect of
      non-genetic risk factors on the course of disease in BRCA1- and BRCA2-related ovarian cancer
      or primary peritoneal carcinoma. V. Compare the quality of life of these patients receiving
      these treatments.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to gross residual
      disease (present vs absent) and whether second-look surgery will be performed at the end of
      treatment (yes vs no). Blood is drawn for BRCA mutation analysis and DNA extraction before
      the start of chemotherapy, but after randomization. Patients are randomized to one of two
      treatment arms. Patients in arm I receive IV paclitaxel by 24-hour infusion on day 1 followed
      by IV cisplatin on day 2. Patients in arm II receive IV paclitaxel by 24-hour infusion on day
      1 followed by intraperitoneal (IP) cisplatin on day 2, plus IP paclitaxel on day 8. Treatment
      for both arms repeats every 3 weeks for a total of 6 treatment courses. Following
      chemotherapy, second look surgery is performed if selected by the patient. Quality-of-life
      assessments are performed prior to randomization, prior to course 4, 3-6 weeks after the
      completion of course 6 and prior to second look surgery if selected, 6 months after treatment
      is completed, and 12 months after treatment is completed. Patients are followed every 3
      months for 2 years, then every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 384 patients will be accrued for this study within 16
      months.
    
  