
    
      Community Outreach and Engagement Team will implement the research study and clinical trials
      education in experimental arms-

        1. in-person education and

        2. an online format. The education in both formats will be based on a set of key messages
           that cover information about research studies and clinical trials, including what
           research studies are, the benefits, the risks, and connection to available research
           studies and clinical trials

      Experimental Arm 1 (Aim 1a):

      The investigators will conduct in-person (one-on-one and group) educational sessions
      regarding what clinical trials and cancer research studies are. The sessions will be held in
      a variety of settings, including clinical settings (e.g., support classes provided for
      survivors, infusion suite, waiting rooms) as well as community settings (e.g., community
      centers, senior centers, libraries)-primarily targeting rural cancer survivors. The COE team
      will educate using messaging provided by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) and additional
      messaging tailored to our local context. The program's learning objectives will focus on
      improving participants' knowledge about what clinical trials and cancer research studies are
      and how to access trials and studies, increase positive attitudes toward participating in
      trials and studies, and increase their intent to enroll in trials and studies. Eligible
      participants will complete pre- and post- surveys to assess achievement of the learning
      objectives, and will also be asked a series of questions to assess their eligibility for
      existing NCCC clinical trials and research studies.

      Experimental Arm 2 (Aim 1b):

      Participants will watch a video and view website materials ('online module') developed by
      NCCC using messaging provided by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) and tailored to our
      local context. The online module's learning objectives will focus on improving participants'
      knowledge about what clinical trials and cancer research studies are and how to access trials
      and studies, increase positive attitudes toward participating in trials and studies, and
      increase their intent to enroll in trials and studies. Eligible participants will complete
      pre- and post surveys to assess achievement of the learning objectives, and will also be
      asked a series of questions to assess their eligibility for existing NCCC clinical trials and
      research studies.

      Control Arm (Active comparator): Eligible participants will be directed to watch a video
      about lung cancer screening and will complete pre- and post- surveys to assess achievement of
      the learning objectives, and will also be asked a series of questions to assess their
      eligibility for existing NCCC clinical trials and research studies
    
  