
    
      Electroencephalogram (EEG) Neurofeedback is a noninvasive way to allow the central nervous
      system to self regulate and calm the brain enough to allow the frontal cortex to function in
      an ideal state, which is the part of the brain that controls important functions including
      behavior, problem solving, memory, language, emotions, and judgment. There is limited
      research in regards to the use of EEG Neurofeedback, however, occupational therapists Cat
      Young and Lauren Hall have been using EEG Neurofeedback alongside traditional therapy as
      'background noise' with pediatric clients. These therapists have observed children experience
      steady increases in speech and language abilities, self-care tasks such as becoming potty
      trained, and better abilities to understand self-regulation of emotions with EEG
      Neurofeedback when used together with traditional occupational therapy services. EEG
      Neurofeedback is performed via a musical medley that lasts for about 34 minutes, with
      baseline numbers taken at the beginning and after the music finishes. During this time, the
      participant will wear headphones, sensory clips on the ears (3 total), and two sensors on
      their head.

      The purpose of this study is to test the effectiveness of EEG Neurofeedback in improving
      executive functioning skills in pediatric school aged children. The investigators hypothesize
      is that the EEG Neurofeedback will allow the body to filter out unnecessary information and
      white noise to focus on the task at hand, and therefore access higher levels of cognition and
      awareness by helping the brain to regulate itself. This study does not require additional
      time outside of the therapy session. Some of these clients already received treatment in
      therapy. The purpose of this consent form is to use the data gained from the client's BRIEF-2
      scores and therapy sessions to test effectiveness of this device.

      Furthermore, the purpose of the study is to determine potential benefits of using EEG
      Neurofeedback alongside traditional occupational therapy in improving executive functioning
      skills in school aged children. Requirements include children who experience impairments
      based on scores of potentially clinically elevated or clinically elevated levels on the
      Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function 2, or the BRIEF-2. This assessment is
      considered the gold standard for testing executive functioning and has over 1000 peer
      reviewed articles. At time of evaluation, the parent(s) or legal caregiver(s) will be given
      one (1) BRIEF-2 parental rating scale, which will take an average of 10-15 minutes to
      complete. Each question will be answered via a three point scale for whether they see the
      specific behavior often, sometimes, or never. Potential benefits include improved ability to
      stay on task, organize and complete tasks. There is minimal risk associated with the use of
      EEG Neurofeedback. Children might experience discomfort with the sensors placed on their head
      and attached to their ears. Some children might initially feel uncomfortable with the
      experience of being a relaxed alert state if they are prone to being in heightened alert
      states.
    
  