
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the anti-tumor activity of nivolumab as single agent and in combination with
      ifosfamide, carboplatin, etoposide (ICE) chemotherapy (nivolumab [N]ICE) as assessed by
      complete response (CR) rate prior to autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation.

      II. To estimate the proportion of patients experiencing unacceptable adverse events. (Cohort
      B) III. To assess the safety and tolerability of nivolumab + ICE chemotherapy through
      evaluation of toxicities, including type, frequency, severity, attribution, time course, and
      duration. (Cohort B) IV. To obtain estimate of overall response rate (ORR), complete response
      rate, response duration and survival (overall and event-free). (Cohort B) V. Summarize stem
      cell mobilization outcomes (e.g., total CD34+ cell yield, number of apheresis days,
      proportion of patients who achieve >= 2 x 10^6 CD34+ cells/kg). (Cohort B) VI. Evaluate
      Hodgkin lymphoma biological markers in subjects treated with nivolumab. (Cohort B)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the safety and tolerability of nivolumab +/- ICE chemotherapy through evaluation of
      toxicities, including type, frequency, severity, attribution, time course and duration.

      II. Obtain estimates of overall response rate (ORR), response duration and survival (overall
      and event-free).

      III. Summarize stem cell mobilization outcomes (e.g., total CD34+ cell yield, number of
      apheresis days, proportion of patients who achieve >= 2 x 10^6 CD34+ cells/kg).

      IV. Evaluate Hodgkin lymphoma biological markers in subjects treated with nivolumab.

      V. Among subjects who undergo autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation (AHCT), estimate
      the post-AHCT overall/progression free survival (PFS) probability and cumulative incidence of
      relapse/progression, non-relapse mortality (NRM) at 100-days, 1-year and 2-years.

      VI. Among subjects who undergo autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation (AHCT),
      characterize post-AHCT toxicities during the first 30- and 100- days post stem cell infusion
      by type, frequency, severity, attribution, time course and duration.

      VII. Among subjects who undergo autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation (AHCT),
      evaluate short and long-term post-AHCT complications, including: delayed engraftment
      (neutrophil and platelet) and infection, graft versus host disease and sinusoidal obstruction
      syndrome.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Collect deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)/ribonucleic acid (RNA) from lymphoma specimens and
      serial plasma samples for future biomarker evaluation.

      II. Evaluate potential changes in Hodgkin lymphoma biological markers of patients treated
      with nivolumab.

      OUTLINE: Patients are sequentially assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

      COHORT A: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles
      repeat every 14 days for 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients with CR or partial response (PR) receive nivolumab for an additional 6
      weeks. Patients with only stable disease (SD) after 6-week nivolumab treatment receive
      nivolumab for an additional 6 weeks or receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1,
      etoposide IV on days 1-3, ifosfamide IV continuously over 24 hours on day 2, and carboplatin
      IV on day 2 every 21 days for 6 weeks per physician/investigator's discretion. Patients with
      progressive disease (PD) after 6-week nivolumab treatment or patients with PR, SD, or PD
      after 12-week nivolumab treatment receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1, etoposide IV
      on days 1-3, ifosfamide IV continuously over 24 hours on day 2, and carboplatin IV on day 2.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      COHORT B: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on cycle 1 (cycle 1 is 14 days), day
      1 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning in cycle 2,
      patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1, etoposide IV on days 1-3, ifosfamide
      IV continuously over 24 hours on day 2, and carboplatin IV on day 2. Treatment repeats every
      21 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 2
      years.
    
  