
    
      Background, current evidence and key references

      Psychotic disorders including schizophrenia are severe mental illnesses that affect 3% of the
      population and constitute an enormous burden to patients and the society. They cause profound
      disruptions in patients' functioning including independent living skills, relationships,
      scholastic and vocational development, and are ranked by World Health Organization as the
      third most disabling medical condition. In an attempt to minimize long-term disability,
      numerous early intervention (EI) programs for psychosis have been established worldwide in
      the past decade. It is based on the premise that shortening of treatment delay and provision
      of phase-specific treatments in the initial few years of psychosis can improve illness
      outcome. Literature indicated that patients who received EI had better clinical and
      functional outcomes than those treated by standard psychiatric care. Nonetheless,
      accumulating evidence has suggested that a significant proportion of early psychosis patients
      exhibited functional deterioration even in the presence of clinical remission. Studies have
      also consistently shown that patients with psychosis frequently experience motivational
      deficits and diminished goal-directed behaviours which are key negative symptoms predictive
      of functional outcome. Functional disability thus represents an unmet therapeutic need in EI
      for psychosis.

      In this regard, there is a shift of therapeutic focus from symptom control to functional
      enhancement. It is also increasingly recognized that patients' perspectives should be taken
      into consideration in conceptualizing functional recovery and developing recovery-oriented
      service to further improve functional outcome . Owing to lack of effective treatments in
      addressing functional impairment, recently, there is an emerging interest in adopting life
      coaching to complement other interventions by its specific focus on motivation and
      functioning. Life coaching is defined as a collaborative, solution-focused, outcome-oriented
      and systematic process which aims to facilitate enhancement of life experience and goal
      attainment of an individual in various life domains . It is based on the theoretical
      framework of positive psychology and behavioural change model, and targets at building up an
      individual's potential via fostering hope, motivation, self-efficacy and self-regulation. The
      principles of life coaching thus closely align with recovery orientation that emphasizes on
      self-initiation and empowerment via person-centred and strength-based approach. In fact,
      empirical evidence suggested that hopelessness and low self-efficacy were associated with
      poor functioning in early psychosis. Conversely, increased motivation was shown to enhance
      both functional and cognitive outcomes in schizophrenia . Additionally, studies evaluating
      coaching in non-clinical population found that it significantly improved subjects' motivation
      and psychological wellbeing. Despite the growing recognition and adoption of life coaching
      approach in mental health services, it has rarely been applied in the early course of
      psychotic disorder.

      Jockey Club Early Psychosis (JCEP) project is a territory-wide specialized EI service that is
      launched in August 2009 and provides 3-year phase-specific intervention for adult patients
      presenting with first-episode psychosis (FEP) to psychiatric units of Hospital Authority
      (HA). To promote early functional recovery, JCEP project develops recovery-oriented
      intervention based on life coaching approach (recovery-oriented coaching) in addition to case
      management. This is a structured, group-based coaching program incorporating
      cognitive-behavioural and solution-focused therapeutic components. The program facilitates
      patients to undergo active change process via identification of achievable goals, formulation
      of action plans, provision of feedback and progress monitoring for goal attainment. Unlike
      the majority of therapies that focus mainly on symptoms and functional deficiencies, this
      program is strength-oriented and aims to facilitate patients to gain a sense of agency and to
      achieve sustained functional improvement via firstly, enhancing motivation, self-regulation
      and competence by positive reinforcement obtained from successive accomplishments of
      self-determined goals; secondly, providing an autonomy-supportive treatment environment with
      a context of recovery expectations; and thirdly, facilitating formation of supportive social
      network in group-based setting.

      We have previously examined perceptions of early psychosis patients on recovery, with
      achievement of adequate functioning being regarded as a key element signifying recovery. Our
      earlier study on FEP patients with EI revealed that less than one-fifth achieved recovery and
      only 43% of remitted patients were in functional remission at the end of 3-year follow-up.
      Thus, in line with the literature, our findings indicated an urgent need for developing
      effective interventions to optimize patients' functional outcome in the early illness stage
      which is otherwise regarded as a critical window of opportunity for minimizing long-term
      disability. In this context, recovery-oriented coaching program which specifically addresses
      motivational and functional impairments may prove to be an effective psychosocial
      intervention for promoting functional recovery, and thereby worthy of systematic evaluation
      in patients with early psychosis.
    
  