
    
      The loss of muscle mass in the age-associated process (sarcopenia) is a common indication in
      the field of orthopedic and cardiac rehabilitation, which may also be reinforced by previous
      immobilization and disuse of the muscles (atrophy of muscle). Sarcopenia is defined as 2
      standard deviations of average of the same sex in middle adult life. The present project
      focuses on the sarcopenia definition of the Foundation for the National Institutes of Health
      (FNIH). Their limits are < 0.789 (men) and < 0.512 (women) and are calculated by adding the
      absolute muscle mass of the extremities divided by the body mass index (BMI).

      Due to reduced muscle mass and thus limited strength / performance, the implementation of
      conventional training tools with regard to generate corresponding intensities is no longer
      possible, or in persons with additional cardiac or orthopedic restrictions heavily limited.

      In view of the existing indications, the alternative training technology whole-body
      electromyostimulation (WB-EMS) is an adequate training tool for the rehabilitation process.
      The time-saving (max 20 minutes per training session) and effective training method is
      characterized by low orthopedic and cardiac stress. Thus, WB-EMS combines both relevant
      aspects of a joint-friendly training with effects on muscle mass and functionality. Through
      the simultaneous activation of up to 10 muscle regions with corresponding, subjectively
      decidedly adjustable intensity per muscle group, up to 2,800 cm2 can be addressed.
      Synchronized to a motion video, the participants perform light physical exercises in parallel
      to the current pulses.

      The aim of the study is, to evaluate the effect of additional WB-EMS during a 4-week period
      of inpatient rehabilitation, comparing 3 groups:

        1. WB-EMS, stimulating 8 muscle groups (legs,arms, core, gluteal region)

        2. partial-WB-EMS, just stimulating the lower extremities (legs, gluteal region)

        3. control, just performing the functional, mainly eccentric motion pattern without
           stimulation
    
  