
    
      Both recombinant activated Factor VIIa (rFVIIa) as well as Prothrombin Complex Concentrate
      (PCC) are labeled for the treatment of bleeding episodes in patients with hemophilia. Many
      hospitals are also using each for the following unlabeled indications: bleeding rescue in
      surgical patients, severe multiple trauma with ongoing bleeding, intracranial bleeding < 4
      hours since symptom onset, traumatic head injury with evidence of expanding bleed,
      retroperitoneal bleed, and life-threatening bleeding due to idiopathic coagulopathy. To our
      knowledge, these two products have never been clinically compared head to head for the
      reversal of warfarin in the setting of intracranial hemorrhage.

      The rFVIIa (Novoseven) guidelines are based off of national data and utilize a dose range of
      40-90 mcg/kg of ideal body weight (2.8-6.3 mg for a 70 kg. patient) with an additional dose
      if needed. The dose cited in the literature for the management of intracerebral bleeds ranges
      from 10 to 120 mcg/kg (0.7 - 8.4 mg for a 70 kg. patient,) with higher doses associated with
      increased risk of thromboembolic events.

      The recommended dosing of PCC is 30-50 i.u. per kilogram of ideal body weight with additional
      dosing if needed. PCC (Profilnine®SD) is a mixture of the following vitamin K-dependent
      clotting factors: II (prothrombin), VII (proconvertin), IX (plasma thromboplastin component;
      PTC; Christmas factor), and X (Stuart-Prower factor). These factors are required for the
      conversion of prothrombin to thrombin and thus adequate hemostasis, and are synthesized in
      the liver.

      Currently at the most hospitals around the country, fresh frozen plasma (FFP) is the mainstay
      for reversal of warfarin-related coagulopathy in intracranial hemorrhage at the discretion of
      the treating attending physician. We propose to study all the current reversal practices in
      the intracranial hemorrhage population here at the University of Utah as part of a quality
      improvement project for both patient safety and cost.

      We will perform a safety and feasibility study comparing dosage regimens of rFVIIa, FIXa and
      fresh frozen plasma (FFP) infusion in the normalization of coagulopathy in the context of
      warfarin-related intracerebral hemorrhage. Our primary outcome is time to INR normalization
      defined as INR≤ 1.3 on two consecutive readings separated by 2 hours.
    
  