
    
      Steep Trendelenburg positioning is required for optimal surgical exposure for certain
      procedures, including robotic assisted laparoscopic urologic and gynecologic procedures. The
      position is associated with increased intracranial pressure (ICP) and its complications such
      as post-operative vision loss (POVL) and post-op delirium [Lee 2013]. Therefore, it is
      essential to measure ICP intra-operatively in order to implement real time management. The
      gold standard for ICP measurement is an external ventricular drain (EVD). However, it is
      invasive and not practical for the majority of non-neurosurgical procedures. Trans-ocular
      ultrasound measurement of Optic nerve sheath diameter (ONSD) is a non-invasive alternative
      for ICP measurement [Tayal et al 2007; Nash et al 2016]. Compared to EVD it is non-invasive,
      less expensive and efficient. It has been validated as a screening tool for identification of
      patients with elevated ICP who required treatment in several larger studies [Nash et al 2016;
      Blecha et al 2017]. During these procedures prior pre-cautions to prevent increased ICP
      focused on fluid restriction/selection. Ultrasound measurement of ONSD has not been routinely
      employed. Furthermore, consideration has rarely been given to the benefits of total
      intravenous anesthesia (TIVA) rather than volatile anesthetics for anesthesia maintenance
      during these procedures. Considering the complications of increased ICP, sonographic
      measurement could prove to be a practical method to efficiently monitor the ICP surrogate
      [Riaz et al 2016; Nash et al 2016; Banerjee et al 2017]. This study will perform
      intra-operative sonographic ONSD measurements in order to compare the change in ONSD during
      transition from inhalational maintenance anesthesia (using sevoflurane) to total intravenous
      anesthesia (TIVA) using propofol.

      While other studies have demonstrated that the use of pneumoperitoneum and steep
      Trendelenburg positioning can lead to an increase in ICP as determined by use of ONSD (Robba
      et al. 2016), this study describes the added role of ONSD measurement for guiding the choice
      of anesthesia maintenance (TIVA vs sevoflurane) during surgery in the steep-Trendelenburg
      position.
    
  