
    
      Patients who will undergo thyroidectomy using the IONM in the General Surgery Clinic of
      Istanbul, Bakırköy Dr.Sadi Konuk Training and Research Hospital. In this prospective
      observational clinical trial, the patients will be divided into two groups and the study will
      be performed as randomize. Randomization Patients who arrive consecutively, will be included
      in the study group (Group I IONM, group B IONM-sugammadex sodium). In both groups, anesthesia
      induction should be done with 3 mg / kg propofol, 2 ugr / kg fentanyl, 0.6 mg / kg rocuronium
      bromide, as the intubation tube, the number appropriate for the patient, After reaching the
      throat loom, the patient is entrapped and then the operation is started. After reaching the
      thyroid loin and hanging the throid with the swab sutures, the lobe is taken out with the
      finger maneuver and then the vascular nerve packet is dissected and the vagal nerve is
      exposed. IONM(Medtronic-NIM) were detected in the recurrent nerve thyroglossal groove and 100
      microvolts or more were measured with nerve monitoring. + Acceptance of resection was started
      and IONM After the intubation of the group B-sugammadex sodium was started, the left hand
      ulnar sinus TOF-Guard device was placed and operation started. After reaching the thyroid
      loops and hanging the throids with hanging sutures and removing the lobe with finger
      maneuver, the vascular nerve was disassembled and the vagal nerve was dislocated. Then the
      electrical value was recorded with IONM and sugammadex sodium 2 mg / kg was made. and the TOF
      response at 4th minute is over 90% of the value to be measured and if the IONM is 100
      microvolts higher, the recurrent nerve is found in the troglossal groove and the nerve is
      followed with the IONM and the resection procedure is started and the tirodidectomy will be
      performed. V0: vagal nerve initial value; V1: value before troid resection; V2: value after
      troid resection; R1: value after troid resection, R2: value after troid resection.
      Preoperative and postoperative vocal cord examination will be examined by otolaryngologist.
      Size, weight, sex, ASA scores, operation times, complications will be recorded. If there is
      no signal in RLN with intraoperative IONM and RLN paralysis will be accepted if there is
      inactivity in the vocal cord at the 1st postoperative ENT specialist vocal cord examinations.
      RLN paralysis will be accepted if there is inactivity in the cord at the vocal cord
      examination of the postoperative specialist ENT specialist. The ENT specialist and general
      surgeon will follow up and if the vocal cord is still in motion, the permanent RLN will be
      considered a paralysis.
    
  