
    
      Prostate cancer is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in men around the world.
      Because of the worldwide increase in life expectancy, a dramatic increase in the number of
      patients with prostate cancer is expected. It has been estimated that by the year 2002,
      92,000 men over 65 years of age were diagnosed annually in the European community, where
      prostate cancer will account for 12% of all new male cancer diagnoses.

      Consequently, radiation therapy is used extensively for primary therapy of prostatic
      carcinoma. The Management Report of clinically localized prostate cancer by the National
      Cancer Institute SEER program indicated that 30% of patients choose radiation therapy as
      their first treatment option. However, the ability of radiation therapy to totally and
      permanently eradicate prostatic cancer has come under question recently as a result of the
      high number of patients who have post radiotherapy elevated prostatic specific antigen (PSA)
      determinations (85%), and the high positive post irradiation biopsy rate (31 90%). With high
      local recurrence rates possibly influencing death rates, the recurrence of prostate cancer
      after potentially curative local therapy is becoming a significant urological problem. As
      patients are being treated for prostate cancer at a younger age, a significant number of them
      will ultimately fail the primary treatment and will be candidates for safe and potentially
      curative salvage therapy.

      High complication and morbidity rates associated with current salvage therapies demand new
      and improved means for eradicating recurrent local disease. Photodynamic therapy, which
      allows the destruction of a tumor by the IV administration of a photosensitizer and the local
      application of light, may provide such means. Transperineal interstitial photodynamic therapy
      is a minimally invasive procedure to treat selected patients with failed radiation therapy of
      prostate cancer. A preliminary phase 1 study using the photosensitizer
      meso-tetrahydroxyphenyl chlorine (mTHPC) in 14 patients indicated that PDT could produce
      necrosis in prostate involving cancers recurring after radiotherapy, with a low incidence of
      complications.
    
  