
    
      Hyperphosphataemia is mainly due to impaired renal phosphate excretion and primary increase
      in renal phosphate reabsorption,due to acute or chronic renal insufficiency. Renal excretion
      is so efficient in normal subjects that balance can be maintained with only a minimal rise in
      serum phosphorus concentration even for a large phosphorus load. Therefore, acute
      hyperphosphataemia usually resolves within few hours if renal function is intact.

      Although, there is multiple lines of treatment of hyperphosphatemia in end stage renal
      disease patients undergoing Hemodialysis but still inadequate. As Calcium containing
      phosphate binders may sometimes result in adverse effects such as hypercalcemia. Non-calcium
      containing phosphate binders, such as sevelamer and lanthanum, are expensive.
      Aluminum-containing agents are efficient but no longer widely used because of their toxicity.
      Several trials have shown that nicotinamide and niacin are capable of remarkably reducing
      serum phosphate levels in patients undergoing haemodialysis.

      Niacin is a water-soluble vitamin, and a part of the B complex vitamin, both nicotinamide and
      niacin (nicotinic acid) are forms of vitamin B3 . As a broad-spectrum drug that can affect
      lipid levels, niacin reduces levels of total cholesterol, triglyceride, and low-density
      lipoprotein cholesterol, while increasing high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. Niacin
      also lowers serum phosphorus levels in patients with chronic kidney disease, dyslipidemia,
      and diabetes mellitus. Furthermore, niacin plays a key role in cardiovascular diseases and
      cardiovascular-related mortality by modifying both dyslipidemia and phosphorus levels.

      Recently, nicotinic acid and related compounds such as nicotinamide have also been shown to
      decrease phosphorus absorption in the gastro-intestinal tracts of animals by a different
      mechanism than the traditional phosphate binders.

      The major side effects of niacin are vasodilation and flushing, which appear to be mediated
      through prostaglandin production, and thus can be attenuated by premedication with aspirin.
    
  