
    
      Congenital heart disease (CHD) is the most common class of birth defect and is a major cause
      of infant and child death and morbidity, including neurodevelopmental delay. Children with
      severe forms of CHD are at high risk for a spectrum of neurocognitive difficulties that
      include learning disability, attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder, behavioral
      problems and mental retardation. The etiology of neurodevelopmental delay in children with
      CHD is not fully understood but is thought to be secondary to a combination of pre- and
      post-natal insults to the brain. It has been observed that fetuses with severe forms of CHD
      have abnormal blood flow to the brain as measured by Doppler ultrasound. This
      "centralization" or redirection of blood flow toward vital organs such as the brain has been
      shown to lead to abnormal brain development in other fetal diseases, such as intrauterine
      growth restriction. Evidence of the importance of prenatal brain development in the setting
      of CHD is amounting. Neonates with complex CHD demonstrate abnormalities of brain structure
      and blood flow prior to cardiothoracic surgery. However, to date, associations between
      abnormal fetal brain blood flow and neonatal neurologic outcomes and brain function have not
      been established in the CHD population. Finally, newborns with CHD have been shown to have
      abnormalities in heart rate over a 24 hour period. This finding suggests that the autonomic
      nervous system, which controls heart rate and blood pressure, may not function properly in
      infants with CHD.

      The study proposes that these changes in blood flows in the fetus with heart disease could be
      responsible in part for poor brain growth, abnormal brain structure and function and
      developmental delay in childhood. Investigators will use routine obstetrical ultrasound and
      fetal echocardiograms to evaluate blood flow to vital organs and brain growth in fetuses with
      CHD. Investigators will use non-invasive fetal monitors to measure fetal heart rate and
      movement. Investigators will look at brain structure using Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)
      in the fetus and newborn. Afterbirth, investigators will use non-invasive monitors to measure
      neonatal heart rate and blood pressure changes in response to a tilt, similar to what is
      experienced when placing an infant in a car seat. Investigators will use a non-invasive
      monitor consisting of a sticker applied to the skin to measure the level of oxygen in the
      brain. Investigators will also measure brain function in the newborn with an
      electroencephalogram(EEG) that records the electrical signaling between different parts of
      the brain using a special plastic hat like a swim cap. Regular physical exams with a
      pediatrician to measure growth and development will take place. A special test designed to
      detect learning disabilities will also be done when the child is 14 months old. This test
      will consist of talking with the child, reading stories, and showing the child pictures and
      colors. There will be no extra blood tests needed and none of the tests pose any risk to the
      mother, fetus, infant, or child.

      The possible benefits to the child and the family will be early identification of any brain
      abnormality in the newborn period as well as learning disabilities in the toddler which will
      then allow the child to receive therapies designed to treat these problems. Studies show that
      early identification and treatment of learning disabilities are important to enhance the
      potential of the child.
    
  