
    
      Intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) -- bleeding into the brain's ventricular system -- is one
      of the most common complications of prematurity, affecting an estimated 10-40% of very low
      birth weight (<1500 g) infants born at less than 35 weeks of gestation. Mortality from severe
      (high-grade) IVH is 27-50%. Severe IVH can result in developmental delays and life-long
      neurological deficits, including cerebral palsy and seizures.

      A number of strategies have been used in efforts to prevent IVH, including: antenatal
      corticosteroids, maternal vitamin K, delayed clamping of the umbilical cord, indomethacin,
      ethamsylate, inositol, and muscle paralysis. With the exception of antenatal corticosteroids
      and indomethacin, these measures have met with only limited success. Supplemental vitamin E,
      given in the first few hours of life to all premature infants, offers a promising low-risk
      approach to preventing and/or lessening the severity of IVH.

      This safety and efficacy pilot trial will examine whether one dose of vitamin E
      (dl-α-tocopheryl acetate), given intragastrically to preterm infants <27 weeks gestation and
      <1000 grams birth weight, will produce blood serum α-tocopherol levels in the target range of
      1-3 mg/dl. Based on the results of this pilot, a Phase III randomized control trial will be
      developed to test whether a single dose of vitamin E can reduce the incidence of death or
      neurodevelopmental impairment at 18-22 months corrected age in these preterm infants.

      Most intraventricular hemorrhages occur in the first 72 hours after birth. Because of this,
      to prevent IVH, it must be given as soon as possible after birth. Eligible, consented infants
      will be assigned to either a vitamin E group or a placebo group. Infants in the vitamin E
      group will receive 1.0 ml/kg of dl-α-tocopheryl acetate (Aquasol E®); infants in the placebo
      control group will receive a similar amount of sterile water. The dose will be given within 4
      hours of birth via a tube into the stomach. Blood samples will be taken from all infants
      before the dose is given, 24 hours after dosing, and 7 days after dosing to measure how well
      the vitamin E is absorbed into the bloodstream.
    
  