
    
      This prospective nonrandomized intervention study involved inpatients admitted to 6
      designated intervention and 8 designated control acute medicine divisions at Barnes-Jewish
      Hospital in St Louis, the academic teaching hospital of Washington University School of
      Medicine, from August 2011 through December 2011. The study population consisted of patients
      cared for on either the control or intervention floors who were receiving anti-diabetic
      medications during their hospital stay. The study was approved by the Washington University
      Medical Center institutional review board, and included a waiver of consent for all patients.

      The pharmacy informatics system was programmed with the previously-developed hypoglycemia
      alert parameters to identify those patients at high risk of hypoglycemia based on real-time
      patient information (7). Patients were identified as high risk on intervention floors if
      insulin or an oral anti-hyperglycemic agent was prescribed, if their hypoglycemia
      informatics-generated risk score was greater than 35, and if they had a capillary or venous
      blood glucose level of ≤90 mg/dL. The risk score of 35 was the value that corresponded to 50%
      sensitivity for a subsequent blood glucose < 60 mg/ dl and a 75% sensitivity for a blood
      glucose < 40 mg/ dL. Patients were assigned to categories based on the division that they
      were admitted to and risk score algorithm.

      The electronic alert was sent to division-specific charge nurses via a pager. Fourteen charge
      nurses on intervention divisions were trained to assess the alert, interview the patient,
      identify an alternate dosing strategy and collaborate with the patient's physicians. These
      trained nurses were available on intervention divisions Monday through Friday from 0700 to
      1700. Control patients (HR-) were identified as high risk on control divisions based on the
      same criteria as intervention patients. The control patients' charts were reviewed upon
      discharge of the patient by a certified diabetes nurse educator on the research team who
      evaluated the number of hypoglycemic episodes in these patients as well as physician
      recognition of increased risk and whether appropriate changes were made to the patient orders
      in response to a low or down-trending blood glucose levels.

      Nurses and physicians caring for patients on study divisions provided informed consent to
      participate in the study. Nurses' satisfaction with the alert process and physician
      interaction was assessed with a collaboration scale that was completed after each alert as
      well as a post study satisfaction scale (9). Nurses and physicians provided informed consent
      to participate.
    
  