
    
      Expanded Access Use: Restrictions to those with most significant epilepsy severity and
      especially neurocognitive delays (to minimize side effect profiles) remain in place. Study
      design, hover, is targeted at an Expanded Access use of product for children who would
      otherwise have no appropriate remaining treatment modality left.

      Timeline: 3 months with the option to continue for up to 3 months of follow up therapy.

      Procedures:

      Participants: Five to ten (5-10) refractory epilepsy patients, aged 5-19 years old, all
      sexes, who must have failed at least 3 appropriate drugs, +/- vagal nerve stimulator, +/-
      dietary therapy, +/- resective surgery will be provided CBD as part of the Principal
      Investigator's Physician Expanded Access IND.

      Written parental permission obtained from the patient's parent or legal representative must
      be obtained prior to beginning treatment.

      Drug administration: CBD will be administered as an adjunct to all current antiepileptic
      drugs. A dosing titration period will start with 100 mg/day, with 50mg BID dosing, and will
      be titrated monthly as tolerated based on clinical response, up to 300mg/day. This is based
      on a targeted dosing of 2.5---5---7.5 mg/kg/d. Any patients under 40kg will have adjusted
      dosing based on weight as follows:

      For 40 kg and up:

      1 ml BID, escalating to 2 ml BID, and then 3 ml BID

      For 30 - 39 kg:

      0.75 ml BID, escalating to 1.5 and 2.25 ml BID

      For 20 - 29 kg 0.5 ml BID, escalating to 1 and 1.5 ml BID

      Clinical evaluations: All subjects will be clinically evaluated at baseline, once a month for
      the three months of titration period and during the three months of follow up period. During
      the first week of the study drug initiation, patients will be called at day 3 and then at day
      7 to review any changes in condition. Subsequently, patients will receive a phone call weekly
      and will be evaluated in their physician study visits during the titration period to review
      any changes in condition and determine whether an increase in dosing is required. The
      investigator will be available by telephone throughout the 3 months of the titration period
      of the study, in between the visits and throughout the 3 months in the follow up period.
      Patients will receive the CBD during their monthly study visits during the titration and
      follow up period. The first dose of CBD will be administered by the physician in the
      Pediatric Clinical Research Clinic.

      Pregnant patients will be excluded from the study. Female patients of childbearing potential
      will be screened for pregnancy prior to enrollment, and during the study if a potential for
      pregnancy arise. A -blood pregnancy test will be used. Therefore, parent/guardian of female
      subjects must tell the investigator and consult an obstetrician or maternal-fetal specialist
      if the child become pregnant during the study.

      During the study, the patients will be constantly monitored as the investigators describe
      below:

      Onset:

        -  Pediatric Neurology Physician evaluation.

        -  Initial lab work to include complete blood counts, comprehensive metabolic panel and
           baseline co-existent antiepileptic drug levels. Blood pregnancy testing will be
           performed on those patients with childbearing potential.

        -  Initial body weight and routine vital signs

        -  Initial baseline Electroencephalogram (EEG). Video EEG prior to enrollment if epileptic
           syndrome or severity is unclear. Decision and enrollment classification to be made by
           Dr. Ingram prior to enrollment.

        -  Patient quality of life, side effect profile, and seizure count will be completed as
           typical clinical interview prior to enrollment.

           4 weeks/1 month:

        -  Pediatric Neurology Physician evaluation.

        -  Lab work to include complete blood counts, comprehensive metabolic panel and concomitant
           epilepsy medication levels. Blood testing for CBD/THC will also be performed. Additional
           lab draws can be performed with any symptoms to suggest anticonvulsant toxicity or
           concerning clinical signs/symptoms.

        -  Patient quality of life, side effect profile, and seizure count will be completed as
           typical clinical interview at the end of 1-month study window.

           8 weeks/2 months:

        -  Pediatric Neurology Physician evaluation.

        -  Lab work as indicated for 4 weeks/1 month.

        -  Body weight and routine vital signs

        -  Patient quality of life, side effect profile, and seizure count will be completed as
           typical clinical interview at the end of 2-months study window.

           12 weeks/3 months:

        -  Pediatric Neurology Physician evaluation.

        -  EEG at the completion of the 3-month study window.

        -  Lab work as indicated for 4 weeks/1 month.

        -  Body weight and routine vital signs

        -  Patient quality of life, side effect profile, and seizure count will be completed as
           typical clinical interview at the end of 3-months study window.

      Follow up:

      Patients who are stable on therapy and happy with the results may remain on study for up to 3
      more months after titration period. These patients will have 6 months total on medication and
      one visit/month during the follow up time for clinical evaluation:

        -  Complete blood count

        -  Comprehensive metabolic profile (including liver function tests)

        -  Measurement of levels of concomitant anti-epileptic drugs

        -  Patient quality of life, side effect profile, and seizure count will be completed as
           typical clinical interview.

        -  EEG (at 6 months visit)
    
  