
    
      The Study Drug:

      TKI258 is designed to perform several anti-tumor functions, including cutting off the blood
      supply to tumors. Researchers think this may help slow or stop the growth of prostate cancer.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take 4 capsules of
      TKI258 1 time each day for 5 days in a row followed by 2 days of rest (Days 1-5, 8-12, 15-19,
      and 22-26 of each 28-day study "cycle"). You should take the TKI258 capsules with about 8
      ounces of water and at least 1 hour before a meal (breakfast) or at least 2 hours following a
      meal (breakfast). If you want, you may take the drug with a meal that has fewer than 500
      calories and 20 grams of fat.

      Study Visits:

      Every 28 days makes up 1 study "cycle."

      On Day 1 of Cycle 1 and all cycles after that, the following tests and procedures will be
      performed:

        -  Your complete medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs or treatments you may be receiving.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have experienced.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs and weight.

        -  Your performance status will be evaluated.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be collected for routine tests. This blood will also be
           tested to measure your PSA.

        -  You will have a triplicate ECG (3 ECGs in a row) before you take the study drug. You
           will also have 1 ECG about 6 hours after you take the study drug.

      On Day 12 (+/- 3 days) of Cycles 1 and 2, and day 26 of Cycle 1 (+/- 3 days) blood (about 1
      tablespoon) will be collected for routine tests. Part of the Cycle 2 blood draw will be used
      to measure the amount of TKI258 in your system. Note that the Day 26 of Cycle 1 visit could
      end up being scheduled on the same day as the Day 1 of Cycle 2 visit described above.

      On Day 1 of Cycle 2 and every odd numbered Cycle after this (Cycles 3, 5, 7and so on), the
      following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be collected for routine tests.

        -  Urine will be collected to test for markers relating to your bone.

      At the end of every cycle (about Day 26), you will have an ECG.

      Every 3 Cycles (about every 12 weeks), the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn to measure your levels of heart enzymes

        -  You will have an echocardiogram or MUGA scan like the one you had at the screening visit
           to check your heart function.

      About 7-10 weeks after your first dose of study drug, you will have another bone marrow
      biopsy and aspiration performed to check the status of the disease and for biomarker testing.

      CT and/or bone scans will be performed every 8 weeks for the first 6 months and every 3
      months after that to check the status of the disease.

      Length of Study:

      You may remain on study for as long as you are benefiting. You will be taken off study if
      intolerable side effects occur or if the disease gets worse.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      Within 4 weeks after your last dose of the study drug, you will return to the clinic for an
      end-of-study visit. The following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs, and weight.

        -  Your performance status will be evaluated.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs or treatments you may be receiving.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you have experienced since you last visit.

        -  Blood (about 3 tablespoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests. This blood
           will also be tested to measure certain hormones, heart enzymes, and PSA.

        -  You will have a chest x-ray, bone scan, and either a computed tomography (CT) or
           magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of your abdomen and pelvis to check the status of
           the disease.

        -  You will have an ECG and either an echocardiogram or a MUGA scan.

        -  You will have a bone marrow biopsy and aspiration performed to check the status of the
           disease and for biomarker testing.

      Long-Term Follow-up:

      Once you are no longer on this study, the research staff will check up on you about every 3
      months. This update will consist of a phone call, an e-mail, or a review of your medical
      and/or other records. You will not have any extra tests, procedures, or study visits. If
      contacted by phone, the call would only last about 5 minutes.

      This is an investigational study. TKI258 is not FDA approved or commercially available. It is
      being used in this study for research purposes only.

      Up to 40 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  