
    
      Methotrexate, as an anti-inflammatory drug used in animal experiments, and low dose systemic
      corticosteroid treatments have recently been suggested for the treatment of the CRwNP.
      Despite the several case reports of methotrexate being used for the severe and
      treatment-resistant CRwNP, the literature is a lack of clinical trials. Likewise, low-dose
      corticosteroid regimens have not been tested well contrary to the high dose corticosteroid
      therapy in the same course of the disease. Therefore, the main purpose of this study is to
      compare a low-dose of methylprednisolone or a low dose of methotrexate treatments with the
      standard intranasal, topical corticosteroid treatment in human volunteers with medical and
      surgical treatment-resistant CRwNP.

      The present study was planned as a randomized, controlled, triple armed, parallel, open-label
      phase 2 clinical trial which is conducted in the Department of Otorhinolaryngology at Dokuz
      Eylül University Hospital. Human volunteers with CRwNP who are resistant to the medical and
      surgical therapies were recruited to the study. After randomization, the patients were
      divided into three groups including 14 volunteers in each study groups and 13 in the control
      group. One of the study groups was take methotrexate (n=14, eight weeks) and the other was
      take methylprednisolone (n=14, eight weeks). Each patient were evaluated by endoscopic
      examination, the nasal air-flow, the smell threshold, and the blood biochemistry both before
      and after the medications.

      Efficacy goals of the study are located at below:

        1. Primary efficacy variable: Lund-Kennedy endoscopic grading system (NPS)

        2. Secondary efficacy variables: Total visual analog scale (VAS) score; the Turkish version
           of the Sinonasal Outcome Test-22 (SNOT-22); sum score of the peak nasal inspiratory flow
           (PNIF) and butanol olfactory threshold test (BuOT) obtained from bilateral nasal
           cavities; serum total immunoglobulin E (IgE) level; and the presence of peripheral
           eosinophilia (PE, > 500/mcl) in blood samples.

      Safety goal of the study was evaluated by the examination of the adverse event reports and
      the number of patients who experienced adverse events.

      Statistical analysis: The normality of the continuous variables was evaluated by the Shapiro
      Wilk test. Comparison of age was performed using one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA).
      Repeated measurements in three groups were analyzed using repeated measures ANOVA for 3×3
      model with a within and a between-subjects factor. The results were assessed with a 95%
      confidence interval and at the p<0.05 significance level.
    
  