
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the dose of talabostat, when used in combination with either temozolomide or
           carboplatin, at which maximum plasma dipeptidyl peptidase IV enzyme inhibition is
           achieved (in the absence of talabostat-related dose-limiting toxicity) in pediatric
           patients with refractory or relapsed solid tumors, including brain tumors.

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of talabostat, when used in combination with
           temozolomide or carboplatin in pediatric patients, if dose-limiting toxicity attributed
           to talabostat is observed.

        -  Define the toxicity profile of talabostat when used in combination with temozolomide or
           carboplatin.

        -  Describe the pharmacokinetic profile of talabostat in pediatric patients.

      Secondary

        -  Study levels, at baseline and after drug administration, of serum cytokines (interleukin
           [IL]-2, IL-6, IL-10, filgrastim [G-CSF], tumor necrosis factor-α, IL-1β, IL-8, IP10, and
           thrombospondin) that may be important in the immune-mediated antitumor effect of
           talabostat.

        -  Evaluate the antitumor effect of talabostat in combination with temozolomide or
           carboplatin on pediatric solid tumors by direct assessment of tumor response.

        -  Study the effect of talabostat on neutrophil function.

        -  Evaluate the expression of fibroblast activation protein (FAP) in pediatric tumors using
           immunohistochemistry to detect FAP in paraffin-embedded tissue sections from existing
           tumor specimens, when available.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of talabostat. Patients are stratified according to
      tumor histology and prior therapy.

      Based on stratification, patients receive either oral temozolomide on days 1-5 or carboplatin
      IV over 30 minutes on days 1-2. Patients also receive oral talabostat on days 7-20. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (Closed
      to accrual as of 5/25/2009)

      Cohorts of 2-6 patients receive escalating doses of talabostat until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 or <
      4 of 12 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity during the first course of therapy.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 26 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  