
    
      Overall Study Design This is a feasibility study and it is a single-blinded, randomized
      controlled trial with two study arms: the mindfulness-based relapse prevention (MBRP)
      programme led by trained mindfulness instructors and a usual care control group (UCCG). The
      MBRP will last for 8 weeks and outcome measures will be collected at similar time points in
      both the MBRP and UCCG groups (baseline, immediately post intervention, at 3 months post
      intervention, 6 months post intervention, 9 months post intervention and 12 months post
      intervention) . Qualitative focus group discussions or individual interviews will be
      conducted to obtain feedback of the MBRP programme from participants after the MBRP course.
      The study design, implementation and result reporting will follow the recommendations from
      the Standard Protocol Items Recommendations for Interventional Trials (SPIRIT), Consolidated
      Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSROT), and Consolidated criteria for reporting qualitative
      research (COREQ).

      Subjects Recruitment Process To increase the representativeness of the recruited participants
      with substance abuse disorder, study team will recruit the study's participants from the
      Counselling Centres for Psychotropic Substance Abusers (CCPSAs), residential detoxification
      centres, other non-governmental organisations (NGOs) that provide outreach or counselling
      services to psychotropic substance users, and substance abuse clinics (SACs). Similar
      approaches for recruitment have been adopted in previous local studies. Clients who receive
      services at the CCPSAs or the participating NGOs and SACs will be invited to be screened by
      the senior research assistant (RA) to determine eligibility to enrol in the study. The senior
      research assistant will visit the centres to identify all eligible subjects, invite them to
      participate and they will then be invited to be screened further for eligibility by a
      clinician and obtain their written consent.

      Intervention and Control Mindfulness-based Relapses Prevention (MBRP) The MBRP program will
      be delivered by an instructor with training in MBSR/MBCT who has more than two years of
      teaching experience in MBSR/MBCT. MBRP programme consists of two-and-a-half-hour weekly
      sessions for eight weeks with the objective and activity of each session described in
      Appendix A and the manualized MBRP programme will be used with each session having a central
      theme, with meditation practices and related relapse prevention exercises and discussions.
      Themes will include the concept of "automatic pilot" and its relationship to addiction
      relapse, recognizing thoughts and emotions in relation to triggers of relapse, integrating
      mindfulness practices into daily activities, practicing mindfulness skills in high risk
      situations and the role of thoughts and emotions in relapse. Each class will consist of
      between 10-12 participants. The program will also include daily homework exercises that
      consist of guided (taped) or unguided awareness exercises directed at increasing
      moment-by-moment non-judgmental awareness of bodily sensations, thoughts and feelings,
      together with exercises designed to integrate the application of awareness skills into daily
      life. The mindfulness curriculum will include training in mindfulness through (1) a body
      scan, the gradual moving of attention through the body from head to feet while lying on a mat
      on the floor, brining awareness particularly to bodily sensations; (2) sitting meditation, in
      which attention is brought to breathing sensations and the flow of bodily sensations,
      thoughts, and emotions; and (3) mindful stretching exercises, to cultivate awareness during
      simple stretching movement. The key themes of MBRP will include the empowerment of
      participants and a focus on awareness and acceptance of experience at the present moment.
      Participants are guided to develop a "decentered" perspective on thoughts and feelings, in
      which these are viewed as passing events in the mind. Two to four mindfulness instructors
      will be hired for the MBRP courses, which can provide with better generalisibility of the
      intervention.

      Fidelity Check of MBRP Fidelity check will be conducted by randomly selecting 25% of the MBRP
      courses and scoring the courses using a checklist specifically designed for the MBRP course
      with reference to our previous mindfulness-based interventional course checklists.

      Usual Care Control Group (UCCG) Participants in the UCCG condition will remain in their
      standard outpatient aftercare provided by the treatment agency with an aim to maintain their
      abstinence with the help from social workers or other healthcare professionals through
      different activities, such as topics on life training skills such as rational thinking
      skills, grief and loss, assertiveness, self esteem, goal setting, effects of drugs on
      interpersonal relationships and experience. Frequency of their visits to / contacts with
      healthcare professionals will be recorded.

      Course Attendance, Participant Feedback and Qualitative Components Course attendances will be
      recorded. A questionnaire will be used to assess course satisfaction at the end of the 8 week
      course using a 10 point Likert scale ranging from "Not at all" to "Very". Questions will
      include: How important is this program to you?" and "How likely are you going to continue
      engaging in mindfulness practice after this course?" and "Would you recommend this course to
      your friends or people affected with addiction problems?". Furthermore, qualitative focus
      group discussions lasting for about one hour will be conducted after the course and moderated
      by an experienced research assistant in running focus group discussions with the support of
      another one in taking field notes. The discussions will be audio-recorded to ensure data
      accuracy. A topic guide will be used which covers open-ended questions categorized by the
      following topics: overall viewpoints; practice of mindfulness; perceived facilitators and
      barriers when applying mindfulness skills; perceived changes after the course and suggestions
      for improvement. For those who are not in the last course, a 30-minute individual interview
      through telephone will be invited. Personal preferences will be highly respected during the
      qualitative focus group discussions and interviews. Participants can choose to talk as much
      or little as they wish, or request for not recording any comments already been expressed.

      All the quantitative assessments used in this study are widely used validated tools among
      drug users or used in our previous studies. Data will be gathered from structured interviews
      administered by a trained research assistant and clinician. The assessment components will
      include the following items.

      Basic demographic data (age, sex, education, employment, marital status, district of
      residence, smoking and drinking status) will be collected. A trained clinician will
      administer the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-5 (SCID-5 for DSM-5) to assess substance
      abuse and dependence and other disorders at the eligibility screening interview.

      The quantitative primary and secondary outcome measures will be collected at baseline and at
      eight weeks (end of intervention), and at three, six, nine and twelve months after completing
      the MBRP by a blinded research assistant who does not know the outcome of the random group
      allocation.

      Data analyses Descriptive statistics of the characteristics of all subjects will be computed
      and the demographic and clinical data of the two groups (MBRP and UCCG) will be compared via
      χ2 test. Student's t-tests will be employed to analyse the baseline psychological data of the
      two groups. Linear mixed models will be used to analyse effects of the MBRP compared to UCCG
      on primary and secondary outcomes, as well as potential influencing factors of the changes in
      outcomes, including age, sex, severity and duration of drug use, abuse of other drugs and
      duration of abstinence at baseline. Finally, study team will examine the correlation between
      the psychological parameters (secondary outcome measures) and drug craving as well as
      correlation between psychological parameters and drug abstinence. Intention to treat and
      modified intention to treat analyses would be applied. The significance level will be set at
      p < 0.05 (two sides).

      For qualitative results, the audio recordings will be transcribed verbatim. A quality check
      will be completed independently by another research assistant. Framework analysis will be
      used by first reading through the transcripts and field notes to become familiar with the
      data by two researchers, then conceptualizing the themes and subthemes and piloted coding
      with the themes. Based on similarities and differences between initial themes, the themes and
      subthemes will be finalized which will include: comments on the course, home practice,
      changes after the course, barriers and facilitators for course participation and compliance
      and suggestions for course improvement. Any discrepancies will be discussed and a consensus
      will be reached within the team. The results will be then finally summarized and interpreted.
    
  