
    
      A supraglottic airway device (SAD), also referred to as laryngeal mask airway (LMA), is a
      medical device that maintains a patients airway, allowing unobstructed ventilation during
      anaesthesia. They are designed to sit in the patient's hypopharynx (throat), with their
      elliptical head forming a seal around the supraglottic structures (the patients "voice box").
      They have been in common use since 1989, transforming anaesthetic practice and are now the
      predominant airway device within anaesthesia, being used in approximately 56% of all general
      anaesthetic cases in the UK(1). Their popularity for routine use stems from its perceived
      benefits over traditional forms of airway management coupled with their high overall success
      rate and low complication rate.

      SADs, in anaesthetic practice, are inserted after induction of general anaesthesia, by or
      under supervision of, a trained medical professional. All patients are fully monitored as set
      out by the Association of Anaesthetist of Great Britain and Ireland; Recommendations for
      standards of monitoring during anaesthesia and recovery (2). Devices are used in concordance
      with manufacturer instruction. Successful first time placement is achieved in a large
      majority of patients and allows provision of oxygen and ventilation. In some patients, one
      device or size of device may present sub-optimal performance resulting in the removal of the
      device. Further actions in this scenario would include attempting a second insertion of the
      same device, attempting an insertion with an alternative size of the same device or a further
      attempt with an alterative design of device in order to achieve a patent airway. Further
      attempts may be taken but should be limited to avoid unnecessary trauma. In some cases the
      use of the SAD is abandoned and the patient is intubated with an endotracheal tube in order
      to provide a safe secure airway.

      Alternatives to use of a SAD for airway management include use of a simple facemask or
      tracheal intubation with an endotracheal tube. Advantages of using a SAD for anaesthetic
      airway management compared to a facemask are improved oxygen saturation and less
      operator/anaesthetist fatigue. Compared to an endotracheal tube the advantages of using a SAD
      are improved haemodynamic stability at induction and emergence from anaesthesia, reduced
      anaesthetic requirements, improved quality of emergence, lower incidence of sore throat,
      increased ease of placement and reduced risk of dental damage. Risks of using an LMA compared
      to an endotracheal tube are increased gastric insufflation and aspiration with these being
      more common in patients who are poorly selected for anaesthesia with a SAD. Sore throat is
      the most common complication with a study

      There have been significant developments in design in the SAD market in recent years with
      development of a "second generation" range of devices involving new materials and designs
      that integrate protective bite blocks, gastric drainage channels and improved supraglottic
      seal enhancing patient safety when using these devices. There are now some new "third
      generation" SADs on the market with designs that may enhance anaesthetic practice and improve
      patient safety further.

      This study will follow similar ethically approved protocols used in published studies
      comparing airway equipment (3,4). These are only 2 examples but there are hundreds of LMA
      studies throughout the literature. The Ambu AuraGain is a new device and has not been studied
      fully. Comparative studies frequently assess oropharyngeal leak pressure (OLP), a fibre optic
      assessment of glottic alignment, ease of insertion, ability to insert a nasogastric tube down
      the gastric port and frequency of manipulations.

      We propose a crossover design to better detect differences between the two devices as this
      eliminates confounding differences in patient characteristics and demographics.

      There have been significant developments in design in the SAD market in recent years with

      Our proposal would be to carry out a randomised crossover comparison between a new "third
      generation" SAD; the AuraGainTM (Ambu, Copenhagen, Denmark) and our current "second
      generation" SAD; the i-gel (Intersurgical Ltd, Wokingham, UK) to examine and compare key
      performance indicators with their use.

      The AuraGain is a new device on the market and has not been compared to other devices yet.
    
  