
    
      This trial is a non-randomized, open-label, single arm, multicentre study aimed at evaluating
      the maintenance of clinical effect of the rapidly-dissolving tablet dosage form of
      risperidone, in patients switched from their previous equivalent dose of conventional
      risperidone tablets (doses of 0.5 mg, 1 mg, 2 mg, 3 mg or 4 mg/day). Approximately 100 adult
      schizophrenia patients (ages >= 18 years) who are symptomatically stable will be enrolled.
      Patients will be asked to take an equivalent dose of the rapidly-dissolving tablet form of
      risperidone for 4 weeks of treatment. Other psychotropic medications taken at study entry may
      be continued throughout the study, providing the dose was stable prior to entry for a minimum
      of 4 weeks and will remain stable throughout the course of the study. Dose
      escalation/reduction of rapidly-dissolving risperidone tablets is not permitted. Study visits
      will take place twice over the 4 week period, once at study entry and again at the final
      visit. The primary efficacy parameter will be the CGI-Severity (CGI-S) score for maintenance
      of clinical effect. Secondarily, two 5-point Likert scales will be completed, one measuring
      clinician's assessment of anxiety symptoms and the other measuring clinician's assessment of
      depressive symptoms. Patients with existing symptoms of psychosis will be clinician rated on
      a 5-point Likert scale. Other secondary assessments include: Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) for
      risperidone acceptability, completed by the patient or the caregiver (if applicable). For
      each subject, the VAS score will be calculated on a 10 cm line ranging from a score of "0"
      (not acceptable) to "10" (very acceptable). Safety evaluations during the study will include
      vital signs and physical examination, body weight, adverse event surveillance, and urine
      pregnancy tests for females of childbearing potential. The study hypothesis is that the
      clinical effect will be maintained when schizophrenia patients previously stabilized on
      risperidone conventional tablets are treated with rapidly-dissolving risperidone tablets, and
      that risperidone rapidly dissolving tablets will be well tolerated.

      Subjects who are stable on conventional risperidone tablets (0.5, 1, 2, 3 or 4 mg/day) for at
      least 2 weeks will be switched to an equivalent dose of rapidly-dissolving risperidone
      tablets (0.5, 1, 2, 3 or 4 mg/day). The study medication will be taken orally for 4 weeks,
      using the same frequency of dosing (once-daily, twice-daily, etc.) as with their previous
      conventional tablet regimen.
    
  