
    
      There is no clinical way of assessing patients' depth of anaesthesia on the heart-lung
      machine. For this reason, the amount of volatile anaesthetic agent like isoflurane, that is
      administered has traditionally been determined by anaesthetists' clinical experience.
      Recently, a device that assesses depth of anaesthesia by analysing the electrical brain waves
      called the Bispectral index (BIS) has been introduced. The study aims to determine whether
      the level of anaesthesia produced by isoflurane using the traditional approach is more than
      required simply to maintain unconsciousness according to BIS. In addition, the study will
      determine whether the concentration of isoflurane in exhaust gases from the heart-lung
      machine can be used as an estimate arterial blood concentration and so, depth of anaesthesia.

      The study will recruit patients who are scheduled for heart surgery using a heart-lung
      machine. Patients will be anaesthetised using a long established balanced technique including
      the administration of isoflurane 2.5% whilst supported on the heart-lung machine.
      Measurements of exhaust gas concentration of isoflurane from the heart-lung machine and level
      of BIS will be recorded at three time points. Simultaneously, three arterial blood samples
      will be taken and the isoflurane concentration measured in these samples. The BIS levels will
      be averaged and the proportion of patients with a BIS below 40 (lower limit of normal) will
      be calculated. Concentrations of isoflurane in the exhaust gas of the heart-lung machine will
      be compared with blood concentrations of isoflurane and the both concentrations will be
      compared with the level of BIS to establish whether they can be used to assess depth of
      anaesthesia.

      If this study finds that a large proportion of patients have more than adequate levels of
      anaesthesia, then future studies could explore whether administering lower concentrations of
      isoflurane improves outcome whilst maintaining anaesthesia.
    
  