
    
      Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is a common autoimmune disease that causes destruction of pancreatic,
      insulin producing beta cells, leading to high blood glucose. T1D is regarded as a childhood
      disease with an average age of diagnosis of 13 years, but the age presentation is very
      variable from young infants until late adulthood.

      In Exeter, a group of rare children who have developed T1D in the first year of life (Patel)
      is described as having Extremely Early-onset Type 1 Diabetes (EET1D). Studying these rare
      patients is important because they are presenting with autoimmunity right at the beginning of
      life when the immune system is not yet fully developed and at a time when pancreatic
      autoimmunity first emerges (Krisher) and so this study may give novel insights into the cause
      of T1D.

      The Exeter Molecular Genetics Laboratory is a world referral centre (www.diabetesgenes.org)
      for Neonatal Diabetes (NDM). Most cases of diabetes diagnosed under 6 months do not have
      EET1D but have genetic mutations in beta cell genes that lead to impaired insulin production
      (NDM)(Ellard; De Franco). Exeter is able to identify the remaining <20% without a mutation in
      a beta cell gene who actually have EET1D. Exeter uses a novel measure of T1D risk genes,
      called the T1D Genetic Risk Score (T1D GRS), showing that a proportion of the remaining
      patients have very high T1D risk and therefore EET1D(Patel). Understanding the mechanism for
      very early presentation could be highly important as immune strategies to intervene before or
      after people get T1D may differ by age of onset.

      The results may focus the research community on events that occur before birth and may then
      inform new efforts to prevent or intervene in the underlying destruction of beta cells in
      T1D.

      Hypotheses:

      i) Extreme early-onset T1D (EET1D) is associated with classic biomarkers of T1D, such as
      islet specific autoantibodies, autoreactive islet specific CD8 T cells, and loss of beta cell
      function, whereas monogenic neonatal diabetes will not be associated with these markers.

      ii) EET1D will be associated with more rapid beta cell loss than T1D presenting at older
      ages.

      iii) The mechanisms for EET1D will be due to rare changes in immune genes or due to a
      particularly potent, early response of the immune system to beta cells, as measured by
      autoreactive T cells or immune gene expression when compared to older onset T1D.

      Study Aim: The EXE-T1D study will take people with T1D diagnosed before the age of 24 months
      and compare them to people with T1D diagnosed at more typical ages (1-20 years) and people
      diagnosed with non-autoimmune diabetes at a similar very young age (children with neonatal
      diabetes [NDM]).

      EXE-T1D is an observational study organised into two sub-studies:

      Study 1: Cross-sectional study of existing patients with EET1D (n=100 v 100): Assess islet
      autoantibodies, islet T cell autoimmunity, C-peptide, RNAseq, genetics and clinical features
      of EET1D compared to T1D in selected patients referred over the last 15 years to the Exeter
      genetics team or Dr Oram who are of varying ages and durations of diabetes.

      Study 2: Newly referred patients (n=20 v 20): Recruit newly diagnosed patients with EET1D who
      are referred to Exeter or Dr Oram for diagnostic testing to allow assessment of immune
      phenotype in patients close to diagnosis(Abreu; Unger; Velthuis). Assess immune function
      longitudinally by collecting a blood sample for serum and peripheral lymphocytes, islet
      autoantibodies and C-peptide assessment shortly after referral, and approximately 2 years
      later.

      Through promotion of the study the investigators may be approached by patients' GPs and by
      patients themselves, particularly because EET1D is rare. Recruitment to the study in this
      setting will be by the investigator's team, including a Paediatric Diabetes Specialist Nurse,
      who will provide information about the study and feedback inclusion of the participant in the
      study to the GP and diabetes clinician as appropriate.

      UK participants will be recruited under UK wide ethics. Exeter will recruit patients from
      international centres in collaboration with local clinicians that have specific Institutional
      Review Board (IRB) approval.

      The Exeter Clinical Laboratories encompass the Exeter Blood Sciences Laboratory and Exeter
      Molecular Genetics Laboratory at the Royal Devon and Exeter NHS Foundation Trust and will
      perform C-peptide, islet autoantibody and genetic tests.

      Peripheral lymphocyte (PBMC) analysis for autoreactive CD4 and CD8 T cells will be performed
      by Bart Roep (City of Hope, CA, USA) and Tim Tree (King's College London). RNAseq will be
      performed by Cate Speake and the Benaroya Research Institute, Seattle (USA).

      All participants (or their legal guardian) recruited to the study will be required to give
      written informed consent and will be informed of their right to withdraw from the study at
      any time without prejudice or jeopardy to any future clinical care.

      Patients identified and screened as being suitable for this study will have a blood sample
      and optional urine sample collected by the clinical team at a time and location suitable for
      the patient, clinical and study teams.

      Study 2: In addition to the first visit, another blood sample for PBMC, C-peptide and
      Autoantibody analysis will be collected in an identical manner to the first sample,
      approximately 2 years (+/-6 months) later.

      Non-UK samples will be collected by collaborating international centres with their own IRB
      approval. The local team will spin and freeze the EDTA plasma sample and store it on site
      while the PBMCs are extracted as per Exeter's SOP. All tubes will then be couriered to
      Exeter. If no local team is available to extract PBMCs, all tubes will be couriered to Exeter
      for analysis. For some centres, it may be possible to arrange for the samples to be flown
      directly to the UK for PBMC extraction.

      End of Study Definition: last participant's final study visit plus 6 months to enable
      follow-up data capture.

      Sample Receipt/Chain of Custody/Accountability The Exeter Clinical Laboratories have an
      established pipeline for receiving and processing all research samples, including
      documentation of chain of custody. Surplus samples will be processed, logged and frozen at
      -80°C within 24 hours of receipt. All samples will be appropriately labelled in accordance
      with the 1998 Data Protection Act. Biological samples collected from participants will be
      transported, stored, accessed and processed in accordance with national legislation relating
      to the use and storage of human tissue for research purposes.Participants will have the
      opportunity to consent to gift samples at the end of the study for future research.

      Results of analyses undertaken by the Exeter Clinical Laboratories will be electronically
      uploaded directly to the study database and linked to Study IDs.

      Safety, Definitions and Reporting Risks Blood samples will be collected by staff trained in
      venepuncture. Any potential discomfort or side-effects will be equivalent to that experienced
      in routine clinical care.

      Benefits The C-peptide and autoantibody results may help to confirm a diagnosis of T1D so
      will be reported back to clinicians responsible for the patient's diabetes care. Decisions
      about ongoing clinical care and treatment will be made externally to the research study but
      treatment will be recorded.

      Adverse effects Should any unforeseen adverse events arise that are possibly, probably, or
      definitely related to a study procedure, they will be reported to the Sponsor and CI/central
      coordinating team within 24 hours of the CI or PI or co-investigators becoming aware of the
      event.

      Confidentiality All information related to study participants will be kept confidential and
      managed in accordance with the Data Protection Act, NHS Caldicott Guardian, The Research
      Governance Framework for Health and Social Care and Research Ethics Committee Approval.

      Participant data will be held in a link-anonymised format, with personal identifiable data
      only accessible to personnel with training in data protection who require this information to
      perform their study role.

      Record Retention and Archiving When the research study is complete, it is a requirement of
      the Research Governance Framework and Sponsor Trust Policy that the records are kept for a
      further 15 years.

      Local investigator site files must be archived at the external site according to local R&D
      requirements. They will not be stored at the coordinating centre's archiving facility.

      Statistical Considerations Sample Size Total recruitment target is 240: Study 1: 100 with
      EET1D plus 100 controls (N=200); Study 2: 20 EET1D plus 20 controls (N=40) Feasibility: The
      sample size has been selected to assess feasibility rather than on the basis of statistical
      power. In reality with these extremely rare but potentially very interesting patients, every
      single patient recruited could contribute on their own to a novel discovery. The immune, beta
      cell or autoantibody differences the study may reveal are unknown but a group of 20 v 20
      gives an 80% power (alpha 0.05) to detect a difference of 10% v 50% in a proportion between
      the two groups and a power of 85% (alpha 0.05) to detect a 1 SD difference in a continuous
      variable.

      Statistical analysis: The EET1D as described are unique and findings in the various studies
      are difficult to predict given the novel nature of this study. The study using 100 EET1D v
      100 controls gives a 90% power (alpha 0.05) to detect a difference in proportions of a binary
      variable of 50% v 30% and a 0.6SD difference in a continuous variable, and similarly a group
      of 20 v 20 gives an 80% power (alpha 0.05) to detect a difference of 10% v 50% in the two
      groups and a power of 85% (alpha 0.05) to detect a 1 SD difference in a continuous variable.

      Monitoring of this study will ensure compliance with Good Clinical Practice. The
      Investigators will permit monitoring, audits, REC review, and regulatory inspections by
      providing the Sponsor(s), Regulators and REC direct access to source data and other
      documents.

      No financial and other competing interests to disclose for the Chief Investigator, PIs at
      each site and committee members for the overall study management.

      NHS Indemnity will apply to UK participants and UK public liability insurance is provided by
      the University of Exeter.

      Accidental protocol deviations can happen at any time and must be adequately documented and
      reported to the Chief Investigator and Sponsor immediately.

      Access to the final study dataset The Exeter study team will have access to the final
      dataset. Of the multiple analyses done during the study, relevant co-investigators for each
      analysis (e.g. RNAseq for Cate Speake) will have access to the datasets they have contributed
      to.

      Public and Patient Involvement The CI's direct contact with patients with a diagnosis of
      diabetes in the first 12 months of life led to the study design. Patients, relatives and
      clinicians agree there would be significant benefit to knowing why and how T1D can present so
      young and whether understanding this could help with treatment or prevention.

      This work is funded by a patient-focused charity, Diabetes UK. Publication Policy On
      completion of the study, the data will be analysed and a Final Study Report will be prepared
      and submitted to the Funder, Sponsor and REC. Results will be written up and submitted for
      publication in a peer-reviewed journal(s). Abstracts will be submitted to national and
      international conferences. Written information in the form of a letter/newsletter outlining
      the key findings of the study will be posted on the study website.

        -  The University of Exeter owns the data arising from the study.

        -  There are no time limits or review requirements on the publications.

        -  The Funder will be acknowledged within publications but does not have review or
           publication rights.

        -  After the Final Study Report has been compiled, participants may specifically request
           results from their PI.
    
  