
    
      Currently, a divide exists between Dementia - Alzheimer's Type (DAT) risk information that is
      shared in clinical settings versus genetic and biomarker-based risk information gathered and,
      less frequently, disseminated in research settings. Clinical feedback continues to discuss
      DAT risk in terms of personal/family history, neuropsychological or neurological testing, and
      standard neuroimaging reports. Research advances in genotyping, quantitative neuroimaging,
      and amyloid and tau positron emission tomography (PET) have improved our risk prediction and
      disease staging; however, the literature on how to share these important findings is sparse.
      Effective risk disclosure protocols are fundamentally dependent on the needs of recipients.
      However, we do not know how patients, or those tasked with current or future caregiving,
      decide what sources or types of risk information they want disclosed, nor their reasons for
      preferring certain types of information over others. Given the differences between static
      (e.g., family history, genotyping) and dynamic, potentially modifiable risk factors (e.g.,
      amyloid burden), as well as varying familiarity with research-based biomarkers, it is
      especially important to understand how much information patients hope to receive and what
      they hope to do with it. This knowledge gap is particularly pertinent in minority and
      low-income populations given systemic challenges and cultural beliefs that may affect their
      psychological, physical, and financial ability to adapt to a high risk profile. Thus,
      understanding risk disclosure needs and preferences is a critical step in developing
      culturally-informed feedback protocols.

      Aim 1 (accomplished during the Stage I observational Needs Assessment - HUM00160276) was to
      investigate the preferences and needs of racially diverse participants, and their respective
      informants, in regards to receiving feedback about their risk for DAT.

      Aim 2 is to develop person-centered, culturally-informed protocols for disclosure of
      different combinations of Alzheimer's dementia risk factors. Building on the results of Aim
      1, we have produced protocols for communication of DAT risk, with attention to specific
      adaptations in style or content based on individual factors and preferences. In particular,
      protocols specify (a) effective methods of communicating risk conferred by each data source,
      (b) information designed for patients versus informants, (c) psychoeducation needs, and (d)
      resource/support needs. We will recruit a randomly-selected subset of 10 dyads (including 5
      participants who are Non-Hispanic African-American, 5 participants who are Non-Hispanic
      White) from the Stage I sample to whom we will develop and implement personalized DAT risk
      disclosure protocols. We will provide preliminary information on the effectiveness of these
      protocols in terms of patient/co-participant comprehension and recall of feedback provided,
      satisfaction with the content and format of feedback, and initial changes in mood or behavior
      immediately following and shortly after risk disclosure sessions.
    
  