
    
      Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS), also known as myalgic encephalitis (ME), is clinically
      characterized as a multisystem illness exhibiting debilitating fatigue, musculoskeletal pain,
      disturbed sleep, and impaired memory and concentration. Its diagnosis is non-specific and
      symptom based, with no real biomarkers yet identified. The etiology and pathophysiology of
      CFS remain obscure. There is a long-standing hypothesis that individuals with CFS have normal
      metabolism and their fatigue is psychological, with energy being wasted through the processes
      of anxiety, stress, and depression. The more CFS is investigated, however, the clearer it
      becomes that this is incorrect, and that it is probably a metabolic dysfunction resulting in
      insufficient energy production. A number of studies have suggested that there may be a
      genetic contribution to CFS. In addition, a severe viral illness frequently predisposes the
      onset of CFS, while a number of pathogens have been linked to CFS (2, 3, 6). Although some
      patients develop CFS after an acute infection such as mononucleosis, some investigators
      believe it arises from the reactivation of a latent virus in the host, both resulting in a
      chronic low-level activation of the immune system.

      As more data are acquired, we and others believe that CFS is actually a metabolic
      mitochondrial dysfunction resulting in insufficient energy production. Mounting evidence
      indicates that viral infections in genetically susceptible individuals can cause changes in
      mitochondrial function. Many features observed in CFS are similar to those seen in genetic
      mitochondrial disorders. Firstly, some muscle biopsies in patients with CFS have shown both
      abnormal mitochondrial degeneration and severe deletions of mitochondrial DNA genes.
      Mitochondrial dysfunction increases the production of free radicals and reactive oxygen
      species (ROS), which cause oxidative damage, believed to contribute to CFS pathogenesis.
      Carnitine is required for metabolic reactions including mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation. A
      deficiency of serum acylcarnitine has been observed in CFS patients, suggesting that there is
      increased utilization of carnitine in CFS, thereby decreasing energy production. In
      mitochondrial disorders, utilization of pyruvate is decreased, resulting in higher
      circulating and muscle levels of lactate, as well as decreased oxidative phosphorylation and
      energy production. Brain ventricular cerebrospinal lactate is elevated, and brain glutathione
      is decreased, in both mitochondrial disorders and CFS. In CFS patients cerebrospinal lactate
      is increased by approximately 300% compared to that found in generalized anxiety disorder and
      healthy individuals. Using brain NMR spectroscopy, the distinction between CFS and
      psychological disorders can be demonstrated.
    
  