
    
      Material and Methods The investigators will enroll patients with a diagnosis of acute
      ischemic stroke admitted to the Internal Medicine Department at the University of Palermo
      between November 2011 and October 2014. The controlsubjects were patients admitted, in the
      same period, to our Internal Medicine Department for any cause different from acute
      cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events or exclusion criteria. Every subject with ischemic
      stroke was matched for age (±3 years), sex, and cardiovascular risk factor prevalence with
      one control subject

      Study Hypothesis and Patient Population:

      The primary hypothesis of the study is that treatment with 80 mg of atorvastatin per day
      administered early at admission after acute ischemic stroke would reduce immunoinflammatory
      activation of the acute phase and that this immunoinflammatory modulation could have a
      possible effect on prognosis of ischemic stroke evaluated by some outcome indicators.

      Eligible patients are men and women over 18 years of age who had an acute ischemic stroke
      Patients with inflammatory or infectious diseases, cancer, hematological diseases and severe
      renal or liver failure, as well as those who were under treatment with anti-inflammatory will
      be excluded Stroke was defined by focal neurological signs or symptoms thought to be of
      vascular origin that persisted for >24 h, confirmed by brain CT and/or MRI in baseline
      conditions Cardiovascular risk factors will be evaluated for both subjects and controls on
      the basis of the following criteria: type 2 diabetes will be determined using a clinically
      based algorithm that considered age at onset, presenting weight and symptoms, family history,
      onset ofinsulin treatment, and history of ketoacidosis. Atrial fibrillation will be diagnosed
      when present on the admission ECG. Hypertension was present when a patient had received
      antihypertensive treatment before admission or when hypertension was diagnosed during the
      hospital stay by repeated detection of blood pressure ≥160/95 mmHg. Hypercholesterolemia was
      defined as total serum cholesterol ≥200 mg/dl or on the basis of a clinical history of
      hypercholesterolemia or statin treatment.

      The studyIs pending of approvationby the Ethics Committee of the "Policlinico P. Giaccone" of
      Palermo. Written informed consent wasobtained for all patients.

      The type of acute ischemic stroke will be classified according to the TOAST classification
      (Adams et al., 1993): 1) Large Artery Athero- Sclerosis (LAAS); 2) CardioEmbolic Infarct
      (CEI); 3) LACunar infarct (LAC); 4) stroke of Other Determined Etiology (ODE); 5) stroke of
      UnDetermined Etiology (UDE).

      • Large artery atherosclerosis (LAAS) These patients will have clinical and brain imaging
      findings of either significant (≥50%) stenosis or occlusion of a major brain artery or branch
      cortical artery, presumably due to atherosclerosis. Clinical findings include those of
      cerebral cortical impairment (aphasia, neglect, restricted motor involvement, etc.) or brain
      stem or cerebellar dysfunction. Cortical or cerebellar lesions and brain stem or subcortical
      hemispheric infarcts greater than 1.5 cm in diameter on CT or MRI are considered to be of
      potential large artery atherosclerotic origin. Supportive evidence by duplex imaging or
      arteriography of a stenosis of greater than 50% of an appropriate intracranial or
      extracranial artery is needed. Diagnostic studies should exclude potential sources of
      cardiogenic embolism.

      Patient evaluation and blood sample collection All the ischemic stroke patients will undergo:
      medical history with recordi ng of potential stroke risk factors, blood and coagulation
      tests, 12-lead ECG, 24 h electrocardiography monitoring, trans-thoracic echocardiography,
      carotid ultrasound, brain CT or MRI at admission (repeated between the third and the seventh
      days of stroke onset).

      Blood samples will be obtained in the non-fasting state. After 10 min of rest in the supine
      position, vital signs were recorded and blood samples were collected from the antecubital
      vein. EDTA-anticoagulated peripheral blood was drawn from each patient within 12 h from
      symptom onset. Serum and plasma were immediately separated by centrifugation and stored in
      aliquots at -80 °C until analysis.

      The investigators will evaluate plasma levels of IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-10, Eselectin,
      P-selectin, sICAM-1 and sVCAM-1 as markers of immunoinflammatory activation, VWF plasma
      levels as a marker of endothelial dysfunction, TPA-antigen and PAI-1 plasma levels as
      thrombotic/ fibrinolytic markers.

      These laboratory evaluation will be done at 72 h and at one week after symptom onset.

      IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-10 and VWFantigen were measured using a sandwich ELISA (Human
      IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-10 Quantikine, R&D Systems (VWF ELISA kitdurian, Instrumentation
      Laboratory, Milano, Italy); VCAM-1, ICAM-1, E-selectin, P-selectin, PAI-1 and TPAantigen will
      be measured by commercial bioimmunoassay (Human sICAM-1, sVCAM-I, sE-selectin and sP-selectin
      Parameter, Quantikine, R&D Systems, Gentaur AssayMax Human Plasminogen Activator Inhibitor-1
      (PAI-1) ELISA Kit, Gentaur AssayMax Tissue Plasminogen Activator (TPA) ELISA Kit).

      The minimum detectable concentrations for the diagnostic tests were: TNF alpha: 1.6 pg/mL,
      IL-1β: b1 pg/mL; IL-6:b0.70 pg/mL; IL-10: N3.9 pg/mL; ICAM-1:b0.35 ng/mL;VCAM-1:0.6 ng/mL;
      E-Selectin: b0.1 ng /mL; P-Selectin:b0.5 ng/mL; vWF:1.0%;TPA: 0.3 pg/ml; PAI-1: b50 pg/ml.
      Intra-assay and inter-assay coefficients of variation were: TNF alpha: 4.2% and 4.6%; IL-1β:
      3.3% and 4.2%; IL-6: 1.6% and 3.3%; IL-10: 4.3% and 7.5%; ICAM-1: 4.8% and 6.1%; VCAM-1: 3.5%
      and 7.7%; ESelectin: 4.8% and 5.7%; P-Selectin: 4.9% and 8.8%; vWF: 5% and 10%; TPA: 4.8% and
      5%; PAI-1: 5.7% and 8.3%.

      As outcome indicators the investigators will use evaluation of acute neurological deficit by
      means National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale, at 72 hours and 7 days after admission and
      evaluation of disability at 7 days after admission by means modified Rankin Scale
      Neurological deficit score on admission was evaluated by the NIHSS. The National Institutes
      of Health Stroke Scale, or NIH Stroke Scale (NIHSS) is a tool used by healthcare providers to
      objectively quantify the impairment caused by a stroke. The NIHSS is composed of 11 items,
      each of which scores a specific ability between a 0 and 4. For each item, a score of 0
      typically indicates normal function in that specific ability, while a higher score is
      indicative of some level of impairment. The individual scores from each item are summed in
      order to calculate a patient's total NIHSS score. The maximum possible score is 42, with the
      minimum score being a 0 Disability at 7 days was evaluated by modified Rankin Scale (mRS)
      that is a commonly used scale for measuring the degree of disability or dependence in the
      daily activities of people who have suffered a stroke.

      The scale runs from 0-6, running from perfect health without symptoms to death.

        -  0 - No symptoms.

        -  1 - No significant disability. Able to carry out all usual activities, despite some
           symptoms.

        -  2 - Slight disability. Able to look after own affairs without assistance, but unable to
           carry out all previous activities.

        -  3 - Moderate disability. Requires some help, but able to walk unassisted.

        -  4 - Moderately severe disability. Unable to attend to own bodily needs without
           assistance, and unable to walk unassisted.

        -  5 - Severe disability. Requires constant nursing care and attention, bedridden,
           incontinent.

        -  6 - Dead. Treatment protocol

      Patients will be randomized to these two treatment:

      Group A: treatment with atorvastatin 80 mg (once-daily) from admission day until discharge
      Group B: No treatment with atorvastatin 80 mg until discharge, after discharge treatment with
      atorvastatin 80 mg will be started
    
  