
    
      This study is a controlled, prospective, multi-centre, single-arm post-market study. All data
      collected will be obtained from procedures that are performed as part of routine patient case
      and from non-interventional questionnaires.

      Control will consist of three different matched comparisons:

        -  Post vs. pre-implantation (Baseline) data.

        -  Prospective within-subject comparisons (implanted vs. non implanted eye)

        -  Prospective subjects' visual performance Argus II System ON vs Argus II System OFF.

      Subjects participating in the study will undergo a Baseline Visit. The Baseline Visit is
      performed to screen the subject for eligibility for the device and to collect the study
      baseline assessments. Assessments include a complete eye examination and medical evaluation,
      retinal photography and Optical Coherence Tomography, Ultrasound A- and B-scans, the
      photographic flash test, visual acuity tests, the FLORA and a psychosocial evaluation in
      order to ensure that the subject has realistic expectations about the system. The NEI-VFQ-25
      questionnaire will also be administered.

      Subjects who are enrolled in the study will undergo a surgery to have the Argus II device
      implanted. Following implantation surgery, subjects will return to the clinic for periodic
      clinical follow-up and device fitting. They will also receive training and visual
      rehabilitation.

      Clinical follow-up visits will take place 1 and 2 weeks, 1, 3, 6, 12 and 24 months
      post-implant. Examinations and tests will be performed as at baseline. In addition, a patient
      satisfaction, Ease of Use, and Utilization of the System Questionnaire will be administered.
      Most of the visual function tests and measures will be conducted in both the implanted and
      fellow eye to provide data on the natural course of the participants' vision loss and as a
      control for measurements of visual function. In addition, the visual function tests and the
      FLORA will be done for the implanted eye with the device ON as well as OFF.

      Device Fitting refers to the procedure for customizing the Video Processing Unit (VPU) for
      use by the subject. Device Fitting is typically begins one week post-implant and is completed
      in approximately 4 sessions.

      Beginning approximately one month post-implant, subjects will receive training on how to use
      the Argus II System. There are two phases of training: system training and visual
      rehabilitation. During system training, subjects learn basic skills: how to connect the
      glasses to the VPU, change battery etc., how to control eye movements and RF link, how to
      scan the environment with head movements and how to use different filters and switch between
      program settings. During visual rehabilitation, subjects learn how to integrate the use of
      the Argus II System into their everyday life. Visual rehabilitation sessions will be provided
      by certified low-vision therapists and/or orientation and mobility specialists and will take
      place both at the clinic and the subject's home.
    
  