
    
      This study was an open-label, multicentre, dose determination study evaluating the safety and
      tolerability of Proxinium in the treatment of patients with advanced SCCHN who had received
      at least one anti-cancer treatment regimen for advanced disease. Fifteen patients were
      enrolled at nine sites. All patients with histologically confirmed SCCHN who had advanced
      disease were considered potential candidates for study entry.

      Patients completed two phases of screening termed Initial Screening and Final Screening.
      Initial Screening assessed the EpCAM status of the patient's SCCHN prior to final screening
      procedures taking place. Patients had to have a biopsy of their advanced disease that had
      been appropriately collected for verification of EpCAM-positive SCCHN by immunohistochemical
      methods. If EpCAM-positive SCCHN was confirmed, the patient could enter Final Screening to
      determine full eligibility for participation in the study. At the beginning of Final
      Screening, all patients had to have received at least one anti-cancer treatment regimen for
      advanced disease. Patients who had successfully completed both Initial and Final Screening
      had a Principal Target Tumour and up to five additional Target Tumours designated for
      treatment prior to Day 1 dosing. Only one target tumour per week was to be injected. The
      Investigator was to treat the principal target tumour until clinically relevant tumour
      control of the principal target tumour was achieved, at which point other target tumours
      could be chosen and injected once per week at the same dose level of Proxinium.

      The study was to comprise two stages. In Stage I, the recommended dose (RD) for Proxinium was
      to be determined based on the rate of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) within each dose
      cohort. A DLT was defined as the occurrence of excessive toxicity during the first four weeks
      of each patient's treatment with Proxinium during Stage I of the study, before the RD had
      been determined. The RD was to be established as the highest dose at which one or fewer
      patients out of six within a dose cohort experienced a DLT. The initial dose level was to be
      500 µg, and three patients were to be initially enrolled into this dose cohort.

      Doses were to be escalated to a maximum of 700 µg or de-escalated to a minimum of 260 µg
      according to the prescribed algorithm outlined in the study protocol and based on the number
      of patients experiencing a DLT within each dose cohort. Safety data was to be reviewed by the
      medical monitor, the site investigators who had enrolled patients at that dose, and Viventia
      Biotech Inc. (the sponsor) to determine if escalation or de-escalation was to occur. All
      Stage I patients, including those in the original RD cohort, were to remain in Stage I and
      continue treatment beyond their initial four weeks at their original dose assignment. If dose
      de-escalation was deemed necessary, all Investigators with patients receiving higher doses
      would have been notified and given the option of either administering a de-escalated dose or
      discontinuing treatment.

      Stage II was to commence once the RD had been determined and an independent third party had
      reviewed the safety data. Patients enrolled subsequently were to receive treatment at the RD.

      The RD cohort was to be expanded to include a total of 15 patients, and safety and efficacy
      evaluation was to continue being assessed.

      Continued safety and tolerability as well as response rates, therapeutic endpoints, survival
      time, PK parameters, and immunogenicity were evaluated. Regardless of dose cohort, all
      patients were to be treated until complete resolution of all accessible Target Tumours,
      clinically relevant tumour progression, or until study drug suspension or withdrawal criteria
      had been met.

      Four weeks after the end-of-treatment visit, patients were to return to the site for a
      follow-up visit that was to include a CT scan of the head and neck as well as other
      assessments, as described in the study protocol. Subsequently, patients were to enter the
      post-study surveillance period.

      Enrolment in the study was halted before the RD of Proxinium was determined, and hence, Stage
      II of this study was not conducted.
    
  