
    
      Nonadherence to medications is common among patients with diabetes and contributes to
      suboptimal control of glycemic and lipid plasma levels. Adherence is not routinely measured
      in clinical practice because no valid, feasible methods have been readily available. The lack
      of medication adherence information contributes to clinician failure to identify and address
      patient nonadherence and to clinical inertia and poor health outcomes.

      Existing electronic prescribing systems hold the potential to display medication adherence
      information. We propose a 3-arm randomized clinical trial to test the effectiveness of
      providing primary care physicians (PCPs) with both adherence measurements and an adherence
      clinic to improve adherence to diabetic and lipid-lowering drugs. This adherence clinic will
      consist of a pharmacist and nurse trained in motivational interviewing (Ml) techniques to
      improve adherence to medications.

      Adherence indices will be generated by linking e-prescribing information with pharmacy data.
      The trial will be conducted among 1,436 patients with diabetes and poor blood glycemic and/or
      lipid control. Patients will be randomized to one of the following three study arms: 1) Usual
      care - PCPs will write prescriptions electronically but will not be provided patient
      adherence information or Ml support; 2) Intervention - PCPs will be provided adherence
      information and prompts electronically when using the electronic prescribing system; and 3)
      Intervention - PCPs will be provided adherence information and prompts electronically when
      using the electronic prescribing system plus physicians and patients will receive support
      from an adherence clinic.

      Our intervention uses as theoretical behavioral framework elements of the Chronic Care Model,
      Self-Determination Theory, and the Health Belief Model. The study will use qualitative
      methods to guide intervention design and implementation and will include both process
      evaluation and treatment fidelity measures. The intervention will be tailored to patients'
      adherence and goal levels. The study will also evaluate the cost effectiveness of the
      intervention. Patients will be followed for 36 months. The introduction of sustainable
      medication adherence monitoring in clinical practice holds great potential to improve health
      outcomes among patients with diabetes.
    
  