
    
      HIV is a chronic active infection of lymphocytes and monocytoid cells resulting in a
      progressive and profound depletion of T cell subsets and ultimately in acquired immune
      deficiency syndrome (AIDS). HIV infects cells of the immune system throughout the body and
      may cause an active cytolytic infection in activated lymphocytes, become dormant as a latent
      infection in resting lymphocytes, or continue as a chronically active infection in
      macrophages. Continuous anti-retroviral drug treatment (ART) suppresses virus within the
      bloodstream and allows some degree of immune healing so as to permit near-normal health and
      life expectancy. However, interruption of ART is uniformly followed by rebound of viremia as
      a result of ongoing chronic active infection, and reactivation of latent infection.
      Successful ART requires daily medications indefinitely. There is an ongoing need for
      treatments which are more effective in the eradication of HIV. Counter to past expectations
      for cell-mediated immunity, broadly neutralizing monoclonal antibodies (nmAb) have been
      developed which show anti-HIV activity in vivo in reducing viremia (plasma virus load, PVL),
      and in slightly reducing recurrence of lasting PVL following analytical treatment
      interruption (ATI). Monoclonal antibody therapies against host cellular markers such as HIV
      co-receptors have been put forward as potential strategy in immunological treatment of HIV
      infection. If activated lymphocytes could be protected from cytolytic HIV infection in the
      presence of concurrent active HIV infection of other cells and tissues, then unperturbed
      potent acquired specific or innate immunity might confer lasting immunological remission of
      HIV infection.

      This year, an unexpected finding of sustained remission of plasma viremia level (PVL) to
      below quantifiable assay limits in a rhesus macaque SIV infection model of AIDS was reported.
      The envelope of SIV (and HIV) appears to interact with α4β7 integrin, a lymphocyte homing
      receptor for trafficking to gut mucosal-associated lymphoid tissue (GALT) that was the target
      of mAb treatment in this study. This study showed that in animals treated with the mAb while
      discontinuing ART there was a diminished rebound and sustained remission of PVL, and less
      GALT associated viral load for a long-lasting period of at least 24 months. The mechanism of
      this unexpected post-treatment effect is unknown. In humans infected with HIV, such an effect
      sustained over time with continued remission of progressive immunodeficiency would meet
      definitional criteria of "functional cure" of HIV/AIDS. The results observed in the SIV model
      reveal a promising avenue for investigation in this area of research towards control of HIV
      infection in absence of ART. We propose to assess the safety and tolerability of anti-α4β7
      integrin monoclonal antibody in healthy HIV-infected adults on ART, to assess the safety of
      ATI and whether anti-α4β7 integrin monoclonal antibody treatment can induce sustained
      virologic remission in the absence of ART.
    
  