
    
      It is an observational, cross-sectional, multicenter, national clinical study . The study was
      carried out from January 2018 to August 2018 in Tunisian population involving 57 primary care
      outpatient centers and 6 emergency departments from the 24 departments of the country .

      We included all patients with lower and upper respiratory tract infections (RTIs) who have
      recieved antibiotic treatment.

      Lower respiratory tract infection (LRTI) include pneumonia and acute bronchitis.

      Acute upper respiratory tract infection (URTIs) include rhinitis, pharyngitis/tonsillitis,
      and laryngitis. Rhinitis, also known as coryza, is irritation and inflammation of the mucous
      membrane inside the nose.

      The protocol of our study includes the demographic characteristics and the history of the
      sample as well as the symptomatology at inclusion. The data from the clinical examination
      were reported by the investigating doctor. After the diagnosis retained by the doctor is
      noted with the management of the patient which includes additional explorations if they have
      been requested. Finally, the investigating doctor specifies the antibiotic therapy
      prescribed.Appropriateness of antibiotic prescription was assessed in patients managed in the
      EDs . We used the MAI score (medication appropriateness index) wich includes 10 criteria. For
      each criterion, the evaluator rates whether the medication is appropriate, marginally
      appropriate, or inappropriate. Support is provided through explicit definitions and
      instructions.The MAI has been used in observational and interventional studies.Its
      feasibility, content validity, predictive validity, and reliability have been demonstrated in
      ambulatory settings. The maximum score is 20 which translates into maximum inappropriateness.
      If a patient is on multiple drugs, this test can be repeated for each drug in order to
      determine a total MAI score.
    
  