
    
      Design Variables related to injury Analytical, cross-sectional and retrospective study will
      be recorded. Population Those patients who attended a private physiotherapy center in the
      Autonomous City of Buenos Aires between January 2017 and December 2019 were consecutively
      included. Those cases in which the affected body region was not recorded were excluded.

      Given the characteristics of the study, the signing of the informed consent by the patients
      was not required.

      Process The information used for the analysis was collected during the first session in an
      evaluation form, prepared by kinesiologists belonging to the institution and used since
      January 2017. All the professionals who participated in the study had a prior period of
      theoretical training in the use of the file and the registration of the data. The information
      of each patient was collected by kinesiologists from this institution and posted on a
      Microsoft Excel® spreadsheet from which the corresponding analyzes were performed.

      Sociodemographic variables The following variables will be recorded: sex, age, weight,
      height, body mass index (BMI), laterality, main sport, smoking, hours of rest and quality of
      self-perceived sleep (good, fair or poor).

      The following variables: affected body region, type of injury, duration and form of onset of
      symptoms (acute without apparent reason, acute by specific event, gradual without apparent
      reason and gradual by specific event).

      Statistic analysis Categorical variables are reported as presentation number and percentage.
      Continuous variables that assume a symmetric distribution are reported as mean ± standard
      deviation, while those with asymmetric distribution as median and interquartile range (RIC
      25-75). A univariate analysis was used to search for the association between BMI and
      probability of injury. The R Markdown program was used for data analysis.
    
  