
    
      1. Purpose and Design:

           We will use a single case experimental design (SCED). This approach is common in early
           stage studies when exploring whether an intervention creates therapeutic change,
           typically by applying multiple measures to investigate the constructs of interest. A
           SCED also offers advantages for this type of exploratory research over a randomized
           controlled trial (RCT), because of the rich detail in the data and reduced research
           costs. Also, because individuals are compared against their own baseline scores, a
           smaller sample can be recruited and participants do not need to be matched by age,
           education or other variables to have a comparable control group, like in a RCT. For a
           targeted intervention, like CONNECT, which is predicted to lead to change in voices,
           even after therapy has stopped, a multiple- baseline design is the most appropriate form
           of SCED. We will randomize participants to baseline periods of either two, three, or
           four weeks before the intervention begins. This increases confidence that any
           therapeutic change is more likely to be because of the intervention, not just natural
           change over time. Equally, if therapeutic change is demonstrated across participants
           allocated to different baseline lengths, we can be confident that it is not the length
           of the baseline that is responsible for this effect.

           Importantly, this study has been carefully designed in close partnership with the GPTS
           to ensure that it is in line with routine care. Open and close communication between the
           main researcher, the field supervisor and the wider team will be important to manage any
           ethical issues that may arise.

        2. Aims and Hypotheses The aim of the current study is to investigate whether targeting
           dissociation through Connection to Environment Cognitive Therapy (CONNECT) is associated
           with improvements in distressing voices in people with a history of trauma. It is
           hypothesized that reductions in dissociation will lead to improvements in the frequency
           and distress associated with hearing voices.

           Primary Hypotheses:

             -  Dissociation will significantly reduce following CONNECT therapy.

             -  Voice frequency and distress will significantly reduce following CONNECT therapy.

             -  Reductions in dissociation will precede reductions in voice frequency and distress

           Secondary Hypothesis:

           - CONNECT therapy will lead to increased perceived movement towards goals.

        3. Plan of Investigation This study aims to investigate the above hypotheses by delivering
           a dissociation intervention to individuals who hear voices and have experienced trauma.
           The variables of interest will be monitored and compared within-participants between and
           within baseline and intervention phases. Follow-up data will be gathered one month after
           therapy. The intervention (CONNection to Environment with Cognitive Therapy:'CONNECT')
           was developed incorporating: a) interventions from current literature including previous
           work from a case-series of cognitive therapy in clients with trauma, dissociative
           experiences and distressing voices delivered in Manchester by Dr Varese and colleagues
           and b) interventions used in clinical practice in the GPTS. This information was
           gathered by means of a survey which was circulated by the researcher to the Glasgow
           Psychological Trauma Service (GPTS) staff in February 2019. The above information was
           collated to develop an integrated CONNECT manual that the therapist will utilize.
           CONNECT will adopt a 'toolbox' approach to learning strategies aimed to reduce
           dissociation and choice of strategies will therefore vary between participants, as this
           will be led by their individual preferences.

           Assessment and engagement (sessions 1-3) Early phases of intervention will focus on
           psych-education/normalization of voice-hearing and dissociative phenomena, and
           intervention strategies targeting dissociation

           Introducing strategies to target dissociative phenomena/processes (sessions 4-7) This
           phase of therapy emphasizes training and practice of skills to manage dissociative
           responses and increase perceived controllability of dissociation. This will be a
           'toolbox' approach and therefore led by participant preference.

           Consolidation (session 8) This session directly follows intervention and focuses on
           consolidating prior learnings from intervention phase. This should consist of no
           additional learning of strategies to target dissociation. The purpose of this phase is
           to consider future care. Focus will therefore be on relapse prevention, risk management
           and linking in with other services or clinicians where appropriate.

           Review appointment There will also be a review appointment directly after CONNECT for
           the purpose of deciding future care. The field supervisor from the GPTS, Dr Kirsten
           Atherton, will be involved in this decision-making process and may also attend the
           appointment.

           Follow-up at 1 month There will be one appointment one month after CONNECT to
           re-administer measures and gain qualitative feedback of participation in therapy.

        4. Recruitment:

           Potential participants will come into the study via and following their routine
           assessment pathway within the GPTS. The experimental intervention would be regarded as a
           'phase 1 intervention' within the service. Individuals experiencing voices and
           dissociation would be offered the opportunity to participate in the study.

           If interested in taking part, the GPTS clinician will (with the individual's consent)
           pass on contact information to the main researcher, who will contact participants to
           arrange an information sharing appointment. Here, the study will be discussed in full
           with reference to the information sheet and any questions will be answered at this
           point. If interested in taking part, a follow-up consent appointment will be made
           whereby the participant will sign the consent form and fill in screening questionnaires
           to ascertain whether the person is suitable for the study based on the below
           inclusion/exclusion criteria.

        5. Settings and Equipment:

           This study will be carried out during working hours in clinical rooms within the GPTS.
           Equipment will include participant information sheets, consent forms, paper copies of
           measures, paper, pens and a 'toolkit' consisting of various grounding objects e.g. aroma
           oils. A digital voice recorder belonging to the University of Glasgow will be used which
           is encrypted and password protected.

        6. Procedure:

           This study utilises a randomized multiple baseline Single-Case Experimental Design
           (SCED) with assessment at four time points (baseline, start of intervention, end of
           intervention and follow-up). Randomisation: Participants will be randomised to baseline
           periods of two, three or four weeks using a pre-determined simple randomisation method.
           Randomisation will be completed using a computer-generated sequence before recruitment
           begins. The researcher will be blind to the baseline allocation until the point of
           consent and screening, when the researcher will open a sealed envelope to reveal this.

           All sessions will be audio recorded using an encrypted digital recorder provided by the
           University of Glasgow. Recordings will be used for supervision purposes to ensure the
           intervention is of high quality and to assess for content and fidelity of intervention.

           Interpreters will be accessed as part of routine practice within the GPTS. The
           researcher will endeavor to meet with the interpreter before the information sharing
           appointment to ensure minimal impact to the study procedure. The researcher will also
           endeavor for participants to have the same interpreter for the duration of the study.
           The field supervisor has noted this to be feasible within the GPTS.

        7. Data Analysis:

           Tau-U analysis will be used to analyse changes in outcome variables between the four
           assessment time-points. Tau-U is a non-parametric rank order correlation statistic with
           promising application for SCED research. Visual data analyses will be conducted to
           analyse changes between and within phases. Visual analysis is routinely used in SCED
           research and will be conducted according to established guidelines.

        8. Justification of Sample Size:

           This study aims to recruit a sample of six participants. As per SCED methodology, the
           participants in this study will serve as their own baseline. Guidelines for SCED
           research suggest that change ought to occur across a minimum of three participants, with
           a minimum of three time points per participant in order to account for
           between-participant variance and chance. Previous case series of a similar nature have
           included between nine and ten participants however participants in these studies did not
           have as much outcome data as the current study. Each participant in this study will have
           outcome data for four assessment points, as well as daily and in-session measures during
           baseline and intervention phases, thus having above the required three measures per
           phase. However, it is acknowledged that small sample size may result in limited
           generalizability to wider population. Therefore, demographic information will be taken
           into consideration when interpreting the results.

        9. Ethical Issues:

           This study has undergone ethical review from the West of Scotland Research Ethical
           Committee (REC) and received approval (REC Reference: 19/WS/0125).

       10. Dissemination:

      The results will be submitted as part of the Doctorate in Clinical Psychology and will be
      read by staff from the Institute of Health and Wellbeing as well as external examiners. This
      work will be published in an academic journal, presented at conferences, and other clinical
      forums. As CONNECT is a new therapy, individual case reports may also be written and
      published in an academic journal to look at the feasibility and applicability of this therapy
      in more depth. Dissemination plans will be discussed with participants who will receive a
      summary of the results upon completion.
    
  