
    
      The incidence of moderate to severe chronic postsurgical pain (CPSP) at 12 months after
      surgery is circa 12% in Europe, depending in part upon the surgical procedure. Worldwide,
      more than 230 million people undergo major surgery every year; the global annual cost of new
      cases of CPSP is in the hundreds of billions of dollars. The response to this costly tragedy
      has been unacceptably slow.

      Perioperative protocols have historically not incorporated routine screening for patients
      at-risk for post-surgery persistent pain or compromised function. However, early detection
      and management of patients at high risk for CPSP may modify the postsurgical pain trajectory
      and reduce the incidence of CPSP.

      In particular, persistent pain and disability after spinal surgery poses a large problem.
      Around 20% of the patients have persistent or recurrent pain in the back or limbs after
      surgical interventions for spinal disease. Several risk factors for such unfavorable outcomes
      have been identified, among which psychological factors. The most robust psychological
      predictors of high levels of acute postsurgical pain and of persistent pain in the back or
      limbs after spinal surgery are high levels of preoperative anxiety and pain catastrophizing.

      Psychological variables are modifiable and could be target for intervention. Cognitive
      Behavioral Therapy (CBT) is the leading psychological treatment for chronic pain. CBT aims to
      reduce maladaptive cognitions and behaviors and replace these with more adaptive ones. CBT
      has been shown to reduce anxiety and catastrophizing and to increase self-efficacy and
      feelings of control beliefs and through this lowers pain-related disability and pain
      interference (including sleep problems and depression).

      This study is a prospective, randomized, controlled multicenter trial with 1:1 allocation,
      comparing lumbar spinal fusion surgery outcome between 2 groups with high pain
      catastrophizing, 1 that receives perioperative CBT plus usual care (experimental group) and 1
      that receives usual care (control group). To minimize expectation bias in patients, an
      educational intervention is added in the control group.

      Patients will be enrolled in the Department of Neurosurgery at the Neurocenter of Southern
      Switzerland, Lugano Regional Hospital and the department of Neurosurgery of Zuyderland
      Medical Center, Heerlen, The Netherlands.

      Patients with as score of ≥ 24 on the PCS will be eligible to be randomized to perioperative
      CBT plus usual care or education plus usual care.

      Data collection sessions will occur for each patient randomized, at baseline, at 8 weeks, and
      at 6 and 12 months following surgery. A third, non-randomized group is also included,
      consisting of low catastrophizing patients. These patients will not undergo any additional
      intervention besides usual care, but will undergo the same data-collection as the high
      catastrophizing randomized groups. This offers the possibility to examine whether CBT can
      reduce the negative effects of catastrophizing on outcome to the level of improvement one
      would expect in non-catastrophizing patients. Staff blinded to group assignment will contact
      patients by phone at circa one week before data collection time points to remind them to fill
      in the questionnaires.

      Primary hypothesis of the investigators is that patients randomized to the CBT group show a
      greater improvement on the Core Outcome Measures Index (COMI) at 12 months post-surgery
      compared to patients randomized to the control group.

      Secondary hypotheses are that patients randomized to the CBT group show a larger reduction in
      disability (ODI), leg/back pain (NRS), depression and pain catastrophizing (PCS) at 12 months
      post-surgery compared to patients randomized to the control group. Moreover, patients in the
      CBT group report higher global impression of chance, less reliance on analgesics and better
      employment status compared to patients in the control group. Finally, the investigators
      hypothesize that the high catastrophizing group receiving the control intervention will have
      worse outcomes on all measures compared to the low catastrophizing group receiving standard
      care, whereas the high catastrophizing group receiving the CBT intervention will have
      comparable outcomes as the low catastrophizing group.

      All included patients will be assessed before surgery for the outcomes of interest. Patients
      assigned to the CBT intervention condition will attend six individual 60-min CBT sessions (2
      before and 4 after surgery). Patients randomized to the education condition will receive six
      session of biomedical education and an exercise program. Non-randomized low catastrophizing
      patients do not receive an additional intervention. All patients will receive care that they
      would have routinely received had they not been entered in the study (i.e. standard
      postoperative physical therapy). The three groups of patients will undergo the same data
      collection procedures.

      The primary outcome is the difference in the COMI between the study groups, 12 months after
      surgery. A difference of two points is considered clinically meaningful [44]. With an assumed
      SD of 2.5, the effect size of this difference, quantified as Cohen's d is 0.80. Inclusion of
      42 patients per intervention group will yield a power of 0.95 at a type-I error rate of 0.05.
      In addition, 42 patients with low pain catastrophizing scores will undergo the same
      assessments, but not receive any intervention besides care as usual. Taking into account a
      drop-out rate of 15%, 150 patients will be included in total.

      Baseline patient characteristics will be stratified by group and presented as mean and
      standard deviation (SD), median and first and third quartile, and count and percentage, as
      appropriate. Differences in baseline characteristics between randomized groups will not be
      statistically tested, whereas differences with the separate control cohort will be tested
      using the independent-samples t-test for continuous variables, and Pearson's chi-square test
      for categorical variables. In case of expected cell counts of less than 5, Fisher's Exact
      test will be used instead.

      All patients randomized (i.e. those with a PCS score > 24) will be analyzed in an
      intention-to-treat analysis. To test for a difference between the CBT and control group in
      the COMI at 12 months, linear regression will be used, with correction for baseline COMI and
      center. In addition, the difference in the trajectory of COMI over time will be assessed by
      means of linear mixed-effects regression, taking all follow-up measurements into account.
      Adjustment for center, type of surgery, age and gender will be made and, if necessary, for
      other prognostic variables significantly associated with the outcome (i.e., acute
      postoperative pain intensity, preoperative depression, preoperative surgical fear, length of
      current sick leave, pain duration). Stepwise backward elimination using the Wald test will be
      used to select prognostic variables significantly associated with the outcome. Any control
      variables that are incomplete will be imputed if the proportion of incomplete patients
      exceeds 0.05. Investigators will use multiple imputation with fully conditional specification
      with the number of imputations set to the percentage of incomplete patients. Predictive mean
      matching will be used to draw values to be imputed. Secondary outcome variables will be
      analyzed similar to the primary outcome. For these, logistic regression analysis adjusted for
      center will be used to test for differences in proportions at 12 months postoperatively.

      Exploratory, investigators will compare the outcomes of the patients in the two intervention
      groups with the outcomes of patients with low pain catastrophizing scores (i.e. those with a
      PCS score < 24) undergoing care as usual. Linear mixed-effects regression for the three
      groups will be performed with primary and secondary outcomes at the three postoperative
      assessment periods and controlling for preoperative values. This analysis will indicate
      whether high catastrophizing patients follow a similar trajectory of pain and functioning
      after spinal fusion surgery compared non-catastrophizing patients.
    
  