
    
      Neutrophils, the 'first responder' cells of the immune system are recruited rapidly to sites
      of infection or inflammation. Neutrophil granule proteases, cathepsin G, elastase and
      proteinase-3, are thought to function as anti-microbial effectors, cooperatively working to
      kill microorganisms during infection. However, evidence also suggests that these enzymes play
      an important role in the coordination and escalation of inflammatory reactions, but how this
      is achieved has remained obscure. IL-1 family cytokines are important initiators of
      inflammation but require processing by enzymes for activation. The IL-1 cytokine family is
      made up of 11 members, but this study will focus on the processing and activation of 7 of
      these pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1a, IL-1b, IL-18, IL-33, IL-36a, IL-36b and IL-36g).
      Members of the extended IL-1 family are found at high levels in barrier surfaces such as the
      skin, and thought to play a role in conditions such as psoriasis, atopic dermatitis/eczema
      and ichthyosis. Psoriasis particularly is associated with massive neutrophil influx. This
      study aims to investigate the physiological relevance of neutrophil proteases in the
      activation of IL-1 family cytokines in skin disorders.

      The investigators plan to study the contribution of neutrophil proteases to inflammation in
      normal skin versus lesions from areas of skin affected by the conditions described above. The
      investigators are interested in measuring the levels of active neutrophil proteases in normal
      healthy skin versus skin lesions from affected sites compared to non-lesional, unaffected
      skin. The investigators also are interested to see if levels of neutrophil proteases found in
      lesions from affected skin sites are able to process and activate IL-1 family cytokines and
      contribute to inflammation in this way.

      The investigators plan to include up to 80 participants; 20 healthy volunteers, 20
      participants who will have a diagnosis of psoriasis, 20 participants who have a diagnosis of
      atopic dermatitis and 20 patients who have a diagnosis of ichthyosis with active lesions on
      their arms. Skin samples from normal versus lesional and non-lesional, unaffected skin will
      be taken by tape stripping method.
    
  