
    
      Participant recruitment: At University of Washington Medical Center, 30 to 40 patients with
      mild tricuspid valve regurgitation (TR) receive LVAD placement annually. A predicted 50 - 60%
      of these patients will agree to be enrolled in this study, for an estimation of 15 to 20
      participants a year. With an enrollment period of 2 years, the study aims to enroll 30 to 40
      participants

      Study interventions and Specific Techniques: Prior to screening data collection and protocol
      defined procedures, the participant must sign the consent form. Within 30 days prior to
      randomization (as part of routine clinical care), a complete transthoracic echocardiogram
      will be performed, evaluated, and reported. Within 7 days prior to randomization (as part of
      routine clinical care): 1) a medical history and physical exam is performed; 2) New York
      Heart Association (NYHA) and Canadian Cardiovascular Society (CCS) Classes are established
      and documented; 3) all current medications and therapies are recorded on study documents; 4)
      the participant will complete the Duke Activity Status Index for quality of care (QOL)
      assessment.

      Randomization: Randomization procedure will be performed intra-operatively, following
      sternotomy and before cannulation of aorta. Randomization will follow a computer generated
      simple randomization process. Participants will be randomized with equal probability to
      receive LVAD implantation alone or LVAD implantation plus surgical repair of their tricuspid
      valve (TV). The nature of the treatments precludes masking of participants and their treating
      clinicians to treatment assignment.

      Surgical technique: Participants randomly assigned to receive tricuspid valve repair (TVR) in
      addition to LVAD implantation will undergo repair with standard techniques. After bicaval
      cannulation and with the heart beating, a right atriotomy is created and the TV exposed. A
      patent foramen ovale (PFO), if present, is closed primarily. 2-0 braided sutures are placed
      radially through the tricuspid annulus from the lateral fibrous trigone counterclockwise to
      the medial fibrous trigone, thus avoiding the conduction system. An incomplete semi-rigid
      annuloplasty ring is then suspended after appropriate sizing. Any ventricular pacing leads
      are then mobilized from leaflet and subvalvular adhesions and placed in the commissure
      between the septal and posterior leaflets. The septal and posterior leaflets are then
      approximated from the junction of the rough and smooth zone back to the leads, bicuspidizing
      the valve, and trapping the ventricular leads away from the tricuspid valve orifice.

      Tricuspid valve assessment: The 3 leaflets of the TV will be assessed with echocardiography.
      The midesophageal inflow-outflow view and the midesophageal modified bicaval TV view will be
      chosen for Doppler interrogation of transvalvular flow. 3D examinations will also be
      assessed. 3D Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) permits the precise description of the
      elliptical shape of the TV annulus and its dimensions in a clinically feasible fashion.

      Assessment of TR severity will include several echocardiographic parameters such as right
      ventricle (RV), right atrium, and inferior vena cava size, area of the regurgitant jet, width
      of the vena contracta (VC), proximal isovelocity surface area, TR jet density and contour, as
      well as hepatic vein flow patterns. The VC is a surrogate measurement for the effective
      regurgitant orifice area (EROA). Using sequential cropping techniques that keep the cropping
      plane precisely parallel to the TV orifice, the vena contracta area (VCA) of the TR jet can
      be obtained under 3D TEE assessment.

      Right ventricular function: RV diastolic function will be assessed using pulsed-wave Doppler
      interrogation of the tricuspid valve, the pulmonary and hepatic venous flow rates, as well as
      examination of the tricuspid annulus using tissue Doppler where necessary. With this, the
      investigators will measure the tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE), and the
      Tei index. The Tei index or right ventricular index of myocardial performance (RIMP) is
      defined as the sum of isovolumetric contraction and relaxation intervals divided by ejection
      time and is an indicator of systolic and diastolic RV dysfunction.

      With transthoracic echocardiography (TTE), a RIMP > 0.40 by pulsed Doppler and > 0.55 by
      tissue Doppler suggests RV dysfunction. The investigators will also measure tricuspid annular
      velocity using intraoperative TEE. The tissue Doppler derived tricuspid lateral annular
      systolic velocity (S') is an alternative parameter to assess RV function, which has been
      shown to correlate well with other measures of global RV systolic function. S' velocity < 10
      cm/s indicates RV systolic dysfunction.The last measurement for RV function will be the rise
      of the RV to right atrial pressure gradient during systole (dP/dT). The correlation of RV
      dP/dT with TAPSE and RV ejection fraction will represent another estimate of global RV
      function that can easily be determined using Doppler echocardiography.

      Perioperative management: A variety of strategies may be utilized to optimize postoperative
      ventricular function. These strategies may include pacing, infusions of vasopressors or
      positive inotropic agents including both beta receptor agonists and/or phosphodiesterase
      inhibitors such as milrinone. Occasional participants may require additional mechanical
      support, either intra-aortic balloon pumping or right ventricular assist device, and
      Extracorporeal Life Support (ECLS).
    
  