
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is associated with a high risk of stroke and its prevalence
      increases in subjects aged ≥65 years. After an ischemic stroke, the use of standard
      monitoring methods may underestimate the detection rate of AF. Recent studies demonstrated a
      fourfold to sixfold increase in the detection of AF with prolonged ECG monitoring as compared
      to standard cardiac monitoring in patients with cryptogenic stroke. Hence, it is very likely
      that even patients having a first atherothrombotic or lacunar stroke with high burden of
      vascular risk factors are exposed to increased risk of developing AF in the subsequent years
      and AF may be the cause underlying possible recurrent strokes.

      SAFFO trial has the objective to evaluate the detection of AF or atrial flutter (AFL) as
      first diagnosis by implantable loop recorder (ILR) in patients with first-ever
      atherothrombotic or lacunar stroke. Patients with recent (30-60 days after symptom onset)
      diagnosis of first-ever atherothrombotic or lacunar ischemic stroke who fulfill inclusion
      criteria will be randomized to either continuous cardiac monitoring using an ILR plus
      standard cardiac monitoring (intervention arm) or standard cardiac monitoring alone (control
      arm) with a ratio of 1:1. The hypothesis is that the detection of of AF/AFL by using ILR will
      be higher than that observed by using standard cardiac monitoring. Secondary and tertiary
      objectives of the study include exploratory analyses on the incidence of recurrent strokes
      and different stroke subtypes and on the reduction of stroke risk and death from all causes
      in all study patients, in the two randomization groups and, in particular, in patients
      treated with antiplatelet therapy versus those treated with oral anticoagulant (OAC) therapy,
      the latter being implemented and guided by the detection of clinically meaningful episodes of
      AF/AFL/AT using ILR compared with standard cardiac monitoring. Moreover, this study has the
      objective to evaluate a clinical, neuroimaging, and echocardiographic profile predictive of
      AF/AFL/AT first diagnosis and stroke recurrence.

      SAFFO is a prospective, multicenter, randomized, controlled, open-label trial with blinded
      assessment of outcome measures. Diagnosis of atherothrombotic and lacunar etiology will be
      defined according to TOAST (trial of ORG 10172 in acute stroke treatment) / CCS (Causative
      Classification System for ischemic stroke) classification criteria and standard diagnostic
      protocols that have to be fulfilled before randomization (medical history; risk factors;
      symptoms; cerebral magnetic resonance [MR] and/or CT; 12-lead ECG and/or Holter ECG and/or
      other standard heart rhythm monitoring procedure; transthoracic and/or transoesophageal
      echocardiogram; intra- and extracranial vessel ultrasonography and/or CT-Angiography and/or
      MR- Angiography, also in order to rule out non-atherosclerotic vasculopathies;
      thrombophilic/hematologic screening if hypercoagulability states or other hematologic
      disorders are suspected).

      ILR (Medtronic Reveal LINQTM- LNQ11REVEAL LinQ) implantation will be performed within 8 days
      after randomization and will allow a continuous monitoring by single-lead ECG registration
      for 3 years. Standard cardiac rhythm monitoring includes: detailed data collection on any
      possible patient's symptom suggestive of AF/AFL/AT, physical exam including cardiovascular
      examination, 12-lead ECG, and 24-hour Holter ECG performed at 3-month follow-up visit.

      If positive, SAFFO trial could have important clinical implications in terms of changing the
      standard diagnostic protocol in patients with atherothrombotic and lacunar stroke, and of
      increasing the shift of secondary prevention treatment from antiplatelet to anticoagulant
      therapy when indicated.
    
  