
    
      PART 1 The SAD treatment group is comprised of three cohorts where HV will be randomized to
      either PTI-801 or placebo. The MAD treatment group is comprised of three cohorts where
      subjects will be randomized to receive either PTI-801 or placebo once daily (QD) for a total
      of 7 days. HV will participate in a FE treatment group ,the FE treatment group is comprised
      of one cohort where subjects will be randomized to receive an initial single dose of PTI-801
      either after an overnight fast of at least 10 hours (fasted group) or after an overnight fast
      of at least 10 hours followed by the consumption of a high fat high and high calorie meal
      (fed group). A set of HV will participate in a DDI treatment group. The DDI treatment group
      is comprised of one cohort where subjects will receive a 3-drug cocktail consisting of
      caffeine, bupropion, and midazolam on Day 1. On Day 4, subjects will be randomized to receive
      either PTI-801 or placebo QD for a total of 12 days. On Day 17, subjects will receive the
      3-drug cocktail in combination with PTI-801 or placebo.

      PART 2 Part 2 is comprised of a MAD treatment group with three cohorts, a co-administration
      group with two cohorts and a treatment group with one cohort.

      Following the conclusion of the complementary HV MAD Cohort in Part 1, a set of adult
      subjects diagnosed with CF currently on a stable ivacaftor/lumacaftor background therapy for
      a minimum of three months will participate in the Part 2 complementary CF MAD cohort.
      Subjects will be randomized to receive either PTI-801 or placebo QD for a total of 14 days.

      Following the conclusion of CF MAD Cohort 1 in Part 2, a set of adult subjects diagnosed with
      CF not currently receiving or have received background CFTR modulator therapy for a minimum
      of 30 days prior to Day 1 will participate in the Part 2 CF PTI-801 and PTI-808
      co-administration cohort. Subjects will be randomized to receive either PTI-801
      co-administered with PTI-808 or placebos QD for a total of 14 days.

      Following the conclusion of the CF MAD Cohort 1 in Part 2, a set of adult subjects diagnosed
      with CF currently on a stable tezacaftor/ivacaftor background therapy for a minimum of one
      month will participate in the Part 2 complementary CF cohort. Subjects will be randomized to
      receive either PTI-801 or placebo QD for a total of 14 days.
    
  