
    
      Staphylococcus aureus (SA) is a major pathogen causing community-acquired and health-care
      associated infections. In hospitals, SA infections are associated with a significant burden;
      in-hospital mortality during the last 15 years following SA bacteremia in Beilinson hospital
      was 38% and did not decrease in recent years. Resistance to beta-lactams is widely prevalent
      in hospitals (57% of all SA isolates causing bacteremia at our center). The drug of choice
      currently recommended for these infections is a glycopeptide (vancomycin or teicoplanin).

      Cotrimoxazole (trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole) is a relatively 'old' drug commonly used for
      urinary tract infections. Invitro, it is active against SA, including methicillin-resistance
      Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) strains and its activity against SA is bactericidal.
      Trimethoprim alone is bactericidal against SA, while sulphamethoxazole alone is relatively
      inactive and their combination is synergistic both in-vitro and invivo. The prevalence of
      cotrimoxazole-susceptible SA varies locally. At our center, 97% of SA strains causing
      bacteremia in 2004 were susceptible to cotrimoxazole. Community-acquired MRSA, prevalent in
      the United States as a cause for severe skin and soft tissue infections, has not been
      described in Israel.

      Several reasons exist to search for antibiotics other than vancomycin for MRSA infections.
      Vancomycin is less effective that beta-lactam drugs for SA infections susceptible to both
      agents. It is the last resort antibiotic for MRSA infections out of the currently recommended
      bactericidal antibiotics for invasive infections. Use of vancomycin has led to the
      development of SA strains with partial or complete resistance to vancomycin (VISA and VRSA,
      respectively). Vancomycin use is associated with the appearance of vancomycin-resistant
      enterococcus (VRE) species. Nosocomial infections with VISA and VRE are difficult to treat
      and may spread rapidly in the hospital. 10 Finally, vancomycin cannot be administered orally.

      Limited evidence supports the efficacy of cotrimoxazole for MRSA infections, with paucity of
      data for high-burden invasive infections. Cotrimoxazole is probably inferior to vancomycin
      for methicillin-susceptible SA. ; thus we may infer indirectly its inferiority to methicillin
      and drugs alike for MRSA infections. Cotrimoxazole may be less effective than glycopeptides
      and oxacillin for left-sided endocarditis. No evidence exists to support the use of
      cotrimoxazole empirically for the treatment of suspected SA infections in the hospital.

      We plan an open label single-center pragmatic randomized controlled trial to compare
      cotrimoxazole to vancomycin. We will include patients with documented or highly suspected
      MRSA infections, according to pre-defined risk factors. We chose to target this patient
      population to assess the efficacy of cotrimoxazole both empirically and for documented
      infections.
    
  