
    
      Pregnancy smoking and postnatal relapse are highly prevalent in Romania and Central and
      Eastern Europe, with lifetime negative health effects for the women and their children. There
      are higher odds of female smoking persistence during pregnancy, and of relapse once pregnant
      women quit, when the male partner also smokes.

      Building on ongoing pilot work led by Dr. Meghea with Babes-Bolyai University (BBU) in
      Cluj-Napoca, Romania, the overall objective of the proposed research, conducted through BBU
      in the same target population as the ongoing pilot, is to adapt, enhance, and test the
      implementation feasibility and preliminary efficacy of an evidence-based pregnancy and
      postnatal couple intervention for smoking cessation that begins early in pregnancy and has a
      postnatal component.

      The intervention will be based on the motivation and problem solving (MAPS) approach,
      successful in preventing smoking relapse postpartum in the US, which will be enhanced by
      targeting the couples' smoking behavior by focusing on dyadic efficacy for smoking cessation.
      The target population is primigravida pregnant women and their partners in Cluj-Napoca,
      Romania.

      The specific aims are: (1) To develop an adapted and enhanced couple intervention to reduce
      pregnancy smoking and postpartum relapse in Romania based on the MAPS approach. (2) To
      conduct a pilot randomized controlled trial to test the fidelity of the culturally adapted
      MAPS intervention enhanced for couples smoking prevention during pregnancy and postpartum.
      (3) To examine in the pilot the implementation feasibility and initial efficacy in increasing
      maternal pregnancy smoking cessation and reducing postnatal relapse, with secondary
      hypotheses regarding maternal smoking reduction and spousal cessation, relapse, and
      reduction.

      This study will form the basis for a larger, multicenter clinical trial that will be
      submitted by Dr. Meghea as an R01 application by the end of the 4th year of this award to
      evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed smoking prevention intervention. If proven
      effective in the subsequent R01 trial, the intervention has a high potential for broad
      spectrum population impact and sustainability. The long-term goal is the adoption in the
      national Romanian health system as a proactive extension of the existing STOP SMOKING
      national program which includes a quitline.
    
  