
    
      PAH is a disease of progressive remodeling and obliteration of the distal pulmonary
      vasculature. The overexpression of VEGF-A in the pulmonary vasculature of patients with PAH
      and animal models of disease is thought to reflect a process of disordered angiogenesis that
      is tightly coupled to disease progression. It is hypothesized that positron emission
      tomography (PET)-CT scan utilizing [89Zr]-bevacizumab, a radioisotope-conjugated humanized
      monoclonal antibody against VEGF-A, would provide a sensitive and specific molecular imaging
      modality to detect pulmonary vascular remodeling activity.

      To test this hypothesis the investigators propose a Phase I/II pilot study to enroll 10
      patients with known severe idiopathic or familial PAH, 10 individuals with
      exercise-associated PAH (EPAH), thought to be a mild and early stage of PAH, and 10 healthy
      volunteers with no evidence of cardiopulmonary disease. This pilot study will compare
      standardized uptake values (SUV) for the retention of [89Zr]-bevacizumab in the distal
      pulmonary vasculature in these three populations. The kinetics of equilibration and wash-out
      of this probe will be assessed with sequential scans at 4 and 7 days following the injection
      of radionuclide. In patients with PAH or EPAH, repeat scans will be performed 1 year after
      the initial scan to assess whether changes in clinical status correlate with
      [89Zr]-bevacizumab retention.

      The ability of these protocols to discriminate between the lungs of healthy individuals
      versus patients with PAH or EPAH will be evaluated using the measure of peripheral lung
      tissue probe SUV, corresponding to distal pulmonary vessel uptake, normalized to the proximal
      aortic SUV, corresponding to the blood pool. These data will be used to define normative
      values for healthy controls versus PAH patients, and to generate cutoffs in signaling ratios
      with optimal sensitivity and specificity for disease detection. These normative ranges will
      be applied to the EPAH cohort to determine if this test retains sensitivity and specificity
      for a potentially milder, earlier form of PAH.

      This study is divided into 4 Aims:

      AIM 1: Test the hypothesis that expression of VEGF-A discerned by [89Zr]-bevacizumab imaging
      is increased in the distal pulmonary vascular bed in PAH patients compared to healthy
      individuals.

      AIM 2: Test the hypothesis that expression of VEGF-A discerned by [89Zr]-bevacizumab imaging
      is increased in the distal pulmonary vascular bed in patients with exercise-associated PAH
      compared to healthy individuals.

      AIM 3: Ascertain whether or not distal pulmonary vascular uptake of [89Zr]-bevacizumab
      correlates with clinical markers of PAH severity, including 6 minute walk distance, New York
      Heart Association functional class, right atrial pressure, mean pulmonary artery pressure,
      pulmonary vascular resistance, cardiac index, NT-proBNP, tricuspid annular plane systolic
      excursion (TAPSE) by echocardiography.

      AIM 4: Ascertain whether or not changes in distal pulmonary vascular uptake of
      [89Zr]-bevacizumab over 1 year in patients with PAH or EPAH correlates with changes in
      clinical status based on clinical markers of PAH severity.
    
  