
    
      Sepsis is the most common cause of ARF in the ICU. In last 50 years there have been no
      significant advances in our understanding of the pathogenesis, prevention or treatment of
      septic ARF, except for the use of renal replacement therapy (RRT) once it is established.

      It has been assumed that hypotension induced by severe sepsis results in organ hypoperfusion
      and subsequent kidney ischaemia. This ischaemia has been believed to be one of the main
      factors, if not the principal factor, contributing to development of ARF in severe sepsis.
      Surprisingly, there is little evidence to support this assumption. Rather, emerging evidence
      seriously questions this traditional ischaemic-acute tubular necrosis (ATN) paradigm of
      septic ARF. Patients with severe sepsis have been found to have increased, rather than
      decreased, renal blood flow, and post mortem examination of kidneys from patients who have
      died with septic acute renal failure rarely show the appearance of ATN. An animal model of
      septic ARF found that renal blood flow was increased, while glomerular filtration rate was
      decreased.

      These facts lead us to hypothesise that profound efferent arteriolar vasodilatation may be
      the cause of the observed decrease in GFR in septic ARF. The only logical explanation for the
      observation that RBF increases while GFR falls is that both efferent and afferent arterioles
      dilate, but that efferent vasodilation is greater. A selective efferent arteriolar
      vasoconstrictor would be expected to restore GFR. Angiotensin II is the most selective known
      efferent vasoconstrictor.

      We hypothesise that early therapeutic intervention with angiotensin II in critically ill
      patients with severe sepsis/septic shock and kidney dysfunction may improve kidney function
      such that the need for renal replacement therapy is avoided. This would represent a
      significant improvement in the care of critically ill patients with severe sepsis/septic
      shock and ARF, a condition for which no interventions short of RRT have been shown to improve
      outcome. Novel and successful therapeutic interventions in this patient population would have
      widespread clinical implications, including improved survival and less need for long-term
      dialysis, with consequent resource savings.
    
  