
    
      Patients undergoing diagnostic procedures (i.e. trephine bone biopsy) for suspected multiple
      myeloma will be invited to participate in the study, and provided with time to consider their
      participation.

      Patients who consent will be provided with a set of seven standardized questionnaires
      assessing their pain, quality of life and catastrophizing. Additionally, patients will be
      asked to fill in demographic information.

      Consenting patients will be asked to donate a fasting blood sample and give permission to the
      research team to retrieve their triphane bone biopsy, once the medical team has finished
      evaluating it. The presence, location and density of nerve fibres innervating the bone will
      be evaluated. Patients will also be consented to allow retrieval of medical information from
      their medical records, and correlations between serum biomarkers, disturbances in bone
      innervation, paraprotein levels, etc. and their self-reported experience of pain will be
      investigated. Patients with a negative diagnosis for multiple myeloma (expectably monoclonal
      gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) patients) will be used as negative controls.

      Patients who receive a positive diagnosis for multiple myeloma will be asked to fill in the
      same set of questionnaires upon completion of the first-line treatment (approximately 7 to 8
      months after baseline assessment). Fasting serum blood samples will be collected. To evaluate
      treatment´s success, it is common medical practice to extract a new trephine bone biopsy upon
      completion of first line treatment. The research team will access these biopsies and evaluate
      the presence, density and location of nerve fibres in bone. Changes in nerve fibre profiles,
      serum biomarkers and the self-reported experience of pain, quality of life and
      catastrophizing following first-line treatment will be evaluated.
    
  