
    
      Study Title:

      The impact of a planned 12-week dosing interruption of natalizumab on immune cell
      trafficking, PK/PD parameters, and MS disease stability.

      Objectives:

      Hypothesis: An interruption in the dosing of natalizumab results in a lower risk of
      progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) while maintaining MS disease control by
      selective immune surveillance.

      Primary endpoints: To measure the re-establishment of immune surveillance by measuring
      leukocyte cell binding to the blood brain barrier and trafficking into the central nervous
      system (CNS) during a planned 12-week dosing interruption of natalizumab. This will be done
      by measuring leukocytes in the CSF. Concurrently, MS disease activity will be monitoring with
      MRI.

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  To characterize the difference in PK/PD parameters in patients during standard 28-day
           dosing intervals vs. at the end of a planned 12-week dosing interruption

        -  To measure natalizumab drug concentrations, Soluble Vascular Cell Adhesion Molecule
           (sVCAM), Soluble Mucosal Vascular Addressin Cell Adhesion Molecule (sMAdCAM), Very Late
           Antigen-4 (VLA4) expression, and receptor occupancy measured in blood.

        -  To measure neurofilament light (NfL) in CSF and serum as a sensitive measure of MS
           disease stability.

        -  Using MRI and clinical parameters, to determine impact of a planned 12-week dosing
           interruption of natalizumab on MS disease stability.

        -  MRI's will be obtained for each patient at the end of the dose interruption and 3 months
           after the re-initiation of natalizumab dosing.

      Design:

      Single site, open-label, consenting patients with relapsing forms of Multiple Sclerosis who
      are scheduled for a dose interruption of natalizumab. Patients will provide biological
      samples (blood and CSF) and have MRIs post-dose interruption.

      Patient Population:

      Patients with relapsing forms of Multiple Sclerosis who are currently on natalizumab therapy
      with stable MS disease and who are scheduled for a planned 12-week dosing interruption.

      Treatment Groups:

      Duration of Study Participation: Up to 9 months Study Location: 8727 Beverly Blvd, West
      Hollywood, California (CA) 90048 United States (US) Study Phase: Pilot exploratory study.
      Number of Planned Subjects: 10 Sample Size Determination: This is an exploratory study. No
      formal sample size calculation was performed.
    
  