
    
      Background: Nearly 80 million people in the US are infected with HPV and 14 million new cases
      are diagnosed annually. There is an increasing HPV prevalence among women through the young
      adult years. Although the body clears many HPV infections persistent infections can progress
      to cancer and other HPV-related diseases. Cervical cancer is the most common cancer caused by
      HPV.

      Many of the HPV-associated cancers are preventable with a series of safe and effective HPV
      vaccines. To date, no state has attained the 80% target vaccination rate for HPV. Despite the
      proven benefits and safety of HPV vaccine, usage remains suboptimal (only 38% had completed
      the three-dose series) and lower than other recommended adolescent vaccines.

      Objective/Hypothesis: Our short term objective is to increase HPV vaccine initiation and
      completion rates among all age-eligible adolescent girls for whom vaccine is not
      contraindicated; and explore and examine acceptability of providing HPV vaccination to female
      youth during her adult female guardian's (AFG) cervical cancer screening appointment.

      The investigators hypothesize that a combined intervention which includes (1) a motivational
      web-based education aimed at AFGs and youth females in their Primary Care site; and (2) text
      message reminders and an informational web-link on HPV vaccine and cervical cancer screening
      will increase HPV vaccination rates among youth females and will increase cervical cancer
      screening rates among their respective AFGs.

      The investigators propose the following Aim:

      Specific Aim: Conduct a single-arm proof of concept, open trial clinical study investigating
      the feasibility and efficacy of integrating primary and secondary prevention model for HPV
      and cervical cancer: a mobile educational and automated electronic interactive messaging
      intervention that will remind AFG and youth females of scheduled and missed second and third
      HPV vaccination appointments, and deliver brief text and video educational messaging on HPV,
      HPV vaccine, and cervical cancer screening.

      Study Design: The investigators will conduct an open feasibility proof-of-concept trial using
      a single experimental group with all subjects receiving the behavioral intervention being
      studied.

      Outcome measures. The primary outcome of interest is receipt of the first dose and completion
      of the three-dose series of HPV vaccine within 6 month of intervention, this will be
      evaluated by Electronic medical review review.
    
  