
    
      The prognosis of stage Ⅱa-Ⅲb NSCLC was worse, with 5-year survival rate between 26%-60% after
      resection. Neoadjuvant ICI or ICI combination with chemotherapy had induced high rate major
      pathologic response (MPR) and complete pathological response (PCR) for NSCLC. CT image
      (RECIST) underestimate the response of neoadjuvant therapy. In Checkmate 159 trial, 21
      patients with stage Ⅰ-Ⅲa NSCLC received two dose preoperative Nivolumab, only 2 (10%)
      patients were partial response on CT image assessment. While 9 of 20 (45%) patients were MPR
      on pathological examination. 2 patients shows tumor progression on CT, but one patient
      achieved PCR and another patient achieved MPR.Therefore, conventional RECIST criteria cannot
      accurately assess tumor response to treatment.

      The occurrence, development and metastasis of tumor are essentially a series of biochemical
      processes of abnormal gene expression and metabolism, dysfunction and structural change.
      18F-FDG can reflect the metabolic changes of the body at the cellular and molecular level,
      and the transmission of these metabolic information is earlier than the anatomical changes.
      By detecting the uptake of 18F-FDG and analyzing tumor metabolism, tissue blood perfusion,
      receptor, etc., it can provide a theoretical basis for monitoring the therapeutic effect of
      lung cancer with PET.

      As a new imaging technique, 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG)
      PET/CT is playing an increasingly important role in the diagnosis of tumors. 18F-FDG PET/CT
      reflects the glucose metabolism process of tumor tissues, and the diagnosis of benign and
      malignant tumors is based on the difference in glucose metabolism activity between tumor
      cells and normal tissue cells. 18F-FDG is an isomer of glucose, which is involved in glucose
      metabolism. Because it is deoxidized and cannot produce hexose bisphosphate, it cannot
      participate in the next metabolism, and is trapped in cells. In tumor cells, 18F-FDG uptake
      is increased due to high expression of glucose transport messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA),
      elevated glucose transporter Glut-1 and Glut-3 levels, increased hexokinase expression, and
      down-regulation of glucose-6-phosphatase levels.Molecular imaging using 18F-FDG PET/CT can
      provide metabolic information to enable better differentiation of benign and malignant
      tissues and reveal functional abnormalities before structural damage. At the same time,
      18F-FDG PET-CT is an effective method for early monitoring of tumor response. It can monitor
      the metabolic changes of the body before and after tumor treatment, so as to suggest the
      response of the body to relevant treatment. However, all the PET/CT scans reported in the
      relevant literature are based on routine static scans, that is, the image data is based on
      the static images of the tracer obtained at a fixed time point after injection of 18F-FDG.
      Conventional static PET (60min post-injection scan) can only be used for qualitative visual
      analysis or semi-quantitative indicator standardized uptake values (SUV) to determine tumor
      response to treatment. SUV is vulnerable to the influences of uptake time, blood glucose
      concentration, insulin level, individual weight and injection dose, making it difficult to
      accurately and quantitatively evaluate tumor response before and after treatment. In order to
      improve, we plan to adopt dynamic scanning, that is, collecting dynamic data of whole body
      tissues at all times from the instant of injection of 18F-FDG to one hour. Dynamic scanning
      can provide information about the temporal metabolism and distribution of the tracer in the
      tissue, so it can provide more abundant information about the metabolism and distribution of
      tumor foci and metastasis foci than static scanning, so it can accurately quantify the tumor
      response before and after treatment. At the same time dynamic PET does not increase the
      patient's radiation dose compared to static PET.

      This study intends to evaluate the efficacy of neoadjuvant anti-programmed cell death protein
      1 (anti-PD1) immunotherapy combined with chemotherapy followed by surgery, evaluate the
      evaluation value of dynamic PET-CT for the efficacy of neoadjuvant therapy, and evaluate the
      relationship between circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) changes and efficacy.
    
  