
    
      Infants are at risk for anemia especially in preterm infants. Generally the smaller birth
      weight and gestational age, the higher anemia ate in infants. As enteral nutrition is not
      feasible soon after birth in most preterm infants, parenteral iron administration is an
      efficacious method for investigators to select.

      Meeting the Inclusion Criteria of this study will be randomly divided into five groups,
      control group, group1 (100μg/kg/d, and the highest concentration of iron is ≤0.8g/100ml PN),
      group2（200μg/kg/d, and the highest concentration of iron is ≤0.8g/100ml PN), group3
      (300μg/kg/d, and the highest concentration of iron is ≤0.8g/100ml PN), group4 (400μg/kg/d,
      and the highest concentration of iron is ≤0.8g/100ml PN). Iron supplementation period for
      more than ten days. For five groups, complete blood counts, differential counts, and
      reticulocyte counts were measured weekly in samples obtained, serum iron, iron protein, total
      iron binding force were measured at baseline and after 2 weeks. Through comparative analysis
      of five groups, to find iron-fortified PN whether affect anemia rate and iron storage in
      premature infants. The investigators also selected malondialdehyde (MDA) and
      8-isoprostaglandin F2α (8-iso-PGF2α) as the investigators concerns about iron used in PN
      induces oxidative stress index. Iron protein determination use radioimmunoassay method, serum
      iron and total iron binding force determination use chemical method, MDA and 8-iso-PGF2α
      determination use enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay method.

      The investigators hypothesis that iron-fortified PN may have a preventative and treatment
      effect on preterm infants using PN as a supplementation of parenteral nutrition;
      Iron-fortified PN can also improve iron store status of preterm infants. The higher
      concentration of iron used in this study, the larger preventative or treatment effect on
      preterm infants anemia.
    
  