
    
      This is a single-center, open-label study on safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of
      Gardasil®9 in 18 to 45 year-old HIV patients, in 18 to 55 year-old solid-organ transplant
      (SOT) patients.

      This study will enrol 140 HIV patients with CD4+ (cluster of differentiation 4) count of
      >200cells/mm² and 170 SOT patients, all of whom have not yet received a prophylactic HPV
      vaccine. The 170 SOT patients will be equally divided over 3 different SOT patient groups,
      namely heart, lung and kidney transplant patients. Therefore the target is to include
      approximately 57 heart transplant patients, 57 lung transplant patients and 57 kidney
      transplant patients. Enrolment in a SOT subgroup will be stopped when 57 patients have been
      included unless recruitment cannot be achieved within one of the other SOT-patient
      population.

      All enrolled subjects will receive a 3-dose regimen (Day 1, Month 2, and Month 6) of
      GARDASIL®9. Serum samples will be collected on Day 1 and Month 7 for anti-HPV 6, 11, 16, 18,
      31, 33, 45, 52, and 58 antibody determination.. The time point for comparison of immune
      responses will be Month 7, or approximately 4 weeks after the administration of the third
      dose. The safety/tolerability profile of the vaccine will be evaluated in all subjects in the
      study. Safety information will be collected on Day 1 through 1 month following the third
      vaccination or for a total of approximately 7 months for each subject.

      The immunogenicity and the safety data will be analyzed per group of patients. More
      specifically a separate analysis of HIV and SOT patients is planned, since it is expected
      that the immunosuppressive therapy of SOT patients might have a more profound effect on
      immunogenicity following vaccination.

      This study will provide a comparison of immunogenicity of Gardasil ®9 in immunocompromised
      patients, with historical controls (15, 18). The number of subjects to be enrolled in the
      study was determined based on the primary immunogenicity objective.
    
  