
    
      Title: Surgical or Catheter Ablation in patients with Lone Atrial Fibrillation: determination
      of acute and long term SUCCESS (SCALAF-success trial).

      Background: Anti-arrhythmic drugs are used in daily practice to treat patients with
      paroxysmal idiopatic AF. Often the origin of the AF can be found in the muscle sleeves
      running up the pulmonary veins. Drug treatment is not always successful and prone to evoke
      negative side effects. The surgical MAZE procedure was applied in the past, but this is a
      time consuming, cumbersome technique, often associated with significant complications.
      Cardiac radio-frequency ablation offers an alternative, easy and less time consuming
      treatment: lesions prevent normal electrical wave front propagation and might stop the
      continuation of atrial fibrillation wave fronts. Ablation can be implemented by use of
      special catheters inserted via the groin or using the Medtronic Cardioblate® Surgical
      Ablation System applied via minimal invasive surgical techniques.

      Purpose: Compare the effectiveness of pulmonary vein isolation achieved via catheter or via
      surgical ablation techniques to treat patients with paroxysmal lone AF.

      Study design: A prospective, randomized multi-center interventional study.

      Patients: Patients suffering from paroxysmal idiopatic AF (no associated or underlying
      structural heart disease) complying with following inclusion criteria:

        -  minimally one documented AF-episode in the last 6 months;

        -  refractory to at least 2 class I or III anti-arrhythmic drugs;

        -  age > 18 year

      Intervention: Patients are randomized to either the surgical or the catheter ablation group
      and receive the indicated treatment. During the critical assessment period, the patients are
      weaned from anti-arrhythmic medication.

      Primary endpoint: Reduction in AF occurrence measured by the AF-burden parameter in the
      critical period between 3 and 6 months post-ablation. AF burden is measured automatically by
      means of the Reveal XT, implanted at study enrolment to document the baseline
      characteristics.

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  Failure of therapy requiring re-interventions;

        -  Duration, burden and costs of ablation procedures:

        -  Reduction in frequency, duration and level of severity of AF symptoms;

        -  Occurences of treatments of arrythmic episodes;

        -  Assessment of AF burden during follow-up period

        -  Symptoms associated with AF;

        -  Reduced necessity of anti-arrhythmic or anticoagulant medication;

        -  Left atrial dimensions and contractility

        -  Adverse events associated with the ablation therapy;

        -  Occurrence of other clinical adverse events (TIA, CVA, bleeds, tamponade, MI) at 3, 6,
           12 and 24 months of follow up

        -  Mortality and hospitalisation

      Risk assessment: Possible side effects : irregular heart rhythm, pericardial fluid, stroke,
      heart infarct, disturbances of the conduction system in the heart, local pain at the site of
      incisions, heart failure or reduced pump function of the heart.

      Possible benefits: Regulation of the heart rhythm without applying MAZE procedure or opening
      of the thorax. Reduction or relief from symptoms associated with AF. Partial or complete
      reduction of anti-arrhythmic medication. Control of anti-coagulant medication. Improved
      quality of life for the patients.

      Visits are planned at study entrance and Reveal XT implant (assessment at baseline,
      application of the ablation therapy), discharge from hospital, and at 3, 6, 12 and 24 months
      post-ablation.
    
  