
    
      The study will be conducted in a tertiary ENT center in Tehran. Endoscopic severity grades
      for patients will be determined for polyps on the basis of 3 point classification system: 1,
      confined to middle meatus; 2, below level of middle turbinate; 3, causing total obstruction.
      Also, patients will be undergone paranasal sinus CT scan to determine Lund-Mackay stage which
      defined by sum of scores of each of 12 paranasal sinuses (0 for a completely lucent, 1 for a
      partially opaque and 2 for a completely opaque sinus). Patients will be randomized to treat
      in one of two groups: 1 month of therapy with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray
      (FPANS) 200 µg twice a day or 1 month of therapy with intranasal ciclesonide spray 200 µg
      once daily. All patients will be given written, easy to understand instruction about how to
      use nasal sprays. All included patients are asked to answer the disease specific Persian
      language validated SNOT20 quality of life questionnaire to evaluate symptom severity before
      starting the treatment. SNOT20 is a symptom severity and health related quality of life
      measure in sinonasal diseases that contains 20 questions about CRS related symptoms. Symptoms
      severity is scored 0, indicating no problem to 5, indicating worst possible symptom. Then
      scores of each of 20 items will be added to produce a total score ranging from 0 to 100.
      After one month of treatment patients will be visited by a blind physician to assess the
      symptoms. Then patients will answer the SNOT20 questionnaire again. Patients will be given a
      chance to report any problem during drug administration and enquired about adverse effects at
      the end of 1 month of treatment by the physician. Withdrawals is defined as any drug or study
      discontinuation due to adverse effects or lack of efficacy.

      By considering 5% level of significance, to have 90% power to detect a clinically important
      difference of 0.6 points between two groups in improving total score of SNOT20 assuming a
      standard deviation (SD) of 0.6, we should include 22 cases in each study arm. To address a
      10% probable loss to follow up, we would recruit 24 cases in each arm.

      The continuous variables will be shown as mean ± SD. The categorical variables will be
      presented as frequency and percentage. The normality of measure outcome variables will be
      tested graphically as well as statistically with the Shapiro-Wilk test. In case of normal
      distribution we would use parametric t-test to compare the mean values between two groups.
      Otherwise we would use non-parametric Mann-Whitney test. Chi-squared or Fischer-exact tests
      will be used to compare categorical variables. All the statistical analyses will be conducted
      using IBM SPSS statistics for Windows, version 23.0, (Armonk, NY: IBM Corp.).
    
  