
    
      This is a phase-I clinical trial to determine the feasibility and safety of
      cyclophosphamide/fludarabine lymphodepletion and an immunomodulatory combination of
      Interferon-alpha (INF-a), Bevacizumab and Aspirin, followed by adoptive transfer of
      vaccine-primed, ex vivo CD3/CD28-costimulated peripheral blood autologous T-cells, and
      vaccination with whole tumor vaccine, administered intradermally in combination with
      Bevacizumab in patients with recurrent ovarian cancer, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal
      cancer who previously underwent induction vaccination with whole tumor vaccine.

      Subjects will receive T-lymphocytes infusion at a dose of 20 billion ± 20% cells for all
      patients. Subjects who cant meet target dose level can still enroll but will be analyzed
      separately.

      Before T-cell infusion, all subjects will undergo lymphodepletion with a single course of
      outpatient high-dose lymphodepleting chemotherapy with intravenous cyclophosphamide (300
      mg/m2/d for 3 consecutive Days) and intravenous fludarabine (30 mg/m2/d for 3 consecutive
      Days on Days -5 to -3).

      Subjects enrolled in this study will receive an immunomodulatory cycle of (Bevacizumab and
      Aspirin) ~14 Days before apheresis (if they do not have a frozen apheresis product from a
      previous collection) and another cycle between apheresis and T-cell infusion (approx. from
      Day -20 through Day -7, (+/- 5 Days)). The immunomodulatory cycle will consist of the
      following: intravenous 10 mg/kg Bevacizumab on Day -35, and Day -20 (+/- 5 Days), and 325 mg
      Enteric Coated Aspirin orally starting Day -35 for 14 Days and starting on Day -20 for 14
      Days. They will also receive three subcutaneous injections of Interferon-alpha (Intron®a 2b)
      (INF-a) (subjects will have the option to self administer Interferon-alpha and they will be
      provided instructions) at a dose of 5 MIU on Days -3, -2 and -1. EX vivo
      CD3/CD28-costimulated lymphocytes will be infused ~1-2 Days after last Day of
      interferon-alpha treatment, ideally on Day 0.

      All subjects will receive a dose of 5-10 million cells of OC-DC vaccine intradermally, or
      OC-L (2.5-5x106 oxidized tumor cells admixed with Montanide ISA 51 VG) 2-3 Days post T-cell
      infusion and on Day 16-18. Subjects will start receiving Bevacizumab at 15 mg/kg and vaccine
      (if available) starting Day 30 and every 3 weeks thereafter until end of study. (Funding
      Source - FDA OOPD)
    
  