
    
      Background

      A virus causing clusters of severe pneumonia was first detected in the city of Wuhan, China,
      in December 2019.

      This pathogen was designated as SARS-CoV-2. Although of probable zoonotic origin,
      human-to-human transmission has rapidly fuelled the spread of SARS-CoV-2 infection globally.

      On February 20th, the first case of locally acquired SARS-CoV-2 infection was diagnosed in
      Northern Italy in a critically ill, hospitalized young man with no travel history to known
      areas of viral circulation or link to a probable or confirmed coronavirus infectious disease
      2019 (COVID-19) case. Prior to this date, only three cases of COVID-19 had been reported in
      Central Italy, all with a travel history to Wuhan. Following this unexpected finding, case
      counts, and death tolls has increased rapidly in the country with a total of 192,994
      confirmed cases and 25,969 deaths as of 24 April 2020.

      Study rationale

      Multiple variables have been described as possible risk factors for SARS-CoV-2
      susceptibility, severity and prognosis, among which age, sex and comorbidities play an
      important role.

      Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) listed the underlying medical conditions
      that have shown to increase the risk of severe illness from SARS-CoV-2. While some
      comorbidities, such as serious heart conditions and chronic kidney disease have a consistent
      and strong evidence as bad prognostic factors in SARS-CoV-2 infection, others as HIV have a
      limited evidence and heterogeneous results.

      Further, despite it is well-known that the burden of co-existing diseases may be additive or
      even multiplicative, the effect of specific disease cluster on COVID-19 adverse outcomes has
      never been evaluated. Finally, the proposed models and risk scores currently available to
      predict disease severity and mortality are poorly reported and at high risk of bias, raising
      concern that their predictions could be unreliable when applied in daily practice. A reliable
      risk/prognostic score developed by a multidimensional and cross-validated approach will pave
      the way for future research on frail sectors of the population and on the use of health
      system resources. At the clinical level, a prognostic score will allow to predict severity
      and mortality risk in patients requiring hospitalization and to stratify patients according
      to clinical severity helping clinicians in their therapeutic decision-making.

      Objectives

      The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the role of patient's comorbidities on
      clinical outcome in patients hospitalized for SARS-CoV-2. The investigators will confirm risk
      predictors already known and provide evidence for the uncertain ones. The investigators will
      also develop a prognostic score able to predict negative clinical outcomes (primarily
      short-term mortality), that will be useful to stratify patients at hospital admission
      according to their different risk profiles, and therefore to "tailor" the individuals' level
      of care.

      A secondary objective could be that to extend this approach at the susceptible population
      level, especially the elders, to stratify according to the higher risk of being infected by
      SARS-CoV-2, hospitalized and to have a dismal outcome (not developed here but related to a
      possible amendment).

      Sample size

      The investigators expect the total number of patients with complete data to be approximately
      2500, based on the expected recruitment of each center.

      Analysis Plan

      Data will be summarized by counts and percentage and quartiles for categorical and continuous
      variables, respectively. Multi-state models will be used to describe patient's hospital
      mortality and discharge. In-hospital mortality will be estimate accounting for discharge as
      competing event. Kaplan-Meier estimator will be used to estimate mortality up to 3-months
      from admission. The role of patient's comorbidities on clinical outcome will be evaluated by
      the Cox model adjusting for relevant confounders. A clinically-based prognostic score will be
      developed including comorbidities and other risk factors. The score will be constructed by a
      multidimensional approach and Lasso approach will be used to select relevant risk factors.
      The Area Under the Receiving Operating Characteristics curve (AUC) and Brier score will be
      used to evaluate model performance and the final score will be cross-validated. A sensitivity
      analysis will be performed using a training and test validation approach. The use of
      regression trees for a practical definition of risk subgroups and latent variable models will
      also be considered.

      Multiple imputation will be performed if missing would exceed 10%.

      Data collection

      Consecutive patients hospitalized for SARS-CoV-2 up to October 2020 will be included. Given
      the difficulty in systematically obtaining written informed consent and given the great
      public interest of the project, the research will be conducted in the context of the
      authorizations guaranteed by Article 89 of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) EU
      Regulation 2016/679, which guarantees processing for purposes of public interest, for
      scientific or historical research or for statistical purposes of health data.
    
  