
    
      Introduction

      Healthy life expectancy is a key area of research. It has been estimated that 36 million
      people have dementia worldwide and that there are 4.6 million new cases of dementia every
      year. Epidemiological evidence supports the hypothesis that modifiable lifestyle-related
      factors are associated with cognitive decline, opening new avenues for prevention.
      Alzheimer's disease is the commonest cause of dementia in older people, accounting for 60-70%
      of all dementia cases when using traditional diagnostic criteria for dementia subtypes.

      There are no available cures for AD, but an alternative approach is to use strategies that
      delay disease progression at an early stage. Optimal brain function results from highly
      complex interactions between numerous genetic and environmental factors, including food
      intake, physical activity, age and stress. Diet in particular has become the object of
      intense research in relation to cognitive aging and neurodegenerative diseases.

      The gut microbiota is a large, diverse collection of microbes, collectively containing 100
      times more genes than the host. It is host-specific, contains heritable components, can be
      modified by diet, surgery or antibiotics, and in its absence nearly all aspects of host
      physiology are affected. It is now realised that the human microbiota is a previously
      overlooked system that makes a significant contribution to human biology and
      development.There is a new and exciting field of research with limited published data in the
      elderly, that could provide a basis for the design of novel, microbiota-targeted, therapies
      to improve care of older people suffering from Alzheimer's dementia.

      There is increasing evidence that identifies the gut microbiota as a key conduit between
      nutrition and brain function. Reduction in the frequency of genes encoding short chain fatty
      acid (SCFA) production was prominent among institutionalized older adults, as were increases
      in circulating pro-inflammatory cytokines tumour necrosis factor-alpha, interleukins-6 and
      -8, and C-reactive protein.

      Rationale for Study

      Hypothesis: The composition and/or diversity of the gut microbiota is different between
      healthy elderly and those with Alzheimer's dementia, who do or do not exhibit behaviour(s)
      that are challenging.

      The concept that inspires Ageing-GB is that our gut microbiota impact upon the gut-brain axis
      and thereby on behaviour. There is a need to understand the nature of that impact, the
      underlying mechanisms, and how changes in diet can reprogram our gut microbiota-brain axis to
      resolve or reduce clinical symptoms associated with Alzheimer's dementia.

      However, to the investigator's knowledge, there has been no published work to examine the gut
      microbiota profile in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Consequently, the investigators
      first need to demonstrate the differences in microbiota profile between AD patients with or
      without behaviours that are more challenging to manage. This work is anticipated to provide
      fundamental evidence to support dietary modification or supplementation as cost-effective and
      safe avenues for alleviating signs and symptoms of dementia in this vulnerable group and thus
      reduce the carer burden.

      This study will require the co-operation of care home managers and staff, and investigators
      will thus simultaneously assess the feasibility of performing a nutritional intervention
      study in this group of individuals, in this setting.
    
  