
    
      Mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS) are a group of inherited, metabolic diseases caused by a
      deficiency of lysosomal enzymes that degrade glycosaminoglycans (GAGs). Loss of their
      activity results in cellular accumulation of GAGs fragments leading to progressive
      multi-system manifestations (central nervous system involvement, dysmorphism, skeletal
      abnormalities, cardiomyopathy, ear/nose/throat and respiratory problems). Impairment of
      pulmonary function is an important health problem for patients with MPS.

      Various therapeutic approaches have been developed to restore deficient enzymatic activity
      (stem cell transplantation, enzyme replacement therapy, gene therapy), but new therapeutic
      approaches may be required, in addition to these current conventional treatments. In
      particular, respiratory failure is not fully restored. The cellular and molecular mechanisms
      responsible for lung dysfunction remain today largely unknown and require additional
      investigations. It is well established that GAGs, upon specific conditions either stimulate
      or inhibit the activity of specific enzymes named cathepsins.

      Cysteine cathepsins are lysosomal proteases that can be secreted extracellularly by
      macrophages, epithelial cells and fibroblasts. Imbalance between cathepsins and their
      inhibitors in favor to proteolysis has been demonstrated in patients with chronic pulmonary
      diseases (silicosis, cystic fibrosis). By contrast, high levels of their endogenous
      inhibitors are found in idiopathic fibrosis. Interestingly, previous studies reported that
      accumulation of sulphated GAGs (chondroitin sulfate, heparan sulfate, dermatan sulfate)
      impaired the collagenolytic activity of cathepsin K in a MPS I mouse model, supporting that
      cathepsin K participates to the pathophysiology of the bone involvement in patients with MPS.
      Moreover, other related cathepsins are regulated in vitro by GAGs.

      Thus, inhibition of cathepsins may contribute to the respiratory impairment in MPS patients.
      However, their expression and their role in the airway of MPS patients are still unknown.
      Moreover, little is known on GAG levels in MPS lungs. The main hypothesis of the proposed
      research is to evaluate the levels of sulfated GAGs (heparan sulfate, chondroitin sulfate,
      dermatan sulfate) in respiratory samples of MPS patients and the ability of theses GAGs to
      modulate the proteolytic activities of lysosomal cathepsins. This would lead to an abnormal
      remodeling of the extracellular matrix architecture, contributing to the respiratory
      disorders of patients with MPS. To validate this hypothesis, a correlational study will be
      performed to find a relationship between cathepsins expression/activity, GAGs concentrations
      and respiratory function.

      This is a multicentre, prospective, non-interventional and case-control study (patients with
      MPS vs non-MPS patients). Pulmonary samples (biological waste) will be collected in patients
      after either a respiratory physiotherapy session (scheduled for routine care) or by tracheal
      aspiration when patients are intubated (intubation for imaging or surgery under general
      anesthesia). Collected samples will be used to assess the level of expression and activity of
      cathepsins and their inhibitors and the amount of sulfated GAGs.

      Patients with MPS will be recruited in some Reference and Competence Centers for Metabolic
      Diseases in France (Angers, Bordeaux, Brest, Rennes, Toulouse, Tours). The non-MPS patients
      will be recruited at the Tours University Hospital (Pediatric Resuscitation).

      Some medical data of patients with MPS will be collected retrospectively from the medical
      record. These data will be age, sex, type of MPS, respiratory assessment.

      The data collected for the non-MPS patients will be age and sex.

      The expected benefits are:

        1. Better understanding of the respiratory pathophysiology in MPS patients: by
           understanding the molecular cathepsins/GAGs interactions.

        2. Development of new therapeutic approaches for respiratory disease in patients with MPS:

           If we can prove that there is a dysregulation of pulmonary cathepsin activity in
           patients with MPS, a treatment that will restore this activity would be of great
           interest. This type of treatment is already studied in bone diseases such as
           osteoporosis. This treatment would be complementary to current conventional therapies,
           like stem cell transplant or enzyme replacement therapy.

        3. New therapeutic approaches potentially effective for other problems in patients with
           MPS:

      The mechanism of cathepsin activity inhibition by GAGs is probably not lung-specific. GAGs
      accumulation and cathepsin expression are ubiquitous in humans. The role of cathepsins
      dysregulation by GAGs has already been described to explain some bone or cardiac
      involvements. These new therapeutic approaches could therefore also have a beneficial effect
      on other organs involvement in patients with MPS.
    
  