
    
      Roughly half of the two million nosocomial infections that occur each year are associated
      with the use of a medical device. Approximately 30 million urinary catheters are inserted
      each year into the bladder of over five million patients, and each catheterized patient is at
      risk of developing catheter-associated symptomatic urinary tract infection. About 95% of
      urinary tract infections are associated with the use of a urinary catheter. Not only is
      catheter associated urinary tract infection the most common nosocomial infection in general,
      but it is also the most common infectious reason for admission to the hospital among the
      population of 275 thousand Americans with spinal cord injury, which expands by approximately
      12 thousand persons each year. Hospital-acquired infections boost today's healthcare costs by
      billions of dollars and healthcare providers are increasingly responsible for shouldering
      these costs.

      Catheter-associated symptomatic urinary tract infection is usually caused by organisms that
      originate from the patient's own colonic and perineal flora, or the hands of healthcare
      personnel during catheter insertion and manipulation of the collection system. Microbial
      species predominantly migrate into the bladder extraluminally via the mucoid film that forms
      between the catheter surface and the urethra. Current approaches for preventing
      catheter-related infections include antimicrobial modification of the catheter surface.
      Although these antimicrobial-based catheters aim to eradicate bacteria residing in the
      vicinity of the catheter surface, they can result in antibiotic resistance, which could have
      serious implications on patient care.

      A novel urinary catheter, the Micro-Patterned Foley catheter has been developed that
      incorporates a micro-pattern texture on the surface; the texture is too small to see or feel,
      but has demonstrated an impressive effect in the laboratory inhibiting microbial attachment
      to the surface and microbial migration along the micro-patterned catheter segments. The
      objective of the study is to determine whether the novel Micro-Patterned catheter can delay
      the onset of catheter associated urinary tract infection in catheterized spinal cord injured
      patients. If successful, this catheter will help improve quality of patient care and reduce
      cost of care by reducing the need for antibiotic treatment. This finding could extend to
      other patient populations that require urinary catheterization.
    
  