
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the feasibility of producing T cells modified to express a GD2-specific chimeric
      antigen receptor (GD2-CAR-expressing autologous T-lymphocytes [GD2CART]) meeting established
      release criteria using a dasatinib containing culture platform and retroviral vector in the
      Miltenyi CliniMACS Prodigy system II. Determine the safety and maximum tolerated dose (MTD)
      or recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) via administration of escalating doses of autologous
      GD2CART in children and young adults with relapsed/refractory osteosarcoma and neuroblastoma
      following cyclophosphamide-fludarabine based lymphodepletion.

      III. Determine clinical activity in a preliminary fashion of autologous GD2CART in children
      and young adults with relapsed, refractory osteosarcoma and neuroblastoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Measure persistence of adoptively transferred GD2CART and correlate this with antitumor
      effects.

      II. If unacceptable toxicity occurs that is possibly, probably, or likely related to GD2CART,
      assess the capacity for rimiducid (AP1903), a dimerizing agent, to mediate clearance of the
      genetically engineered cells and resolve toxicity.

      III. Describe the feasibility and tolerability of a second infusion of GD2CART in select
      patients.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare persistence of GD2CART administered in this trial to that observed in a previous
      trial using GD2.OX40.28.z.iCasp9 CAR T cells (NCI 14-C-0059) and assess features of the T
      cell product and the expanded T cells in vivo that correlate with persistence.

      II. Conduct exploratory studies measuring levels of circulating myeloid cells including
      myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) in patients treated on this trial and compare levels
      to those observed in NCI 14-C-0059.

      III. Explore GD2 expression in patients with neuroblastoma and osteosarcoma, including
      patients who have previously received anti-GD2 antibodies, from tissue and/or bone marrow
      samples at study entry and if available, after cell infusion.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of GD2CART.

      LYMPHODEPLETION CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV) daily
      on days -5 to -2 and cyclophosphamide IV daily on days -4 to -2.

      GD2CART: Patients receive GD2CART cells IV on day 0.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up three times weekly until day
      14, twice weekly until day 28, at months 2, 3, 6, 9, and 12, every 3 months until the end of
      the second year, then annually for up to 10 years.
    
  