
    
      Although there may be no direct benefit to the subjects under study, the investigation will
      assess the stability which determines the efficacy for future toric optics and the amount of
      glistening and PCO formation of the IPure and ZCB00 hydrophobic acrylic IOLs.

      25 eyes of 25 patients will be recruited for each IOL, that is 50 eyes of 50 patients. The
      randomization will be done with a binomial law. The IOL have a priori the same IOL constants
      which eliminates the necessity to know which IOL is going to be implanted at the preoperative
      time. A clinically relevant difference for rotational stability will be 2°. The reasonable
      standard deviation of the position of an IOL in the eye is 2.4°. A total of 48 patients is
      necessary for a probability of 80% to measure a clinically relevant difference concerning the
      IOL stability.

      In the week before surgery, the eye to be operated is examined at the slit-lamp and by
      indirect fundoscopy and measurement of intraocular pressure (IOP) will be performed
      routinely. Additionally, routine biometry is performed using the IOLMaster (Zeiss Meditec AG,
      Jena, Germany) for axial length measurement, K-readings and anterior chamber depth (ACD)
      measurements.

      Randomisation will be performed using online randomisation and patients will be allocated 1:1
      either to the study group (iPure group), or to the control group (ZCB00).

      A self sealing incision, injection of viscoelastic substance, capsulorhexis,
      phacoemulsification, irrigation/aspiration of cortical material and injection of viscoelastic
      substance into the capsular bag are performed in a standardised fashion. The IOL is implanted
      via injector into the capsular bag. Following the implantation of the IOL, the viscoelastic
      substance is aspirated thoroughly from the anterior chamber, as well as retro-lentally, to
      assure complete removal of the OVD.

      Any deviation from the standard protocol will be recorded peroperatively. Follow-ups will be
      performed 1-2 hours, 1 month, 12 months and 24 months after cataract surgery.
    
  