
    
      Subjects will be asked to rate their perceptions of hunger. Appetite sensation will be
      measured using validated visual analog scale (VAS) questionnaire, which provides a
      quantifiable objective measure translated from subjective sensations. VAS is self-report
      methodology to assess subjective appetite sensation Each VAS consists of a 100 mm horizontal
      line, where 0 mm represents sensation not felt at all, while 100 mm sensation felt as the
      greatest. Participants were asked to place a vertical mark on the 100 mm line to indicate how
      they feel at testing time (0, 30, 60, and 120 min after the second snack consumption).

      Participants will be invited to the nutrition clinic at 6:00 pm, upon arrival blood samples
      will be obtained from each women, intravenous blood samples will be obtained by a trained
      health care professional (medical laboratory technician) by a trained health care
      professional using 5 ml capacity syringes from a forearm vein from each woman; one sample
      will be obtained at the first day of the study at 6:00 pm after one-hour of taking the second
      snack for group A and B and at same time for group C and another sample will be obtained at
      the seventh day of the study at the same manner.

      All blood samples will be analyzed in approved medical laboratory to measure appetite
      hormones; cholecystokinin, peptide YY, glucagon like peptide-1, and ghrelin on addition to
      insulin. Two results of each test will be obtained for each woman to observe the change in
      both results and to study the effect of high protein vs. high fat on appetite hormones to
      control satiety.

      Statistical Package for Social Science software (SPSS, version 22.0, 2013) will used to
      perform the statistical analysis. Repeated measures ANOVA will be used to evaluate VAS scores
      and hormones' concentration with time and treatment as factors. Some of data and social
      demographic data will be categorical.
    
  