
    
      Confocal laser endomicroscopy (CLE) has been developed to overcome the limitations of the
      current endoscopic sampling techniques. CLE allows detailed examination of cellular
      structures since it provides images very similar to images which a pathologist can see in the
      microscope. At present, probe based CLE (pCLE) is the only available technology of
      endomicroscopy. Before optical biopsy, a fluorescein is given intravenously and then
      fluorescent light coming from a horizontal special focal plane is detected during pCLE of the
      digestive system.

      CLE provide real-time histopathological diagnosis and can lead to an immediate endoscopic
      treatment in case of early esophageal and gastric neoplasia.

      Patients after treatment of Barrett's esophagus related esophageal neoplasia (dysplasia or
      early cancer) should be surveilled endoscopically with biopsies to rule out relapse of
      Barrett's esophagus or neoplasia.

      Project A - pCLE in the detection of esophageal and gastric lesions:

      We plan to investigate the diagnostic accuracy of pCLE (compared to standard histopathology)
      in patients with endoscopically diagnosed early esophageal and gastric lesions.

      Project B - pCLE in the detection of persistent/recurrent intestinal metaplasia/dysplasia in
      patients after endoscopic treatment of BORN:

      Investigators plan to perform a prospective cross-over study comparing the diagnostic
      accuracy and sensitivity of pCLE with standard biopsies in patients after completed
      endoscopic treatment of BORN. Surveillance endoscopies are focused on detection of
      persistent/recurrent IM or dysplasia (ev. neoplasia). BORN is defined as low-grade dysplasia
      (confirmed by a specialized esophageal pathologist) or as high grade dysplasia or early
      adenocarcinoma. Investigators will also examine the ability of pCLE to detect buried glands
      after radiofrequency ablation.

      Methods:

      Project A:

      Patients referred to our department with a suspect and endoscopically visible lesion in the
      esophagus or stomach will undergo pCLE during a standard upper GI endoscopy with pCLE. After
      a real-time diagnosis (made by the endoscopist), the standard tissue sampling (biopsies,
      endoscopic resection or dissection) followed by a standard histopathological tissue
      assessment will follow.

      Project B:

      During one of surveillance endoscopies in patients after finishing the endoscopic treatment
      of BORN (interval depends on baseline diagnosis), pCLE will be performed in the cardia,
      neo-Z-line, esophagus body and visible lesions, and images will be stored. Thereafter,
      standard biopsies will be taken and sent for histopathological analysis.

      For optical biopsy, endoscopist (real time) and two expert pathologists will independently
      blindly evaluate each "optical specimen". The standard biopsy specimen will be assessed
      independently by a pathologist not assessing the optical biopsy. Results of optical biopsy
      will be compared with results of standard biopsy.

      Main hypothesis:

      Project A:

      pCLE is not inferior to standard biopsy (or resection) specimen in histopathological
      diagnosing of esophageal/gastric lesions.

      Project B:

      pCLE is not inferior compared to standard biopsies in detecting persistent/recurrent IM,
      recurrent neoplasia and buried glands.
    
  