
    
      1. Briefly describe the purpose of this protocol. First purpose of the study is to
           understand the inheritance of morbid obesity. If a gene or genes cause morbid obesity
           can be found, the diagnosis and treatment of morbid obesity may be improved. Second
           purpose is to learn more about the effects of weight loss on dementia, body composition,
           and comorbidity.

        2. Briefly summarize how participants are recruited. Volunteers will first learn of LABS-2a
           research opportunity at the Bariatric Surgery Informational meetings. Subjects who
           express interest, will be screened through an IRB-approved informal telephone interview.
           If no exclusion criteria are identified, volunteers will be asked to provide
           IRB-approved consent. Recruitment will occur irrespective of race, religion or color.

        3. Briefly describe the procedures subjects will undergo. Participants will be asked to
           complete a set of memory tests. These memory tests will be recorded on audio tape.
           BodPod will be used to measure their muscle, bone, and fat. The BodPod is an upright
           capsule that will enclose around a subject completely. BodPod uses the movement of air
           to measure muscle, and fat volumes. Participation in the memory testing portion and the
           BodPod portion of the research is optional. Fat and Liver samples will be removed during
           their weight loss surgery, specifically for this research study.

        4. If applicable, briefly describe survey/interview instruments used. Memory tests will be
           performed to assess cognition. The Wechsler Memory Scale-Third Edition (WMS-III) and the
           Mini Memory State Examination (MMSE) will be the validated memory tests used. The
           WMS-III tests logical memory by having subjects recall short stories that were just read
           to them. The MMSE involves performing a set of requests that test orientation to time
           and place, immediate recall, short term verbal memory, calculation, language and
           construct ability.

        5. Briefly describe how the data will be analyzed to address the purpose of the protocol.

      The memory test data collected and compared against well established norms. Tissue samples
      will stored in a repository to be genetically studied for an indefinite amount of time.
      Genetic studies will be related to the disease of obesity and associated comorbidities
      brought on by the disease.
    
  