
    
      The study will be divided into 3 phases: Induction, Maintenance, and Follow-up.

      The Induction Phase will cover a period of 6 weeks. During this time, patients will receive 6
      weekly intravesical instillations of 8 mg MCC. The patients will be evaluated at month 3, at
      which time the patients will enter the Maintenance Phase. The Maintenance Phase will last
      from month 3 to month 24, and during this time, patients will receive weekly MCC
      instillations for three weeks at months 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 and evaluations will be
      performed at months 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21 and 24.

      At month 3, the patient will be evaluated to assure that the disease is not progressing.
      Cytology, cystoscopy and biopsies will be performed to obtain adequate staging (if residual
      tumor persists). If the patient is disease-free, maintenance therapy will be initiated.
      Patients with non-muscle invasive tumors at month 3 will, at the discretion of the
      investigator, receive either a second 6-week induction course or a 3-week maintenance course.
      Patients who show progression to muscle invasive disease will be referred to other
      treatments.

      At month 6 and thereafter at each evaluation visit, patients will be evaluated and managed
      according to the following results:

        -  Patients who are disease-free will continue on maintenance treatment.

        -  Patients who are not disease-free (evidence of papillary lesions, CIS or muscle invasive
           disease) will be withdrawn from further study treatment and will be referred to other
           therapies at the discretion of the investigator.

      The final 36 months of the study is the Follow-up Phase. Evaluations will be performed at
      months 30, 36, 42, 48, 54 and 60.

      Efficacy evaluations will include standard cystoscopy, biopsies and urine cytology. During
      the Maintenance Phase, standard cystoscopies will be performed at months 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18,
      21 and 24 for the surveillance of bladder tumors. During the months that instillations will
      be performed, cystoscopies will be conducted only once at each of these months. During the
      Follow-up Phase, cystoscopies will be performed at months 30, 36, 42, 48, 54 and 60.

      Mandatory bladder biopsies will be done for all patients at month 6.

      During the course of the study, biopsies will be taken only if evident or suspicious lesions
      are seen during cystoscopy or in case of negative cystoscopy but positive cytology.
    
  