
    
      Rib fractures represent a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in trauma patients.
      Hypoventilation secondary to pain and altered breathing mechanics frequently leads to
      respiratory distress and may necessitate admission to an ICU. Currently, opioids are the
      mainstay of treatment in rib fracture pain management however they are often ineffective and
      themselves can also promote hypoventilation. A more effective means of analgesia in rib
      fractures is the use of regional anaesthesia techniques including ultrasound (US) guided
      nerve blocks. Multiple studies have shown promising results with the use of US guided
      intercostal nerve blocks, paravertebral blocks and serratus anterior blocks for acute and
      long-term pain control in rib fractures, however each of these techniques has significant
      drawbacks including being limited to single dermatomes, high incidence of complications, and
      incomplete analgesia of the hemithorax. Recently, the erector spinae plane block (ESPB) has
      come to the forefront as a potential safe and effective option for analgesia in painful
      conditions of the thorax. This technique involves identifying the erector spinae muscles at
      the level of a given thoracic transverse process and injecting local anaesthetic into the
      fascial plane (Figures 1, 2, and 3); the local anaesthetic then spreads through the fascial
      plane both cephalad and caudad to the injection point and will anaesthetize the thoracic
      sensory nerves that run in this plane at multiple dermatomal levels (Figure 4). Moreover,
      because the target point of injection is both superficial and protected by the bony
      transverse process the incidence of complications is felt to be low. While this technique has
      been successfully used in the field of anaesthesiology, the ESPB has yet to be integrated
      into the practice of emergency medicine physicians. In fact, only one paper has detailed it's
      use for acute pain control in the emergency department (ED; 7). Given the high morbidity
      associated with rib fractures, the inadequacy of opioid analgesia and the strong safety
      profile of the ESPB, the proposed study seeks to address whether this block can be used to
      provide analgesia in ED patients with acute rib fractures. This first study will provide
      proof of concept that this technique is a useful and safe technique for emergency providers
      to use.

      Objectives To address whether the ESPB can successfully be used for analgesia in ED patients
      with rib fractures.

      Hypothesis The investigators hypothesize that the ESPB will be a safe and effective means of
      analgesia in ED patients with rib fractures.
    
  