
    
      The ZIDA device uses a series of regular electrical pulses to stimulate the tibial nerve for
      the management of overactive bladder by a patient in the home setting. The most common
      potential risk and complication associated with the ZIDA device are discomfort and pain
      (including throbbing pain) at, or near the stimulation site, including the patient's lower
      leg and foot; Redness/inflammation at, or near, the stimulation site; Numbness of toes. This
      study is designed to exclude those subjects who may be at risk for known and unknown
      complications. No other complications have been reported and there are no new or other
      expected complications or risks expected in this clinical study, making the safety profile of
      the ZIDA no greater than that of other tibial nerve stimulator products that are commercially
      used for treatment of overactive bladder.

      As mentioned above, the ZIDA device has a low potential for risks and complications.
      Therefore, the study Sponsor and Principle Investigator have determined that through their
      participation in this clinical study, the study subjects will be exposed to no new risks
      compared to the risks of devices currently available for similar intended uses. Specifically,
      the proposed study of ZIDA meets the definition of an NSR (nonsignificant risk) study for the
      following reasons:

        -  ZIDA is NOT intended as an implant

        -  ZIDA is NOT purported or represented to be for use supporting or sustaining human life

        -  ZIDA does NOT present a potential for serious risk to the health, safety or welfare of a
           subject

        -  ZIDA has a very low safety risk profile.

        -  The study will be conducted by investigational centre and investigators with experience
           and expertise and sufficient staff to provide quality care to subjects requiring
           treatment of an overactive bladder.

        -  The study was designed to mitigate any potential unknown risk through the eligibility
           criteria, subject selection and training on the ZIDA device.

      As addressed above, the ZIDA device does NOT otherwise present a potential for serious risk
      to the health, safety or welfare of a subject and meets the definition of a NSR study.
    
  