
    
      Eighteen million people in the United States are currently suffering from Major Depressive
      Disorder, which is characterized by episodes of low mood, poor self attitude and poor
      vitality. Of those suffering from Major Depressive Disorder (MDD), only one third completely
      improve, but even among these cases, there is a waiting period of several weeks or more
      during which antidepressants take effect. Our inability to adequately treat MDD is evident in
      its being ranked number one in Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALY) among persons aged
      15-44. Given this profound burden, improving our understanding of the molecular basis of MDD
      is of utmost importance in the development of novel antidepressant medications.

      Serotoninergic neurotransmission is implicated in MDD, as demonstrated by the relative
      success of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). SSRIs block the reuptake of
      serotonin through the serotonin transporter, which then increases serotonin at the synaptic
      cleft. Serotonin then binds to 5-HT(1A) receptors, which are G-protein coupled receptors that
      are present both presynaptically and postsynaptically. Presynaptically, these receptors act
      as autoinhibitory receptors, triggering decreased firing rates and decreased serotonin
      release. This autoinhibitory mechanism is believed to be the reason why patients experience a
      delay in symptomatic improvement after initiation of SSRIs. Serotonin binding to postsynaptic
      receptors mediates symptomatic improvement of depression. Multiple positron emission
      tomography (PET) studies on 5-HT(1A) have been published. However, none of these studies use
      5-HT(1A) agonists, which are specific for the high affinity, G-protein coupled and active
      state of the 5-HT(1A) receptor. We would therefore like to establish the use of the 5-HT(1A)
      radiolabelled agonist, [(11)C]CUMI, here at NIH.

      The purpose of this study is to perform whole body PET studies in healthy volunteers in order
      to estimate radiation absorbed doses for [(11)C]CUMI. Future experiments will include studies
      on Major Depressive Disorder.
    
  