
    
      After giving written information about the study, an informed consent form will be
      distributed to patients who want to participate in the study and they will be asked to sign
      it. Patients who have signed the consent form will be asked to complete the DAS, MDAS, STAI-T
      and STAI-S questionnaires in the waiting room to assess preoperative anxiety levels.

      Verbal, photos and video information used to inform patients. Patients will be randomly
      divided into 3 groups. A total of 60 patients with 20 patients in each group will be included
      in the study. Patients in all groups will be operated by the same surgeon. Oral information
      will be given to the patients in the first group. In the second group, visual information
      will be given to the patients by showing the photos of the operation process. Patients in
      group 3 will also be shown a video of an audio implant operation showing the operation
      process. The operation video of a previously implanted patient will be watched by the
      attending physician. This video will begin with the physician informing the patient about the
      implant and continue with anesthesia. Afterward, the video will be terminated by giving
      information about the implant operation video and the complications that the patient may
      encounter and the points to be considered after the operation.

      A 7-day pain score will be obtained using the Smiley VAS scale to measure postoperative pain
      levels and patients will be asked to note how many painkillers they use. In addition, blood
      pressure and pulse measurements will be taken before and after surgery.

      A common text was prepared in all groups in order to provide preoperative information in an
      ideal way. In group 1, information related to this text will be given orally. In the 2nd and
      3rd groups, patients will be informed about the same information as well as visuality.
    
  