
    
      The aim of this survey is to examine the possible mental health burden on NHS staff as a
      results of the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic and how these change as the pandemic progresses.
      By understanding these effects, it will allow Investigators to identify recommendations to
      allow appropriate support mechanisms to be put in place for NHS staff, to better manage this
      and future pandemics and similar crises.

      Method:

      Investigators aim to sample several cohorts of staff across the NHS. A subset of participants
      will include NHS staff that are currently shielding - they are self-isolating due to being
      identified as part of the at-risk/vulnerable members of society. The aim will be to survey a
      minimum of 100 members of staff. Introductory emails will be sent out to NHS staff using the
      hospital email system. Potential participants will be asked to read a participant information
      sheet and provide informed consent to participate in the subsequent survey.

      Staff within the NHS will be asked to complete a series of surveys at multiple timepoints.
      The survey link will be circulated to staff with the introductory email. It will be sent at
      the following time points with a reminder to all on each occasion after 5 days: on study
      initiation, 1 month later and then 3 months after the pandemic has ceased in the UK.
      Additional timepoints may be added depending on the length and severity of the pandemic.

      Qualtrics software will be used to host and administer the survey. The variables to be
      measured are:

      Demographics (At first survey only): Age, sex, ethnic status, socio-economical status,
      religious identification and occupation.

      Exposure to COVID-19 Mental health: The investigators will assess depression with 9 items
      (PHQ-9); anxiety with 7 items (GAD-7); paranoia (short Green paranoia scale), traumatic
      stress, somatic symptoms (PHQ-15); conspiracy mentality and social interactions (The
      loneliness scale).

      Mediating psychological variables: Locus of control, death anxiety, 10 item Cognitive
      Reflection Task of analytical reasoning and personality traits 9 Big-five short version.

      The surveys should take approximately 10 minutes to complete. Participants will be informed
      that should they feel distressed by the questions raised in the survey, that they should seek
      support from the providers in the introductory email. Participants will be able to withdraw
      from the study and any timepoint without providing a reason.

      The participants anonymised data will be analysed by Professor Bentall's team at the
      University of Sheffield and stored on a secure, University server. The main outcomes of the
      study will be tracking changes in mental health measurements at the pre-defined timepoints.
    
  