
    
      This will be an investigator-initiated, prospective pilot study which aims to recruit 30
      patients in total and conducted over 24 months.

      Study Aims and Hypotheses: Utilisation of healthcare resources and burden of care on society
      for LTOT patients is disproportionately high. The study investigators aim to describe this
      group of patients and introduce an intervention that aims to promote quality living with a
      home-based physiotherapy programme.

        1. To test the hypothesis that the intervention of a home-based physiotherapy programme
           together with a lightweight POC will improve physical activity level, reduce daily time
           spent in sedentary activity, improve Quality of Life (QoL) and reduce symptoms of
           anxiety and depression of patients on LTOT

        2. To describe the functional status of patients on LTOT and their caregivers - physical
           activity levels, body mass index, psychological, socio-economic background, activities
           of daily living (ADL) status

        3. To describe the barriers to uptake of ambulatory oxygen in patients who fulfil criteria
           for LTOT

        4. As there is a lack of local data on the effectiveness and safety of a home-based
           physiotherapy program, the study being conducted is a pilot study intended to establish
           the feasibility of a home-based physiotherapy programme

      STUDY BACKGROUND

        1. Long-term oxygen therapy (LTOT) is an established medical intervention that has been
           shown to prolong the survival of a select group of patients with respiratory failure (1,
           2). Although local data on the incidence and prevalence of LTOT use in Singapore is
           lacking, it has been reported in the Danish Oxygen Register that the annual incidence
           and prevalence of LTOT use in 2010 was 32.2 and 48.1 per 100,000 inhabitants
           respectively (3). Older studies have reported a LTOT prevalence of 28 per 100,000 in
           1992 in the French Oxygen Register (4), LTOT incidence and prevalence of 7.1 and 24 per
           100,000 respectively in 2000 in the Swedish Oxygen Register (5) and prevalence of LTOT
           of 241 per 100,000 in the USA in 1994 (6). Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)
           is by far the main respiratory diagnosis in LTOT patients followed by other diseases
           such as interstitial lung disease and bronchiectasis (7). In addition, the medical
           literature has documented rising LTOT usage over the years due to reasons such as
           increasing survival of COPD patients and increased physician and patient awareness of
           the benefits of LTOT (8). The costs of LTOT have been recognised to be high, with an
           estimated 800,000 patients in USA utilising LTOT at cost of approximately $1.4 billion
           American dollars annually according to a 1995 publication by O'Donohue et al (9). Total
           Medicare payments for LTOT in 1998 were reported to be USD 1.3 billion (10). A more
           recent analysis of 329,482 Medicare beneficiaries with COPD who received oxygen from
           2001 to 2010 found that 73,659 (22.4%) received oxygen therapy (8).

        2. The majority of patients utilise oxygen concentrators (OC) (3,11) which typically run on
           continuous AC power and weigh between 13-22kg. This intervention, although
           life-prolonging, nonetheless limits patient mobility as patients are required to utilise
           oxygen therapy for at least 15 hours a day to benefit. As a result, many patients become
           confined in their homes.

        3. Indeed, patients with chronic respiratory disease requiring LTOT have been reported to
           be severely limited in their physical activity. Studies of patients on LTOT have shown
           that 46% of patients walk less than 600m per day (12) and up to 45% are house-bound
           (13). While this may be due to low exercise tolerance, oxygen therapy may be a
           contributory factor in itself as patients receiving oxygen from a stationary source
           often become tethered their device over time. Although there are theoretical benefits to
           improving exercise tolerance with oxygen therapy (14), it has been reported that
           patients with severe COPD on LTOT have significantly reduced levels of domestic activity
           compared with patients with COPD of similar severity but who were not on LTOT (15).
           Patients with severe COPD and broadly similar health status on LTOT have also been
           reported to be less independent on activities of daily living than those not requiring
           LTOT (16).

        4. Apart from reduced quality of life, reductions in daily activity levels have been shown
           to be related to clinically relevant outcomes in COPD patients, such as reduced health
           status (17), hospital admissions (18, 19) and survival (19) even after adjustment for
           severity of COPD. Over the years, interest has shifted from improving exercise capacity
           to increasing daily physical activity (20) which is defined as any bodily movement
           produced by the contraction of skeletal muscles that increased energy expenditure (21).
           In fact, it was found in a prospective cohort study of 170 outpatients with stable COPD
           that objectively measured physical activity was the strongest predictor for all-cause
           mortality in patients with COPD and that there was a linear association between physical
           activity and mortality (22). Significant gains in quality of life and reduced
           utilisation of healthcare stand to be made if the physical activity and mobility profile
           of patients on LTOT can be increased.

        5. An established intervention to improve the mobility and physical activity levels of LTOT
           patients is Pulmonary Rehabilitation (PR). PR is a structured, multidimensional and
           multidisciplinary programme over time (at least 6 weeks) that comprises physical
           training and breathing exercises supervised by a respiratory physiotherapist in
           conjunction with education guided by objective tests of the respiratory system and
           exercise capacity such as pulmonary function tests, 6-minute walk test and
           cardiopulmonary exercise testing. PR been shown to be cost-effective and beneficial in
           improving shortness of breath, health status and exercise tolerance in patients of all
           grades of COPD severity, including patients with chronic respiratory failure on LTOT
           (23).

        6. Although the benefits of PR are established, uptake and completion of PR is frequently
           limited. The percentage of referred participants who did not attend PR at all ranged
           from 8.3 to 49.6% in a systematic review (24). Many barriers have been cited, such as
           low referral rates from healthcare providers (25) and low patient and healthcare
           provider awareness of its availability and benefits. Usage of LTOT has also been found
           to an independent predictor for non-attendance to PR (26). This is not surprising as
           patients on LTOT face even greater difficulty than the average patient in participating
           in PR due to challenges in being able to independently navigate the transportation
           system to attend outpatient PR whilst on oxygen therapy. Another major barrier worth
           mentioning is the lack of access from a combination of factors of geography, culture,
           finances, transportation and other logistics (27, 28). This may be due to the fact that
           PR is a healthcare-provider centric intervention that is traditionally conducted in a
           healthcare institution in an outpatient or inpatient setting.

        7. Locally in Singapore, patients face a financial disincentive towards participating in PR
           in the outpatient setting as Medisave, the national medical savings scheme, imposes
           limits on withdrawals for outpatient healthcare expenditure. Outpatient PR also imposes
           hidden costs to the patient in the form of transportation and missed days at work for
           family caregivers who accompany the patient for outpatient PR. Patients are often
           accompanied by family caregivers or sponsors to healthcare visits in Singapore and the
           lack of a caregiver to accompany patients for outpatient PR is an important cultural
           barrier to PR. Inpatient PR in Singapore, on the other hand, is also limited in its
           capacity to serve many patients due to the national strain on hospital beds. PR clearly
           has its limitations as a modality in improving the poor physical activity levels of
           patients on LTOT and a novel solution is needed that addresses the many barriers with PR
           uptake.

        8. The investigators are therefore proposing the establishment of a home-based
           physiotherapy programme as a novel community and patient-centric and resource-lean
           intervention that seeks to improve the physical activity of LTOT patients. Patients will
           be prescribed an ambulatory oxygen device and receive education on its usage in
           conjunction with a home exercise regimen which would include a home visit by a
           physiotherapist. It is hypothesised that home-based physiotherapy would be more
           patient-centric compared to healthcare centre-based physiotherapy as realistic
           rehabilitation goal settings and exercise regimens can be personalised to each patient's
           unique home and community environment, lifestyle and care needs. The proposed
           intervention would be similar to an 8-week home-based PR study recently conducted in the
           UK which comprised 1 home visit and 7 once-weekly telephone calls from a physiotherapist
           in the home-based intervention arm which found equivalent short-term outcomes (such as
           exercise tolerance and dyspnoea-related quality of life) that were equivalent to
           outpatient centre-based PR (29).

        9. Ambulatory Oxygen (AO) is an important enabler in improving the mobility of patients on
           LTOT in the community and therefore their participation in PR. However there remain many
           barriers to the uptake of AO such as (i) lack of instruction on the usage of AO, and
           particularly with regards to AO delivered via oxygen cylinders, (ii) fear of running out
           of their AO supply while they were using it, (iii) embarrassment and (iv) difficulties
           with carrying the AO supply (30).

       10. These barriers have led to low usage rates of AO via oxygen cylinder with only 39% of
           patients using AO for more than 2 hours a week in a Danish study published in 1999 (31).
           In the same study, it was reported that when patients had outdoor activity, the usage of
           stationary oxygen fell by a couple of hours, resulting in lower overall oxygen usage.
           This suggested that patients were spending a considerable time outside their home
           without using their AO (31). In Italy where LTOT is almost exclusively provided by
           liquid oxygen, it was reported that although most patients (84%) possessed an AO device,
           only 40% declared that they used it daily with "being ashamed of being seen by passersby
           with a stroller" being the principal barrier (7). Similar data was presented in a French
           study which reported that most patients (630/930) used their oxygen only while resting
           (32).

       11. Compared to oxygen cylinders, AO delivered by lightweight Portable Oxygen Concentrator
           (POC) has the advantages of being (i) user-friendly, (ii) aesthetically more pleasing
           and is (iii) easily rechargeable with standard household electrical supply (33).

           Such advantages will overcome some of the aforementioned barriers to AO usage.

       12. A prospective pilot study of 30 patients is proposed. Assessment of activity levels, QoL
           and breathlessness will be measured before and after 10 weeks. The 2 components of the
           proposed intervention, namely the home-based physiotherapy programme and the
           prescription of a lightweight POC are synergistic in its effects. Supplemental oxygen
           has been shown to improve exercise duration (34) and therefore rehabilitation while it
           has been shown that effective use of oxygen was improved by follow-up education, whether
           given by nurse or physiotherapist, after initiation of oxygen therapy (32). It has been
           shown that the prescription of AO alone does not automatically assure good adherence to
           the prescribed treatment or use of AO outdoors (30). The guidance from the home-based
           physiotherapy programme will comprise of a home visit by a physiotherapist with the aim
           of reinforcing compliance and usage of AO outside the house, thereby improving the
           patients' mobility over simply prescribing an AO device. It is hypothesised therefore
           that patients will be encouraged to use their AO device when they are guided by a
           home-based physiotherapy programme where rehabilitation goals and exercises are tailored
           to each patient's unique "life-space" in the home and community.

       13. In summary, the proposed intervention of a home-based activity education programme in
           partnership with a community healthcare provider and in conjunction with a lightweight
           POC may revolutionize the approach to patients with chronic respiratory failure in
           Singapore and improve their ability to function independently in the community greatly;
           in addition, the ability to stay active and community ambulant as well as the reduction
           the demand on national healthcare resources (e.g. inpatient rehabilitation beds for PR)
           is greatly advantageous.

      Note - References have been cited in subsequent sections
    
  