
    
      The TP53-induced glycolysis and apoptosis regulator (TIGAR) is a transcriptional target of
      p53. TIGAR functions as a fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase, decreasing the flux through the main
      glycolytic pathway. Consequently, glucose metabolism diverted into the pentose phosphate
      pathway (PPP). This results in TIGAR-mediated increase in cellular NADPH production, which
      contributes to the scavenging of ROS by reduced glutathione and thus a lower sensitivity of
      cells to oxidative stress-associated apoptosis. PPP also produce ribose phosphate for DNA
      synthesis and repair that play a role in tumor development and cell survival in tumor
      microenvironment. A high expression level of TIGAR was observed in cancers such as breast
      cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, intestinal cancer, and glioblastoma. These studies
      suggested that TIGAR may act as an oncogene that support cancer progression.

      The tripartite motif containing 59 (TRIM) proteins have been implicated in many biological
      processes including cell differentiation, apoptosis, transcriptional regulation, and
      signaling pathways.

      It is related to several cancers. The oncogenic effect of TRIM59 on tumor proliferation and
      migration has been studied in various cancers, including gastric cancer, osteosarcoma, lung
      and CRC. The biological activity of TRIM59 has been observed to be closely associated with
      the regulation of P53. TRIM59 interacts with P53, leading to P53 ubiquitination and
      degradation, and consequently promotes tumor growth and migration. TRIM59 functions as an
      oncogene in CRC progression. It also activates the PI3K/AKT pathway. Increased activity of
      this pathway is often associated with tumor progression and resistance to cancer therapies.
      AKT can control TIGAR protein translation by activation of mTOR.

      Targeting TRIM59 inhibition will inhibit PI3K-Akt pathway downregulate TIGAR protein
      translation. This is in turn downregulates GSH levels, increases ROS production, leading to
      cell death and blocks the cellular proliferation and survival of cancer cells leading to
      tumor regression. Therefore, TRIM59 protein can serve as a new potential therapeutic target
      for CRC.
    
  