
    
      Lung cancer is the most common cause of cancer death worldwide. Patient-friendly delivery of
      results of lung cancer workup is mandatory in an era of personalized medicine. The
      possibility of delivering health care using telephone has been acknowledged for various
      medical interactions such as genetic counselling, delivery of screening results, smoking
      cessation programmes, palliative interventions, and disclosing result of breast cancer
      workup. However, Retrospective observational studies have identified higher patients'
      satisfaction scores when the cancer diagnosis is conveyed by a physician with high
      communicative skills, in personal rather than in impersonal settings, in-person rather than
      by telephone, when the patients had a perception of opportunity to ask questions, and when
      conversations lasted more than10 minutes and included discussion of treatment options.

      All current models for breaking bad news (SPIKES, Kayes' 10 step-model, PACIENTE, BREAK) all
      focus on a single patient-physician encounter, which is in contrast to the organization of
      contemporary cancer workup as a flow of examinations and thus multiple encounters.

      The study aims to examine the effects on psychosocial consequences of receiving the final
      diagnosis of workup of suspected cancer in lung, pleura or mediastinum by telephone versus
      in-person when patients receive information on possible malignancy at every patient-physician
      encounter.

      HYPOTHESES:

      The main hypothesis of this study is that having the final diagnosis of cancer workup
      delivered by telephone (intervention group) is associated with worse psychosocial
      consequences than when delivered in-person (control group). More specifically, the hypothesis
      is:

      1) Receiving the result of cancer workup results in decreased scores of the disease-specific
      questionnaire Consequences of Screening: Lung Cancer (COS-LC) compared to patients receiving
      their results in-person.

      Potential moderators and mediators:

      During the study potential mediating and moderating factors will be explored, e.g. including
      socio-demography, comorbidity, and disease-specific factors, will be investigated. Most
      importantly, results on patients with confirmed cancer are explored separately as will data
      on patients without a final diagnosis of malignancy.

      METHODS:

      Study design:

      The study is a non-pharmacological two-armed randomized controlled trial with intervention
      group receiving the result of cancer workup by telephone (telephone group) and active control
      group receiving result of cancer workup in-person ("gold standard"; in-person group). Both
      groups will otherwise receive the same information and in the same way, thus regardless of
      group, all patients are informed on the possibility of malignancy at every patient-physician
      encounter.
    
  