
    
      Due to the modest effect of current pharmacotherapies, more effective treatments must be
      developed to optimally treat alcohol dependent patients. Treatments combining
      pharmacotherapies with different mechanisms of action may better address the diverse
      neurobiology of alcohol and the heterogeneity of alcoholics. However, little is known about
      how medication may affect behavior to reduce drinking. Aripiprazole (APZ), a partial dopamine
      agonist, affects dopamine and serotonin receptors without the limiting side effects seen with
      other atypical antipsychotics. Dopamine mediates reward based drinking and craving.
      Topiramate (TPMT), an antiepileptic, affects glutamate and GABA-A receptors and shows promise
      in reducing heavy drinking. Glutamate and GABA may mediate relief-based drinking and
      protracted withdrawal. Despite strong evidence that multiple neurotransmitters contribute to
      alcoholism, few studies have used two medications with such a diverse combination of actions
      to examine a potential synergistic effect on reducing alcohol consumption.

      The present study will recruit 216 healthy, alcohol-dependent volunteers who are not
      currently seeking treatment for their alcohol dependence to learn more about how these
      medications may work.

      The primary aims are to: (1) determine if APZ and TPMT are each more effective than placebo,
      and the combination of APZ and TPMT is more effective than either drug alone or placebo, in
      reducing alcohol use in non-treatment seeking alcohol dependent subjects in an alcohol self
      administration experiment (ASAE); (2) examine a hypothesized dose-response for three doses of
      APZ (0, 7.5mg/d and 15 mg/d) and three doses of TPMT (0, 100mg/d, 200mg/d); (3) examine the
      putative mechanisms of action of APZ, TPMT alone and together on craving, subjective
      stimulation, candidate gene influences and other behavioral effects associated with alcohol
      consumption; and (4) establish the safety of giving APZ and TPMT together. We will use of a 3
      X 3 drug (7.5mg, 15mg APZ vs. placebo) by drug (100mg, 200mg TPMT vs. placebo)
      between-subjects factorial design. Participants are randomly assigned to one of 9 cells.
      Subjects drinking and safety is monitored over a 5-week titration to their target dose,
      leading to an in-laboratory alcohol self administration session, during which clinical and
      behavioral effects are assessed during access to alcohol. A 1 month follow-up assesses
      adverse events and drinking. The long term objectives of this research are to improve
      medications available for alcoholism treatment and inform research and theory on the
      mechanisms of action of such medications.
    
  