
    
      Recently, a novel technique to visualize structures using fluorescent light and intravenous
      dye has been developed.

      Near Infrared Incisionless Fluorescent Cholangiography (NIFC) is a medical imaging technique
      that uses fluorescence to detect properly labeled structures during surgery.

      NIFC is performed using imaging devices with the purpose of providing real-time simultaneous
      information from color reflectance images (white light) and fluorescence emission (near
      infrared light). One or more light sources are used to excite and illuminate the sample.
      Light is collected using optical filters that match the emission spectrum of the fluorophore.
      Imaging lenses and digital cameras are used to produce the final image.

      During laparoscopic cholecystectomies, the visualization of the extra-hepatic bile ducts with
      fluorescence is called Near Infrared Incisionless Fluorescent Cholangiography (NIFC).
      Fluorescence equipment and a dye are necessary in order to perform a NIFC, but the technique
      requires no radiation or incision. A fluorescence dye is administrated intravenously at least
      45 minutes before the surgery, which is excreted by the liver and the bile duct The Study is
      designed to compare the effectiveness of Near Infrared Fluorescence Cholangiography (NIFC) to
      standard white light imaging (WLI) in visualizing and identifying the main biliary and
      hepatic structures (Cystic Duct, Right Hepatic Duct, Common Hepatic Duct, Common Bile Duct,
      Cystic-CBD junction, Cystic-Gallbladder junction and any Accessory Ducts) during laparoscopic
      cholecystectomy.

      Eligible patients will be identified through clinical and test evaluation. Eligibility will
      be verified by the patient's primary surgeon. The surgeon will determine the indication and
      date of the surgery. Once a patient is confirmed as eligible, the surgeon will introduce the
      study in detail. If after being introduced to the study and having had the opportunity to ask
      questions, the patient is willing to participate, he/she will be asked to review and sign the
      informed consent document .

      Upon entry in the clinical trial patients will be randomly allocated to the intervention arm.
      Data will be collected at enrolment time, during surgery, at the end of surgery and one week
      after surgery.

      Upon entry in the clinical trial, the master study database (REDCap, will randomly allocated
      patients to one of the study arms (1:1) within site (1:1) using a computer generated random
      sequence. This will provide an allocation sequence for each site. Once a patient is enrolled
      and a database file in REDCap is initiated for that patient, he/she will be assigned
      electronically to one of the study arms.

      Patient will be blind to the intervention but surgeon blinding will not be feasible due to
      the nature of the intervention. The study will involve a considerable number of surgeons in
      each site, which should compensate any potential bias of some of them in favor or against
      either approach.
    
  