
    
      Trial objectives:

      To decide whether the addition of nelfinavir to the approved antimyeloma therapy with
      bortezomib and dexamethasone has sufficient activity in proteasome inhibitor-resistant
      myeloma patients to merit further clinical investigation in a prospective controlled trial.

      Additional research questions:

      To collect myeloma cell samples from proteasome inhibitor-resistant myeloma patients for the
      assessment of the biology of proteasome inhibitor resistance and the identification of
      predictive markers for response to nelfinavir-based antimyeloma therapy.

      Primary endpoint:

      Response rate based on best response observed during the trial

      Selection of patients:

        -  Patients with multiple myeloma based on standard IMWG criteria, who have received at
           least one prior line of chemotherapy

        -  Previously exposed to or intolerant to at least one immunomodulatory drug (IMID)
           (thalidomide, lenalidomide, pomalidomide)

        -  Refractory to their most recent proteasome inhibitor-containing regimen or progressed
           during or within 60 days after proteasome inhibitor-containing therapy

        -  A bortezomib-based therapy in agreement with Swissmedic approval is indicated and
           intended

        -  Measurable disease based on serum paraprotein or free light chain levels

        -  Adequate hematological, hepatic and renal functions

        -  Absence of myeloma within the CNS

        -  No significant neuropathy

        -  No concomitant use of listed drugs which cannot be replaced or paused during trial
           treatment (Amiodarone, Pimozide, quinidine and its derivatives, ergot derivatives
           (dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, ergonovine, methylergonovine), triazolam, midazolam,
           sildenafil, alfuzosin)

      Trial Schedule and Duration:

      The inclusion of patients is planned to start in Q3 2014 and will stop after the inclusion of
      34 evaluable patients, which is expected in Q1 2016. End of trial treatment is expected for
      Q3 2016. Trial termination (last patient last visit) is expected to be in 2017.

      Accrual may be interrupted or the trial may be stopped early based on the results of an
      interim analysis or if new scientific data become available which change assessment of
      risk/benefit.

      Trial product:

      For this trial nelfinavir is the IMP. Bortezomib (Velcade®) and dexamethasone are not
      investigational drugs in the context of this trial, but will be administered as a background
      medication.

      Trial Treatment:

      The trial treatment is designed as an "add-on" therapy, where nelfinavir is added to the
      approved bortezomib therapy. Bortezomib and dexamethasone background treatment will be given
      in the approved dose and schedule (either i.v. or s.c), as per Swissmedic label and
      international therapeutic standard, in combination with 2500 mg Nelfinavir bid p.o. day 1-14
      for 6 cycles of 21 days.

      Measurements and procedures:

      Before the trial treatment Clinical examination; blood analyses; imaging investigations if
      applicable (e.g. bone X-ray or computer tomography, MRI); electrocardiogram; evaluation of
      the quality of life with a patient's questionnaire; pregnancy test for women in child-bearing
      age; optional: a bone marrow sample is taken for translational research. Aside from the
      electrocardiogram, the pregnancy test and the quality of life questionnaire, all the
      pre-treatment assessments performed within the frame of the trial are also routinely
      performed for the medical care of patients with multiple myeloma outside of a trial.

      During the trial treatment Clinical examination and blood analyses for the control of safety
      laboratory parameters; evaluation of the quality of life with a patient's questionnaire will
      be performed after completion of 3 cycles of therapy. Besides the quality of life
      questionnaire, all assessments would also be performed routinely outside of the trial.

      After the trial treatment Clinical examination and blood analyses for the control of safety
      laboratory parameters; these investigations will be performed within 1 month after treatment
      end, premature interruption or before the administration of a new antimyeloma therapy. These
      assessments are routinely done also outside of the trial.

      Statistical Considerations:

      The Simon's two-stage design will be used. A response rate of 15% or less is considered
      uninteresting and 35% or higher is promising. The trial will be stopped early if the
      treatment appears unpromising at the end of the first stage. To allow patient accrual while
      waiting for the stage-1 results, the design is modified according to Herndon's approach.

      With a significance level of 5% and a power of 80%, a total of 34 patients are required with
      10 patients in the first stage and 24 patients in the second stage.
    
  