
    
      Methods. Study Design Prospective, randomised, multicentre study. Centers

        -  Dott. E. Guffanti, IRCCS INRCA Casatenovo, Varese Italy

        -  Prof. F. Blasi, Università degli Studi di Milano, IRCCS Ospedale Maggiore Milan Italy

        -  Dott, M. Confalonieri, Ospedale Trieste, Italy Patients

      We plan to enrol 30 patients :

      Inclusion criteria

        -  Age > 45 years

        -  Tracheotomy

        -  History of COPD demonstrated by pulmonary function tests

        -  Informed Consent Exclusion criteria

             -  Allergy to macrolides

             -  Life expectancy < 1 year

      Exhaled breath condensate (EBC) The breath condensate samples is collected using a specially
      designed condensing chamber (Ecoscreen; Jaeger, Hoechberg, Germany). The exhaled air entered
      and left the chamber though one-way inlet and outlet valves, thus keeping the chamber closed.
      The subjects wear noseclips and breathed tidally through a mouthpiece connected to the
      condenser for ten minutes. Approximately 1 ml of the sampled material is transferred to 2-ml
      plastic tube and stored at -70°C.

      Interleukin-6 assay Interleukin-6 concentrations in the breath condensate will be measured
      using a specific enzyme immunoassay kit (EIA) (Cayman Chemical, Ann Arbor, USA). The assay is
      directly validated by means of gas chromatography/mass spectrometry in order to obtain a high
      correlation (r=0.95) between known amounts of IL-6 and the concentration measured by the EIA.
      The detection limit of the assay was 1.5 pg/ml after a two-hour development period.

      TNF alfa TNF-alfa serum levels will be measured by enzyme immunoassay (Cayman Chemical, Ann
      Arbor, USA)

      Microbiology Quantitative culture of tracheal aspirate will be performed at steady state,
      every 3 months and at exacerbation. Molecular biology techniques for Streptococcus
      pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Chlamydia
      pneumoniae and Mycoplasma pneumoniae identification will be also applied on the same
      specimens.

      Timetable Enrolment: between January 2004 and December 2005 Visits : Every 3 months and on
      each exacerbation/hospitalization a visit will be performed. Every month a phone call will be
      performed.

      Follow-up: 12 months. End of the study : July 2006

      Visit

        1. Visit 1. A complete history will be recorded. Inclusion and exclusion criteria will be
           checked. Informed consent will be collected and QoL questionnaire completed. Tracheal
           aspirate will be performed and divided into two aliquots : one for the local
           microbiology lab for quantitative cultures, and one for central lab for bacterial
           detection by PCR (stored at -80°C). Exhaled breath samples will be obtained.

        2. Follow-up visits. Every 3 months the patients will be recalled at the center and all
           Visit 1 procedures will be repeated. Number of exacerbations/hospitalisation will be
           recorded and QoL questionnaire completed.

        3. Exacerbation/hospitalisation visit. In presence of symptoms deterioration patients will
           be instructed to contact the center for a visit. All Visit 1 procedures will be
           repeated.

        4. End of the study visit. At the end of the 12 month follow-up all Visit 1 procedures will
           be repeated. Number of exacerbations/hospitalisation will be recorded and QoL
           questionnaire completed.

      Treatment Patients will be randomised to receive usual care or usual care + Azithromycin 500
      mg o.d. three day-a-week (Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday) for 6 months.

      Outcome measures

        -  reduction of inflammatory cytokines in EBC

        -  reduction of colony counts/eradication of bacteria on bronchial aspirates

        -  reduction of number of exacerbations/hospitalisations

        -  reduction of steroids and antibiotics use

        -  Quality of life
    
  