
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Coronary artery disease appears to be a consequence of the interaction between an
      individual's genotype and exposure to environmental factors. Genetic information has the
      potential to contribute to the identification of families and individuals with a biological
      predisposition for developing coronary artery disease. Although numerous studies have
      suggested the possibility of a link between polymorphic genetic variation and coronary heart
      disease, it has not been possible to use any single genetic locus or combination of loci to
      establish a person's risk except for the case of familial hypercholesterolemia.

      Apolipoproteins play a critical role in regulating cellular uptake of lipoproteins by
      specific receptors, regulating the activities of lipoprotein lipase and lecithin-cholesterol
      acyl transferase, and in the indirect regulation of the intracellular enzymes,
      acyl-cholesterol acyl transferase and HMG Co-A reductase. This study provided insight into
      the role of environmental and genetic effects on phenotypic variation of the individual
      components of the molecules of lipid metabolism as well as on the relationships between
      components.

      Previous studies conducted under this grant include: the relationship between quantitative
      levels of apo A-I and coronary artery disease as defined by coronary angiography; the effects
      of exercise, alcohol, obesity, and pregnancy on apo A-I levels; the relationship between apo
      A-I and HDL levels in children and the mode of inheritance of apo A-I levels in pedigrees in
      the Rochester, Minnesota community; and characterization of the antigenic structure of
      apolipoproteins in coronary artery disease.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Subjects for the study were drawn from the Rochester Family Heart Study which initiated
      recruitment for the family study in January 1985. In 31 months of recruitment, 443 households
      were contacted and 300 agreed to participate. In August 1987 all individuals identified by
      these households had completed their clinic visits providing 1,999 physical exams. The 300
      households yielded 276 three and four generation pedigrees with 593 parents, 598
      grandparents, 14 great-grandparents, and 854 children. Disease information was obtained from
      medical records for an additional 400 grandparents. In 1988 an additional 2,100 individual
      members of 300 families were surveyed.

      Medical records and death certificates were reviewed to evaluate coronary artery disease
      endpoints in all adults members of the pedigrees. Clinical data collected included: a history
      of symptoms of coronary artery disease, arteriosclerosis obliterans, cerebrovascular disease
      or surgery for these diseases; smoking; medication; history of genetic relationships.
      Measurements were made of cholesterol, triglycerides, HDL and LDL cholesterol, apo A-I, apo
      A-II, apo E, apo C-III, apo C-II, apo B, apo Lp(a), LDL apo B, HDL apo E, and DNA extraction.
      Lipid, lipoprotein, and apolipoprotein phenotypes and the restriction fragment length
      polymorphisms (RFLP) were measured in candidate genes for coronary artery disease. Genetic
      and phenotype analyses were conducted at the University of Michigan. The RFLP and
      apolipoprotein isotyping analyses were conducted at the University of Pittsburgh. RFLP
      analysis and LDL receptor and A-I gene analysis were conducted at Charing Cross Medical
      Center in London, England.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  