
    
      Family caregivers who care for older adults living with multiple chronic conditions,
      including heart failure (HF), provide substantial cost savings to the US healthcare system.
      While caregiving can be meaningful and rewarding, extensive research also demonstrates high
      rates of chronic disease, fatigue and physiologic measures such as stress hormones among
      caregivers. Family caregivers are often left juggling caregivers' loved one's healthcare as
      well as caregivers' own. Unmet needs have been identified including increased stress,
      financial strain and social isolation, but interventions to address these needs in HF
      caregivers have had mixed results. Due to the limited impact of many caregiver interventions,
      experts have called for a greater understanding of the dynamic and contextual factors of
      family caregiving including resources, needs and social support with an increased focus on
      individualization of interventions for high-risk caregivers to improve outcomes.Following a
      mixed methods study to better understand these contextual factors and to address this gap
      between the evidence and uptake of proven strategies by caregivers, the study team has
      developed a resilience-promoting intervention to improve quality of life for family
      caregivers of individuals with multiple chronic conditions, including HF, Caregiver-Support.
      Caregiver-Support will help caregivers articulate statements of purpose in life, set goals to
      address fatigue and caregiver burden, provide instrumental support through a benefits check
      up and promote identification and increased connection with the caregiver's social network.

      The first phase of the study will be an open label pilot (N=5) followed by a single-masked,
      two-group, randomized trial (N=40) to test the feasibility and gauge an initial effect size
      of the intervention. Participants will be visited by study staff in participants' homes for
      all data collection and intervention visits. Participants will be randomized to receive
      either the immediate intervention group or the waitlist control group. In the waitlist
      control group, participants will receive usual care for the first 16 weeks (which is limited
      to printed materials provided in the clinic) and then begin the intervention.

      The intervention will consist of 5 in-home sessions with a nurse interventionist. Each
      participant will receive each intervention component but interventionists will systematically
      tailor content to the participants' goals based on protocols. All participants will be
      reassessed at 16 weeks (in person) and 32 weeks (by phone) by a research assistant (RA)
      masked to treatment condition. The primary outcome will be improvement in quality of life
      between baseline and 16 weeks. Other endpoints include group differences in fatigue,
      caregiver burden, self-reported and physiological measures of resilience up through 32 weeks
      after the intervention. The investigators will also examine the acceptability of the
      intervention using intervention compliance and participant satisfaction data.
    
  