
    
      Since the acceptance of surgical procedures to achieve a sustainable weight loss, many
      different procedures has been tried with variable success. Among them , various gastric
      restrictive procedures have evolved over the years but abandoned due to poor long term weight
      loss, food intolerance or severe gastroesophageal reflux. Currently, laparoscopic adjustable
      gastric band ( LAGB) and sleeve gastrectomy are being used with variable acceptance and
      success. Laparoscopic gastric plication or laparoscopic greater curvature plication ( LGCP)
      has recently been done as an alternative to the other restrictive procedures. But the short
      and long term safety and efficacy outcomes of LGCP is not well documented in current
      literature. American society of metabolic and bariatric surgery ( ASMBS) guidelines state
      that LGCP procedures should be considered investigational at this time and should be
      performed under a study protocol with third party oversight (e.g. IRB) to ensure continuous
      evaluation of patient safety and to review adverse events and outcomes.

      A prospective nonrandomized study at Cleveland clinic suggested that a reduction in gastric
      capacity can be achieved by way of plication of stomach and thereby achieving encouraging
      weight loss. We intend to study this procedure as an alternative to LAGB or sleeve
      gastrectomy for carefully selected patients. The objective of this study will be to
      demonstrate feasibility , short term and long term safety and efficacy of LGCP . This will be
      done by achieving gastric restriction by infolding of stomach and thereby achieving good
      weight loss . The subjects will be followed up post operatively to observe the effect on the
      comorbidities along with sustained weight loss. The inclusion and exclusion criteria , target
      population, duration of subject participation and primary endpoints will be defined and all
      the data will be recorded per protocol.
    
  