
    
      Temporomandibular disorder (TMD) has a multifactorial etiology related to parafunctional
      habits, emotional and psychological factors, trauma, posture, other musculoskeletal, or
      rheumatic disorders (1). Symptoms of TMD may include temporomandibular joint pain and clicks,
      headache, myofascial pain, decreased mandibular range of motion, masticatory muscle fatigue,
      limitation of mouth opening, pain when chewing, tinnitus, neuralgias, and bruxism (1,2). The
      severity of symptoms is related to the age and gender of the patients. Women showed a higher
      prevalence of TMD symptoms, with proportions varying from two to six women for each man,
      usually with ages between 20 and 40 years3. The distribution of age and gender in TMD,
      suggests a possible link between its pathogenesis and the female sex hormone, the estrogen,
      or between TMD and the mechanisms of pain modulation, as women show more sensitivity to most
      of the pain modalities (3,4) Epidemiologic studies showed that TMD prevalence in the students
      ranges from 50% to 77% (5-7). Several studies reported that a higher prevalence of TMD ranges
      from 47% to 81% in the Turkish student population (8-13). However, in some cases especially
      in students, the presence of TMD is asymptomatic. Therefore, the diagnosis of early symptoms
      and signs of TMD is crucial in preventing or minimizing TMD signs and symptoms (9).

      Parafunctional habits such as bruxism, tooth clenching, gum chewing, biting foreign objects,
      and prolonged nail-biting might increase the risk of developing TMD (14). Even there are
      several studies examining the association of TMD and oral parafunctions in students (15-17);
      still, more studies are need to identify which oral behaviors cause TMD patients and healthy
      populations (18). Therefore, understanding the TMD symptoms in association with the oral
      parafunctions could provide different perspectives and an efficient treatment program (15).

      To our knowledge, there is no study about TMD prevalence in female healthcare students and
      its association with oral parafunctions, neck pain, and function. The aims of this
      cross-sectional study were: (1) to evaluate the prevalence of TMD in female healthcare
      students and (2) to determine the association of TMD severity with oral parafunctional
      habits, neck pain and function.
    
  