
    
      The purpose of this study is to describe the balance deficits prior to the initiation of
      taxane therapy and through the duration of treatment and compare balance to a cohort of women
      without taxane therapy. To our knowledge, a study like this has not been done yet it is a
      necessary next step in order to evaluate whether balance deficits resolve independent of
      treatment or if the balance deficits require targeted therapy. Other studies evaluating
      balance in taxane patients, have used cross-sectional study designs that are limited to
      observation at one point in time. Further, other evaluations have been limited in the
      measurement of balance using only self-report questionnaires, with no performance
      measurements of functional balance. Previous studies of other conditions have shown poor
      concordance between self-report questionnaires and performance measures. Therefore, our
      proposed longitudinal study improves the current knowledge about balance deficits during
      taxane therapy by quantifying the impact of taxane chemotherapy on balance during and after
      treatment using standardized and validated self-report and performance functional balance
      assessment tools. The results of this study will improve the treatment of balance deficits in
      women with taxane therapy by identifying the type, onset, duration, and severity of the
      deficits within each balance system. From these findings, targeted interventions, if
      required, could be developed. In addition, establishing feasibility and utility for
      quantifying balance impairments is necessary for the development of larger studies assessing
      the effects of rehabilitation interventions on functional disability due to CIPN. Such a
      study would be worthy of influencing changes in clinical practice to minimize disability from
      balance dysfunction before, during, and after chemotherapy, and thus maximizing function and
      quality of life during and after cancer treatment.
    
  