
    
      Background

      The vascular access plays a central role in patients with end-stage renal disease undergoing
      chronic hemodialysis. It is well documented from various previous studies that the confection
      of the dialysis access and subsequent complications represent a major cause of morbidity,
      hospitalization and additional costs in chronic dialysis patients.

      In European countries most patients undergoing chronic hemodialysis use an arterio-venous
      fistula as permanent vascular access. Because of the anatomical differences of each
      individual and the accompanying chronic diseases affecting patients' vessels, cannulation of
      arterio-venous fistulas can be very challenging for the nursing personal and puncture
      failures necessitating repeated attempts are not so rare. The latter are often time-consuming
      and result in a loss of effective dialysis' time and reduced proceeded total blood volume,
      are associated with a higher rate of local complications due to repeated traumatisms of the
      vascular wall and can lead to severe pain with reduced patient satisfaction.

      In the investigators' dialysis unit, when a dialysis nurse is not able to puncture a fistula
      she refers to an experienced nurse who tries to cannulate the fistula after thorough visual
      and palpatory evaluation. In case of another failure, the nursing team refers to the dialysis
      physician, who performs a short diagnostic bed-side ultrasound of the vascular access to rule
      out the presence of thrombosis or large hematoma. Using ultrasound-guidance provided by the
      physician or after being informed about the localization and depth of the ideal puncture
      site, the dialysis nurse tries then to puncture the fistula again. This often leads to a
      greater loss of time with reduced effective dialysis dose, increased need for human resources
      and low patient satisfaction.

      The use of ultrasound by emergency department nurses and technicians without prior ultrasound
      experience in patients with difficult intravenous access showed in several studies to be very
      efficient. The method was safe, the procedure rapid, the patients more satisfied, the success
      rate as high as this from ultrasound trained emergency physicians and the need for physician
      intervention reduced. The achievement of similar results in AV fistula cannulation in
      hemodialysis patients would be very suitable.

      The use of ultrasound in patients with recognized difficult fistulas by dialysis nurses after
      a short ultrasound learning program provided by an index nurse will enable to achieve a
      higher rate of satisfactory double-needle punctures, usual blood flow rates and full dialysis
      length with less time loss and increased patient satisfaction.

      With this study prospective, single-centre, randomized, controlled study the investigators
      aim to show that the use of ultrasound by dialysis nurses in patients with difficult fistulas
      makes the punction of the fistulas easier than when assessing the fistula visually and
      manually.

      Objective

      The use of ultrasound in patients with recognized difficult fistulas by dialysis nurses after
      a short ultrasound learning program provided by an index nurse will enable to achieve a
      higher rate of satisfactory double-needle punctures, usual blood flow rates and full dialysis
      length with less time loss and increased patient satisfaction. With a prospective, controlled
      trail the investigators want to demonstrate this hypothesis.

      Methods

      A portable ultrasound device will be used by the nursing staff after a short learning
      program. Precise location of AV shunt segments and depth will be assessed in the case of a
      difficult shunt. This procedure will be compared with the standard inspection and palpation
      method.
    
  