
    
      Due to optimization of dosing and intensity of conventional anticancer drugs combined with
      early risk group classification and clinical trials the cure rates of childhood acute
      lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is now beyond 80%.

      Methotrexate (MTX) is one of the most important drugs in the treatment of ALL and is a key
      component in all treatment phases. Infusions with high-dose methotrexate (HDMTX) are used in
      many treatment protocols for ALL but the optimal dose and infusion time remain undefined. The
      systemic clearance of MTX exhibits a large inter- and intra-individual variability and this
      cause several clinical problems. Fast MTX clearance has been associated with increased risk
      of relapse, whereas patients with slow MTX clearance have more side effects. In situations
      with extremely low MTX clearance it is necessary to administer very high doses of leucovorin
      in order to minimize toxicity; unfortunately treatment with this antidote can potentially
      rescue some of the cancer cells and thereby increase the risk of relapse.

      Therapy with high-dose MTX would be improved substantially if it were possible to predict the
      clearance of MTX for each patient and use this to tailor an individualized dosing of the
      drug. However, only about 3.7, 0.2, and 2% of the inter-individual variation in MTX clearance
      is explained by age, gender and ancestry, respectively. Genetic variation seems to explain
      about 10% of this difference, and SNPs in genes encoding transporter proteins (e.g. reduced
      folate carrier and the anion transporter 1B1, OATP1B1) are suggested to have a particularly
      large impact. A serious limitation, however, is that SNPs are difficult to use in the
      prediction of MTX pharmacokinetics when the intra-individual variation in MTX clearance has
      been shown to be up to six fold. In order to use genetic variation in a clinically setting it
      is necessary to reduce the large intra-individual clearance of MTX.

      The intra-individual variation in MTX clearance is related to renal function but a large
      amount of a HDMTX dose also enters the liver, where it is metabolized to 7-hydroxy MTX and
      probably also undergoes enterohepatic circulation. Additionally, an insignificant amount of
      MTX is degraded to the inactive metabolite 4-amino-4-deoxy-N-methylpteroic acid (DAMPA). In
      order to determine whether the renal or hepatic function is responsible for the large
      intra-individual variation in MTX clearance the urinary excretion of MTX and the liver
      metabolite 7-hydroxy MTX have been studied, and modelling was applied to predict the
      individual time span for complete MTX excretion and to reveal early pharmacogenetic/kinetic
      patterns predictive of elimination of MTX during HDMTX courses in children with ALL.
    
  