
    
      Limiting the progression from CKD to end-stage renal disease is one of the most important
      goals in kidney medicine. The evidence implicating inflammation and fibrosis in that process
      is strong, and there is abundant mechanistic and animal model data to show that curcumin is a
      potent inhibitor of both inflammation and fibrosis. Two preliminary randomized trials in
      human CKD hint at curcumin's enormous therapeutic potential in CKD. The Principal
      Investigator/Sponsor will rigorously test this potential in a broadly selected sample of up
      to 750 patients with CKD. Compared to previous studies, this study's results will be
      generalizable across other etiologies of CKD and with a larger sample size; this study will
      provide more precise estimates of curcumin's benefits and risks. Also, this study proposes to
      use a new, micro-particle formulation of curcumin that is highly bioavailable. The Principal
      Investigator/Sponsor will assess curcumin's effects on three key markers of kidney health
      that encompass the cardinal functions of the nephron. Positive results from MPAC-CKD will lay
      solid scientific ground-work for a multi-centre trial capable of testing micro-particle
      curcumin's effect of the most meaningful outcomes: death and the development of end-stage
      renal disease.

      To ensure that this study will have the necessary adherence and tolerability data, up to 750
      patients with proteinuric CKD will be randomly assigned to 90 mg per day of micro-particle
      curcumin or matching placebo, for a total of 24 weeks (approximately 6 months). In the last
      few years, new formulations of curcumin have been shown to substantially augment absorption
      by improving its aqueous solubility. The micro-particle formulation of curcumin is one of
      these new formulations and is the only curcumin delivery system proven to increase
      bioavailability. Compared to traditional curcumin, micro-particle curcumin achieves total
      serum concentrations that are 27 fold higher. In this study, micro-particle curcumin will
      allow the study team to administer the equivalent of 3000 mg of traditional curcumin (which
      would require six 500 mg capsules daily), in a single 90 mg capsule. In addition, as opposed
      to traditional curcumin, there is no requirement to take micro-particle curcumin on a full
      stomach. The Investigator/Sponsor has selected a dose equivalent to 3 grams per day of
      curcumin because this is within the range of doses proven safe and effective and it will
      minimize pill burden by allowing the full daily dose to be achieved by three small 30 mg
      capsules daily In rare cases, curcumin has been reported to cause minor nausea, headache,
      diarrhea, yellow stool, and temporary giddiness. All unexpected reactions reported in
      previous studies were easily managed and happened at higher doses than what will be used in
      MPAC-CKD.

      This study will assess two primary outcomes: the 6-month change in albuminuria, and the
      6-month change in eGFR.

      Secondary outcomes will include health-related quality of life, glycemic control among
      patients with diabetes mellitus, and a composite of progressive CKD, ESRD and death. The
      investigators will also measure serum curcumin levels in the first 30 randomized
      participants, who will have a 4.5 ml blood sample taken at the 12 week (3 month) visit. This
      sample will be processed and stored at -80 degrees C. for batch testing for plasma
      micro-particle curcumin concentrations.

      The investigators will conduct a subgroup analysis based on participants 2-year risk of
      requiring dialysis using the validated Kidney Failure Risk Equation to group patients into a
      high risk group (10% or greater risk of dialysis within 2 years) and low risk group (<10%
      risk within 2 years).

      Medical history, lab values and vitals will be collected and/or updated at each in-person
      visit. Each participant will be provided with instructions and study schedule. Participants
      with diabetes mellitus will be given a home glucose log-book.

      Protocol compliance will be tested through pill counts and interviews at each follow-up
      visit. Side effects will be assessed using standardized case report forms at each visit.
      Participants will be contacted by telephone one week into the trial and then once every 4
      weeks (monthly) for 28 weeks (approximately 7 months) for safety monitoring and reporting and
      to reinforce importance of compliance. In-person visits will occur at 12 and 24 weeks
      (approximately 3 and 6 months) after randomization and the start of the investigational
      medication, at which time investigational medication will be counted and supply replenished.
      First morning at-home urine specimens will be collected at baseline and again arranged at the
      in-person visits at 12 and 24 weeks (approximately 3 and 6 months). Participants will also be
      encouraged to report any events they may experience directly to the coordinator(s) and/or PI.

      Participants who withdraw consent to continue treatments, will be encouraged to undergo the
      planned assessments. Withdrawal at the request of investigators or medical personnel may
      include, but are not limited to:

        1. Symptoms are deemed to be potentially related to the sue of the investigational
           medication;

        2. New diagnosis of exclusion criteria;

        3. Inter-current illness not related to the use of the investigational Natural Health
           Product (NHP) medication;

        4. Unacceptable side effects;

        5. Death;

        6. Improved health status.

      Estimated time to complete recruitment: Averaging 136 weeks, approximately 34 months.

      Long-term outcomes will be tracked using administrative data housed at The Institute for
      Clinical Evaluative Sciences (ICES), an independent research facility in Toronto, Ontario.
      ICES works with the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care to study the impact of
      health care and diseases in Ontario.

      A panel of external experts and study investigators will comprise the Steering Committee and
      will ensure the integrity of the study. They will be responsible for reviewing and acting
      upon the recommendations of the Data Safety Monitoring Board, amendments to the protocol,
      oversight of publication and dissemination of study results.
    
  