
    
      Diabetes is prevalent in adults admitted to subacute rehab (SAR) and long-term care (LTC)
      skilled nursing care facilities.

      Management of diabetes in these facilities is challenging due to number of older adults with
      higher prevalence of other diseases, functional disability, and altered nutritional intake,
      which increase the risk of hypoglycemia (low blood sugars).

      Many Clinical guidelines recommend the use of insulin, as the preferred therapy for glycemic
      (sugar) control for most patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D). The use of insulin is effective
      in improving glycemic control, but associated with high rates of hypoglycemia in LTC
      residents with T2D. This high rate of hypoglycemia is concerning, because hypoglycemia has
      been associated with many complications and mortality.

      The bedside capillary point of care (POC) glucose monitoring is the standard of care to
      assess glycemic control in the hospital and in LTC facilities. POC testing is usually
      performed before meals and at bedtime. Continuous Glucose Monitoring (CGM) measures glucose
      every 5-15 minutes, thus provides a more complete glycemic profile during 24-hours when
      compared to POC testing.

      The investigators propose to conduct a randomized controlled trial to determine whether the
      use of Dexcom CGM with Glucose Telemetry System (CGM-GTS) with hypoglycemia alarm compared to
      standard of care using capillary POC testing, will facilitate diabetes treatment and reduce
      the risk of hypoglycemia in patients with T2D in LTC facilities. Participants in the standard
      of care group will also wear a CGM (blinded one).

      Potential Participants will be identified from electronic medical records and enrolled during
      admission to subacute rehabilitation (SAR)and long-term care (LTC) skilled nursing care
      facilities and will be followed up for up to sixty (60) days or discharge (whichever comes
      sooner). Subjects will be compensated for their participation.

      The results of this study have great potential to impact and facilitate care and to change
      current clinical guidelines in the management of older adults with diabetes in SAR and LTC
      facilities.
    
  