
    
      The study has a twofold goal. Firstly, it will address whether the practice of different
      standardized meditation programs (MBSR and CCT) modify the distribution of limited
      attentional resources towards emotional information, measured by the performance in a variant
      of the Emotional Attentional Blink. Secondly, novel procedures of Network analysis will be
      used to examine whether the practice of different standardized meditation programs
      (mindfulness and compassion) impact on the network dynamics between mindfulness, compassion,
      well-being, psychological distress, and emotional and cognitive control constructs and how
      these constructs are eventually reorganized after the interventions.

      There are two main corresponding hypotheses. First, meditation practice in general (both
      mindfulness and compassion) will change the attentional processing of emotional information,
      reflected by a significant reduction of the attentional blink deficit after the programs as
      compared to the performance of participants in matched Control group. Differences between
      both intervention groups will be analyzed. The second hypothesis states that, after
      meditation programs, the networks of these constructs will become topologically reorganized;
      more specifically, mindfulness, emotion regulation, and well-being constructs are expected to
      increase their centrality in the resulting network.

      Procedure

      The study will follow a pre-post design where participants will be blind to the aims of the
      study. Participants will be invited to participate at the moment they register in the
      official website offering the MBSR and CCT programs. After being recruited, those who accept
      to participate will fill out a brief online screening questionnaire on demographics and
      inclusion criteria and will sign an informed consent. Then participants will complete an
      online set of questionnaires (via Qualtrics software) of selected psychological domains
      associated to the main outcomes and variables studied in meditation literature (i.e.,
      mindfulness, compassion, well-being, psychological distress, and emotional and cognitive
      control constructs). The online assessment will be completed the week before starting the
      program (baseline assessment) and during the week after the end of the MBSR
      (post-assessment). When necessary, reminders will be scheduled for those participants who
      have not completed the questionnaires. Each pre and post online evaluation will last
      approximately 45 minutes.

      Participants are invited to attend a one-hour experimental session (i.e. Attentional Blink
      task) within the week before starting the meditation program. After completing a second
      informed consent, participants will fill out a set of questionnaires with mood (EEE),
      mindfulness (SM) and compassion (S_SC) state measure. Participants then will begin the
      Emotional Attentional Blink task divided into three blocks with a 1-minute break between the
      blocks. At the end of the task, participants will complete the "state measures" again and the
      session will end. After this lab session, participants will attend one of the two 8-week
      standardized meditation programs (MBSR or CCT). Finally, the same procedure will be followed
      for the post-experimental session within the week after the end of the programs. Each
      pre-post experimental session will last approximately one hour. After completing the
      post-treatment assessments, participants will be debriefed and will receive an individualized
      report of their questionnaires scores and the purposes of the study.

      Programs description

      The Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) is an 8-week standardized program consisted of
      2.5-hours of face-to-face weekly sessions, and 45 minutes of daily home formal and informal
      practices. Training will be conducted in groups of 20-30 participants. During the program,
      different mindfulness practices are performed, including focused attention on the breath,
      open monitoring of awareness in body-scanning, prosocial meditation (i.e. loving kindness and
      compassion) and gentle yoga.

      The Compassion Cultivation Training (CCT) is also an 8-week standardized program consisting
      of 2.5-hours of face-to-face weekly sessions and 30 minutes of daily home formal and informal
      practices. Training will be conducted in groups of 20-30 participants. The CCT consists of
      six sequential steps: 1) Settling the mind and learn how to focus it; 2) Loving-kindness and
      compassion for a loved one practice; 3) Loving-kindness and compassion for oneself practice;
      4) compassion toward others, embracing shared common humanity and developing appreciation of
      others; 5) compassion toward others including all beings; and 6) active compassion practices
      (Tonglen) which involve explicit evocation of the altruistic wish to do something about
      others' suffering. Finally, participants learn an integrative compassion practice combining
      the six essential elements into an integrative compassion meditation practice.
    
  