
    
      Trial Objectives:

      This will be a randomized, prospective, single-center, assessor blinded pilot study comparing
      two different anesthesia techniques in 100 elderly obese patients undergoing primary total
      knee arthroplasty.

      Endpoints:

        -  The incidence of postoperative delirium as measured by the Confusion Assessment Score.
           Confusion assessment score will be administered at baseline, one hour after arrival in
           the post anesthesia care unit and 6-8, 24 and 48 hrs postoperatively.

        -  Cognitive function as measured by Test for Attentional Performance,
           Digit-Symbol-Substitution Test, Recal of Digit Span , Well-being Test BF-S, Spielberger
           State-Trait Anxiety Inventory and the Trail Making Test A and B. Cognitive function
           tests will be administered at baseline, 6-8 and 48 hrs post operatively. Postoperative
           Cognitive Dysfunction is defined as a 20% decline of the baseline values.

      Intraoperative

        -  Sensory block (femoral)

        -  Blood pressure

        -  Heart rate

        -  Patient state index values

        -  Degree of neuromuscular blockade

        -  Esophageal temperature

        -  End tidal concentration of CO2

        -  End tidal concentration of desflurane

        -  Amount of vasopressors (ephedrine or phenylephrine)

        -  Amount of intravascular fluid administration

        -  Dose and mean infusion rates of all IV drugs (propofol)

        -  Duration of anesthesia

        -  Duration of surgery

        -  Time to spontaneous breathing after desflurane/propofol discontinuation

        -  Time to eye opening after desflurane/propofol discontinuation

        -  Time to tracheal extubation after desflurane/propofol discontinuation

        -  Time to following command after desflurane/propofol discontinuation

      Post operative

        -  Nausea and vomiting: one hour after arrival in the post anesthesia care unit and 6-8, 24
           and 48 hrs postoperatively

        -  Pain visual analogue score measured one hour after arrival in the post anesthesia care
           unit and 6-8, 24 and 48 hrs postoperatively

        -  Recovery room time

        -  Amount of local anesthetics (ropivacaine)

        -  Amount of opioids (Patient controlled analgesia hydromorphone)

      Cardiovascular

        -  B-type natriuretic peptide measured preoperatively and on postoperative days 1 and 2

        -  N-terminal proB-type natriuretic peptide measured preoperatively and on postoperative
           days 1 and 2

        -  Troponin I measured preoperatively and on postoperative days 1 and 2

        -  Patients will be followed by a blinded investigator for a 2 year period to record the
           development of cardiac complications defined by a broad composite that included cardiac
           death and nonfatal myocardial infarction. Cardiac composite including: all-cause
           mortality, acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, congestive heart failure, new
           atrial or ventricular dysrhythmia requiring treatment, and cerebrovascular insult.

      Protocol This will be a randomized, prospective, single-center, assessor blinded study
      comparing two different anesthesia techniques in 100 elderly obese patients undergoing
      primary total knee arthroplasty. We expect to enroll all patients in a 2 year period.

      The study will be performed according to the Declaration of Helsinki principles, and written
      informed consent will be obtained from each patient. Preoperatively baseline values will be
      obtained for the cardiovascular, mental status, respiratory and pain outcome measures.

      Mental status: During their preoperative visit patients will be given the neuropsychological
      tests in the following order: 1. Confusion Assessment Method . The confusion assessment
      method is a screening instrument for delirium consisting of four clinical criteria: (1) acute
      onset and fluctuating course, (2) inattention, (3) disorganized thinking, and (4) altered
      level of consciousness. For a person to be considered delirious, both the first and the
      second criteria and either the third or the fourth criteria have to be present. The confusion
      assessment method has a high inter-observer reliability (0.8 -1.0), a sensitivity of 94-100%,
      and a specificity of 90-95%. 2. Modified Mini-Mental State Examination. This extended measure
      of general cognition was developed to overcome shortcomings of the traditional Mini-Mental
      State Examination score, specifically its ceiling effects and narrow range of possible
      scores. The Modified Mini-Mental State Examination will be administered at the preoperative
      visit to assess the baseline cognitive function of the patient. 3. Computerized Test for
      Attentional Performance , Digit-Symbol-Substitution Test, Recall of Digit Span, Well-being
      Test BF-S, Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety Inventory and the Trail Making Test A and B.

      Patients will be visited for the first 2 days after surgery or until discharge, whichever
      came first, and the confusion assessment method will be administered one hour after arrival
      in the post anesthesia care unit and 6-8, 24 and 48 hrs postoperatively to determine whether
      the patient is experiencing delirium. Each patient will be interviewed by the same trained
      research assistant before surgery and during the postoperative visits. We will define the
      occurrence of delirium as the patient meeting the confusion assessment method criteria for
      delirium on any of the postoperative assessments. If a patient is positive for delirium, a
      second member of the research team will be consulted to verify the diagnosis. Cognitive
      function tests will be administered, 6-8 and 48 hrs post operatively. Postoperative Cognitive
      Dysfunction is defined as a 20% decline of the baseline values.

      Cardiovascular: Preoperative testing will include 12-lead ECG. Blood samples for Natriuretic
      peptide levels and N-terminal proB-type natriuretic peptide and Troponin I will be obtained
      at the time of the admission and on postoperative day 1 and day 2. Plasma NT-proB-type
      natriuretic peptide will be determined using the Elecsys proB-type natriuretic peptide
      sandwich immunoassay on an Elecsys 2010 (Roche Diagnostics, Basel, Switzerland). Two cut offs
      for NT-proB-type natriuretic peptide will be selected before the analyses, 300 pg/ml and 600
      pg/ml, with a value of less than 300 pg/ml shown to be optimal for ruling out heart failure
      as a predictor. B-type natriuretic peptide will be determined using immunoradiometric assay
      kit. Values of B-type natriuretic peptide (pg/mL) 31.0 ± 2.4 are considered normal for
      patients over 65 years old.

      After discharge from the hospital patients will be followed blindly for a 2 year period to
      record the development of cardiac complications defined by a broad composite that included
      cardiac death and nonfatal myocardial infarction. Cardiac composite including: all-cause
      mortality, acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, congestive heart failure, new atrial
      or ventricular dysrhythmia requiring treatment, and cerebrovascular insult. Information will
      be collected at 1, 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after surgery.

      Outcome measures and postoperative complications including nausea and vomiting will be
      recorded by an assessor blinded to the treatment allocation.

      Patients will be randomly allocated to one of two treatment groups on the day of surgery
      using a computer generated assignment. Group D will receive desflurane and group P will
      receive propofol.
    
  