
    
      BACKGROUND: Recent studies suggest the presence of hepatitis C virus (HCV) among veterans
      treated within the Veterans Affairs Medical Center is 3 to 4 times more common than among the
      general population and approximately 50 to 60% of the patients are at risk for progression to
      end-stage liver disease. Alcohol use substantially increases the rate of liver disease
      progression. Alcohol treatment based on motivational principles has been found to be
      effective in alcohol treatment seeking individuals with low levels of psychiatric
      comorbidity. Effective treatments for alcohol use have not been studied in patients
      chronically infected with HCV, individuals who typically do not seek separate specialty care
      for alcohol problems. The primary purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy of
      motivational enhancement therapy (MET) in reducing alcohol use in a population of
      HCV-infected veterans who are currently drinking alcohol and have alcohol disorders.
      Secondarily this study is designed to determine whether changes in motivation predict changes
      in alcohol use; determine whether MET effects non-alcohol related behavior such as adherence
      to clinic appointments and the effects of a reduction in alcohol use on biomarkers of alcohol
      use and HCV viral load.

      METHODS: Two sites of the national VA Hepatitis C Resource Center, including Minneapolis and
      Portland will enroll 136 men, women, and minority veterans who are HCV positive, have an
      alcohol use disorder and are currently drinking. Participants will be recruited from the
      hepatitis clinics at each site after they have received two sessions of care from hepatitis
      clinicians. Subjects will be eligible for enrollment in the study if they are drinking at
      least 7 drinks per week over the preceding 2-weeks. Participants will be randomly assigned to
      one of two groups: a 4-week session MET or a 4 session health education control intervention.
      Follow-up data will be collected at 3 and 6 month interviews by a blinded interviewer
      assessing current alcohol use. Secondary outcomes including stage of change, data regarding
      enrollment and attendance in separate substance abuse treatment or self-help programs
      (Alcoholics Anonymous) will be collected from participants' medical record. HCV viral titers
      will be obtained at baseline and 6-months. Percent CDT and ethyl glucuronide will be measured
      to confirm self-reported alcohol use at each study visit. The primary outcome (efficacy of
      MET in reducing alcohol use) data will be analyzed using mixed effect models if the data are
      normally distributed and generalized estimated equations if the data are non-normally
      distributed.

      CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This study focuses on a current VHA priority: treatment of veterans with
      HCV. Alcohol use on this population is a major risk factor for progression of liver disease.
      We anticipate that the MET proposed in this study will result in a slowing of the progression
      of liver disease, improvement in physical health, and a reduction in long-term service
      utilization and mortality rates.

      POTENTIAL IMPACT ON VETERANS HEALTH CARE: Effectively addressing alcohol use disorders in a
      hepatitis clinic will contribute to a new standard of care for HCV patients within VA. MET is
      a relatively brief, easily adaptable intervention that if effective is likely to improve
      access to alcohol treatment, acceptance by patients and improve clinical efficiency. In
      addition, reducing or eliminating alcohol use in this population has the potential to alter
      the course of liver disease progression, reducing the rates of cirrhosis, hepatocellular
      carcinoma and the need for liver transplantation.
    
  