
    
      An observational study of a series of 35 cases will be carried out based on the casuistry of
      TKR surgery of the investigator's center. The performance of analgesic blockade called GNB in
      adult patients, ASA physical status I-III, which will undergo TKR, will be part of the
      multimodal analgesia strategy.

      After compliance with the inclusion criteria, with the acceptance and signature of the
      informed consent by the participating patients, the following procedure will be followed:

        1. Patients will be routinely assessed by an anesthesiologist of the service, later they
           will enter the operating room, where the vital signs will be monitored and the usual
           anesthetic technique will be used for TKR, that is, spinal anesthesia.

        2. To perform the blocks a 90 mm needle was used, with a 30mm extension connected to a 20ml
           syringe with a mixture of 20ml of 0.2% ropivacaine + 200 micrograms of adrenaline. The
           needle will be advanced with an out-of-plane technique and 4 ml of the described
           solution will be placed in each of the 5 nerves to be blocked: Superomedial genicular
           nerve (SMGN), Superolateral genicular nerve (SLGN), Inferomedial genicular nerve (IMGN),
           Inferolateral genicular nerve (ILGN) and Recurrent tibial genicular nerve (RTGN) .

        3. The pain assessment will be carried out during the night after the intervention
           (approximately 12 hours) and the next morning (approximately 24 hours). The pain will be
           objectified by (VAS) (0-10) by a nurse, blind to the analgesic treatment. The use of
           rescue opioids will be indicated in case of VAS ≥ 3, data that will also be analyzed. In
           the room, the pharmacological treatment established as an institutional protocol will
           continue. It should be noted that these data as well as demographic data, intraoperative
           times, and relevant post-operative data (hematocrit, complication) were obtained from
           the clinical records of the electronic file of the program used in the internal network
           of the Barcelona Clinic Hospital

        4. Researchers will record those variables aimed at evaluating the intensity of acute
           postoperative pain 24 hours after TKR (Pain score ≥ 4 in any time).

      These results will be included, anonymously, in an Excel database made for this purpose for
      further analysis. The variables will be recorded in a single intervention
    
  