
    
      1. Selection of research subjects A total of 80 patients, who have occurred pancreatitis
           after ERCP, will be enrolled at Yonsei University Sinchon Severance Hospital, Seoul
           National University Hospital, Dongguk University Ilsan Hospital, Gachon University Gil
           Hospital, Gyeongsang National University Changwon Hospital, Kyungpook National
           University Hospital, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital, Korea University Ansan Hospital, Pusan
           National University Hospital. The purpose and contents of this clinical trial are
           informed in detail to the subject and consent is obtained.

        2. Evaluation of eligibility Eligibility is determined based on the basic patient data
           including physical examination, vital signs, body measurements, medical history,
           concomitant drugs, laboratory tests, and other basic examinations made at the first
           visit.

        3. Grouping and randomization After ERCP was performed, the study subjects who were judged
           to have PEP according to enroll criteria were divided into early and delayed refeeding
           groups using a random number table and assigned 1:1 to proceed with the study.

        4. Timing of refeeding In the early refeeding group, oral diet is started 24 hours after
           PEP is confirmed.

           In the delayed refeeding group, oral diet is started after confirmation of restoring of
           normal bowel sound, pain decreasing below VAS 2. The oral diet starts with SOW (Sips of
           water) and builds up sequentially in the order of clear liquid diet-soft diet,
           considering patient tolerability.

        5. Interruption of refeeding In both early and delayed refeeding groups, the oral diet is
           stopped when the pain scale the patient complains after starting oral diet increases to
           VAS 5 points or more, or the patient refuses to eat due to abdominal pain or other
           reasons. The diet is restarted after the amylase/lipase level decreases below the upper
           normal limit, the patient's pain has disappeared, and the bowel movement is restored.

        6. Dropout criteria

             1. In the case of delayed diet group when symptoms persist for more than 96 hours and
                cannot start a diet

             2. When fasting is necessary for other reason, such as an imaging test or endoscopy

             3. When it is determined that a parenteral diet is necessary for reasons such as
                difficulty swallowing

             4. When the researcher judged that the clinical trial cannot be continued

        7. Discharge criteria and hospitalization period for PEP If the patient is tolerable for
           more than 24 hours after the soft diet (abdominal pain improvement, lab amylase/lipase
           level decreases to less than 2 times the upper normal limit, it is judged that PEP has
           improved and the discharge criteria have been satisfied. From the point of diagnosis of
           PEP to the point of time when the discharge criteria are satisfied is defined as the
           "hospitalization period for PEP".
    
  