
    
      Sudden death due to spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage (sSAH) has been known for decades. An
      older metaanalysis found a combined overall risk of sudden death from sSAH of 12.4% (the
      individual studies reported incidences of 3-21%). In a recent study 98 out of 445 patients
      with sSAH died in the prehospital phase. In addition to the high proportion of sSAH-patients
      that die, they are also much younger than those who die from intracerebral hemorrhage; the
      median age of sSAH-patients that die suddenly is 54 years versus 71 years among patients with
      intracerebral hemorrhage. Predictors for sudden death have been found to include living
      alone, smoking and high systolic blood pressure, as well as hemorrhage in the posterior
      circulation.

      While some patients may die at onset of the hemorrhage, others may have experienced symptoms
      longer. The clinical presentation of sSAH varies and some studies report as little as 40% of
      patients to have presented with classic textbook symptoms. Half are initially in an intact
      neurological state. These patients may have been in contact with the health care system but
      not admitted.

      In recent years the Copenhagen Emergency Medical Coordinations Center has implemented an
      electronic decision support tool. If this has reduced the proportion of patients with sSAH
      that die outside hospital is unknown.

      Primary aim:

      The primary aim of this study is to determine the incidence of fatal spontaneous subarachnoid
      hemorrhage in the Capital Region of Denmark, before being admitted to hospital.

      Secondary analyses:

        -  Proportion of deceased patients that have been in contact with a general practitioner,
           on-call general practitioner, the Copenhagen Emergency Medical Services or admitted to
           hospital within 72 hours of their death.

        -  Proportion of deceased patients with a history of significant illness immediately before
           their dead, but without contacting the health care system.

        -  For patients in contact with the Copenhagen Emergency Medical Services, their primary
           complaint and the initiated response.

        -  Descriptive characteristics of deceased with respect to age, gender, body mass index and
           comorbidities.

        -  Time trends in the incidence of prehospital death from sSAH over the years 2008-2017.
    
  