
    
      A double blind, randomized, placebo controlled trial is being conducted in which the unit of
      randomization is 14-28 days old infants. Infants in the intervention group receive 1 RDA of
      elemental zinc compared to placebo in the control group, from the day of enrollment till 12
      months of age.

      Infants for enrollment are being identified through daily screening of newborns in two
      hospitals. Eligible infants are visited at home for enrollment when aged 14-28 days. The
      mother is trained in supplement administration. A total of 2000 infants will be enrolled.

      Infants in the intervention group are being administered a dispersible tablet daily
      containing 1 RDA of elemental zinc (5 mg elemental zinc per day in infants aged 14 days to 6
      months and 10 mg per day for infants older than 6 months) daily till 12 months of age. The
      placebo contains plain glucose but is similar in taste, color and consistency to the zinc
      tablet. The tablets are packaged in strips containing 15 tablets each.

      Monthly supplies of the supplement are given to the caregiver to be kept at home. The
      supplement is administered by the caregiver (usually the mother) herself and the method of
      administration is taught at the time of enrollment. At the end of every four weeks the
      monitor collects the strips for the previous month and records the supplement intake for the
      previous month by examining the strips and querying the caregiver.

      Three monthly morbidity visits are conducted by a field investigator to obtain information on
      the hospitalizations and their causes in the last 3 months, healthcare provider visits in the
      last 1 month, illnesses for which these were made and severity of these illnesses, diarrhea
      and respiratory morbidity in the previous 24 hours, week and month. If the infant has been
      hospitalized in the last 3 months, a hospitalization form is filled to ascertain the reason
      for hospitalization. In case of deaths, an interview is conducted with the caregiver and a
      verbal autopsy form is filled.

      Blood specimens for estimation of plasma zinc, copper and ferritin are being obtained in 15%
      randomly selected children at baseline and at end study.

      Weights and lengths are being obtained in a subset of children at birth, 3, 6, 9 and 12
      months.
    
  