
    
      Intervention:

      Two zones are established:

        -  Zone 1: where researcher nº 1 controls the data management and sample randomization.

        -  Zone 2: where researcher nº 2 locates the most hyperalgesic area and measures pressure
           point threshold variable and researcher nº 3 performs dry needling puncture.

      Researcher nº 1 explains to the subjects how the study works, collects the confidential
      documents and scores the independent variables (sex, age and BMI). Every subject receives an
      identification code and is randomly assign to a intervention group (A, B or C) Researcher nº
      2 makes delivery of the document where the variables pressure pain threshold and
      post-needling soreness intensity will be written down. Firstly, the visual analogue scale
      compliance prior to the intervention is requested. After that, the subject is placed in prone
      position on the stretcher with a slight knee flexion and the most hyperalgesic area in the
      internal gastrocnemius of the lower limb with plantar fasciitis is located and marked.

      Researcher nº 2 performs the algometry at the most hyperalgesic area (3 measurements with 30
      seconds between them), writes down the results of pressure pain threshold variable and leaves
      the room.

      Researcher nº 3 receives a needle from researcher nº 1 ignoring its diameter (colour tab is
      removed). Firstly, contamination is prevented by disinfection, then, 10 insertions are made
      at the marked point (the number of local twitch response are counted) and the needle used is
      thrown in the sanitary waste container. Ischemic compression is performed for 60 seconds
      followed by an analytical stretch of the internal gastrocnemius for 30 seconds.

      Once researcher nº 3 has finished the intervention leaves the room and researcher nº 2
      returns to repeat the measurements (post-needling soreness intensity, by filling in VAS, and
      pressure pain threshold, performing algometry).

      Researcher nº 2 reminds the subject to complete VAS at 12, 24, 48 and 72 hours (suggesting
      setting an alarm) and makes an appointment 48 hours after to perform the third measure of
      pressure pain threshold variable.

      When all the data needed for the study has been collected, researcher nº1 gathers results and
      exports them for statistical interpretation.
    
  