
    
      This is an open label, single arm, phase IV study to evaluate the study and efficacy of
      efalizumab in combination with NB-UVB. After screening, review of inclusion and exclusion
      criteria and obtaining informed consent, 20 subjects from two sites (10 subjects per site)
      will enter the study. The estimated rate of accrual is two subjects per month per site for a
      total of five months. The estimated date of study conclusion, including follow-up is January
      2007.

      Weeks 1-12 efalizumab will be administered subcutaneously once a week in combination with
      NB-UVB three times per week. At week 12, NB-UVB will be discontinued. Weeks 13-24 efalizumab
      monotherapy will continue to determine whether or not relapse occurs. Relapse is defined as a
      50% decrease in total improvement in PASI score from baseline. Weeks 25-36 subjects will be
      followed for safety. Patients will be transitioned to appropriate treatment at the discretion
      of the investigator and/or observed closely.

      Subjects with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis often require more than one therapy to
      treat their disease. Because of the different mechanisms of action, it is thought that
      combined efalizumab and NB-UVB may be more effective (percent subjects who achieve PASI 75 at
      12 weeks) and have a more rapid onset than either treatment alone. This study will examine
      combining efalizumab with NB-UVB phototherapy for twelve weeks. Then, NB-UVB will be
      discontinued and efalizumab will be continued for an additional twelve weeks to determine if
      the achieved effect from combination therapy can be sustained with monotherapy.

      The follow-up observation period from 25-36 weeks was chosen to permit an adequate amount of
      time to observe for any signs of disease rebound and/or adverse events after discontinuation
      of efalizumab and to insure that subjects are treated for such conditions appropriately.
    
  