
    
      The goal of this project is to investigate the feasibility and acceptability of using
      technology to implement home-based executive function training for aging Veterans with
      history of traumatic brain injury (TBI).

      Background: Problems with attention and executive control are some of the most common
      sequelae of TBI, and these areas of cognition are also known to be vulnerable to aging. Goal
      Oriented Attentional Self-Regulation (GOALS) is a manualized cognitive training intervention
      for problems with attention and executive control that has been shown to improve cognitive,
      emotional, and functional outcomes in civilians and Veterans with history of TBI, including
      Veterans 65 and older, and healthy older adults.

      Relevance and significance to Veteran's health: TBI is prevalent among Veterans. Home-based
      telehealth (HBT) may be an effective tool to address lack of access to health care for aging
      Veterans.

      Aim 1: Complete adaptation of the IP-GOALS protocol for a) HBT use and b) use with older
      Veterans via collection of feedback from [n=8] Veterans 65+ with history of TBI and cognitive
      complaints. Aim 2: Examine the feasibility (defined as recruitment yield, dropout after
      randomization, retention, and adherence) and participant-rated acceptability of [IP and]
      HBT-GOALS in n=36 Veterans 65+ with history of TBI and cognitive complaints. Hypothesis 2:
      Feasibility will be demonstrated by achieving targeted recruitment goals with reasonable
      rates of dropout after randomization, retention, and adherence, and high levels of
      participant-rated acceptability in both groups. Aim 3: Estimate effect sizes for [HBT-GOALS
      and IP-GOALS using a double-baseline control] on improving a) cognitive performance and
      self-reported b) emotional regulation and c) daily functioning in the same Aim 2 study cohort
      to inform sample size requirements for a future clinical trial. Hypothesis 3: Effect size
      estimates will provide evidence of clinically meaningful improvement on a) cognitive
      functioning (Attention and Executive Function Composite), b) emotional regulation (Profile of
      Mood States Total Mood Disturbance Score), and c) daily functioning outcomes (Mayo-Portland
      Adaptability Inventory Total Score). Exploratory analysis a) will examine whether Veteran
      characteristics (e.g., age, sex, family/caregiver support, distance to nearest clinic, and
      health/mobility issues including chronic pain) are associated with differences in
      participant-rated acceptability and feasibility (i.e., recruitment yield, dropout after
      randomization, retention and adherence), and [response to IP/HBT-GOALS vs. double baseline
      control.] Exploratory analysis b) will examine distribution of responses to select criteria
      to define responders in future studies.

      Methods: Adaptation phase (Aim 1): Adaptation of the existing GOALS protocol for a) HBT use
      and b) use with older Veterans will be completed by collecting post-training feasibility and
      acceptability data. Pilot phase (Aims 2 and 3 and Exploratory Analyses): Feasibility,
      acceptability, cognitive, emotional, and daily functioning data will be collected from n=36
      Veterans 65 or older before (baseline and delay baseline) and after participation in GOALS
      training delivered in person (IP) or via HBT. Veterans will be randomly assigned to IP or
      HBT. Outcome measures include participant-rated acceptability; feasibility (i.e., recruitment
      yield, dropout after randomization, retention, and adherence); standardized and validated
      measures of neurocognitive functioning; self-report of symptoms of depression, PTSD, mood
      disturbance, and daily functioning.

      Innovation: The proposed study is the first to investigate implementation of an established
      cognitive rehabilitation intervention for use with aging Veterans with history of TBI and
      delivery via in-home videoconferencing technology.

      Implications: This research may promote improved daily functioning for aging Veterans with
      history of TBI through rehabilitation of executive function, and increase access to such
      treatment.
    
  