
    
      Research Design: A randomized controlled design will be employed in which CBT plus standard
      pharmaceutical care (CBT/SC) is compared to an educational intervention plus standard
      pharmaceutical care (ED/SC) treatment condition. A target sample size of approximately 215
      participants will be recruited. Participants will be randomized in equal numbers to the two
      conditions.

      Methodology: Study participants will be evaluated pre-treatment (baseline), 12 weeks
      post-baseline (post-treatment) and at 36 weeks post-baseline (follow-up). Baseline assessment
      will include a physical examination to confirm the diagnosis of diabetic neuropathy. The
      primary outcome measure will be pain intensity. Secondary outcome measures will be pain
      quality, pain-related disability, and physical and emotional functioning. Measures of
      treatment feasibility will also be examined. CBT and ED will be provided in 10 weekly,
      individual treatment sessions of 60 minutes. The effectiveness of the randomization process
      will be tested by examining potential between condition differences on important demographic
      and pain-relevant descriptive variables, as well as on the dependent measures. Analyses of
      covariance will be employed to determine whether statistically significant differences in the
      two treatment conditions are observed at the 12- and 36-week intervals controlling for
      pretreatment/baseline scores on these same measures and other covariates identified
      previously.

      Hypotheses Treatment outcome hypotheses

        -  Persons with DPNP receiving cognitive behavioral therapy with standard pharmaceutical
           care (CBT/SC), relative to those receiving diabetic education with standard
           pharmaceutical care (ED/SC), will demonstrate, immediately following treatment
           improvements on several measures of the experience of persistent pain, including pain
           intensity, pain quality, pain-related disability, sleep quality, physical functioning,
           and emotional functioning, and they will have fewer added pain medication doses and
           concomitant pain treatments.

        -  Persons with DPNP receiving CBT/SC, relative to those receiving ED/SC, will demonstrate
           maintenance of these benefits at a 36-week post-baseline follow-up period.

      Treatment satisfaction and feasibility hypotheses

      - Persons with DPNP receiving CBT/SC, relative to those receiving ED/SC, will demonstrate,
      immediately following treatment higher ratings of treatment credibility and treatment
      satisfaction, and higher rates of treatment session attendance and lower rates of treatment
      dropout.

      Exploratory secondary analyses of predictors of treatment participation and outcome

        -  Increased readiness to adopt a self-management approach will be positively associated
           with higher ratings of treatment credibility and treatment satisfaction, higher rates of
           treatment session attendance and lower rates of treatment dropout, and for participants
           in the CBT condition only, higher rates of adherence to therapist recommendations for
           pain coping skill practice and other intersession goals.

        -  Increased readiness to adopt a self-management approach over the course of treatment
           will be associated with improved outcomes following treatment.

        -  Increased readiness to adopt a self-management approach at treatment termination will
           significantly predict maintenance of treatment benefits on follow-up.

        -  Persons with medical and psychiatric comorbidities will demonstrate, relative to those
           without these comorbidities, less improved outcomes, lower rates of treatment session
           attendance and higher rates of treatment dropout, and for the CBT condition only, lower
           rates of adherence to therapist recommendations for pain coping skill practice and other
           intersession goals.
    
  