
    
      Dementia is a term used to describe a collection of symptoms including memory loss, problems
      with reasoning and communication, and a reduction in a person's ability to carry out daily
      activities such as washing, dressing and cooking. The most common types of dementia are:
      Alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia, mixed dementia and dementia with Lewy bodies.
      Dementia is a progressive condition, which means that the symptoms will gradually get worse.
      Clinicians and families are looking for ways to deal with this challenging group of diseases
      to improve quality of life, reduce depression and agitation that often accompany dementia as
      it progresses and individuals are placed in long term care (LTC).

      There are a variety of non-pharmacologic interventions for dementia ranging from traditional
      interventions such as behavioral therapy to newer interventions such as multisensory therapy.
      Often used in addressing physiological and behavioral challenges, some interventions have
      been shown to aid cognitive ability as well. "Cognitive stimulation," is a catchall term
      referring to non-pharmacologic interventions with a cognitive focus, new to this category of
      treatment is virtual reality (VR).

      Virtual reality has been studied in mild cognitive impairment. A systematic review of studies
      evaluating computerized cognitive training and virtual reality cognitive training
      interventions for individuals at high risk of cognitive decline called mild cognitive decline
      documented consistent improvement in the domains of attention, executive function, visual and
      verbal memory, and also on the psychological symptoms of depression, anxiety, and apathy in
      participants. Colleagues completed a systematic review of non-pharmacological intervention to
      treat older people with dementia and found music to be the only intervention effective, VR
      was not included as no studies were found.

      The Registered Nurses Association of Ontario completed a best practice guideline on Dementia
      based on current evidence in 2016. They report non-pharmacological approaches are an
      important alternative to the use of antipsychotic medications, which historically have been
      overused as a first-line strategy for managing behavioural and psychological systems of
      dementia (BPSD). They recommend health-care providers should consider non-pharmacological
      interventions wherever possible as a first-line approach to the management of BPSD.

      The most well-studied and effective non-pharmacological approaches include listening to
      music/music therapy, effective communication and person-centred approaches and other sensory
      stimulation. Virtual reality as proposed in this research will include music, specific
      library items will be selected that are person specific, and will provide sensory stimulation
      in keep with the RNAO guidelines. To date there is no published research on the use the VR in
      moderate to severe dementia in LTC looking at depression as the primary outcome measure.
    
  