
    
      Non-melanoma skin cancers represent the most common type of cancer in the United States with
      cutaneous SCC comprising 20% of these malignancies. The risk of developing cutaneous SCC is
      approximately 10% in a lifetime. This risk increases with age and varies according to the
      latitude in which one lives. The incidence rate in the United States is increasing as a
      result of multiple factors including altered sun exposure patterns and population aging.
      Early detection is critical as the vast majority are cured by definitive localized therapy
      with an overall 5-year cure rate of greater than 90%.

      Although the vast majority of cutaneous SCCs are treated surgically with curative intent the
      estimated case fatality rate ranges from 1-5% depending on reported study. If regional lymph
      nodes are involved a standard treatment approach is lymphadenectomy followed by the
      consideration of adjuvant therapy (radiation +/- chemotherapy). However a subset of these
      patients ultimately will develop unresectable or distantly metastatic recurrences.

      Unresectable SCC is treated using systemic approaches usually encompassing cytotoxic
      chemotherapy. However clinical investigation to determine efficacy of specific agents has
      been very limited and not studied in a rigorous fashion. Efficacy data stems largely from
      case reports and limited case series and from a very small number of phase II trials. As for
      targeted therapies, treatment with cetuximab demonstrated limited activity (RR 11%) in a 36
      patient phase II trial. Many oncologists tend to treat with platinum agents, taxanes and 5-FU
      based regimens. However no standard exists. As such there is a need to explore more
      systematically the efficacy of specific chemotherapeutic agents with the goal of developing a
      standard treatment approach.

      Nab-paclitaxel is an intriguing option to use for treatment given demonstrated efficacy in
      other malignancies with SCC histology. In clinical practice many oncologists use paclitaxel
      despite the lack of rigorous clinical investigation. The use of paclitaxel is limited by
      toxicities associated with the solvent Cermaphor EL.

      Nab-paclitaxel is an albumin bound form of paclitaxel. In other malignancies such as breast
      cancer nab-paclitaxel is associated with improved response rates and time to progression
      relative to paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel based chemotherapy has demonstrated efficacy in other
      malignancies with SCC histology including head and neck carcinoma and NSCLC.

      SPARC (secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine), also known as osteonectin and BM-40, is
      a 43kD secreted extracellular matrix glycoprotein first identified in 1984 and noted to have
      high binding affinity for albumin. SPARC further affects angiogenesis by interacting with
      growth factors such as VEGF and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF). It binds with platelet
      derived growth factor (PDGF) inhibiting binding to its receptors. SPARC interacts with bFGF
      and inhibits the migration of endothelial cells.

      Overexpression of SPARC has been found in many tumor types including breast, melanoma, brain,
      colon, skin and several others and is associated with increased tumor invasion and
      metastasis. For example, in melanoma SPARC expression is clinically correlated with
      aggressiveness and metastatic phenotypes. In melanoma models SPARC is associated with
      decreased E-cadherin and increased N-cadherin expression, suggesting that it may regulate
      epithelial-mesenchymal transition in the earlier stages of malignant transformation. SPARC
      expression has also been associated with increased breast cancer cell invasiveness. The
      absence of SPARC has been shown to suppress the development of UV-induced squamous cell
      carcinoma in a mouse model.

      Another tumor promoting mechanism of SPARC is in its interaction with inflammation. There is
      evidence that SPARC may play a role in dampening the immune response to tumor cells. Melanoma
      cells lacking SPARC expression induced neutrophil recruitment, increased chemotactic factors
      such as IL-8, GRO, and leukotrienes and resulted in tumor cell rejection. This observation
      decreased neutrophil recruitment in the presence of SPARC has also been noted in other models
      including SPARC null versus wild type mice. SPARC may regulate the apoptotic pathway of
      neutrophils involving Fas ligand.

      SPARC is able to affect tumor progression at several levels. It plays a role in
      epithelial-mesenchymal transformation. It promotes tumor growth and metastasis by inhibiting
      immune surveillance and promoting angiogenesis and it is correlated with metastatic cell
      aggressiveness.

      The overexpression of SPARC in many tumors and the tumor microenvironment and its high
      binding affinity for albumin make an albumin-bound drug delivery attractive. Via the gp60 and
      caveolae-mediated albumin transport pathway albumin is transported from the blood vessel into
      the tumor. Albumin-bound paclitaxel (nab-paclitaxel) was approved by the FDA in January 2005
      for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. Nab-paclitaxel takes advantage of this
      transport carrying paclitaxel into tumor cells. There it may be preferentially retained in
      tissues overexpressing SPARC. SPARC has been shown to be overexpressed in squamous cell
      carcinomas of the head and neck (61%, versus 0% in normal head and neck tissue).

      The use of intra-arterial nab-paclitaxel has been examined in locally advanced squamous cell
      carcinoma of the head and neck with response rates of 75-78%. A retrospective analysis showed
      that SPARC upregulation in the tumor tissue was associated with increased response in 16
      patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck who received intra-arterial
      nab-paclitaxel.

      This is a single arm phase II study assessing the efficacy of treatment with nab-paclitaxel
      (abraxane) administered weekly (days 1,8, and 15 of 28 day cycle) to patients with
      unresectable locoregional or distantly metastatic cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). A
      Simon 2 stage design will be used. If no responses are seen in the first 12 patients it will
      be concluded that the response rate is no greater than 3% and the trial will be stopped for
      futility at the end of stage one. Otherwise the trial will enroll 9 more patients for a total
      of 21.

      In summary, the development of unresectable locally advanced or distantly metastatic
      cutaneous SCC confers a very poor prognosis. While various types of systemic therapy are used
      by oncologists choices are based on anecdotal experiences and a limited number of case series
      and small phase II studies. Nab-paclitaxel has demonstrated significant anti-tumor activity
      in several malignancies of SCC morphology. Taxanes are often used as systemic treatment for
      unresectable cutaneous SCC. This study will allow for prospective evaluation of the activity
      of abraxane as first line systemic cytotoxic chemotherapy (a defined line of cytotoxic
      therapy) in the treatment of advanced SCC. The hypothesis of this phase II study is that
      abraxane will demonstrate significant anti-tumor activity a defined by a primary endpoint of
      best overall response rate. It is hypothesized that increased SPARC expression will correlate
      with response to nab-paclitaxel treatment and serve as a biomarker for treatment response.
    
  