
    
      In spite of long-standing hypothesis relating diet and physical activity to several cancers,
      diet and physical activity-cancer associations have been modest at best and often
      inconsistent in epidemiologic studies. Investigators around the world have become
      increasingly concerned that error in the measurement of both diet and physical activity is
      compromising our ability to detect these important but modest associations. Most commonly
      used diet and physical activity assessment methods have been based on a relatively small set
      of questions (e.g. 124 food items consumed or 5-10 physical activities in the past 12
      months). Recent developments in computer technology provide an opportunity to use
      internet-based instruments to assess an individual s diet and physical activity more
      accurately and cost effectively.

      NCI has been developing two web-based instruments, an automated self-administered 24-hour
      dietary recall (ASA24) and a physical activity 24-hour recall (ACT24), which can be
      administered several times over a year. Although these two instruments have the potential to
      qualitatively improve exposure assessment (at relatively low cost), they need to be evaluated
      for feasibility before being incorporated in cohorts on a large scale. Therefore, we propose
      to test ASA24 and ACT24 among AARP members aged 50 years and over to evaluate technical
      problems, determine response rates, and estimate the range of dietary intake and physical
      activity. In addition, we propose to include in this feasibility study two web-based versions
      of conventional questionnaires (lifestyle and medical history questionnaire and diet history
      questionnaire) as well as two software systems needed to conduct a web-based study (the
      automated Study Management System and Web Survey Management System). We will initially target
      15,000 AARP members, expecting that approximately 2,000 individuals will agree to participate
      in the study and about 1,250 participants will complete ASA24 and ACT24 twice.

      These web-based instruments and accompanying system tools represent a novel approach to
      carrying out diet and lifestyle research. The computerized, web-based study method can be
      applied to any observational study, large or small, case-control or cohort, as well as
      randomized controlled trials. This feasibility study will provide an opportunity to assess
      the feasibility of constructing large web-based cohort studies and characterize potential
      participants.
    
  