
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess progression-free survival (PFS) at 3 years in patients with newly diagnosed
           multiple myeloma (MM) treated with modified Total Therapy 3 (TT3).

      Secondary

        -  To estimate the frequency and severity of toxicities associated with this treatment
           strategy in these patients.

      Correlative

        -  To perform gene expression profiling on CD138+ purified MM cells and unseparated bone
           marrow biopsy samples to identify the bone marrow micro-environment signature.

        -  To determine whether the 70-gene model, developed in the Arkansas Total Therapy 2 (TT2)
           and validated in the Arkansas TT3 study, also applies to the cooperative group setting.

        -  Determine whether the novel finding in TT3 of the prognostically favorable suppression
           of a micro-environment-associated gene, MAG1, also applies to the cooperative group
           setting.

        -  Once in complete remission, determine whether the MAG signatures can return to a normal
           individual's signature as an indication of profound tumor cytoreduction with durable
           PFS.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive bortezomib IV on days 1, 4, 8, and 11; oral
           thalidomide and oral dexamethasone on days 1-4; and cisplatin IV continuously,
           doxorubicin hydrochloride IV continuously, cyclophosphamide IV continuously, and
           etoposide IV continuously on days 1-4.

        -  Peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) collection: Beginning within 2 months after completion
           of induction therapy, patients undergo PBSC collection until an adequate number of cells
           are collected. Patients with persistent disease after completion of induction therapy
           proceed to bridging therapy after adequate stem cells are collected. Patients not
           requiring bridging therapy proceed directly to transplant.

        -  Bridging therapy: Patients receive oral thalidomide on days 1-21 and oral dexamethasone
           on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 1-2 courses in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then proceed to transplant.

        -  First autologous PBSC transplantation: Beginning within 6 weeks to 3 months after
           completion of induction therapy (or ≥ 1 week after completion of bridging therapy),
           patients receive bortezomib IV on days -4 and -1 and melphalan IV, oral thalidomide, and
           oral dexamethasone on days -4 to -1. Patients undergo autologous PBSC transplantation on
           day 0.

        -  Inter-transplant bridging therapy: Patients with persistent disease after completion of
           the first autologous PBSC transplant receive bridging therapy as above and then proceed
           to the second transplant. Patients not requiring bridging therapy proceed directly to
           the second transplant.

        -  Second autologous PBSC transplantation: Beginning within 6 months after the first PBSC
           transplant, patients receive bortezomib, melphalan, thalidomide, and dexamethasone and
           undergo autologous PBSC as in the first transplant. Patients who skip the second
           transplant (due to medical or insurance reasons or refusal) proceed to consolidation
           therapy.

        -  Consolidation therapy: Beginning within 6 months after the last transplant, patients
           receive bortezomib, thalidomide, dexamethasone, cisplatin, doxorubicin hydrochloride,
           cyclophosphamide, and etoposide as in induction therapy.

        -  Post-consolidation bridging therapy: Patients with persistent disease after completion
           of consolidation therapy receive oral thalidomide on days 1-21 and oral dexamethasone on
           days 1, 8, and 15. Patients then proceed to maintenance therapy. Patients not requiring
           bridging therapy proceed directly to maintenance therapy.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Beginning within 4 months after completion of consolidation therapy
           or post-consolidation bridging therapy, patients receive bortezomib IV and oral
           dexamethasone on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and oral lenalidomide on days 1-20. Courses
           repeat every 28 days for up to 3 years in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood and bone marrow samples may be collected at baseline and periodically during study for
      gene expression profile analysis.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up periodically for up to 7 years.
    
  