
    
      An a priori sample size calculation was completed. To achieve 80% power and an alpha of .05,
      the study team needed a sample size of 68 total with 34 participants in each group.The study
      will be a double-blind randomized control trial. Patients will be recruited based on surgery
      type (hysteroscopy) and consented using a written consent by the research coordinator with
      sufficient time to ensure patient comprehension and allow for any questions. The consent
      process will happen in the pre-operative appointment. Participants will then be randomized to
      either the standard of care of 80mmHg or the experimental pressure of 60 mmHg for uterine
      filling pressure via an automated randomization program. The physician performing the surgery
      and the patient will not know what group they are assigned to. The procedure involved in the
      study will be hysteroscopy. Hysteroscopy is a procedure that is used to diagnose and
      sometimes treat intrauterine pathologies. In order to visualize the uterus, pressurized
      saline is used to distend the uterus.

      In this study, the specific hysteroscopic procedure will involve the removal of uterine
      fibroids with a MyoSure Hysteroscopic Morcellator device. These tissue samples will be
      collected and sent to Pathology to be weighed. During the surgery, the surgeon will be able
      to request an adjustment pressure if visualization is not adequate. Physicians will start
      with a pressure of 80mmHg. Once physician is ready to introduce the myosure hysteroscopy
      device, the pressure level will then be randomized. During the procedure, monitoring will be
      done by anesthesia through the use of pulse oximetry and measurement of vitals during the
      Monitored Anesthesia Care. There is also real-time monitoring of hysteroscopic fluid deficit
      via the fluid management system that is attached to the hysteroscopic pump. Fluid deficit can
      also be confirmed by the nurse who manually counts the amount of fluid used during
      theprocedure. Per policy, once a 2500mL deficit is reached, the procedure is terminated.
      After the surgery, the surgeon will fill out a questionnaire that measures the outcomes of
      surgeon satisfaction and visualization during the procedure. The other end points of
      procedure time, specimen weight, volume of normal saline used, any changes in pressure needed
      during the surgery, and whether the patient required Lasix post-operatively will also be
      collected at this time.
    
  