
    
      Introduction and rationale:

      Pancreatic cancer (PC) is one of the most lethal and therapeutically resistant malignancies,
      with a grim prognosis that is attributed to the late clinical presentation and the relative
      chemoresistance of the disease.

      Even with identical chemotherapy regimens, some patients experience improvements in survival
      and tumor response, whereas other patients only experience inconvenience and increased
      toxicity. It has been suggested that the burden of treatment should not be added to the
      suffering of those with advanced pancreatic cancer. Therefore, understanding prognostic
      factors before treating patients with antitumoral agents may be helpful in selecting those
      patients predicted to have an improved survival and tumor response after treatment.

      Studies have shown that angiogenesis is an important factor that influences the prognostic of
      solid tumors, including pancreatic tumors. Contrast-enhanced imaging methods can offer
      detailed information on tumor vascularity. Contrast-enhanced endoscopic ultrasound (CE-EUS)
      is a new method which allows detailed characterization of focal pancreatic masses. CE-EUS
      offers high-resolution images of the pancreas that far surpass those achieved by computed
      tomography, ultrasound, or magnetic resonance imaging. CE-EUS can detect intratumoral vessels
      in the pancreatic lesions. One of the fluoro-gas-containing contrast agents used in CE-EUS is
      Sonovue®, which is isotonic, stable and resistant to pressure, with a viscosity similar to
      blood. It does not diffuse into the extravascular compartment remaining within the blood
      vessels until the gas dissolves and is eliminated in the expired air (blood pool contrast
      agent). The safety profile of SonoVue showed a very low incidence of side effects; it is not
      nephrotoxic and the incidence of severe hypersensitivity is similar to other magnetic
      resonance imaging contrast agents. Moreover, Sono-Vue is approved for clinical use in
      European Union countries.

      The hypothesis that tumors with intratumoral vessels are chemosensitive appears to be
      reasonable because drugs penetrate tumors through vessels. Therefore, it is possible that
      hypoxic condition in tumor tissue leads to chemoresistance and poor prognosis in patients
      with pancreatic carcinoma who received systemic chemotherapy. However, whether low
      vascularized tumors correlate with the chemoresistance and poor prognosis is still unclear.
      Patients with non-resectable pancreatic cancer have an especially poor prognosis and have
      many severe symptoms.The analysis of prognostic factors before treatment may be helpful in
      selecting appropriate candidates for chemotherapy and determining treatment strategies. For
      example, patients who have a poor prognosis may be treated best with only supportive care
      because of their short survival. Consequently, the aim of the PEACE study is to assess the
      vascularity of pancreatic malignant tumors with CE-EUS and to clarify the prognostic value of
      tumor vascularity in patients with advanced PC.

      Moreover, studies have shown that angiotensin inhibition enhances drug delivery and
      potentiates chemotherapy by decompressing tumor blood vessels. Chauchan et al. demonstrated
      that the angiotensin inhibitor losartan reduces stromal collagen and hyaluronan production.
      Consequently, losartan reduces solid stress in tumors resulting in increased vascular
      perfusion. Through this physical mechanism, it can improve drug and oxygen delivery to
      tumors, thereby potentiating chemotherapy and reducing hypoxia in breast and pancreatic
      cancer models. Accordingly, another aim of our study will be to examine the correlation
      between tumor vascularity and angiotensin inhibitors use in patients using these drugs to
      control arterial hypertension.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective:

      • to register time-intensity curve (TIC) analysis-derived parameters, obtained from
      post-processing of CE-EUS recordings with a commercially available software, before and after
      chemotherapy and to describe tumor changes in vascularity after treatment.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  to prospectively determine whether the CE-EUS parameters can be used to predict response
           to treatment in patients with locally advanced and metastatic pancreatic cancer. Tumor
           response will be assessed by contrast-enhanced computed tomography, according to the
           Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST)

        -  to determine the correlation between CE-EUS parameters before treatment and overall
           survival and progression-free survival

        -  to determine the correlation between changes in tumor vascularity and progression-free
           survival and overall survival

        -  to assess quantitative elastography parameters during EUS, before and after systemic
           treatment and determine their correlation with overall survival and progression-free
           survival

        -  to examine the correlation between tumor vascularity and angiotensin inhibitors use.

      Study design:

      This is a prospective, non-randomized, single-arm, observational, multicenter study aiming to
      assess changes in tumor vascularity using CE-EUS before and after systemic treatment in
      patients with locally advanced and metastatic pancreatic cancer and to examine the
      correlation between vascular changes and treatment response, progression-free survival and
      overall survival.

      All patients with a suspicion of pancreatic masses will undergo EUS (including endoscopic
      ultrasound-fine needle aspiration for confirmation of diagnosis), with sequential
      elastography EUS (EG-EUS) and CE-EUS. A positive cytological diagnosis will be taken as a
      final proof of malignancy of the pancreas mass. The diagnoses obtained by EUS-fine needle
      aspiration will be further verified during a clinical follow-up of at least 6 months.
      Contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) will be performed as pretreatment staging study to
      assess the diagnosis of pancreatic cancer, local extension of the tumor, and presence of
      distant and lymph node metastasis.

      Patients with a confirmed diagnosis of pancreatic cancer (both adenocarcinomas and
      neuroendocrine tumors will be included) will undergo systemic treatment. Selection of the
      specific treatment regimen will be according to individual physicians' choice.

      Two months after the first course of systemic chemotherapy, CT and EUS (with sequential
      EG-EUS and CE-EUS) will be repeated. CT will be performed in order to evaluate the tumor
      response. Tumor response will be assessed according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in
      Solid Tumors (RECIST).

      CE-EUS will be performed during usual EUS examinations, with the whole movie (T0-T120s)
      recorded in a DICOM format on the embedded HDD of the ultrasound system, for later analysis.
      In order to minimize human bias, all post-processing and computer analysis of digital movies
      will be performed within the coordinating IT Center, with all programmers and statisticians
      being blinded to the clinical, imaging and pathological data. Off-line analysis of
      time-intensity curves will be performed using Vue-Box, which yields the following
      quantitative parameters: Peak Enhancement (PE), Wash-in Area Under the Curve (Wi-AUC), Rise
      Time (RT), mean Transit Time (mTT), Time To Peak (TTP), Wash-in Rate (WiR) and Wash-in
      Perfusion Index (WiPI). The software also provides referenced values (expressed in
      percentages), aligning the set of values for the tumor Region of interest (ROI) to the
      parenchymal ones.

      EUS-EG will also be performed during usual EUS examinations, with two movies of 10 seconds
      recorded on the embedded Hard Disk Drive (HDD) in order to minimize variability and to
      increase repeatability of acquisition. Strain Ratio (SR) and SH (Strain Histogram) will be
      measured; with three measurements made and recorded on the embedded HDD.

      The patients will be followed-up for at least six months through clinical examination,
      biological exams and transabdominal ultrasound, eventually with a repeat spiral CT / EUS
      after six months.

      For each patient, the following information will be recorded and uploaded to
      http://oncobase.umfcv.ro/ (this website aims to provide hosting and support for multicentric
      studies; all registered users can access the project and submit the data or upload files
      through a form defined and controlled by the project's coordinator):

        -  Age

        -  Gender

        -  Primary tumor location (pancreatic head or pancreatic body and tail)

        -  Primary tumor size

        -  Tumor status (metastatic or locally advanced)

        -  Site of metastasis

        -  Histologic grade

        -  Serum carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) level

        -  Serum carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) level

        -  Prior biliary drainage (presence or absence).

        -  Antitumoral agent (chemotherapy regimen).

        -  Angiotensin inhibitors (drug, dose).

        -  Parameters of the pancreatic cancer CT reporting template

        -  EUS, CE-EUS, EG-EUS parameters (echogenicity, echostructure, size, presence/absence of
           power Doppler signals, Strain Ratio, Strain Histogram, Peak Enhancement (PE), Wash-in
           Area Under the Curve (Wi-AUC), Rise Time (RT), mean Transit Time (mTT), Time To Peak
           (TTP), Wash-in Rate (WiR) and Wash-in Perfusion Index (WiPI)).
    
  