
    
      Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) is one of the most prevalent spinal deformity that may
      progress sharply during growth. According to the severity of the curve, the major treatment
      approaches for patient with AIS include exercises, bracing and surgery, to correct, prevent
      or stop the progression of the deformity.In North America, Scoliosis Research Society (SRS)
      has been published the standard of care for AIS: patients with curves between 10 and 25°
      should be observation who are still growing. While in the Europe, the International
      Scientific Society on Scoliosis Orthopaedic and Rehabilitation Treatment (SOSORT) has
      recommended that the physiotherapeutic scoliosis-specific exercises should be the first step
      to treat idiopathic scoliosis to prevent/limit progression of the deformity.
      Three-dimensionally integrated exercise for scoliosis is based the theory of
      physiotherapeutic scoliosis specific exercises, and consists of patient education,
      3-dimension self-correction, stabilization of the corrected posture and training activity of
      daily living, combined with neuro-motor control, proprioceptive training, balance training,
      etc., forming the individual exercise approach for each patient. Nevertheless, the evidence
      concerning three-dimensionally integrated exercise for scoliosis is inadequate. Therefore,
      the objective of this study is to determine the effect of three-dimensionally integrated
      exercise intervention on the change of Cobb angle, angle of trunk rotation(ATR), sagittal
      profile, and quality of life, compared to standard care for patients with mild AIS.

      The present study is a single-center prospective randomised controlled trial conducted at the
      department of rehabilitation medicine, Xinhua Hospital affiliated to Shanghai Jiao Tong
      University School of Medicine. The demographic data (height, weight), menarche status for the
      girls, family history, will be recorded by the physician.

      Informed consent will be obtained from each patient and one of their parents prior to
      inclusion. Eligible subjects will be randomized by a 1:1 allocation ratio by computer either
      to the experimental group, in which they will perform three-dimensionally integrated exercise
      for scoliosis, or the control group, in which they will receive the standard of care with
      observation according to the Scoliosis Research Society criteria. Blinded assessments at
      baseline and immediately post 6-month intervention will include radiographic measurement,
      trunk rotation, sagittal profile and health related quality-of-life.
    
  