
    
      The incidence of delayed thrombocytopenia in patients who undergo allogeneic hemopoietic stem
      cell transplant (SCT) is nearly 20-40% (1-2). Chronic graft versus host disease (cGVHD) seems
      to be the most frequent pathologic condition associated with post SCT delayed
      thrombocytopenia. Previous studies indicated the occurrence of delayed thrombocytopenia as a
      poor prognostic factor for the outcome of patients undergoing SCT, particularly for those
      patients with cGVHD. In our experience, 27 out of 71 patients (38%) developed post SCT
      delayed thrombocytopenia, with a median platelet count of 29 x 109/L (range 7-86 x 109/L);
      cGVHD was associated with delayed thrombocytopenia in 54% of cases. The platelet count was
      >50 <100 x 109/L in 8 patients (30%) patients and 50 x 109/L in 19 (70%) among whom 9 had 20
      x 109/L. The median post SCT survival was 12 months in patients who developed delayed
      thrombocytopenia vs. > 36 months in patients without delayed thrombocytopenia. The rate of
      patients alive 12, 24 and 33 months after SCT was 41%, 41% and 7% among patients with delayed
      thrombocytopenia vs. 93%, 87% and 87% (p< 0.0001). In patients with cGVHD the incidence of
      mortality was significantly higher in those who developed post SCT thrombocytopenia, i.e. 8
      out of 13 (61.5%) vs. 2 out of 19 (10.5%) (p=0.005). Our data confirms the results of
      previous studies. Therefore, the occurrence of delayed thrombocytopenia in patients
      undergoing SCT is a very poor prognostic factor and the improvement of this condition may
      favourably affect patients' outcome. The pathophysiology of cGVHD relayed post SCT delayed
      thrombocytopenia is complex and only partial understood. Biological and clinical evidences
      support an autoimmune-like thrombocytopenia with increased platelet destruction; this
      mechanism is also suggested by the response to some therapeutic strategies generally adopted
      to treat classical immune thrombocytopenia as steroids, high dose intravenous immunoglobulin,
      splenectomy, rituximab. However a mechanism consistent with impaired platelet production has
      also been suggested. Adopting an index for plasma glycocalicin, plasma thrombopoietin (TPO),
      and circulating B cells producing anti-GPIIb-IIIa antibodies, Yamazaki et al. studied 23 SCT
      recipients who had prolonged and isolated thrombocytopenia with no apparent causes such as
      engraftment failure, recurrence of the underlying malignancy, microangiopathy or drugs and
      compared data with those observed in a similar cohort of SCT recipients with no
      thrombocytopenia, in patients with primary immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) and aplastic anemia.
      Despite the frequent occurrence of an antiplatelet antibody response, patients with post SCT
      thrombocytopenia showed a glycocalicin index and TPO status similar to that seen in aplastic
      anemia. TPO levels were normal in nearly 30% of patients. Recently, Bao et al. showed an
      improved regulatory T-cell (T-regs) activity in patients with chronic primary immune
      thrombocytopenia (ITP) treated with thrombolytic agents, suggesting a possible role of
      platelet count in improving T-reg function and restore immune tolerance.

      On this grounds and similarly to ITP, the stimulation of thrombopoiesis with the thrombolytic
      agents could be beneficial in some patients with persistent post SCT thrombocytopenia both on
      platelet count and on cGVHD manifestations. Eltrombopag (Revolade) is a thrombopoietin
      receptor agonist indicated for the treatment of adult patients with ITP relapsed/refractory
      to splenectomy; eltrombopag may be considered as second line treatment for adult
      non-splenectomised patients where surgery is contraindicated. Eltrombopag is also under
      development for the treatment of thrombocytopenia due to hepatitis C virus HCV, for
      chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia and in MDS/AML.
    
  