
    
      The proposed PAUSE-2 RCT study is the logical next step to the Perioperative Anticoagulant
      Use for Surgery Evaluation (PAUSE) study, which was completed on August 31, 2018 and
      presented at the American Society of Hematology Conference on December 4, 2018. Both studies
      address the perioperative management of patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) who are
      receiving a direct oral anticoagulant (DOAC) (apixaban, dabigatran or rivaroxaban) and
      require an elective surgery/procedure. Standardized, DOAC-specific perioperative management
      is needed to: (i) minimize patient harm related to serious perioperative adverse events,
      comprising arterial thromboembolism (A-TE) and major bleeding (MB); and (ii) allow
      consistent, cost-efficient management that avoids cancelled surgeries/procedures and the need
      to reverse DOACs. PAUSE did not address safe management of patients having a high-bleed-risk
      surgery/neuraxial anesthesia in whom there is concern about bleeding, especially
      neuraxial-related epidural hematomas that can lead to paralysis; such patients are often
      managed by the approach recommended by the American Society of Regional Anesthesia (ASRA).

      In PAUSE-2, the primary question is: (i) In patients having a high-bleed-risk
      surgery/neuraxial anesthesia, is the simple, shorter-DOAC-interruption PAUSE management as
      safe as the more complex, longer-interruption ASRA approach? Hypothesis: PAUSE management is
      non-inferior to ASRA management with expected perioperative risks in both groups of 2.5% for
      MB (2% non-inferiority margin) and 0.5% for A-TE (1% non-inferiority margin).

      In PAUSE-2, the secondary question is: (i) are the PAUSE and ASRA management approaches
      associated with similar proportions of patients with minimal-to-no residual DOAC levels at
      surgery, and similar adherence to the DOAC interruption/resumption protocols? Exploratory
      postulate: PAUSE and ASRA approaches will have similar proportion of patients (±5%) with DOAC
      levels (<30, 30-49.9, and ≥50 ng/mL), and protocol adherence to perioperative DOACs
      interrupted and resumed.

      Approximately 201 patients will be recruited for the PAUSE-2 Study pilot. This is 10% of the
      proposed main study (2,010 participants).

      In all patients, a 5 mL blood sample will be taken just before surgery (but will be not
      available for clinical use and cannot be used for genetic testing). Plasma will be frozen and
      stored at each clinical site before shipment to the core laboratory at McMaster University
      for storage and standardized DOAC level measurement.

      A focused patient enrolled before the procedure and followed up every week up to completion
      of their participation at 4 weeks (±5 days). Patients will be enrolled over a 1 year period.

      To start, this will be a pilot study of a larger PAUSE-2-RCT. Conducting this pilot study
      will help assess the feasibility and methodology of the study at this smaller scale. It is
      important to evaluate the feasibility of recruitment, randomization and retention. As well,
      investigators need to assess the methodology and implementation of the randomized trial.

      Note that the outcome for the pilot study is not to evaluate the safety of the perioperative
      procedure, but to examine the approach to be used in the intended larger study. The outcomes
      for the larger study will still be collected.
    
  