
    
      Aim 1 (Primary Outcomes): To test the effectiveness of an addiction-based weight loss
      intervention, embodied first as a smartphone app with telephone coaching (AppCoach) compared
      to (1) addiction model based weight-loss app alone (App) and (2) multi-disciplinary in-clinic
      weight loss intervention (Clinic) on weight outcomes of overweight and obese adolescents at
      3, 6, 12 and 18 months post enrollment.

      Hypothesis 1a: Participants who complete the six month AppCoach will have a greater decrease
      in their zBMI and %BMIp95 compared to baseline at completion of the 6 months intervention,
      than those receiving App or Clinic.

      Hypothesis 1b: Participants who completed the six month AppCoach will have greater decrease
      in their zBMI and %BMIp95 compared to baseline at 6 and 12 months post intervention
      completion compared to App and Clinic.

      Aim 2 (Secondary Outcomes): To compare the effects of AppCoach on addictive eating behaviors,
      motivation and self-regulatory behaviors at completion of the intervention and 6 and 12
      months post intervention.

      Hypothesis 2: Compared to App or Clinic, AppCoach will result in lower YFAS-c scores, higher
      motivation and improved self- regulatory behaviors scores when evaluated at completion of the
      intervention and 6 and 12 months post intervention.

      Aim 3 (Mediators): To test whether baseline traits and behaviors mediate the effect of
      AppCoach compared to App and Clinic.

      Hypothesis 3: Higher baseline YFAS-c scores lower executive function scores and previous
      history with mobile platforms will mediate the efficacy of AppCoach and App.

      Aim 4: To conduct a real-life economic analysis (costs, cost-savings and non-monetary
      benefits) of delivering AppCoach compared to 1) App and 2) Clinic.

      Hypothesis 4: An addiction-based weight loss mHealth intervention will be more cost-effective
      than weight-loss coaching alone and in-person delivery of multidisciplinary weight-loss
      intervention.

      Research Design Methods:

      Study Design:

      Multi-center, randomized, controlled, trial of an addiction based mobile health (mHealth)
      weight loss intervention plus personalized coaching (AppCoach) compared to receive
      1)interactive addiction model based mHealth weight-loss intervention alone (App) and 2)
      Multidisciplinary in-clinic weight management program (Clinic).

      Recruitment and Eligibility:

      Study procedures will be approved by the Children's Hospital Los Angeles (CHLA), the Los
      Angeles Biomedical Research Institute at Harbor-UCLA Medical Center, Alta Med, UCLA, and
      Cedars Sinai Institutional Review Boards. Participants will be recruited for the intervention
      arms from newly referred patients of 5 interdisciplinary weight management clinics (CHLA,
      Alta Med, Los Angeles Biomedical Research Institute at Harbor-UCLA (LA Biomed), UCLA, and
      Cedars Sinai).

      Patient Subjects:

      Inclusion criteria include:

      1. Age 14-18 years 2. Body mass index [BMI] ≥85th percentile for age and gender

      Exclusion criteria include:

        1. Concurrent participation in an alternative weight loss intervention

        2. Blood pressure > 99th percentile for age, gender, and height

        3. Known psychiatric illness and/or developmental delay

        4. Participants Inability to read English

      Parent Criteria:

        1. Have an eligible child who meets the eligibility requirements listed above

        2. Minimum age of 18 years old

      Pre-Screening:

      Clinic Recruitment:

      Newly referred patients to the interdisciplinary clinics will be pre-screened for eligibility
      prior to their first clinic visit by an on-site clinical research coordinator (CRC). Those
      participants who meet eligibility criteria will be contacted via phone by the on-site CRC.
      The CRC will briefly introduce the study aims and intervention and request the youth and
      family to consider participation to be fully discussed at the first visit. The CRC will
      obtain the eligible participants' email address and send them a recruitment email.

      Initial Visit:

        1. On-site CRC will meet with eligible participants and provide details about the study
           procedures, obtain written consent from one parent/guardian and assent from each
           participant and answer any questions the participants and there parent may have.

           a. In order to standardize the study description, the CRC will first play an
           introductory video clip describing the study, the participant responsibilities and
           follow-up requirements.

           b. Upon obtaining verbal and written consent from one parent or guardian and verbal and
           written assent from each youth to participate in the study participants will be
           randomized to one of 3 intervention arms (AppCoach vs. App vs. Clinic)

        2. All consenting participants will complete a battery of surveys (Refer to Measurements
           section).

           Covariates/Moderators:

           a. Yale Food Addiction Scale b. The Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression scale c.
           The Perceived Stress Scale d. Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive function

           Outcomes:

             1. Intervention Satisfaction Survey

             2. The Adolescent Self-Regulatory Inventory (ASRI)

             3. Food Cravings Questionnaire

        3. All consenting participants:

             1. AppCoach and App Groups will receive:

      1. iPhones (as needed; participants will be required to have an iPhone). b. All Participants
      will receive: Wireless Bluetooth body weight scale (Wahoo Fitness Balance Scale; Wahoo
      fitness, Atlanta, GA) and a wireless Bluetooth digital food scale (Escali Smart Connect
      Kitchen Scale, Escali Corp., Burnsville, MN) both of which interfaced to the app.

      c. Participants who require an iPhone will be loaned an iPhone 5S and accessories (including
      protective case), with an AT&T service plan for the duration of the study that includes:
      unlimited texting, unlimited plan, unlimited voice calls to and from other cell telephones,
      700 voice call minutes for calls to and from landlines, unlimited night and weekend calls to
      and from landlines, International calls or texts including Canada are NOT allowed and not
      covered.

      d. Participants will return the loaned phones at the completion of the intervention (Visit
      3).

      e. The referring provider will receive a letter informing them that the youth they referred
      to the weight management clinic will be participating in this study for 6 months and then
      will be offered enrollment back into the initial referral program is desired.

      4. AppCoach Participants:

        1. Each participant will register via a computer and then login with the app.

        2. Participants will weigh-in on a scale in a private area and enter weight data on their
           iPhones.

        3. On-site CRC will go through each section of app and have participants enter data.

        4. Follow Up: Participants will schedule weekly 15 minute phone meetings with a coach and
           return for clinic visits at 3,6,12 and 18 months. The first phone visit will be via
           HIPAA secure video conferencing between the coach and the participant.

           5. App Participants:

      a. Each participant will register via a computer and then login with the app. b. Participants
      will weigh-in on a scale in a private area and enter weight data on their iPhones.

      c. On-site CRC will go through each section of app and have participants enter data.

      d. Follow Up: Participants will schedule clinic visits at 3,6,12 and 18 months. 6. Clinic
      Participants:

        1. Each participant will attend a multi-disciplinary in-clinic intervention that consists
           of 6 sessions (100 minutes for the first visit and 80 minutes for follow up visits).

        2. They will travel to the local site of recruitment and attend 6 sessions in which they
           will meet with a provider team.

        3. Participants will weigh-in on a scale in a private area and receive a wireless body and
           food scale

        4. Follow Up: Participants will return clinic visits monthly for 6 months and then at 12
           and 18 months post consent for maintenance follow-up.
    
  