
    
      Semen processing to be used for different ART procedures is essential step to isolate dead
      sperms as well as those abnormally structural or morphology. Semen preparation will maintain
      to remove the seminal fluids and present cells and contamination pus cells or bacterial
      cells.

      Among different protocols, Density Gradient and swim-up are the most common. For poor
      motility and number sample Density Gradient is indicated. While final evaluation for produced
      or separated sperm form processing procedures was not evaluated yet.

      Preparation for evaluation study to compare output of main used protocol Density Gradient
      (DG) with other protocol as swimming down using different study criteria can make more clear
      evaluation for better processing procedures.

      The cases arranged for evaluation were semen samples are within WHO 2010 normal values for
      motility and count to be more than 5 million/ml. All samples to be divided to two portions
      for processing by the two preparation techniques.

      Post preparation evaluation to be done for the two outputs using: Motility monitoring for 48
      hours at 37.0 Dc, abnormal forms, hyaluronan affinity testing and contaminating bacterial
      growth.

      In this study we will show drawback effect of physical and time stress interface applied on
      sperms during processing, and compare the out put results with that results produced from
      sperm processed without centrifugation interface or more processing time. As the sperm will
      separate it self by its natural movement and normal behavior.

      Evaluation will be on three categories:

        1. The final output quality: as net highly progressive sperms and their count number (
           sperm morphology, count and motility): as our results showed more phonologically normal
           sperm retrieved from SD method with higher count and more percentage of progressively
           motile sperms.

        2. The quality of sperm produced: through monitoring sperm vitality testing or sperm
           motility power among 2 days at 37.0 Ds. Motility will be evaluated after 24 hours and 48
           hours. Both readings showed more decrease in sperm motility and vitality with time
           consuming with portions processed using density gradient. While portions processed using
           SD showed significant better readings.

           Another functional activity of sperm post processing is using HBA testing slide, as we
           evaluate the sperm affinity to hyaluronan. This Testing or assay indicate the
           physiological activity of sperm still maintained. While it showed HBA higher significant
           results with swimming down group study.

        3. Final evaluation, that are used to present the quality of separation: is monitored using
           the contamination and carry over effect during semen manipulation and processing.
           Bacterial contamination using routine culture media (Blood agar) to evaluate 5 microns
           from each portions for presence and absence of any bacterial cells or during processing
           and manipulation.
    
  