
    
      This study will test the hypothesis that impairment of the parasympathetic nervous system
      contributes to the symptoms of POTS and that stimulation of this part of the nervous system
      improves the excessive increase in heart rate, standing tolerance and inflammation in
      patients with POTS. For this purpose, the investigators will use electrical stimulation of a
      nerve in the skin of the earlobe (transcutaneous vagal nerve stimulation) and two medications
      that increase the levels of acetylcholine (a neurotransmitter) in the central or peripheral
      nervous system (galantamine and pyridostigmine, respectively) to increase the activity of the
      parasympathetic nervous system.

      Screening Procedures: Potential participants will be screened in the Vanderbilt Autonomic
      Dysfunction Center (ADC). Medications affecting heart rate, blood pressure, blood volume,
      inflammatory markers and the autonomic nervous system will be withdrawn for at least five
      half-lives before studies. Patients will undergo a complete history and physical examination,
      ECG, routine clinical laboratory analyses and a blood pregnancy test for women of
      childbearing potential. Autonomic testing including a posture study with plasma
      catecholamines is then performed to determine if they meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria.

      Eligible participants will be studied on three separate days in a randomized, double-blind,
      crossover fashion. On each testing day, patients will be given one dose of the study
      medication (either pyridostigmine, galantamine or placebo pill), and then will have two tilt
      table tests (a motorized table with a footboard that moves to an upright position): one with
      the vagal stimulation and one with sham electrical stimulation. Heart rhythm, blood pressure
      and the amount of fluid in the body (body impedance) will be monitored during studies. Blood
      samples (up to a total of 2 tablespoons per study day) will also be collected. The order of
      the study days and tilt tests will be decided at random, like the toss of a coin. Each study
      day will last about 5 hours.
    
  