
    
      Health systems have not implemented Screening, Brief Intervention and Referral to Treatment
      (SBIRT) for adolescents despite research demonstrating its effectiveness. Based on prior
      research that identified barriers to AOD screening for adolescents in pediatric Primary Care
      (PC) and a pilot study that found SBIRT was feasible, well-received and promoted referrals to
      and initiation of specialty treatment, the current research application proposes to randomize
      45 Primary Care Physicians (PCPs) in the pediatrics clinic of a medical center within a
      large, managed care health system, Kaiser Permanente Northern California, to three arms - 1)
      Usual Care; 2) SBIRT delivered by PCPs; and 3) SBIRT delivered by Behavioral Medicine
      Specialists (BMS). The study objective is to compare the implementation, effectiveness and
      cost-effectiveness of SBIRT for adolescents in PC in the three study arms. Patients will
      complete evidence-based screening and AOD assessment measures which have been embedded in the
      health plan's electronic medical record (EMR). A mixed model will be used to compare
      implementation outcomes (rates of screening and identification, brief intervention, referral
      to Chemical Dependency treatment and treatment initiation), and effectiveness (patient
      outcomes of AOD use and abstinence) at 12 months. The model accounts for the intra-class
      correlations across patients within providers. Cost-effectiveness relative to implementation
      and patient outcomes will be examined. Barriers and facilitators of implementation, and
      feasibility via qualitative interviews with clinicians and administrators will be examined as
      well. The study is significant in that it examines issues that must be addressed to spur
      widespread adaptation of SBIRT. The proposed interventions are highly feasible in the current
      environment of health reform due to increased resources and training to Federally Qualified
      Health Centers and private health plans. It is innovative in using the EMR to change clinical
      practice and systematically integrate AOD in PC, and as a platform for collecting research
      data.
    
  