
    
      Among men who have sex with men (MSM), the largest population living with HIV in the U.S.,
      poor self-care behaviors occur within the context of intertwined psychosocial problems,
      called syndemics. Important affected health behaviors include sexual transmission risk and
      adherence to antiretroviral therapy. In major cities, one in five MSM are living with
      HIV/AIDS, making these domestic MSM rates comparable to many endemic settings such as
      Sub-Saharan Africa. Because of antiretroviral therapy, HIV-infected individuals are living
      with the virus longer and the population of HIV-infected MSM continues to grow.

      Study after study concludes that psychosocial problems/intertwined syndemics such as
      depression, substance abuse, and childhood sexual abuse significantly contribute to poor
      self-care behaviors such as sexual risk behaviors among MSM. Despite this, one reason for the
      modest effects of behavioral interventions for HIV is that they generally do not address the
      unique and varied psychosocial context of living with HIV for various risk groups. One
      example of a highly prevalent psychosocial problem among HIV-infected MSM is dissatisfaction
      with one's appearance. Body dissatisfaction is frequently syndemic to depression in
      HIV-infected MSM and is related to both sexual transmission risk and HAART non-adherence.
      Recent evidence indicates that MSM with high body dissatisfaction are 60% less likely to use
      condoms during anal intercourse compared to MSM with low body dissatisfaction.

      The goal is to study multiple health behaviors in the context of psychosocial problems among
      HIV-infected and uninfected MSM. This includes designing and testing interventions aimed at
      reducing health problems (e.g., sexual risk, medication adherence, self-care) and
      co-occurring mental health disorders/syndemics. In this context, the current research plan,
      focusing on body dissatisfaction, depression, sexual risk reduction and HAART adherence
      provides one example of applying this goal to a discrete syndemic-oriented intervention
      development research project. This has relevance for both behavioral interventions for
      adherence and HIV risk behavior in MSM, which may be moderated by syndemics, but also has
      important application for the eventual roll-out of emerging biomedical prevention
      interventions. For example, HIV chemoprophylaxis (pre-exposure prophylaxis; PrEP) has
      recently been shown to reduce HIV transmission risk in high risk MSM. If this or other
      biomedical interventions are adequately disseminated to the highest risk MSM, the field will
      likely need plans for addressing mental health and, potentially, substance use, in the
      context of prescribing biomedical agents.
    
  