
    
      Objectives:

      The study investigates the neurobiological correlates of conversion disorder (CD). The
      primary objectives are to investigate in CD patients:

        -  The role of emotional valence in an implicit emotional processing task (COMPLETE)

        -  The frequency of the 5HTTLPR S/S genotype

        -  Structural differences in grey matter of the brain as detected by voxel-based
           morphometry (VBM)

        -  The neural correlates of fear conditioning and fear extinction in a fear learning fMRI
           task

        -  The neural correlates of interoceptive activity in a Interoceptive Attention fMRI task

        -  Identifying the cortical physiology correlated with making a movement following a go
           command.

        -  Identifying the cortical physiology correlated with not making a movement following a
           no-go command.

        -  Identifying the cortical physiology correlated with planning to move or not move
           following a choose go-no go command.

      Exploratory objectives are to investigate in CD patients:

        -  The frequency of several gene polymorphisms that are implicated in stress and affective
           disorder, including 5HTTLPR S/S (serotonin receptor), COMT (catechol-o-methyltransferase
           enzyme), Val/Met BDNF (brain-derived neurotrophic factor) and FKBP5 rs1360780 genotypes,
           as well as other polymorphisms or mutations to be determined later. Additionally,
           epigenetic data will be explored.

        -  The levels of salivary cortisol as a measure of stress.

        -  The heart rate variability, as a measure of autonomic nervous system function.
           (COMPLETE)

        -  Structural differences in white matter of the brain as detected by diffusion tensor
           imaging (DTI)

        -  The resting state BOLD fMRI signal

        -  The impact of the caregiver's attitude on the patients' symptoms

        -  The relationship between hemodynamic responses in regions implicated in interoception
           and self-reported measures of interoceptive attention, as well as behavioral and motor
           symptom severity

      Study population:

      We intend to study adult patients with diagnoses of functional movement disorders (FMD) seen
      by the Human Motor Control Section clinic (HMCS), patients with diagnoses of psychogenic
      non-epileptic seizures (PNES) seen by the Epilepsy clinic and healthy volunteers. Up to 12
      healthy volunteers will be for the EEG-EMG sub-study. The PNES patient group will include
      patients seen at Rhode Island Hospital. Additionally, we would like to study caregivers of
      patient's with FMD who are enrolled un protocol 07-N-0190.

      Design:

      An assessment for psychiatric diagnoses and measurement scales will be administered to the
      FMD and PNES patients, healthy volunteer controls and caregivers.

        -  Functional MRI (fMRI): emotional processing will be studied using a gender
           identification task with differing emotional valences. (COMPLETE) Limbic processing will
           also be studied using a fear learning fMRI task. Resting state BOLD fMRI signal will
           also be obtained.

        -  Anatomical MRI: VBM and DTI will be performed using anatomical MRI sequences collected
           during the fMRI scanning or subsequent dedicated anatomical MRI sessions.

        -  Genetics: blood will be collected for testing.

        -  Stress biomarkers: saliva will be collected for testing. [EVALUATION IN HEALTHY
           VOLUNTEERS COMPLETE].

        -  Autonomic nervous system function: electrocardiogram (EKG) will be obtained to determine
           heart rate variability. [COMPLETE].

        -  Event related potentials: 64-channel EEG and surface EMG will be recorded during a go ,
           no-go and choose go-no go behavioral task.

        -  EEG will be recorded during the resting state condition (five minutes with eyes open and
           five minutes with eyes closed).

      Outcome measures:

        -  fMRI study: blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) signal in the regions of interest
           during a gender identification task (primary) [COMPLETE], in regions of interest during
           a fear learning task (primary), as well as resting state BOLD signal (exploratory). EEG
           resting state data will be compared and correlated with the fMRI resting state data.

        -  Anatomical MRI: VBM (primary) and DTI (exploratory)

        -  Genetics: (a) S/S genotype of the serotonin transporter promoter region polymorphism.
           (primary) (b) Polymorphism frequency of several genes related to affective disorders
           and/or stress (exploratory)

        -  Stress biomarkers: salivary cortisol levels (exploratory). [EVALUATION IN HEALTHY
           VOLUNTEERS COMPLETE]

        -  Autonomic nervous system function: heart rate variability as measured by EKG
           (exploratory). [COMPLETE]

        -  Psychological profile scales: scores exploratory.

        -  The relationship between hemodynamic responses in regions implicated in interoception
           and self-reported measures of IA, motor symptoms and behavioral ratings (exploratory)

        -  EEG-EMG study: Characteristics of event related cortical potentials correlated with
           simple behavioral motor tasks in healthy volunteers. Differences between go and no-go
           potentials will be identified and quantified. This analysis will allow planning a
           properly powered study for patients with functional movement disorders.
    
  