
    
      Antiretroviral drug exposure is directly linked to individual host factors which include age,
      weight, diet, and genetics. However, the main factor impacting long-term drug exposure is
      drug adherence. Adherence is a strong predictor of HIV treatment outcomes, but measuring
      adherence is difficult due to the inaccuracy of self-reporting and other commonly used
      monitoring methods. To date, no gold standard measure to monitor antiretroviral exposure and
      adherence has been applied in clinical practice. Tenofovir (TFV) and its active metabolite,
      tenofovir diphosphate (TFV-DP), have distinctive pharmacological characteristics that make
      them ideal candidates for drug adherence and exposure monitoring. The long half life (~14-17
      days) of TFV-DP in red blood cells (RBC) are properties well suited for monitoring average
      dose exposure over time. Based on these, the investigators propose that RBC levels of TFV-DP
      are an accurate and precise measure of long-term drug exposure in HIV-infected individuals.
      In addition, the investigators aim to quantify TFV-DP in dried blood spots (DBS) as a simple
      method to measure drug exposure.

      This is an observational, 48-week prospective study of HIV-infected individuals treated with
      TFV in which the investigators will compare DBS TFV-DP levels in virologically suppressed vs.
      non-suppressed individuals and evaluate the utility of TFV-DP in DBS to predict virologic
      failure and also drug toxicity. To accomplish this, the investigators will approach
      HIV-infected patients currently taking TFV (which is being prescribed by a primary care
      physician) and who present to the clinic for regular HIV care. After informed consent is
      obtained, the investigators will collect extra blood samples for DBS TFV-DP and obtain
      information on drug adherence. The investigators will also collect extra blood samples for
      DBS TFV-DP at each subject's subsequent visit for approximately 3 visits in a 48 week period
      of time.
    
  