
    
      Approximately 12% of children under 18 years of age in the United States suffer from a mental
      disorder; estimates for socioeconomically disadvantaged children are 20% or higher.
      Unfortunately, these at-risk children often do not receive the needed mental health services
      either because of a lack of accessible services or because their families lack the motivation
      or resources to obtain services. In many instances, it is difficult or impossible to involve
      parents in their children's services. Increased access to services for socioeconomically
      disadvantaged children is critical. However, increased access alone is not sufficient to meet
      this population's mental health needs. Effective services must be provided. This study will
      increase the accessibility of mental health services by providing them in the children's
      schools and will determine whether teachers can be effective substitutes for parents as the
      therapeutic change agent. The study will accomplish these objectives through implementation
      and evaluation of the Reaching Educators, Children, and Parents (RECAP) program.

      The RECAP program involves individual and small group sessions with children, classroom
      groups with the child's broader peer groups, and instruction for classroom teachers and
      parents. The specific techniques are selected to target the areas thought to be responsible
      for perpetuating the children's problems. The child component, for example, focuses on: 1)
      social skills (e.g., how to resolve conflicts non-aggressively; use of humor to deflect
      teasing); 2) communication skills; 3) improving self-monitoring and self-control; 4)
      reattribution training (for both hostile attributions and negative self-attributions); 5)
      setting short- and long-term goals and relating behavior to long-term goals; and 6)
      relaxation. The program also focuses on motivational issues and helping children understand
      what is in their best long-term self-interest.

      Children in need of but not currently receiving mental health services will be selected from
      six schools serving high-risk neighborhoods in the Metro Nashville School System. Children
      will be chosen based on severity of psychopathology. Children will be randomly assigned to
      receive either: 1) mental health services containing a parent-training component; 2) mental
      health services containing a teacher-training component; or 3) a no-services control group.
      All children and their classroom peers will be assessed for behavioral, emotional, and social
      functioning.
    
  