
    
      Study Visits:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will have study tests and
      procedures performed on the same days as your visits for chemotherapy treatment. These study
      visits will occur about every 3-4 weeks apart. The exact number and timing of the visits will
      depend on when your scheduled chemotherapy visits occur. You and your doctor will discuss the
      best chemotherapy treatment and schedule for you.

      At each chemotherapy visit, before you receive your chemotherapy the following tests and
      procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of vital signs.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Additional blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for biomarker testing.

      At the beginning of every third cycle of chemotherapy you will be asked to complete a
      questionnaire about any symptoms you may be experiencing.

      Follow-Up Visit:

      At about 6 months after starting your chemotherapy the following tests and procedures will be
      performed:

        -  You will complete the symptom questionnaire.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of vital signs.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Additional blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for biomarker testing.

        -  You will have an ECG.

        -  You will have an ECHO or MUGA scan.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      At about 12 months after starting your chemotherapy you will have an end-of-study visit. At
      this visit, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will complete the symptom questionnaire.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of vital signs.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Additional blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for biomarker testing.

        -  You will have an ECG.

        -  You will have an ECHO or MUGA scan.

      At any time during the study, if your doctor thinks it is necessary, you will have an ECG
      and/or ECHO or MUGA scan.

      If you stop receiving chemotherapy during your participation in this study, you will still be
      asked to complete the above tests and procedures listed at the 12-month (end-of-study visit)
      visit. Other tests and procedures scheduled during the study may not be performed because you
      are no longer receiving chemotherapy treatment. Your study doctor and the research staff will
      go over this information with you if this happens.

      Research Test Results:

      The primary biomarkers being tested in this study are the BNP and TnI. Both the BNP and TnI
      look at the function of your heart. The BNP and TnI will both be tested at MD Anderson.

      The results of the biomarker tests will be kept separately from your other tests results, and
      will not affect your treatment in any way. The only reason your biomarker test results would
      be shared with your cancer doctor would be if the study doctor thinks the results show a
      heart problem. In that case, the study doctor will contact you right away to advise you about
      what to do next (for example, coming in to the clinic). You will be referred to a
      cardiologist (heart doctor) if the study doctor decides it is necessary.

      In addition to the biomarkers being tested in this study, if you had ECHOs during the study,
      the images of the ECHOs may be copied to a DVD and sent to the University of Pennsylvania for
      review related to research on heart damage caused by anthracycline-based chemotherapy. Before
      sending your ECHOs to the University of Pennsylvania MD Anderson will remove all of your
      personal identifiers (name, date of birth, age, and medical record number) included on the
      ECHO imaging DVD.

      Length of Study Participation:

      Your study participation will last about 12 months from date of your first chemotherapy
      treatment. You will have a follow up visit at about 6 months from the date of your first
      chemotherapy and an end of study visit at about 12 months from the date of your first
      chemotherapy treatment. This will end your participation in the study.

      This is an investigational study. At this time, the biomarker testing in this study is only
      being used in research. Its use in detecting heart damage is considered investigational.

      Up to 830 patients will take part in this multicenter study. Up to 200 will be enrolled at
      the Harris Health System and MD Anderson.
    
  