
    
      Metastatic melanoma patients eligible for (or currently on) CPI therapy per SoC will be
      identified and screened for inclusion/exclusion criteria. Eligible patients will be counseled
      and consented for tissue procurement. They will undergo excisional or core needle biopsy as
      clinically indicated and this tissue will be shipped in liquid nitrogen shippers through
      FedEx to our central facility in Greenville, SC.The tumor will be stored frozen until vaccine
      preparation. Vaccine development requires 48 hours for preparation. Upon verification that
      adequate tissue was obtained, these patients will then be counseled and consented for
      participation in the trial.

      The patients who qualify for participation in this trial will continue their treatment of
      CPI. Once consented, patients will receive a single injection of Neupogen (G-CSF) 300 μg SQ
      24-48 hrs prior to having 70 mL of blood collected and sent to our central facility for DC
      isolation and preparation. Those who cannot tolerate Neupogen or refuse it will have 120 mL
      of blood drawn and sent. Additional blood may be drawn if additional vaccine doses need to be
      made or re-made for any reason. Vaccines will be prepared by producing TL through freeze/thaw
      cycling and then loaded into pre-prepared YCWP. The TL-loaded YCWP will be introduced to the
      DC for phagocytosis thus creating the TLPLDC vaccine, which will be frozen in single dose
      vials. Each vial will contain 1 x 106 TLPLDC and will be labeled with the patient's unique
      study number.

      The frozen autologous TLPLDC will be sent back to the site with a total of 6 single dose
      vials after the vaccine has completed QA/QC testing and lot-release (usually 3 weeks). The
      primary vaccination series will include monthly inoculations at 0, 1, 2, 3 months followed by
      boosters at 6 and 9 months in the same lymph node draining area (preferably the anterior
      thigh). Once received, the first inoculation should occur within 4 weeks.

      Safety data will be collected on local and systemic toxicities and graded and reported per
      the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.03.

      Patients will follow-up at their respective sites for evaluation of metastatic disease per
      SoC. They will under imaging, CT/PET-CT, to meet Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST) criteria version 1.1 and iRECIST to monitor disease.

      Blood (50 mL) will be collected from all patients prior to each inoculation and at 12 months
      from enrollment for a total of 7 time points or a total of 350 mL of blood over 1 year. The
      collected blood will be sent to our central facility for immunologic testing of T-cell
      responses.
    
  