
    
      The overall purpose of the study is to investigate the effect on pain of a stress-reducing
      treatment that combine Internet based cognitive behavioral therapy and physiotherapy, for
      persons with Chronic widespread pain.

      Project description:

      Design: A randomized controlled multicenter study, with two arms. Participants: 200 persons
      with CWP will be recruited to the randomized controlled study (RCT) in primary health care in
      VGR and by advertising social media and/or local newspapers.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Women and men 18-65 years of age in VGR, fulfilling the criteria for CWP (ACR 1990).

        -  Sufficient knowledge of Swedish language

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Specific reasons for the pain, e g rheumatic disease, fracture or surgery in relation to
           the pain during the last 6 months.

        -  Not having a smart phone or computer

        -  Serious physical or psychological disease or other condition with restrictions of
           physical activity.

        -  Score >15 on the subscale for anxiety or depression in the Hospital anxiety and
           depression scale (HADS): the participant will be advised to contact a psychologist in
           primary health care.

        -  Ongoing psychotherapy or physiotherapy.

      Procedure: The persons who are interested in participating in the study will achieve oral and
      written information about the study and will be screened for inclusion- and exclusion
      criteria.

      The screening will preferably be conducted by phone calls. The persons who are eligible
      according to inclusion- and exclusion criteria and accept participation will complete a
      battery of questionnaires of symptoms and health related aspects.

      Randomization: After completing the questionnaires the participants are randomized to one of
      two groups. The randomization is made by sealed opaque envelopes by an independent person not
      involved in the intervention. The randomization will be stratified by gender and according to
      if the participant scored over or under 50 points at the SCI-93 to ensure that the degree of
      stress symptoms are similar in the different groups.

      Follow-up: The participants will be followed up by completing the same questionnaires as
      baseline after 6, 12 and 24 months.

      Group 1. Combined intervention of stress reducing I-CBT and physiotherapy The intervention in
      group 1 consists of two components; I-CBT and physiotherapy aiming to reduce symptoms of
      stress.

      I-CBT: Designed to reduce stress, during 8 weeks. Physiotherapy: A total of three visits with
      a physiotherapist (at start, after 4 weeks and after 12 weeks). Visit 1 (at start): The
      participant and the physiotherapist design together an individual plan of physical activity,
      based on the recommendations for stress as suggested in the Physical Activity in the
      Prevention and Treatment of Disease (FYSS in Swedish): Physical activity on moderate
      intensity 150 min/week and a strengthening exercise program performed at twice a week.

      The physical activity is performed outside health care - in the participant´s home or in
      other exercise premises outside health care Visit 2 and 3 (after 4 and 12 weeks): Follow up
      and revision of the Physical activity plan.

      Group 2. Stress reducing physiotherapy only The intervention in group 2 consists only of one
      component; physiotherapy.

      Physiotherapy: A total of three visits with a physiotherapist (at start, after 4 weeks and
      after 12 weeks). The visits are arranged in the same way as in the combined intervention
      (group 1).

      Measurements Primary Outcomes Pain intensity: The subscale for pain intensity included in the
      Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQ) is used. The subscale is a visual analogue scale
      (VAS) (0-100 mm) on which the participant rate their pain intensity during the previous week,
      ranging from 0 (No pain) to 100 (Very severe pain).

      The outcome is assessed both on group level as change in pain intensity over time between the
      groups and on an individual level as proportions of participants in each group who have
      achieved moderate (≥30%) and major (≥50%) change in pain intensity.

      Pain spread: The participants will state their painful areas in a pain drawing with 18
      predefined body areas. The score range from 0 to 18.

      Secondary outcomes:

      Symptoms of stress: The Stress and Crisis Inventory (SCI-93) consists of 35 items assessing
      clinical manifestations of stress ranging from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). The questions
      include both physical and mental experiences. The total score range from 0 to 140 and higher
      scores indicate a higher level of stress. The following cut-off values have been recommended:
      0-25 p = Normal stress, 26-50 p= Mild stress, 51-75 p= Moderate stress, 75-100 p = severe
      stress.

      Physical activity: Level of physical activity is measured with the Leisure Time Physical
      Activity Instrument (LTPAI), a questionnaire assessing the amount of physical activity during
      a typical week. The total score is the amount of hours of physical activity.

      Fatigue: Self rated fatigue is assessed with the Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory (MFI-20)
      which consists 20 statements building 5 subscales; General Fatigue, Mental Fatigue, Physical
      Fatigue, Reduced Motivation and Reduced Activity. Each subscale range from 4 to 20 p and a
      higher value indicate a higher degree of fatigue.

      FIQ subscale for fatigue (VAS 0-100 mm) will also be used as a global measure of fatigue
      during the last week.

      Health related quality of life is assessed with the Research and development (RAND)-36, a
      generic instrument which consists of 8 subscales ranging from 0 to 100.

      Anxiety and Depression are assessed with the hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS),
      which contains 2 subscales for anxiety and depression ranging from 0 to 21, a higher value
      means a higher degree of anxiety or depression.

      The participant´s impression of change is assessed with the questionnaire Patient Global
      Impression of Change (PGIC).

      Demographic data will also be collected, such as duration of CWP, marital status, work
      status, sick leave, medication use and tobacco use.
    
  