
    
      Objective: To evaluate the impact of the CNH Dashboard implementation on the quality of
      contracted CNHs relative to non-contracted CNH in a VAMC Market.

      Stepped wedge Dashboard Implementation The investigators propose a stepped wedge
      implementation of the CNH Dashboard, randomized at the VISN level (n=3-4 per period). The
      stepped wedge allows for maximization of GEC resources with a systematic roll out to provide
      sufficient education to every randomized VISN (see education program below). Every 3 months,
      we will bring a new randomized group of VISNs 'online' with the CNH Dashboard (Table 2). The
      investigators selected the VISN level as a unit of randomization, because there is
      integration between VAMCs within a VISN. With approximately 4 VAMCs in each VISN, this
      release schedule is robust, but manageable with support from this award. The investigators
      will pilot test the CNH Dashboard in 3 VISNs to finalize the information upload, dashboard,
      and educational program.

      Table 2: Stepped wedge plan for CNH Dashboard roll out Randomized VISN Group Months

      -6 to 0 Months 1-3 Months 4-6 Months 7-9 Months 10-12 Pilot VISNs CNH Dashboard CNH Dashboard
      CNH Dashboard CNH Dashboard CNH Dashboard

        1. Usual CNH Quality CNH Dashboard CNH Dashboard CNH Dashboard CNH Dashboard

        2. Usual CNH Quality Usual CNH Quality CNH Dashboard CNH Dashboard CNH Dashboard

        3. Usual CNH Quality Usual CNH Quality Usual CNH Quality CNH Dashboard CNH Dashboard

        4. Usual CNH Quality Usual CNH Quality Usual CNH Quality Usual CNH Quality CNH Dashboard

      Dashboard Hosting The CNH Dashboard will be hosted on a VA GEC intranet website. The
      advantage of a intranet site is that it allows controlled access to the site for the stepped
      wedge implementation. As the project continues, the investigators will enlist the assistance
      of the Indianapolis VAMC Center for Applied Systems Engineering to guide the transition
      toward an electronic dashboard that is accessible throughout the VA intranet.

      Educational Program The investigators will design an educational program with the goals of a)
      understanding about the quality of CNH as presented in the five star rating system, b)
      orientation to the dashboard, c) identifying low performing CNH facilities, and d) available
      options for contracting with higher quality facilities. This educational program will include
      elements of didactic training, as well as coaching throughout the implementation. The
      effectiveness of this educational program will be determined by anonymous participant survey.
      The education program will be rolled out to VISN and facility geriatric program leaders.

      Primary Analysis While the investigators are randomizing by VISN, the investigators will
      analyze by VAMC, because that is where purchased CNH selection occurs. For each VAMC, we will
      measure the ratio of the average quality of purchased CNH facilities (observed) to
      non-contracted CNH (expected) in the VAMC market. The VAMC average observed to expected (O/E)
      ratio will serve as the primary measure for this analysis. The primary reference baseline
      period will consist of the average O/E in the 6 months prior to CNH Dashboard implementation.
      The intervention period, during which the CNH Dashboard is released to the randomized group,
      will last for 3 months during which the educational program will be delivered and assessed.
      The primary outcome will be the average O/E in the 12 months after the roll out period ends.
      Each VAMC will act as their own control. Our primary analyses will consist of the VAMC
      average O/E ratio of Contracted CNH facilities in the 6 months prior to the intervention and
      the 12 months post-intervention (Figure 6). From Figure 3, the investigators expect that this
      will be a normal distribution and, therefore, will use a Student's t-test to compare the
      average O/E ratios.

      Currently, CNH contracts are generally written with annual renewals of a 5-year master
      contract. Thus, if quality is low, a contract can be discontinued annually. However, there is
      substantial overhead in establishing a 5-year contract. While the investigators do not expect
      the CNH quality to be the only measure of CNH selection, we anticipate that it will become a
      factor in non-renewal and new contract initiation. Presently, each VAMC contracts with an
      average of 12 CNHs and thus, there are 2-3 facilities per year which are up for contract.
      Changing the contracting process will take time and with GEC resources; the investigators are
      thus committed to follow up for 12 months for each of the four groups after CNH Dashboard
      roll out.

      Secondary Analysis To protect the internal validity of the stepped wedge implementation, the
      investigators must perform secondary analyses with additional reference periods.12 This helps
      to account for secular trends and intervening events which can influence the study outcome.
      For example, if CMS were to revise the criteria for the 5-star ranking system downward during
      the CNH Dashboard implementation, the investigators would introduce a type 2 error (incorrect
      acceptance of the null). In addition to the changes in contracted CNH quality as the
      dashboard is released, the investigators expect that there will be movement toward higher
      quality facilities among VAMCs prior to their randomized roll out. This change is a result of
      VAMCs taking action because they know they are being examined with respect to their
      contracted CNH quality prior to seeing the CNH Dashboard. VAMCs will either pressure
      contracted CNHs to improve or change contracting practices. As a result, we expect that the
      O/E ratio will rise naturally during the course of the study. Additionally, secular trends in
      CNH selection, VA approval for fee authority, OIG investigations, news stories, and VA
      organizational decisions could influence the selection and focus on CNH quality.

      To address this natural change, the investigators propose secondary analyses with additional
      reference periods. Our first additional reference period for the randomized groups will be
      the O/E in the 6 months prior to CNH Dashboard implementation (months -6 to 0), which will be
      compared to the O/E of the primary analysis period. Second, we will examine the change O/E
      for the primary reference period. We will compare the O/E of randomized group 1 to the other
      randomized groups using Student's t-tests to determine if there has been significant baseline
      change over the course of the evaluation. Finally, the investigators will examine the O/E in
      the reference period as a function of time. This will particularly pertain to Groups 3 and 4
      which have a longer window (12 and 15 months respectively) by which we can examine the
      temporal change in O/E without the intervention.
    
  