
    
      In the last years, the difficulty to explore SB represented a problem for an early diagnosis
      of the intestinal tumors. Small bowel videocapsule endoscopy (VCE) and double-balloon
      enteroscopy (DBE) currently represent the diagnostic gold standard for the SB mucosal
      lesions. The enteroscopic techniques have been applied for both the diagnosis and management
      of patients with complicated CD, even if the currently available data are derived from
      retrospective investigations. Moreover,different clinical and demographic risk factors for SB
      tumors in CD have been identified; thus, the following statements should be taken in
      consideration to plan a diagnostic strategy for SB malignancies in a subset of CD patients:
      i) the risk of GI malignancy in CD is not homogenously distributed; ii) attention should be
      paid to CD patients with particular demographic and clinical features; iii) in this subset of
      CD patients an early diagnostic strategy for SB tumors is yet to be evaluated.

      Hyphotesis and Significance: In a cohort of CD patients with particular clinical and
      demographic characteristics is possible to establish a programme for early diagnosis of small
      bowel complications. Specific Aim:To identify CD patients at higher risk of developing small
      bowel neoplasia and to evaluate, in this subset, the usefulness of VCE and DBE. To evaluate
      the diagnostic yeld of DBE and VCE in this setting of patients. To establish a flowchart for
      early diagnosis of small bowel tumors in CD patients.

      It is our intention to evaluate at least 180-240 CD patients satisfying the entry criteria,
      to be enrolled during the three years. At least 500 OGIB controls will be enrolled including
      the prospective and retrospective (VCE lombard registry) parts (rate of SB tumors in this
      group 0.6%, see image of preliminary data). The known rate of SB tumors in the general
      population is 0.009%. It is expected a rate of SB tumors in selected CD of 5% (data from the
      preliminary findings). Comparison between groups (5% level of significance), if these
      neoplastic rates and result expectation should be confirmed, has a statistical power greater
      than 80%. All the assumptions will be verified using SPSS ver. 18. A P value of <0.05 will be
      considered statistically significant (significance level of the tests 5%, two tails). As
      mentioned, the sample size has been calculated presuming a 5%prevalence of malignancies in
      the CD cohort. The normal distribution of the sample will be verified through the
      Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Continuous variables will be analyzed with the Anova Oneway variance
      test or with the non parametric Kruskal-Wallis test. The significance level will be further
      verified by multiple comparison analysis (Tukey or Mann-Whitney' s test). Categorical
      variables will be compared wih X2 or Fisher' s Exact test.
    
  