
    
      The study protocol was reviewed and approved by an Ethics Committee (CE) in Brazil.

      GM Zygomatic implants present an optimized design with adapted treatment protocol, allowing
      for treatment of patients with severely resorbed maxilla and complete edentulism in which
      conventional implants placement is contraindicated.

      The objective of the study is to confirm the long-term safety and clinical performance of
      implants and abutments of GM Zygomatic System in a daily dental practice setting, by means of
      a prospective collection of clinical data in a study using these devices.

      Additionally, from the collected data, the study aims to identify previously unknown
      side-effects and monitor the known side-effects and contraindications stated on the
      Instructions for Use with the intent to verify that the intended purpose is adequate for all
      Neodent products involved in the procedure that come into contact with the patient.

      The sample will be prospectively selected and will consist of 10 patients with atrophic
      edentulous maxillae, for whom the responsible surgeon elects the rehabilitation by means of
      placement of zygomatic implants as having the best risk-benefit ratio for the patient (e.g.,
      shorter treatment time and lower biological cost than the associated with reconstructive
      surgeries for the insertion of conventional implants). Informed consent in writing will be
      obtained from each patient participating in the study prior to any study-related procedure.

      Neodent GM Zygomatic implants will preferably be placed under local anesthesia and sedation
      (according to the surgeon's assessment of the patient's general health), with adequate bone
      bed preparation, as recommended by the manufacturer. Size, position, and quantity of implants
      (2 to 4) will be select considering the anatomy, region of rehabilitation, bone quality and
      quantity and available space. Together with the Zygomatic Implants, 2 to 4 conventional
      implants of Neodent GM line shall be inserted in the anterior region, if enough bone is
      available.

      Data concerning the studied variables will be collected following the procedures and
      assessments plan by fulfilling the Case Report Form (CRF), in the following stages: First
      visit (Screening); T0 - Implants placement; TF - final prosthesis (may coincide with TL); TL
      - Implant loading; T6, T12, T24 and T36 - 6, 12, 24 and 36 months, respectively, after
      implant placement.

      Computed tomography (CT) scans with prototyping will be obtained from the region of interest
      prior to surgery, for the surgical planning and implant selection, as well as post-surgery
      (T0 - immediately or within 1 week after implant placement; T36) to verify zygomatic implants
      anchorage. Prototypes of the region of interest in the maxilla will be obtained from the
      initial CT scans for diagnostic purposes. Additionally, standardized digital periapical
      radiographs will be taken in a usual daily practice frequency, as determined by the
      investigator: after implants placement (T0) and during the post-operative stages (TL, TF, T6,
      T12, T24, and T36) to assess the osseointegration process, changes in peri-implant bone level
      as well as prosthetic settlement and integrity.
    
  