
    
      This was a multicentric observational study with the aim to evaluate the effect of early
      treatment with botulinum toxin type A (BoNT-A) on post-stroke spasticity in adult patients.
      All centres involved are in Italy. The inclusion and exclusion criteria are described in
      detail in the correspondent section. The main outcome measure was to assess how the time
      elapsed from the acute event can influence the effectiveness of the focal treatment of
      spasticity with BoNT-A in adult patients with cerebral stroke. Secondary outcomes were to
      evaluate the spasticity' grade and the level of functioning using a clinical assessment
      (modified Ashworth scale, motricity index, Fughl Meyer assessment, Modified Rankin' scale).

      The patients were enrolled from 10 centres that agreed to participate in this study (Azienda
      Ospedaliera Universitaria Integrata of Verona - coordinating centre; Azienda Ospedaliero
      Universitaria Ospedali Riuniti of Foggia; Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria of Ferrara;
      Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria Pisana; Azienda Ospedaliero Universitaria "Maggiore della
      Carità" of Novara; Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria - Ospedali Riuniti of Ancona; Azienda
      Ospedaliera "Cardinale G. Panico" of Tricase; Fondazione Santa Lucia IRCCS of Rome; Azienda
      Ospedaliero-Universitaria Sant'Andrea of Rome; Ospedale "Ca' Foncello" of Treviso). No
      patients were enrolled from the last two centers that have expressed their waiver to
      participate when the study was already started.

      Each patient (whether hospitalized or outpatient) included in the study underwent to a
      baseline evaluation in which near and remote pathological history were recorded (main
      concomitant pathologies, drug therapy in progress, previous major surgery, date of the
      stroke) and the following evaluation scales were administered: modified Ashworth scale (MAS),
      MI (motricity index), FMA (Fughl Meyer assessment) and Modified Rankin' scale (MRS). After
      that received a BoNT-A injection to treat the spasticity focally following the evidence-based
      clinical practice.

      Each patient subsequently performed a follow-up evaluation at 4, 12 and 24 weeks after the
      date of inoculation through the execution of a specialist visit (physiatric/neurological) and
      the administration of the following evaluation scales: MAS, MI, FMA and MRS. For the duration
      of the study, each patient may undergo integrated rehabilitation treatment at the discretion
      of each of the investigators of each centre involved in the study according to the guidelines
      and common clinical practice.

      The estimation of the sample size was hypothesized with the aim to observe a frequency of 75%
      in the number of patients who will show a reduction of one point at the MAS. If there is a
      correlation between the time elapsed since the acute event and the reduction in the degree of
      spastic hypertonia after the first administration of BoNT-A, to obtain an OR = 0.5, assuming
      DS = 1 and R2 = 0, with α = 0.05 and β = 0.20 (study power = 80%), 90 patients will be
      needed. Assuming a drop-out rate of 10%, a total of 100 patients will need to be enrolled in
      the study.

      Descriptive statistics were produced (frequency histograms; position or central trend
      indices: average, median; variability or sample dispersion indices: standard deviation,
      interquartile range; sample distribution profile estimate: Shapiro-Wilk test; construction of
      the intervals of confidence) as regards demographic (age, gender, the time elapsed from a
      stroke) and clinical (MAS, MI, FMA and MRS score at baseline, 4, 12 and 24 weeks after BoNT-A
      injection).

      In order to evaluate the role of the time elapsed from the acute event on the therapeutic
      efficacy of the first administration of BoNT-A 4 weeks after the inoculation (primary
      endpoint), a logistic regression analysis was performed in order to evaluate the effects of
      time since the acute event (independent variable) on the reduction of spastic hypertonia
      defined in dichotomous terms (dependent variable): RESPONDER (patient who will have obtained
      a reduction of at least 1 point in MAS of the degree of spastic hypertonia after 4 weeks from
      the administration) and NON RESPONDER (patient who has not obtained a reduction of at least 1
      point in MAS of the degree of spastic hypertonia 4 weeks after administration), considering
      as possible any covariates the gender and age of the patient at the time of the acute event.

      As regards the evaluation of secondary endpoints, the analysis of correlation (Pearson
      correlation index; Spearman correlation coefficient) was carried out in order to evaluate the
      association between the effects of the time elapsed from the acute event and the change in
      the score at MAS 4, 12 and 24 weeks after BoNT inoculation, as well as on the variation of
      the score at MI, FMA and MRS at 4, 12 and 24 weeks from the administration of BoNT-A.

      The statistical analysis will be performed using the Statistical Package for Social Science
      SPSS® version 20.0 software for Macintosh (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA). Statistical
      significance will set at P <0.05.

      Results are under statistical evaluation.
    
  