
    
      This study is planned as a secondary data use (SDU) study and the data collection will be
      performed retrospectively. Patients who presented to the participating sites with metastatic
      breast cancer will be defined and patients' data will be recorded into a database. The study
      will be performed at clinical centers located in the populated cities with high clinical and
      diagnostic standards including patients presented with metastatic disease will be recorded.
      It is also planned to collect data on the treatment of metastatic breast cancer in line with
      institutional guidelines at academic and private centers which has implemented high quality
      clinical and pathologic standards.

      This retrospective study is designed to record, define and evaluate the changes in the
      presentation patterns, pathological subtypes and outcomes of metastatic breast cancer
      patients in relation with the evolution of overall and progression-free survival rates
      following the changes in treatment approaches over the last decade based on the
      evolving/different treatment regimens of metastatic breast cancer.

      These findings will shed light on how changes in metastatic patterns have influenced practice
      patterns, as well as the generalizability of this data to the current knowledge and
      physician's adherence to adopt contemporary treatment options which have been integrated
      within standard treatment algorithms.

      Demographic characteristics of metastatic breast cancer patients, diagnosis of disease and
      treatments initiated for all patients receiving first line (1L) and second line (2L)
      treatment who were admitted to the clinical centers starting from year 2010 will be
      retrospectively collected for this study. Data of patients who previously consented for
      institutional data sharing will be retrieved from patient charts and recorded in a secure
      electronic registry.

      The study data will be categorized on two different patient characteristics: Metastatic
      pattern at presentation [recurrent metastatic breast cancer (rMBC) or de-novo metastatic
      breast cancer (dnMBC)] of patient and date of initial presentation for diagnosis and
      treatment. The study is planning to analyze patients with follow-up data of minimum 3 years
      and the data recording will eventually plan to construct two cohorts based on the initial
      diagnosis date; patient diagnosed during Jan 2010-Dec 2014 and Jan 2015-Dec 2019.

      The main goal of the study is to define whether if any changes in the treatment practices
      occurred during the period of data record in line changes occurred with the availability of
      novel diagnostic methods and treatments for metastatic breast cancer.
    
  