
    
      Background

      Around 550 ovarian cancers (OCs) are diagnosed yearly in Denmark. Still, OC is the fourth
      commonest cause of cancer death amongst women in Denmark. Epithelial ovarian cancers
      (carcinomas) account for more than 90% of all OCs and Denmark has the second highest
      incidence in the world (15 per 100.000 women) with a life-time risk around 2%. The mean age
      at diagnosis is 63 years, and 80% are postmenopausal. In Denmark, 74% are diagnosed in FIGO
      stage III-IV and therefore at the time of diagnosis have regional or metastatic spread.
      Five-year survival with FIGO stage I is 83%, stage II 62%, stage III 23% and stage IV 11%.
      Thus, OC is detected at advanced stages with a very poor prognosis.

      In 2008, a national fast-track system for cancer patients was established to ensure fast
      diagnosis and initiation of treatment. The fast-track system or cancer patient pathway (CPP)
      implies that patients presenting 'alarm' symptoms of e.g. OC will be referred immediately for
      diagnostic workup; no more than 14 days must pass from referral to initiation of treatment.
      Only about one quarter of the women with OC are referred primarily through this route.
      Therefore, additional accelerated routes are needed for the majority of women with OC.

      A possibility could be access to fast TVU through general practice for women presenting with
      vague and non-specific symptoms that may represent underlying OC.

      Aim

      Develop and conduct training for general practitioners (GPs) in the latest knowledge of OC
      symptomatology. And at the same time investigate the feasibility and clinical implications in
      general practice of direct referral access to fast TVU, intended for women presenting with
      vague and non-specific symptoms.

      Material and methods

      GPs in Central Denmark Region are offered direct access to fast TVU for women aged 40 years
      or more who present vague and non-specific symptoms that could origin from OC, but which are
      not classified as alarm symptoms. Shortly afterwards all the GPs are offered a short lecture
      on OC symptomatology and instructions for the use of TVU for earlier diagnosis of OC through
      general practice. The lecture will be conducted by researchers from the research group.

      Prior to investigation, all women who are referred to TVU will receive a consent form and a
      symptom-questionnaire. The symptom questionnaire focuses on the experienced symptoms during
      the past year.

      After finished investigation, the TVU test results will return electronically to the
      referring GP.

      The study period is one year. Data analysis will focus on the frequency of TVU use in general
      practice, action taken on test results and patient-reported symptoms prior to TVU.

      Perspectives

      The project will provide important new knowledge of the GPs referral practice when they
      suspect OC. For women presenting with vague and non-specific symptoms that may origin from
      OC, the introduction of TVU through general practice will provide new possibilities for
      evaluating the symptoms. Therefor introduction of TVU is a corner stone in the identification
      of more efficient ways to evaluate women at risk of developing OC.

      This study will contribute with important knowledge of how to improve the diagnostics of OC
      in the future and may reduce time to diagnosis.
    
  