
    
      Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a lifelong disorder that severely affects the ability to
      learn and function in a social environment. In typical function, higher level social,
      language and communication skills develop over the first few years of life and depend upon
      the critical building blocks of sensory-motor and attention abilities. Similarly in autism,
      higher level problems with social communication develop over the first two post-natal years
      and are preceded by subtle but abnormal visual attention and motor skills. Trainings to
      improve social interaction and communication are the most common of behavioral interventions
      in ASD. These therapies may improve the specific behaviors that are targets of the training,
      but rarely do they generalize to broader function or other clinical symptoms. The
      investigators propose that interventions aimed instead at the early deficits that support
      social and language skills would be more broadly effective. Because disruption of attention
      is one of the earliest and most persistent symptoms in autism, and because attention is
      highly subject to improvement with training, it is an important target for intervention.

      This a novel intervention to train the speed and accuracy of attention orienting and eye
      movement. The training is designed to target attentional behaviors that have been shown to be
      impaired in autism, including attention orienting, disengagement and shifting, and a
      restricted attentional field. Because eye movement and attention are tightly linked, eye
      movement deficits in ASD parallel those found in spatial attention. Eye movements provide a
      marker for attention and the proposed training is designed to improve speed, accuracy and
      flexibility of eye movement and attention simultaneously. Training uses a series of
      entertaining video games to gradually shape behavior using visual and auditory feedback
      provided in real time. The investigators plan three levels of outcome measures for pre- and
      post-training to test the effectiveness of the intervention (direct tests of attention and
      eye movement; tests of improvement in attentional and visual monitoring and speed and
      accuracy of response in a simulated environment; tests of behavior in an actual social
      environment). The investigators will conduct clinical trials with control conditions (e.g.,
      standard video games without training elements) with a small sample of ASD children aged
      9-15. If this initial work is successful, the long term goal is to develop a readily
      available inexpensive eyetracker-based system for home use that is suitable for a broad age
      range of ASD children and adults.
    
  