
    
      Low back pain remains an important public health problem with serious socioeconomic
      consequences. Despite the considerable amount of research that has been preformed, there is
      still a dire need for randomized clinical tiles of high methodological quality. The broad,
      long-term objective of this interdisciplinary research is to identify effective therapies for
      low back pain sufferers and increased understanding of this important condition. Building
      upon the principal investigators' previous collaborative research, this randomized
      observer-blinded clinical trial will compare the following treatment for patients with
      nonacute low back pain:

        1. chiropractic spinal manipulation

        2. rehabilitative exercise

        3. self care education Theprimary aim is to examine the relative efficacy of the three
           interventions in terms of patient rated outcomes in the short-term (after 12 weeks) and
           the long-term (after 52 weeks) for nonacute low back pain.

      Secondary aims include:

        1. To examine the short and long-term relative cost effectiveness and cost utility of the
           three treatments.

        2. To assess if there are clinically important differences between pre-specified subgroups
           of low back pain patients. Subgroups are based on duration and current episode and
           radiating leg pain.

        3. To evaluate if there treatment group differences in objective lumbar spine function
           (range of motion, strength and endurance) after 12 weeks of treatment and if changes in
           lumbar function are associated with changes in patient rated short and long-term
           outcomes.

        4. To identify if baseline demographic or clinical variables can predict short or long-term
           outcome.

        5. To describe patients' interpretations and perceptions of outcome measures used in
           clinical trials.
    
  