
    
      Kidney transplantation remains the optimal therapy for patients with end stage kidney disease
      and is associated with significant improvements in life expectancy and quality of life
      compared to subjects receiving dialysis. Despite significant advances in our understanding of
      the immune system and development of drugs to prolong transplant function, a large number
      (Scottish Renal Registry data suggest between 23-35%) of transplants fail in the 10 years
      from operation. This may be due to a number of factors but is often due to development of
      transplant rejection, where the recipient's immune system damages the transplant. Early
      recognition and implementation of therapy is needed to dampen this response, reduce
      irreversible damage and preserve transplant function.

      At present, transplant function and damage is measured using blood and urine tests. These are
      far from perfect markers because there is a delay between transplant damage and abnormalities
      of these tests. This time is vital for the short and long term survival of the transplant.

      In the University of Glasgow, investigators have developed a new type of magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) which allows assessment of kidney blood flow and fibrosis (scarring) without
      the need for administration of harmful contrast agents. Arterial spin labelling magnetic
      resonance imaging (ASL MRI) is a non-invasive method of measuring renal perfusion using
      magnetised blood as endogenous contrast and investigators have validated this technique
      previously in both individuals with and without kidney disease. Diffusion tensor imaging
      (DTI) is another modality of non-contrast MRI which allows measurement of 'stiffness' of
      renal transplants, which represents long term scarring and fibrosis.

      The investigators intend to follow up people receiving a kidney transplant for one year,
      collecting samples of blood, urine, and performing MR imaging at 3 time points, in order to
      investigate novel biomarkers of transplant function and dysfunction.
    
  