
    
      Patients fulfilling eligibility criteria will be randomly allocated to PRF or CRF in a 1:1
      ratio. The statistician will use RedCap software to generate random numbers. Patients will be
      registered to Redcap software and will be concealed from both patients and health care staff.
      The study coordinator will enter patients' consent and study eligibility information to the
      Redcap. Once eligible, the Redcap will assign the patient to one of the study group. Patients
      will be blinded in the proposed study. The assessor is the person who will assess treatment
      success at the end of the study based on data from completed questionnaires. Questionnaires
      will be completed every three months by patients through RedCap System. A therapist is the
      person who will perform the procedure (pain specialist physician). The therapist will not be
      blinded, because of the nature of intervention.

      Patient recruitment is estimated to be completed within 15-24 months. If the required sample
      size (calculated below) is recruited prior to this time, patient recruitment will be
      curtailed.

      During the first visit the investigator will perform eligibility for neck RF and patient will
      be received information about the study.

      Patients will be book for two MBB 4-6 weeks apart. If the patient was eligible after the
      second MBB, Patient will be asked to sign Informed consent before screening. Screening and
      recruitment, and randomization, and administer questionnaires will be performed by research
      co-ordinator. Study informed consent form (ICF) can be signed on the RF procedure day. If
      additional visits will be required to finalize the procedures related to the first visit they
      will be scheduled accordingly. After randomization the qualified participants will be
      scheduled for their RF.

      For the female subjects between the age of 18-50 a pregnancy test will be asked to obtain on
      screening visit in order to reduce the risk of pregnancy and potential harm to fetus, unless
      you had previous tubal ligation, or hysterectomy. Post menopause patients are excluded.

      Participants will be asked to complete the follow-up questionnaires at 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12
      months.

      LANSS questionnaire will be asked to be completed 6 weeks after RF. If the score was 12 or
      higher, patient will be asked to complete them every 4 weeks after till the score reduce to
      less than 12. LANSS will be sent to the subjects through RedCap software.

      On their last study visit, participants will have an exit interview, in addition to
      completing study measures.
    
  