
    
      Depression is present in about 20-30% of hemodialysis patients and is associated with
      morbidity and mortality. However, depression is inadequately diagnosed and treated among
      dialysis patients. This is due in part to the overlap between depressive symptoms (e.g.
      appetite change, trouble sleeping, feeling tired) and symptoms related to persistent
      metabolic derangements in hemodialysis patients (e.g. nausea, nocturnal cramps, feeling
      washed out after treatment). The overlap between depressive symptoms and dialysis
      complications makes it difficult to diagnose and therefore to treat depression. In addition,
      prescription of antidepressant medication may increase an already high pill burden and result
      in poor adherence. Moreover, the evidence base to guide depression treatment among
      hemodialysis patients is limited. In the investigators' previous work, they developed methods
      to use latent variables and structural equation modeling to isolate depressive symptoms.
      Other investigators have demonstrated that directly observed treatment enhances the
      effectiveness of tuberculosis and HIV treatment.

      Investigators now propose a cross-sectional study (Phase 1) followed by a single-arm clinical
      trial (Phase 2) at 17 dialysis facilities. The cross-sectional study will involve assessments
      of depressive symptoms (using the PHQ-9 screening instrument) as well as dialysis-related
      complications, anxiety, and quality of life (Quality of Life Questionnaire) in about 1083
      patients. The investigators will then use structural equation modeling to develop and
      validate a hemodialysis-specific PHQ-9 (hdPHQ-9) that will isolate depressive symptoms. The
      trial will involve 96 patients with confirmed depression who will be assigned to directly
      observed weekly antidepressant treatment with fluoxetine. The primary outcome of the trial
      will be remission of depression at 12 weeks. The trial results will also be used to compare
      the responsiveness of the PHQ-9 and the hdPHQ-9.

      The investigators anticipate that the hdPHQ-9 will be a valid and responsive instrument that
      will isolate depressive symptoms from dialysis complications and ultimately improve the
      screening and diagnosis of depression. They also expect that directly observed weekly
      fluoxetine treatment will be an effective way to manage depression among hemodialysis
      patients.

      Innovative features of the proposed project include the use of latent variables to address
      overlap, administration of a long acting weekly antidepressant, and directly observed
      treatment. The project has the potential not only to improve the diagnosis and management of
      depression among hemodialysis patients but also to improve their morbidity and mortality.
      Furthermore, it may serve as a model for future studies to isolate symptoms among overlapping
      medical conditions.

      Aim A. To develop and validate a self-reported depression screening instrument that isolates
      depressive symptoms from hemodialysis-related complications.

      Hypothesis: A hemodialysis-specific PHQ-9 (hdPHQ-9) will isolate depressive symptoms from
      dialysis complications.

      Aim B. To determine the impact of directly observed weekly fluoxetine treatment on remission
      of depression among hemodialysis patients.

      Hypothesis: About half of patients who have directly observed fluoxetine treatment will have
      remission of depression.

      Aim C. To examine the responsiveness of the new depression screening instrument to depression
      treatment.

      Hypothesis: Fluoxetine treatment will be associated with larger improvements in hdPHQ-9
      scores than in PHQ-9 scores.
    
  