
    
      Patients will receive ablative fractional laser (AFL)-assisted cisplatin+5-fluorouracil
      (5-FU) as a treatment for their cutaneous basal cell carcinoma (BCC). In brief, treatment
      areas consisting of tumors and a 5 mm margin will undergo AFL exposure (CO2 laser) followed
      by 60 min topical application of a marketed and commercially available IV cisplatin solution
      (0.1%) at a dose of 0.25 ml per cm2. After removal of cisplatin, a commercially distributed
      5-FU cream (5% Efudix®) will be applied to the treatment area at a dose of 0.125 ml per cm2
      and left under occlusion. After skin evaluations on Day 1 and 5 after treatment, the same
      5-FU dose will be applied, again left under occlusion. In total, 5-FU will remain on the skin
      for 7 days after AFL treatment whereafter it will be washed off.

      An additional repeat AFL-cisplatin+5-FU treatment on Day 30 will be offered if tumors
      persist, based on clinical evaluation and imaging on Day 30.

      Outcome measures and methods/techniques are summarized below.

      Primary outcome:

      To investigate tolerability of topical AFL-assisted cisplatin+5-FU therapy for BCC by
      evaluating:

      I. Severity and duration of clinical local skin reactions including erythema, edema,
      scabbing, flaking and pustulation assessed by a physician using an established 0-4 point
      scale (none, mild, moderate, severe) from 0-30 days post-treatment.

      II. Occurrence of side effects (prolonged erythema/edema, hyper/hypopigmentation, scarring
      and infection) up to 3 months post-treatment.

      Secondary outcome:

      1) To monitor BCC tumor size and clearance based on clinical assessments and dermoscopy,
      supported by non-invasive imaging techniques including dynamic optical coherence tomography
      (D-OCT), reflectance confocal microscopy (RCM), high intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) and
      histological analysis up to 3 months post-treatment.
    
  