
    
      ATHERODENT is a case-controlled observational clinical study, conducted in two clinical
      sites: University of Medicine and Pharmacy Tirgu Mures, Romania, and Cardio Med Medical
      Center - Laboratory of Advanced Research in Multimodality Imaging.

      The primary objective of ATHERODENT is to assess the interrelation between PD, inflammation
      and atherosclerosis progression in patients who suffered an ACS and have concomitant PD vs
      those with ACS and no PD, using (1) invasive and non-invasive imaging techniques for
      characterization of vulnerable coronary plaques; (2) full characterization of PD; and (3)
      complex assessment of systemic vulnerability based on systemic inflammation-related
      biomarkers.

      The secondary objectives of ATHERODENT are:

        1. to study the correlation between PD and coronary plaque vulnerability

        2. to assess the correlation between PD and severity of coronary atherosclerosis

        3. to assess the presence and burden of oral bacteria in coronary atheromatous plaques
           collected during atherectomy and their relation with plaque vulnerability and evolution
           following an ACS (in the atherectomy sub-study).

      Baseline will be considered as the moment of the index event and related hospitalization. The
      index event will be considered the ACS and patients will be randomized in the study at
      maximum 7 days post ACS. The follow-up visits will be performed at 1, 3, 6, 12, 15, 18 and 24
      months after randomization.

      The following procedures will be performed at baseline:

        1. recording of demographic and clinical data (age, gender, personal history)

        2. determination of serum lipids, blood counts, glycemia, urea, creatinine, liver enzymes

        3. determination of the biomarkers expressing the severity of the acute coronary syndrome
           and heart damage (hs-Troponin, NT-proBNP)

        4. determination of serum levels inflammatory biomarkers and adhesion molecules at the
           moment of the index event (hs-CRP, matrix metalloprotease, interleukin-6, VCAM, ICAM)

        5. determination of specific micro-RNAs related to plaque vulnerability

        6. echocardiography (+ speckle tracking) for assessment of left ventricular function and
           size

        7. full characterization of PD (dental plaque/tartar, gingival retraction, gingival
           bleeding, etc.)

        8. microbiological determination of oral bacteria from the periodontal pockets

        9. non-invasive imaging by coronary angioCT for all the coronary tree and characterization
           of vulnerability markers and atherosclerosis severity, using surrogate imaging
           biomarkers such as calcium score, necrotic core, plaque burden, low density atheroma,
           positive remodeling, epicardial fat volume

       10. invasive imaging performed during invasive revascularization procedures, using
           intracoronary imaging techniques (OCT, IVUS) and quantification of invasive imaging
           biomarkers in culprit and non-culprit lesions, such as macrophage content, thickness of
           fibrous cap and necrotic core.

       11. atherectomy of coronary culprit atheromatous plaques (in the atherectomy sub-study),
           performed during the revascularization procedure when indicated, in selected cases,
           followed by histological examination of the samples collected in order to identify
           specific antigens related to oral microbiota in the atheromatous tissue of coronary
           vulnerable plaques.

      Follow-up will be performed at 1, 3, 6, 12, 15, 18 and 24 months after randomization,
      including assessment of clinical data, echocardiography and registration of MACE and adverse
      events.

      In addition, complex imaging assessment using Angio CT will be performed at 2 years to assess
      atherosclerosis progression.
    
  