
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the effects of internet-based nutrition education through untailored websites vs
           tailored websites (TW) vs TW and tailored human online behavioral interaction (HOBI) on
           the change in the number of daily fruit and vegetable servings consumed in participants
           of health maintenance organizations.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the proportion of participants reporting consumption of 5 or more servings of
           fruits and vegetables per day at each 3-month interval.

        -  Compare the change in fruit and vegetable servings consumed from baseline to each
           intermediate time point.

        -  Compare the effects of intervention and observation time in these participants.

        -  Determine the effect of HOBI in these participants.

        -  Compare the impact of participant characteristics, in terms of the effect of the
           intervention on the change in fruit and vegetable intake, in these participants.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, controlled, single-blind, multicenter study. Participants are
      stratified according to participating site, gender, and the participant's stage of change
      readiness. Participants are randomized to 1 of 3 intervention arms.

        -  Arm I (untailored websites): Participants are given unlimited access to an
           internet-based nutrition education program for up to 6 months. They are provided with 4
           serial educational websites at 1, 3, 13, and 15 weeks after initial login. These
           internet sites provide general information about fruits and vegetables, new recipes with
           emphasis on fruits and vegetables, and how participants can incorporate them into their
           diet. Participants complete an online survey at 3 months.

        -  Arm II (tailored websites): Participants are given unlimited access to an internet-based
           nutrition education program for up to 6 months. They are provided with 4 serial
           educational websites, at the same timepoints as in arm I, with emphasis on vegetable
           consumption in weeks 1 and 13 and fruit consumption in weeks 3 and 15. Materials in
           these websites, including new recipes with emphasis on fruits and vegetables, are
           tailored and then revised (or retailored) based on individual health-risk information
           obtained at baseline and at the 3-month online survey.

        -  Arm III (tailored websites and human online behavioral interaction [HOBI]): Participants
           are given unlimited access to an internet-based nutrition education program for up to 6
           months. Participants are provided with 4 serial educational websites with tailored
           materials as in arm II. They also receive HOBI (tailored e-mail messages) developed and
           then revised based on health-risk information obtained at baseline and the 3-month
           online survey.

      In all arms, participants complete online surveys at 3, 6, and 12 months to measure fruit and
      vegetable intake and change in long-term risk behavior. For each survey, participants receive
      up to 6 automatically generated reminder e-mails and 1 mailed announcement.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 2,619 participants were accrued for this study.
    
  