
    
      Methods/Design The study compares Cognitive Behavioral Rehabilitation with Treatment as Usual
      (TAU), the latter being the commonly offered pharmacological treatment to bipolar patients.
      The psychological intervention will consist of twelve weekly group sessions, lasting 90
      minutes each, and including 8 to 10 individuals. Subjects will be randomly assigned to one of
      the two arms, and submitted to a 12-month follow-up. During the entire study, all patients
      will be medicated accordingly to their clinical needs, and all changes in medication will be
      recorded as a secondary outcome , following the Necessary Clinical Adjustment (NCA)
      instrument. The NCA records medication adjustments implemented to reduce symptoms, improve
      response and functioning, or handle unbearable side effects.

      Participants In order to be included, patients must be between 18 to 55 years old, literate,
      present an IQ score higher than 80 and have been diagnosed with bipolar I or II accordingly
      to DSM-V criteria (APA, 2014). Excluding conditions are: presence of substance or alcohol
      abuse in the last 6 months, current suicide risk, organic mental disorders or scores higher
      than 12, in the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) or the Young Mania Rating
      Scale (YMRS) at the beginning of the interventions.

      Recruiting will take place at an outpatient service provided by the Bipolar Disorder Research
      Program (PROMAN) at the University of São Paulo Medical School, Brazil. Patients will receive
      invitations individually, and sign an informed consent.

      Procedure and Outcomes Once included, patients will complete the Portuguese versions of the
      following self-report questionnaires: the abbreviated instrument of quality of life
      (WHOQOL-bref), the Barratt Impulsiveness Scale 11 (BIS 11), the Social Skills Inventory (IHS)
      and the Biological Rhythms Interview of Assessment in Neuropsychiatry (BRIAN) . Patients will
      also complete the Functioning Assessment Short Test (FAST) and a brief questionnaire about
      bipolar disorder.

      A brief neuropsychological battery will be conducted, which includes the Wechsler Abbreviated
      Scale of Intelligence (WASI) (Wechsler, 1999), and following subtests from the Cambridge
      Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery (CANTAB): Motor Screening Task (MOT); Rapid Visual
      Information Processing (RVP); Reaction Time (RTI); Spatial Span (SSP); Spatial Working Memory
      (SWM); One Touch Stockings of Cambridge (OTS); Pattern Recognition Memory (PRM); Delayed
      Matching to Sample (DMS); Attention Switching Task (AST); Emotion Recognition Task (ERT).

      Subjects will also complete the initial assessment and mood module of the Structured Clinical
      Interview for DSM-5 (SCID-5) (APA, 2014) post-intervention at week 12, and 6 and 12 months
      thereafter.

      Hypothesis

      The study hypothesizes that Cognitive Behavioral Rehabilitation, in comparison to TAU, will:

      I. Decrease the recurrence rates of new episodes; our primary outcome measure. II. Improve
      attention, mental flexibility, working memory and emotional recognition; our secondary
      outcome.

      In an exploratory analysis we will also assess whether Cognitive Behavioral Rehabilitation
      may:

      A. Enhances functional, social skills and quality of life scores; B. Increases sleep quality
      and knowledge about the disorder; and C., Reduces impulsivity

      Interventions

      Treatment as Usual (TAU) The control group from this study will receive standard out-patient
      treatment offered in our clinic, which involves psychopharmacological mood stabilization and
      regular contacts with mental health nurses. The number and amount of pharmacological
      treatment will follow the physician decision, respecting individual demands. All
      pharmacological treatment will be monitored and recorded in accordance to the Litmus study
      (Nierenberg et al. 2009).

      Cognitive Behavioral Rehabilitation

      We developed a 12-session intervention combining previous experience in cognitive behavior
      therapy for bipolar patients with several elements of cognitive remediation. The first step
      was to identify behaviors that have an important role in patients´ autonomy, followed by
      determining which cognitive domains are involved. The core objective was to promote the
      generalization of the learnt behaviors in the daily routine. Described below is the
      arrangement of each session, divided in three major Modules:

      In the first Module comprises four sessions that attempt to improve attention and memory,
      considering the necessity to retain the information discussed throughout the sessions. There
      are two target behaviors involved: adherence to pharmacological treatment and mood
      monitoring. The cognitive remediation exercises seek to enhance verbal and visual memories,
      while secondarily enhancing attention with the paper material included in the manual. In the
      first session, group members and psychotherapists introduce themselves, followed by a
      discussion regarding the manual, individual´s expectations and the importance of attendance.
      The second session explores the concept of attention, and its importance as a door to further
      cognitive functions; the group also learns exercises aimed at training attention and memory.
      The third session focuses on medication adherence and its relation to attention. The core of
      the third session is the organization of the patient´s environment, which is frequently
      chaotic; a discussion about cues is encouraged at the end of the session. The fourth session
      starts by introducing mood graphics to patients and the importance of the early identifying
      of mood episodes. At the end of the first module, patients are stimulated to cook as method
      of reinforcing what they have learned while enhancing their autonomy.

      The second module targets social cognition and communication. The fifth session familiarizes
      the patients with the concept of automatic thoughts (Rush and Beck, 1978), and a guide to
      identify its presence. Cognitive distortions are discussed along with examples provided by
      the subjects´ own experiences. The sixth session begins returning to the initial theme by
      habituating patients to the automatic thought record (Beck, 1997), patients are stimulated to
      restructure their own thoughts during experiences identified in previous sessions. Mental
      flexibility and empathy are introduced and discussed. The seventh session acquaint patients
      to assertive communication and emotion recognition by teaching role-playing exercises and the
      importance of positive assertiveness. The eighth session follows the same agenda as the
      seventh.

      The last module of Cognitive Behavioral Rehabilitation aims at problem solving strategies and
      relapse prevention. The ninth session begins with the identification of personal problems,
      mainly by distinguishing it from preoccupations; the topic is important because patients
      often incorporate their problems to expectations and desires, generating an urge to abandon
      them, the session ends by emphasizing the importance of mental flexibility in generating as
      many responses as possible to each identified problem. In the tenth session, patients learn
      solving-problem techniques in a systematic setting. The eleventh session devotes to review
      information and clarify possible doubts from the patients; patients are also encouraged to
      debate the importance of regular routines and regular sleep, which can be adjusted using
      sleep hygiene techniques. A progressive muscle relaxation ends the session. Finally, the last
      session´s target is to avoid future mood relapses, it by returning to the personal goals
      defined in session one and prompting patients to develop a prevention plan. The acronym
      H.U.M.O.R. resumes the core points of the post-intervention maintenance program: 1) Habituate
      to a regular routine; 2) Use what you have learnt; 3) Monitor your mood; 4) Observe arising
      problems and deal effectively with it; and 5) Respond to automatic thoughts. All patients in
      the cognitive behavioral rehabilitation group will also receive TAU.

      Statistical Analysis Sample Size The sample size calculation was based on the proportion of
      patients that remain episode-free after 12 months following a group intervention. Previous
      studies utilizing TAU exhibited a decrease of bipolar relapses in 30% of patients after a
      one-year follow-up. The present study anticipates a 55% success rate in prevention of mood
      relapses, during the same period, in patients assigned to the Cognitive Behavioral
      Rehabilitation. Thus, considering an 80% power to obtain a 5% significance, an estimated
      sample of 28 individuals per group, 56 in total, should be sufficient to achieve significant
      results. A previous study conducted by the same research team measured a drop-out rate of 10%
      in a one year follow-up, for this latter reason, the study will consist of 60 participants.

      Baseline and Follow up Data. In order to measure the effects of the interventions, the study
      will employ the following statistical tests: 1) Qui-squared and Mann-Whitney to test
      homogeneity between the groups at the beginning of the interventions; 2) Student t test or
      Mann-Whitney to investigate the effects of such interventions, pre and post treatment,
      depending on the distribution of the data; 3) An analysis of variance, with and without
      adjustment for mood symptoms scores, IQ and BD duration, for comparison between groups; and
      4) The Kaplan-Meyer survival method with log rank test for statistical analysis, to
      investigate the survival data between groups, which measures in weeks, the time to the first
      episode as an event.
    
  