
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess safety and tolerability of combined checkpoint blockade with MEDI4736
      (durvalumab) and tremelimumab alone or with high or low-dose radiation in non-small cell lung
      cancer (NSCLC). (NSCLC Cohort) II. To compare the overall response (excluding the irradiated
      lesion[s]) between combined checkpoint blockade with MEDI4736 and tremelimumab alone or
      combined checkpoint blockade with low or high dose radiation. (NSCLC Cohort) III. To assess
      safety and tolerability of combined checkpoint blockade with MEDI4736 and tremelimumab with
      high or low-dose radiation. (Colorectal Cohort) IV. To determine the overall response rate
      (excluding the irradiated lesion[s]) with combined checkpoint blockade with MEDI4736 and
      tremelimumab with either low or high dose radiation. (Colorectal Cohort)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate median progression-free survival and overall survival. (NSCLC Cohort) II. To
      determine local control within the irradiated field(s) and abscopal response rates. (NSCLC
      Cohort) III. To evaluate associations between PD-L1 expression as well as levels of
      infiltrating CD3+, CD8+ T-cells and overall response. (NSCLC Cohort) IV. To explore changes
      in PD-L1 expression, circulating T-cell populations, T-cell infiltration, ribonucleic acid
      (RNA) expression, spatial relationship of immune markers, and mutational burden as a result
      of low or high dose radiation. (NSCLC Cohort) V. To estimate median progression-free survival
      and overall survival. (Colorectal Cohort) VI. To determine local control within the
      irradiated field and abscopal response rates. (Colorectal Cohort) VII. To evaluate
      associations between PD-L1 expression as well as levels of infiltrating CD3+ CD8+ T-cells and
      overall response. (Colorectal Cohort) VIII. To evaluate changes between PD-L1 expression as
      well as levels of infiltrating CD3+, CD8+ T-cells induced by targeted low or high dose
      radiation. (Colorectal Cohort) IX. To explore changes in circulating T-cell populations,
      T-cell infiltration, RNA expression, spatial relationship of immune markers, and mutational
      burden as a result of low or high dose radiation. (Colorectal Cohort)

      OUTLINE: Patients with NSCLC are randomized to Arm A, B, or C. Patients with colorectal
      cancer are randomized to Arm B or C.

      COHORT 1: Patients with NSCLC are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive tremelimumab intravenously (IV) and durvalumab IV over 60 minutes
      every 4 weeks for up to 16 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients then receive durvalumab IV over 60 minutes 4 weeks after last combination
      dose for up to 9 additional doses.

      ARM B: Patients receive tremelimumab and durvalumab and as in Arm A. Beginning at week 2,
      patients receive high dose radiation therapy once per day (QD) over 10 days for up to 3
      fractions.

      ARM C: Patients receive tremelimumab and durvalumab and as in Arm A. Beginning at week 2,
      patients receive low dose radiation therapy every 6 hours twice per day (BID) on weeks 2, 6,
      10 and 14.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for up to 12 weeks.
    
  