
    
      Prenatal genetic screening has grown at a rapid rate and whole genome sequence of an unborn
      fetus is expected to be widely available in the next few years. However, significant barriers
      remain for effectively informing couples about their risks and options for identifying and
      managing chromosomal anomalies and heritable conditions during pregnancy. It is widely
      recognized that current standards for patient education in this domain are largely
      ineffective. Decisions about prenatal screening are based on pregnant couples' values and
      knowledge so clinicians are often challenged with being informative but non-directive.
      Prenatal screening has grown significantly in recent years because the American College of
      Obstetricians and Gynecologists recommends prenatal care providers now offer all women
      prenatal genetic screening in the first trimester of pregnancy, regardless of age, or genetic
      risk status. This has moved the focus of prenatal screening from a subset of higher risk
      pregnant couples to all pregnant couples and to an earlier time in pregnancy.

      To address these information needs, we are undertaking a novel approach to inform couples
      about screening. "Gaming" tools have demonstrated promising outcomes for improved health care
      decision-making and compliance with health recommendations. In contrast to other computer
      applications for the dissemination of information, game technology goes beyond information
      delivery and engages users in different life choice scenarios. Further, these tools can
      assess whether the attractiveness (or unattractiveness) of different simulated choices can
      offer insights about one's values. In this value-laden context, the game allows individuals
      to explore their personal values in a non-directive fashion and allows a comparison of the
      game choices and values with an individual's reproductive partner.

      The purpose of this application is to 1) develop a prenatal screening gaming application
      prototype (PS-GAP) and 2) conduct a preliminary assessment of the PS-GAP on knowledge,
      satisfaction, and decisional conflict about prenatal genetic screening for pregnant women and
      their partners.
    
  