
    
      INTRODUCTION

      Overweight and obesity represent a risk factor for hormone dependent cancers such as breast,
      endometrium, ovarian, uterine and gastrointestinal cancer.

      In particular, overweight and obesity are risk factors for breast cancer in post-menopause
      women since they are associated to higher level of circulating estrogens, insulin,
      insulin-like growth factor levels, leptin, adiponectin, growth factors (such as hepatocyte
      growth factor) and inflammatory cytokines (TNFα and Interleukin-6 (IL-6)). Moreover, they
      reduce sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) plasma levels. Overweight and obesity are also
      negative prognostic factors for breast cancer in post-menopause women since they increase the
      risk of early relapse and death. An increased weight (2.5-6.2 Kg) is commonly reported during
      chemotherapy treatment in post-menopause women. This is due to increased appetite,
      hyperphagia and hydric retention associated with reduced metabolism and physic activities.
      However, the weight gain during therapy is still not recognised as a negative prognostic
      factor.

      Furthermore, a decrease in weight may also occur during chemotherapy. This is mainly due to
      lower appetite and early satiety, dysgeusia, nausea and vomiting or intolerance to certain
      foods. Decreasing weight can determine less efficacy and tolerance in therapy, more
      complications/infections, more and longer hospitalisations and, as a consequence, a reduced
      quality of life and survival.

      Dysgeusia is an alteration in taste that can determine food aversion, selection of
      hypercaloric food or reduced food introduction up to malnutrition. More than 75% of patients
      under chemotherapy refer dysgeusia; this is related to drugs (such as folic acid competitors,
      cyclophosphamide cisplatin and taxanes) and can last for weeks. ln particular, taxanes
      determine a peripheral nerves degeneration. The results are a metallic taste and an
      alteration in salted perception. In addition, they determine a dose-dependent
      chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) with painful paraesthesia, total areflexia
      and muscular extremities weakness. Dysgeusia is an underestimated problem. Instrumental
      examinations and laboratory tests can be useful but they cannot replace a detailed medical
      history and a close physical examination associated with international validate
      questionnaires.

      At the moment, no agreement was found on chemotherapy-induced dysgeusia prevention and
      therapy. Patients resolve this problems with cold food, candies before meals and sugary
      drinks and these behaviours lead to increasing in weight.

      STUDY DESIGN

      This is a prospective cohort study for the evaluation of eating habits changes and dysgeusia
      in patients with breast cancer during chemotherapy treatment. It will explore also the
      potential relations with anxiety, depression, insomnia and quality of life. These evaluations
      will be actuated using internationally validate questionnaires.

      METHODS

      This study is based on the collection of data with international validate questionnaires:

        -  Food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) and photography atlas

        -  Chemotherapy-induced taste alteration scale (CiTAS): evaluation of changes in taste.

        -  Functional assessment of cancer therapy (FACT_B): evaluation of quality of life for
           physical health, social and familiar health, emotional health, functional health and
           health in relation with the pathology.

        -  Beck depression inventory (BDI) and HADS: evaluation of depression presence and its
           intensity.

        -  Pittsburgh sleep quality index (PSQI) and insomnia severity index (ISI): evaluation of
           sleep quality.

        -  State and trait anxiety inventory (STAI-Y): evaluation of anxiety presence and its
           intensity.

      STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS

      Based on the proportion of the women in overweight before chemotherapy is 30% and the
      proportion of the women in overweight after chemotherapy is 50% (with a 5% α error and an 80%
      strength), the established number of patients to include in the study is 186. In prevision of
      a 10% loss of patients in follow-up, 204 patients will be included in the study.
    
  