
    
      Elderly usually experience an age-related type of vestibular disorder, which involves
      vertigo, dizziness and poor postural stability. These symptoms seem to contribute to the
      "geriatric syndrome", which describes a complex symptomatology. It usually has multiple
      causes and must be considered interdisciplinary. This study will only consider healthy
      elderly with an expected age-related degeneration of the vestibular system. In terms of
      restoring vestibular functioning, compensation can be classified into adaptation,
      substitution and habituation. Adaptation enhances the Vestibulo-ocular reflex, which is
      equivalent to restoration. Habituation on the other hand, accustoms the affected person to a
      conflicting situation, in order that the response of the Vestibulo-ocular reflex is avoided.
      Substitution is distinguished in literature between sensory and behavioral, in which the
      sensorial substitution transfers the importance given to proprioceptive and visual inputs and
      the behavioral substitution refers to avoidance strategies e.g. immobilization, increased
      blink reflex and prevention of head rotations. Slower gait speed may also be a method used by
      elderly for compensation during a task when the base of support is unstable. Considering
      recommendation future studies should incorporate examinations of functional gaze stability
      during typical daily tasks in more familiar settings as opposed to laboratory assessments.
      Increased head movement may disturb balance and the risk of falling may be raised while
      walking stairs. As head stability is challenged during stair descent, elderly with
      age-related visual and vestibular impairment have problems with completing this quotidian
      task. A way to consider these observations in vestibular rehabilitation is the use of a
      virtual reality environment, which provides a motivating and pleasant method to train and
      that includes exercises requiring head turns. Successful use of virtual reality in
      rehabilitation of vestibular patients has previously been implemented. However, these studies
      did not particularly to exercise head turns by completing an orientation task.
    
  