
    
      Background:

      Bladder cancer is the 11th most common cancer in the world and one of the most costly cancers
      on a per patient basis, due to the cost of operative procedures, follow-up cystoscopies and
      instillation therapy. Furthermore there is a risk of progression to invasive and hence deadly
      cancer why efficient and immediate treatment is crucial. Treatment today consists of surgical
      removal of tumours (TURB) and adjuvant intravesical treatment. There is a chance; neoadjuvant
      intravesical treatment with chemotherapy can supersede surgical removal in chemo-sensitive
      tumours while however some tumours will not respond to intravesical chemotherapy. Currently
      it is not possible to predict which tumours are chemo-sensitive and which are not.

      Objectives:

      To assess the efficacy of neoadjuvant, short-term intensive chemoresection with Mitomycin C
      compared to standard treatment with TURB and adjuvant intravesical instillation therapy in
      patients with recurrent non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC).

      To investigate the ability to predict chemo-response in patients with recurrent non-muscle
      invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC).

      Methods:

      A randomised clinical controlled trial will include 120 patients with recurrent NMIBC.

      The control group of 60 patients will receive standard care with TURB and adjuvant
      intravesical treatment. The intervention group of 60 patients will be submitted to
      neoadjuvant short-term intensive chemoresection with three instillations with Mitomycin C per
      week for two weeks. Remnant tumour tissue will be evaluated by flexible cystoscopy after four
      weeks.

      To investigate the ability to predict chemo-response in patients with recurrent NMIBC, a
      connection between biomarkers of the initial tumour tissue and tumour response will be
      assessed.

      Samples of the latest resected tumour prior to inclusion will be collected from all
      participants treated with neoadjuvant chemoresection and assessed against the tumour response
      seen in the trial.

      Perspectives:

      Validation of biomarkers to predict chemo-response will be an important step to integrate
      biomarkers in daily clinical practice and to individualize the treatment of NMIBC.

      In some cases surgery could be avoided while ineffective chemotherapy could be avoided in
      others.
    
  