
    
      Consenting adult patients with active pulmonary MDR-TB in the study hospital in China (n=50),
      will be included in the study. Detailed demographic background information as well as
      baseline clinical characteristics will be collected. Sputum samples for culture and Time to
      culture positivity (TTP) will be collected at inclusion and at day 2, 7 and week 2, 4, 8 and
      12 weeks after start of treatment. MIC-determination of Mycobacterium tuberculosis for all
      drugs included in the patient's treatment, will be performed mainly using Sensititre TREK
      kit, complemented with BACTEC 960 MGIT when necessary. After two weeks of TB-treatment,
      plasma drug concentrations of all the drugs used will be collected. Multiple blood samples
      (0, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8 and 10 h after drug intake) will be collected in order to accurately
      calculate the free area under the time-versus concentration curve (fAUC) and maximum
      concentrations (fCmax). The exposure variables are the fAUC and the fCmax and their ratio
      with the MIC for the bacteria of the different drugs. Furthermore, blood sampling to assess
      stability of drug concentrations will be performed at week 8 and week 12 (0, 4 and 6 h
      post-dose). In order to evaluate if low ratios of fAUC/MIC and fCmax/MIC are associated with
      poor clinical outcome, clinical parameters as well as sputum culture conversion, time to
      culture positivity (TTP), inflammatory markers and radiological imaging will be followed up
      during the first three months of treatment. After treatment completion, the WHO criteria for
      defining treatment outcome will be applied.

      Furthermore, a method of simultaneous determination using LC-MS/MS of the second-line drugs
      used, will be developed and compared with the use of Dried Blood Spot assay (DBS). DBS has
      the advantage of enabling drug concentration analysis even in remote areas, since
      transportation of the filter papers is easy.
    
  