
    
      -  Eligible patients will receive both external beam radiotherapy ( EBRT) and concomitant
           chemotherapy and brachytherapy ( BT). Summation of EBRT and BT doses will be performed
           by calculation of a biologically equivalent dose in 2 Gy per fraction (EQD2) using the
           linear-quadratic model with α/β = 10 Gy for tumor effects and α/β = 3 Gy for late normal
           tissue damage. The repair half time is assumed to be 1.5 hrs.

        -  EBRT will be delivered as IMRT/VMAT with daily cone beam Computed Tomography ( CT )
           Image Guided Radiotherapy (IGRT) in 25 fractions with 1.8 Gy to a total dose of 45 Gy
           given in 5 weeks.

        -  3D image-based cervical cancer brachytherapy will be delivered as 4 sessions x 7 Gy High
           Dose Rate (HDR) brachytherapy , with ''Pre-radiotherapy Magnetic Resonance Imaging ( MRI
           ) examination'' to provide sufficient information about tumor extent in three dimension
           (3D) at the time of diagnosis and ''BT MRI examination'' is alse needed to provide
           sufficient information about tumor/target extent at the time of brachytherapy with the
           applicators in place .

      For EBRT ; Using the cumulative Dose-volume histograms ( DVH ) to ensure that minimum dose to
      the target 95%, maximum dose limited to 107%, also, the dose to the organ at risk will be
      kept to the minimum according to the Radiation therapy oncology group ( RTOG )
      recommendation.

      For BT ; Dose volume adaptation will be performed with the aim of dose escalation in large
      tumors (prescribed D90 > 85 Gy , Dose volume constraints (D2cc) were 70-75 Gy for rectum and
      sigmoid and 90 Gy for bladder.

      Differential DVH, the dose standard deviations will be used to asses dose homogeneity.

      The conformity index and dose gradient measure will be calculated . Collection of data : Data
      will be collected by doctor himself in Excel sheet . Statistics : numerical Data will be
      reported with mean , median , standard deviation & variance and represented with suitable
      graph like histograms and frequency polygon . Discrete data will be analyzed with suitable
      tests like Chi-square test & fisher's exact test and will represented with suitable graph
      like pie graph .

      Inferential statistics will be reported with 95 confidence interval & A P-value <0.05 will be
      considered as statistically significant .

      Survival analysis will be analyzed using the actuarial Kaplan Meier method , time will be
      calculated with date of diagnosis .

      Data from patients who had not reached the endpoint at the time of last follow -up will be
      treated as censored observations
    
  