
    
      Patients will be randomly assigned with equal probability to one or two treatment arms, Arm 1
      or Arm 2, where the interventions associated with these Arms are as follows:

      Arm 1:

      Neoadjuvant, concurrent and adjuvant androgen suppression, elective pelvic nodal irradiation
      (EPNI), high dose conformal EBRT boost to the prostate, and appropriate secondary
      interventions at failure.

      Arm 2:

      Neoadjuvant, concurrent and adjuvant androgen suppression, elective pelvic nodal irradiation
      (EPNI), permanent 125-Iodine brachytherapy boost to the prostate, and appropriate secondary
      interventions at failure.

      If a patient is assigned to Arm 1, the radiation oncologist will initiate androgen
      suppression and monitor clinical and biochemical response. After an 8-month duration of
      neoadjuvant androgen suppression, the patient will undergo a course of elective pelvic nodal
      irradiation (EPNI) to a volume encompassing the prostate gland, seminal vesicles and regional
      lymph nodes. The pelvic irradiation will be followed by a dose-escalated 3-D conformal EBRT
      boost to the prostate with appropriate margins. The total radiation dose to the regional
      lymphatics is 46 Gy and prostate dose is 78 Gy at the ICRU reference point with a minimum
      dose to the PTV of > 74 Gy. Androgen suppression is maintained throughout radiation therapy
      and following the completion of radiation therapy until the patient has received a total
      duration of androgen suppression of 12 months including the neoadjuvant phase.

      If the patient is assigned to Arm 2, the radiation oncologist will initiate androgen
      suppression and monitor clinical and biochemical response. After an 8-month duration of
      neoadjuvant androgen suppression, the patient will undergo a course of elective pelvic nodal
      irradiation (EPNI) to a volume encompassing the prostate gland, seminal vesicles and regional
      lymph nodes. The total radiation dose to the regional lymphatics is 46 Gy. Two weeks
      following the completion of the pelvic irradiation, the patient will undergo a permanent
      125-Iodine brachytherapy prostate implant at the facilities of the participating institution
      by a team of healthcare professionals lead by a Radiation Oncologist with experience in
      prostate brachytherapy. To be eligible to participate, the institution must have done at
      least 25 cases of prostate brachytherapy with stranded sources. The minimal peripheral dose
      (MPD) to the prostate gland from the implant will be 115 Gy. A modified peripheral loading
      technique will be used in an effort to maintain the periurethral dose to < 150% of the MPD.
      Androgen suppression is maintained throughout radiation therapy until the patient has
      received a total duration of androgen suppression of 12 months including the neoadjuvant
      phase.

      All patients randomized are part of the analysis. The patient remains on study whether or not
      protocol treatment defined for the assigned arm is completed. The end of the primary
      intervention is defined as 18 months following the start of neoadjuvant androgen suppression
      in both arms.

      Secondary Objectives:

      Overall survival, metastasis-free survival, pathological local control, incidence of acute
      and late side effects and complications associated with the treatment interventions, effect
      of the planned interventions on QOL and rate of testosterone recovery.
    
  