
    
      Ten patients who were referred to receive physiotherapy at the neurology department of
      Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation of the Faculty of Health Sciences of Hacettepe University,
      Ankara with multiple sclerosis and ten voluntary healthy age matched participants will be the
      subjects of this study.

      Following the initial evaluation, participants with multiple sclerosis will take the fascial
      mobilization (FM) for their posterior crural muscle group and hamstring distal tendons which
      connects the crural bones at first day. After the day following the first visit participants
      will ask to come again and stretching exercises will apply to plantar muscle groups after the
      evaluation. In the investigators' study fascial mobilization will use to release plantar
      flexor muscles and fascia because it is believed to not aggravate the spasticity and is
      widely used in clinical practice. Fascial mobilization will applied regarding the following
      strategies.

      The patient lied on prone position with knee extension and therapist put the patient's
      plantar surface to her femoral region. Achilles, tibialis posterior, perenous longus and
      brevis distal tendons, gastrocnemius proximal tendons, hamstring's distal tendons will
      mobilize at first stage. The second stage of fascia mobilization includes the deep fascial
      mobilization of posterior crural muscle trunks. After that, the skin also gently mobilize.
      During fascial mobilization, once the spastic muscles relaxation were appeared, the ankle is
      been moved to dorsiflexion gradually. FM will carry out for 15 minutes for each foot.

      Same patients will receive also stretching exercises consisted of 30 s stretching and 10 s
      resting periods and will carry out for 15 minutes for each foot at second day after the first
      evaluation.Fourteen healthy volunteers will receive no interventions.

      Assessments will utilize at initially and after FM were applied at first visit. The day after
      patients will asked to come again and initially evaluations will repeat before stretching
      exercises. After stretching exercises patients will evaluate again with same tools.

      Assessment tools described as following: Modified Ashworth scale will use to evaluate of
      severity of plantar flexor spasticity. Static and dynamic loading parameters will be evaluate
      with pedobarography.Maximum loading pressure -N/cm2, maximum loading time- ms for; 1st. and
      5th metatarsal head, medial and lateral heel and midfoot will be recorded both while the
      patients standing and walking.
    
  