
    
      Rationale and background information

      Hip fracture

      Hip fracture is a common orthopaedic injury amongst older adults. It is estimated that more
      than 1.2 million individuals will suffer hip fracture annually worldwide (Gullberg et al,
      1997) and this total is expected to surpass 6 million by the year 2050 (Cooper et al, 1992;
      Odén et al, 2013). Hip fracture has a significant impact on the health and independence of
      patients and their families, with an increased risk of functional decline, admission to
      long-term care institutions and high mortality rates within the first 12 months post-fracture
      (Seitz et al, 2011). Furthermore the economic implications for the NHS are significant in
      both direct and indirect costs (Hernlund et al, 2013).

      People with dementia

      It is estimated that 25% of all beds in UK acute hospital wards are occupied by people with
      dementia (PwD) (Royal College of Psychiatrists 2009). Improving acute hospital care for PwD
      is high on the national agenda, as this group is particularly vulnerable to poor quality care
      and adverse outcomes (NHS Confederation 2010). Patients with dementia - primarily older
      people, are highly susceptible to insensitive care as complex needs in relation to their
      memory, thinking, orientation, comprehension, calculation, learning capability, language, and
      judgment are often unrecognised and unaddressed (Alzheimer Society 2009). Older people and
      their families consistently place high value on hospital care which promotes personalised
      relationships between patients and staff. This is particularly pertinent for people with
      impaired cognition or communication difficulties ( Alzheimer Society 2009).

      People with hip fracture and dementia

      People with dementia (PwD) have a four-fold increased risk of a hip fracture compared to
      matched cognitively intact cohorts (Gruneir et al, 2010; Laditka et al, 2005). Identifying
      the needs of people with dementia can be difficult. Engagement and progress with
      post-operative hip fracture rehabilitation can also be compromised for patients with
      dementia. Data suggests that clinical outcomes (incidence of delirium, mortality and
      post-operative complication rates) are poorer for PwD following hip fracture when compared to
      cognitively intact individuals (Smith et al, 2013).

      Enhanced Recovery Pathways

      The process of "Enhanced Recovery" was developed in Denmark by Prof Kehlet and has been used
      in the UK since the early 2000s (Department of Health 2013a). It is an integrated,
      multi-modal, evidence-based approach that enables hospital patients to recover from surgery,
      treatment or illness more effectively and leave hospital sooner. Since their formal
      introduction into the NHS in 2009, Enhanced Recovery Pathways (ERP) are becoming standard
      practice for many elective surgical operations and have resulted in a reduction in both
      length of hospital stays and readmission rates while generating high levels of patient
      satisfaction (Department of Health 2013a).

      Enhanced Recovery Pathways (ERP) for elective surgery are becoming more common and there is
      an increasing commitment to drive the delivery of enhanced recovery as standard practice
      (Department of Health 2013a). ERP in acute hip fracture is much rarer. The pathways are
      typically structured around six discrete phases which follows the patients' journal from
      hospital arrival through to discharge, these are:

        -  Emergency Department - arrival and diagnoses

        -  Pre-operative - ward admittance and preparation for operation

        -  Intra-operative - the operation

        -  Post-operative - recovery from the operation

        -  Rehabilitation - optimising recovery of function

        -  Discharge - return to home or appropriate residence

      These pathways are based upon evidence-based, documented national and internationally expert
      guidelines and are subject to frequent clinical review. A key co-morbidity that is recognised
      is cognitive impairment and as described above clinical outcomes for PwD can be significantly
      worse to non-cognitively impaired patients. Following National Guidelines on Dementia Care
      (Department of Health 2009a) most acute hospital Trusts are implementing general dementia
      care strategies throughout hospitals. Given that the proportion of patients dementia that
      sustain hip fractures is increasing year on year, some experts (McGilton et al 2013) have
      suggested that the subgroup of patients with dementia and hip fracture should have a specific
      treatment pathway, to acknowledge the clear differences in presentation and care needs.
      Developing an ERP specifically for patients with dementia and hip-fracture is the precise
      objective of the overall PERFECTED research programme.

      The PERFECTED research programme

      The PERFECTED (Peri-operative Enhanced Recovery hip FracturE Care of paTiEnts with Dementia)
      research programme was awarded to Dr Chris Fox (UEA) in November 2013. This is a 5 year
      project funded under the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Programme Grant for
      Applied Research initiative. For a summary of the accepted research proposal please see annex
      1. The overall aim of PERFECTED is to improve hospital care for PwD admitted with a fractured
      hip. The research will first develop and then examine the feasibility, acceptability and
      potential clinical and cost effectiveness of an optimised "enhanced recovery pathway" (ERP)
      for these patients. The PERFECTED programme is structured as 4 Work Packages (WPs); the
      primary aims of each are as follows:

        -  WP1: to establish best practice and define an ERP for patients with hip fracture and
           dementia in acute hospitals.

        -  WP2: to determine the staff training and cultural/organisational changes required to
           implement and maximise adherence to the aforementioned ERP.

        -  WP3: to undertake a pilot study to assess the clinical and cost effectiveness of the ERP
           that will inform the design of a future definitive Randomised Controlled Trial.

        -  WP4: to disseminate the data and lessons learned from the programme and develop a
           definitive trial proposal.

      This protocol relates to phase 3 of WP1 only. This specific phase is an observational study
      and involves researchers observing care delivery in specified ortho-geriatric wards at the
      Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital (NNUH), the Queen's Medical Centre (QMC) Nottingham
      and the Bradford Royal Infirmary (BRI). Observations will also take place in the Emergency
      Department (ED) of each of these hospitals on an opportunistic basis. Observations will occur
      in each of the sites intermittently over a 4-week period sequentially and will cover the full
      24h cycle. That is, we will do 4 weeks of observations at the NNUH, before moving to BRI and
      observing for 4 weeks, and then finish by undertaking 4 weeks of observations at QMC. Data
      elicited from these observations will address this study's research aims and will also inform
      the wider aims of WP1 by describing the context (including cost consequences) of care
      delivery to hospital patients with hip fracture, some of whom will have dementia. It is
      essential to emphasise that although PERFECTED overall (including WP1) is concerned with
      older hip-fracture patients who have dementia, phase 3 WP1 (this observational study) is
      concerned with all older hip-fracture patients in general.

      As a research programme PERFECTED is iterative. To create one total ethical protocol would
      not be feasible. We will be submitting numerous protocols in line with the programme's
      development. The aims, procedures and ethical considerations associated with phase 3 WP1, the
      observational study, are the sole objectives of this protocol.
    
  