
    
      This study requires lipoaspirate obtained from liposuction. Lipoaspirate is typically
      discarded in the biohazard waste disposal system. We will be using the lipoaspirate (which
      would otherwise be discarded) in this study.

      Lipoaspirate contains adipose tissues. With a suitable enzymatic separation method, stromal
      vascular fraction (SVF) can be separated from the adipose cells (adipocyte).

      Adipocyte derived regenerative cells has been isolated from the stromal vascular fraction
      (SVF) of adipose tissues. There are two methods of obtaining the SVF from the adipose tissue
      in this study. One is called the manual preparation and the other the Celution preparation.
      The Celution preparation is an automated system, providing a constant standard by which to
      compare the manual preparation of SVF. This study aims to establish correlation between the
      manual preparation and Celution preparation.

      The purpose of establishing correlation is to allow the manual preparation of SVF to be used
      in future scientific studies. The manual preparation has the advantage of being more
      economical than the Celution automated system.

      In future scientific studies, we hope to establish correlation between survival rates of fat
      graft and SVF cell counts. Currently fat grafting is an accepted List A aesthetic procedure
      in Singapore to enhance facial features and in breast augmentation. However results vary
      widely among patients, and seems unpredictable. A possible hypothesis is that the
      survivability of the fat graft is dependent on the number of naturally occurring ADRCs found
      in the fat graft. In the future we hope to conduct a scientific study on this hypothesis
      using the manual preparation.

      The secondary purpose for this study is to correlate SVF cell counts with the age, sex,
      weight, BMI and anatomical area of liposuction.
    
  