
    
      Sleep apnoea (SA) is highly prevalent in general population. It is a sex-specific respiratory
      disease with a lower incidence in women than in men but it increases after menopause. SA and
      nocturnal intermittent hypoxia (IH) predict the risks of metabolic syndrome independently of
      obesity, and in patients without comorbidities, SA is associated with insulin resistance. One
      of the most likely mechanisms explaining the SA-induced increase in metabolic syndrome is the
      oxidative stress (OS) induced by IH. There are clear-cut signs of OS in postmenopausal women
      that may be further enhanced by SA resulting in an increased activity of the sympathetic
      system as well as damages in adipose tissue, blood vessels, and in the liver. Estradiol is a
      potent antioxidant hormone. Recent experiments conducted in Dr Joseph laboratory demonstrated
      that in ovariectomized female rats exposed to IH, an ER alpha agonist decreases the level of
      "Advanced Oxidation Protein Products", prevents excessive mitochondrial ROS production, and
      the increase of arterial blood pressure. Oestrogens combined with a tissue-specific estradiol
      receptor modulators (bazedoxifene) are approved and available in Canada (Duavive) for the
      treatment of vasomotor symptoms and prevention of osteoporosis associated with menopause. The
      aims of this study are to compare OS in apneic and non-apneic postmenopausal women and to
      demonstrate that OS will improve after 3 months of treatment with ER alpha agonists (Duavive)
      in apneic post-menopausal women. 18 newly diagnosed women with untreated severe SA and 18
      without SA will be recruited from the sleep clinic. Eligible subjects will be post-menopausal
      non-smoking women aged 30 to 65 years with a BMI less/equal to 35 kg.m-2, apnoea + hypopnea
      index < 15/h (non SA group) or ≥ 30/h (SA group) on a polysomnographic recording. The study
      will be a prospective comparative trial. Following completion of baseline measurements,
      subjects will receive 1 tablet of Duavive (0.45 estrogens mg and 20 mg bazedoxifene) daily
      for 3 months. A follow-up phone call will be completed monthly, and side effects will be
      recorded. All measurements will be repeated after 3 months of Duavive. The main outcome is
      the levels of Advanced Oxidation Protein Products and malondialdehyde as a reflect of
      cellular oxidative damages. The investigators will also measure plasmatic activity of
      superoxide dismutase and serum nitrite + nitrate levels. Secondary outcomes are related to
      metabolic (anthropometric variables, biologic markers of glucose homeostasis, lipid profiles,
      orexin-A and liver function), cardiac health (arterial blood pressure, 24-h heart rate
      variability to measure cardiac autonomic function) and quality of life. Analysis: Differences
      between results obtained in each condition will be analysed using ANOVA. Statistical
      significance will be considered at p<0.05. Considering the changes in OS observed with
      hormonal therapy in post-menopausal women and those observed with SA treatment, the sample
      size was determined to be able to demonstrate a 30 % difference in OS between SA and
      non-apneic women following 3 month of treatment with Duavive with alpha =0.05, 80% power
      analysis and a 20% drop-out rate. New avenues in postmenauposal hormonal therapy may have a
      huge impact on morbidity/mortality and a drug therapy should be more easily accepted that
      CPAP to reach this goal. These results should open the door to an RCT aimed at quantifying
      benefits of such treatment on metabolic syndrome features.
    
  