
    
      The investigators will recruit and follow a randomly-chosen sample of NYCHA public housing
      residents in the proposed target community who meet multiple criteria for being considered
      vulnerable or underserved. The current study will address knowledge gaps regarding COVID-19
      testing, treatment, and household prevention strategies, and generate new knowledge related
      to the epidemiology of COVID-19 in these communities. Working with community partners, the
      investigators will create an acceptable and feasible intervention and testing infrastructure
      in advance of the influenza season, with a view toward designing best practices for
      sustainable COVID-19 testing, prevention, and preparedness for vaccination trials. The
      investigators will implement a 2-arm RCT that will evaluate the effectiveness of the
      Nurse-CHW-Family Partnership Intervention in promoting COVID testing uptake, adoption of
      COVID control measures, and household mutual aid capacity. The investigators will recruit
      members of randomly selected households in their homes using area sampling methods used with
      excellent results in the investigators' previous research in the target community.
      Participants will complete a baseline assessment and the entire household will be randomized
      to either the experimental or a treatment-as-usual control condition, which will be used to
      measure actual testing rates among public housing residents in relation to participant and
      household characteristics. The baseline sample will include 270 households, and 810
      individual household members, randomized in a 2:1 ratio, intervention:control. Families will
      complete follow-up assessments at 6 and 9 months following the baseline. In-home testing and
      referral to seasonal influenza vaccination services will be offered to the intervention
      group; whereas the control group will receive treatment as usual at multiple NYC Department
      of Health COVID-19 testing sites that are within walking distance of each of the three
      housing complexes. Test acceptance will be recorded, and incentives will be paid for study
      visits, not for testing.
    
  