
    
      The study will be a prospective interventional multicentre before-after study with a total
      duration of 36 months and will be coordinated by a consortium of researchers from UGent and
      KU Leuven supported by Kom op Tegen Kanker. The intervention is the self-directed development
      and implementation of a care pathway in ten hospitals in Flanders.

      The general lead throughout the study will be the 7-phase model for the development of a care
      pathway, which is translated to the specific context of OACD in the CONTACT-Toolkit. This
      methodology aims to offer a systematic approach for the support of an interdisciplinary team
      in the development of new care pathways or in the improvement of existing ones.

      The CONTACT-Toolkit will serve as a roadmap that will guide the participating hospitals
      through the various phases and will therefore enable the self-directed development and
      implementation of the care pathway. Besides an overall guidance through the different phases
      of the 7-phase model, the toolkit contains additional tools including: presentations to
      structure internal meetings, tools and methods to map current practice, tools to measure key
      performance indicators, tools to support the development of a care pathway and tools to
      support counselling of patients treated with OACD (e.g. guide for telephone follow-up, guide
      for counselling at the start of the treatment).

      In phase 1 and 2, a project structure is set up in each participating hospital by appointing
      a local coordinator and project team for the development of the care pathway. In phase 3, a
      detailed mapping of the current care process, which serves as before-study, will take place.
      Current practice will be evaluated from four different perspectives: own organisation and
      team, patients, external partners and independent observer. Assessments are performed by
      means of validated questionnaires and observations of daily practice by the research team. In
      phase 4, the care pathway will be developed by the project team, with respect to the results
      obtained from the mapping of current practice. During this phase, the research team will also
      provide training (i.e. e-learning, live training sessions) to all participating HCPs, to
      expand their medical knowledge on OACD and to improve counselling skills. The actual
      implementation of the care pathway is foreseen in phase 5. In phase 6, an evaluation of the
      care will be performed from the same four perspectives as in phase 3. This evaluation will
      include validated questionnaires, an interview with the coordinator, a focus group with the
      project team and participating HCPs and a second round of observations using a checklist and
      time task matrix of the care pathway document. In phase 7, the research team will take the
      necessary steps to guarantee the continuous follow-up of the care pathway without their
      further support.

      To assess the impact of the care pathway on the level of the patient and the HCP, data
      obtained from the assessments in phase 3 (i.e. before-group) and 6 (i.e. after-group) will be
      compared. Furthermore, a process evaluation will be performed.
    
  