
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the overall survival (OS) following induction with steroids + TKI +
      blinatumomab versus induction with steroids + TKI + chemotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the rate of minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity for patients treated with
      chemotherapy versus (vs) blinatumomab at the end of first induction (week 15).

      II. To evaluate the rate of the MRD negativity by treatment arm for those patients MRD
      positive after the first induction and administered of second induction.

      III. To compare event free survival (EFS) for patients initially randomized for chemotherapy
      vs blinatumomab.

      IV. To assess the toxicities of blinatumomab + TKI and steroids + TKI + chemotherapy in this
      patient population.

      V. To assess the toxicities of the chemotherapy regimen in this patient population.

      VI. To describe the outcome of patients who proceed to allogeneic stem cell transplant after
      treatment with blinatumomab + TKI only.

      OUTLINE:

      ARM A (RUN-IN): Patients receive prednisone orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 and
      ponatinib hydrochloride (ponatinib) PO QD or dasatinib PO QD on days 1-21 based on
      investigator's choice.

      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms (Arm B or C).

      ARM B (INDUCTION THERAPY):

      CYCLE 1: Patients receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) twice daily (BID) on days 1-3,
      dexamethasone PO or IV on days 1-4 and 11-14, cytarabine intrathecally (IT) on day 1,
      doxorubicin hydrochloride (doxorubicin) IV on day 4, vincristine sulfate (vincristine) IV on
      days 4 and 11, and methotrexate IT on day 8. Patients also receive Mesna 600mg/m^2 IV as a
      'chemoprotectant' via continuous infusion on days 1-3, (beginning 1 hour prior to
      cyclophosphamide and completed by 12 hours after the last dose of cyclophosphamide).

      CYCLE 2 (AGE 18-70): Starting in cycle 2, fit patients aged 18-70 receive dasatinib 70mg/day
      PO or ponatinib 30mg/day PO on days 1-21, methotrexate IV over 24 hours and IT on day 1, and
      cytarabine IV over 2 hours on days 2-3. On day 22 of cycle 2 or later, as soon as the
      absolute neutrophil count (ANC) is greater than 1000 cells/ul and platelets are greater than
      50,000 cells/ul, patients receive hyper cyclophosphamide, vincristine, doxorubicin, and
      dexamethasone (CVAD) for 2 additional cycles.

      CYCLE 2 (AGE > 70 or unfit < 70): Starting in cycle 2, patients age > 70 or younger unfit
      patients for Hyper-CVAD receive ponatinib PO QD or dasatinib PO QD on days 1-21. Patients
      also receive methotrexate IV over 24 hours and IT on day 1, and cytarabine IV over 2 hours on
      days 2-3. Cycle 1 and 2 regimens are each repeated once starting on day 22 of cycle 2, or
      later, but as soon as the ANC is greater than 1000 cells/ul and platelets are greater than
      50,000 cells/ul.

      Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve remission (significant reduction in the amount of
      leukemia in bone marrow and blood/MRD negative) after 4 cycles may receive alternative
      treatment, either consolidation with two cycles of Hyper-CVAD followed by TKI maintenance
      therapy or undergo allogeneic stem cell transplantation followed by maintenance therapy.
      Patients who do not achieve a remission (MRD positive) are assigned to Arm D. Patients who
      experience un-resolving renal failure or life-threatening infection which may require a
      treatment delay of 21 days cross-over to Arm C to receive the prescribed course of
      blinatumomab.

      ARM C (INDUCTION THERAPY):

      CYCLE 1: Patients receive ponatinib PO QD or dasatinib PO QD on days 1-21. Patients also
      receive dexamethasone PO or IV on day 1 and blinatumomab IV continuously on days 1-28,
      followed by methotrexate IT on day 28 or 29.

      CYCLE 2: Patients receive ponatinib PO QD or dasatinib PO QD on days 1-21. Patients also
      receive dexamethasone PO or IV on day 1 and blinatumomab IV continuously on days 1-28.

      Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM D (RE-INDUCTION): Patients treated on Arm B who remain MRD positive at the end of
      induction therapy receive blinatumomab based re-induction identical to the regimen described
      for Arm C.

      ARM E (RE-INDUCTION): Patients treated on Arm C who remain MRD positive at the end of
      induction therapy receive chemotherapy based re-induction which is identical to regimen
      described for Arm B according to patient's age and the pre-specified chemotherapy arm.

      Patients whose molecular test remains MRD positive after re-induction proceed to follow-up at
      the discretion of the investigator or receive anti CD-19 CAR- T cell therapy, inotuzumab
      ozogamicin, intensive chemotherapy, or palliative care.

      Patients are followed up for 10 years from the date of registration.
    
  