
    
      Accidental extravasation of anthracyclines including doxorubicin and its derivative
      epirubicin, may cause severe, progressive tissue necrosis requiring the surgical removal of
      any damaged tissue. Thus, the patient is subjected to major surgery causing substantial delay
      of the treatment of the primary cancer disease.

      Tissue infiltration by anthracyclines may be detected by fluorescence microscopy. This test
      is performed at most hospitals in Denmark.

      In a large preclinical trial, as well as 4 clinical cases, dexrazoxane has proven to prevent
      these severe tissue necroses. This trial will determine the effect of dexrazoxane as an acute
      treatment (acute antidote) in patients with anthracycline extravasation verified by
      fluorescence biopsy.

      Purpose

      Primary:

      • To avoid surgical intervention following the accidental extravasation of anthracycline
      drug, and thus preventing the patient from sequelae.

      Secondary:

        -  To avoid deleterious postponement of the cancer treatment itself.

        -  To evaluate and describe subjective and objective symptoms in the damaged area following
           treatment with TopotectTM.

        -  To evaluate tolerability/toxicity of TopotectTM used for this indication, according to
           the indicated schedule.

      Trial Population 25 patients with accidental anthracycline extravasation confirmed by
      fluorescence microscopy

      Trial Design Open-label clinical trial. Twenty-five consecutive patients with an acute (<6
      hours) history of anthracycline extravasation confirmed by fluorescence microscopy (who in
      general practice are candidates for acute plastic surgical intervention) will be included.

      Effect Variables Response rates, presence of late sequelae, time to progression, and clinical
      consequence of progression.

      Safety Features

        -  Any toxicity caused by TopotectTM will be studied by blood tests, systematic questioning
           regarding subjective discomfort, as well as by objective clinical examination.

        -  A systematic clinical evaluation of the marked area of skin covering the area of
           extravasation will be performed to assure prompt treatment should any deterioration
           occur.

        -  Sequential colour photographs of the involved skin area will be taken.
    
  