
    
      It is well documented that participation in cardiac rehabilitation (CR) programs improves
      risk factor control and therapy adherence, enhances quality of life and reduces recurrent
      events. However, the current incomplete fulfilment of guideline recommended CR targets is a
      matter of concern. Also, while international recommendations advocate program flexibility and
      individual tailoring, most of the current CR programs are rigid, time-limited and demand
      substantial health care resources. Therefore, all main international heart associations have
      claimed for the reengineering of CR to enhance access, adherence, and effectiveness. The
      general call is for the development of innovative and cost-effective CR programs oriented to
      modify lifestyle and behaviour with sustainable results and that may be easily integrated in
      the pre-existing health care structures.eHealth i.e. the use of electronic communication and
      information technologies in health care, offers a whole new array of possibilities to provide
      clinical care. These include for example distance monitoring via telecommunication and
      sensors, interactive computer programs and smart phone applications. While there are
      thousands of available eHealth applications on the market, only a small minority have been
      tested in a controlled manner with proper guidance from health care personnel. The study will
      assess the efficacy of a web-based patient support application as a complement to traditional
      exercise-based CR for improvement of secondary prevention outcomes in post-MI patients,
      compared with usual care. The hypothesis is that the intervention enhances patient adherence
      to lifestyle advice (exercise training, daily physical activity, healthy diet and tobacco
      abstinence) and medication, resulting in better risk factor control and prognosis as well as
      increased self-rated health. A secondary hypothesis is that complementing the application
      with an activity tracker (accelerometer in a smart bracelet) will enhance the effect of the
      intervention.
    
  