
    
      BACKGROUND: Low blood sugar in newborns affects about 10% of all deliveries and about 50% of
      newborns with identified risk factors and is associated with poor long-term
      neurodevelopmental outcomes. Risk factors for transient neonatal hypoglycemia include infants
      of diabetic mothers, infants who are large or small for gestational age, infants with
      intrauterine growth restriction, and late-preterm infants.

      GAP: Current standard of care recommends asymptomatic infants to receive intravenous dextrose
      after becoming hypoglycemic. International studies using dextrose gel have shown that the
      buccal mucosa is a promising alternative route, normalizes hypoglycemia, and decreases NICU
      admission. So far, no studies have published results about the efficacy of prophylactic
      dextrose gel.

      HYPOTHESIS: We hypothesize that the prophylactic treatment of newborns at-risk for transient
      neonatal hypoglycemia with 40% dextrose gel will raise blood sugar levels by 15% compared to
      untreated controls. We hypothesize that 40% dextrose gel will prevent up to 50% of NICU
      admissions in this at-risk population compared to matched controls.

      METHODS: This will be a quasi-experimental study. The study population will include babies
      born at Harris Health Ben Taub Hospital and have risk factors for transient neonatal
      hypoglycemia. After the baby completes its first feed, he or she will be given a dose of oral
      dextrose gel. A blood sugar level will be checked after 30 minutes, per standard of care. One
      hundred at-risk infants will be identified and have written parental consent prior to
      delivery and receiving the prophylactic treatment. Five hundred additional matched controls
      with similar risk factors will be analyzed for comparison and will not receive treatment.

      RESULTS: Pending

      IMPACT: If the study proves the hypotheses are correct, prophylactic dextrose gel could be
      implemented in newborn nurseries around the country to prevent transient hypoglycemia,
      decrease NICU admission (and its associated costs, painful procedures, and separation from
      family), improve feeding quality, and potentially optimize neurodevelopmental outcomes.
    
  