
    
      Detailed Description:

      Extended description of the protocol, including information not already contained in other
      fields, such as comparison(s) studied.

      Example:

      Sudden out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OOH-CA) remains a significant cause of death, in spite
      of recent declines in overall mortality from cardiovascular disease. Existing methods of
      emergency resuscitation are inadequate due to time delays inherent in the transport of a
      trained responder with defibrillation capabilities to the side of the OOH-CA victim. Existing
      Emergency Medical Services (EMS) systems typically combine paramedic Emergency Medical
      Technician (EMT) services with some level of community involvement, such as bystander
      cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) training. Some communities include automated external
      defibrillators (AEDs) at isolated sites or in mobile police or fire vehicles. A
      comprehensive, integrated community approach to treatment with AEDs would have community
      units served by these volunteer non-medical responders who can quickly identify and treat a
      patient with OOH-CA. Such an approach is termed Public Access Defibrillation (PAD).

      Comparison(s): Community units trained and equipped to provide public access defibrillation
      in addition to optimal standard care, compared to community units trained to provide optimal
      standard care (recognition of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest, 911 access, and cardiopulmonary
      resuscitation).

      The purpose of the proposed research is to thoroughly evaluate the effects of Response
      Elaboration Training (RET) with persons with aphasia. Specifically, the proposed research
      investigation is designed to delineate the outcomes that may be expected with RET. The study
      is also designed to improve outcomes in the area of stimulus generalization effects of
      treatment by testing a modification of RET designed to facilitate generalization. The
      specific experimental questions to be addressed are as follows:

        -  Will RET result in increased production of correct information units and increased
           length and changes in composition of utterances as measured in *trained and untrained
           picture descriptions; *story retells; *conversations with significant others/family
           members/friends; and *personal recounts?

        -  Will modification and extension of RET to additional training contexts result in further
           increases in production of CIUs and increased length and complexity of utterances?

        -  Will the effects* of RET vary among participants with fluent aphasia, participants with
           nonfluent aphasia who present with mild to moderate verbal production deficits, and
           participants with nonfluent aphasia who present with severe verbal production deficits?

           * Effects = effects on production of CIUs and on measures of functional communication

        -  Will changes in measures of functional communication be observed following
           administration of RET?

      A series of single-subject experimental designs across subjects, behaviors, and contexts will
      be conducted to address these questions. Twenty-four adults with chronic, moderate to severe
      aphasia secondary to unilateral, left-hemisphere brain-injury will serve as participants for
      this investigation.
    
  