
    
      This will be a randomized, single site, controlled, pilot clinical trial, to evaluate the
      effects of in-office use of a closed-loop, allostatic, acoustic stimulation neurotechnology
      (High-resolution, relational, resonance-based, electroencephalic mirroring; HIRREM), compared
      with acoustic stimulation not linked to brainwaves (ambient nature sounds). Assuming a
      potential drop-out rate of 20%, up to 24 subjects will be enrolled to achieve a goal of
      having at least 20 subjects (10 per group) complete the study, per protocol. Patients who
      have blood pressures between 120-139 mm/Hg systolic, and/or 80-89 mm/Hg diastolic, as
      documented by their health care providers on two separate occasions, and no other exclusions,
      will be randomly assigned to receive either 8-16 sessions of either acoustic stimulation
      linked to brainwave activity (HCC), or acoustic stimulation not linked to brainwave activity
      (NCC), over a maximum of 4 weeks, with both groups continuing their current care throughout.
      There will be pre- and post-intervention data collection to include systolic and diastolic
      BP, and many secondary outcome measures including measures of autonomic cardiovascular
      regulation (continuous recording of BP and HR for calculation of measure of HRV and BRS),
      behavioral symptom outcomes (ISI, PSQI, ESS, CES-D, GAD-7, PCL-C, PSS), quality of life
      measure (QOLS), alcohol use (Audit C), and function performance measures (drop stick reaction
      testing, and grip strength). All measures will be collected at an enrollment visit (V1), and
      the intervention will begin 1-14 days later. BP and HR recordings will also be repeated prior
      to the start of the 7th session. Post-intervention data collections will be obtained at 1-7
      days (V2), 4-6 weeks (V3, primary outcome), and 12-14 weeks (V4) following completion of the
      intervention. The primary outcome will be differential change in the systolic and diastolic
      BP from V1 to V3. Additional follow up (V4) will evaluate durability of effects. Following
      V4, those in the NCC group will be offered the opportunity to cross over to receive a course
      of HCC, and will continue to be followed for data collections at 1-7 days (V5), 4-6 weeks
      (V6), and 12-14 weeks (V7) after completing their crossover HCC sessions. Linear mixed models
      (LMMs) will be used to contrast longitudinal changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure
      between the HCC and NCC groups. Mean contrasts will be used to compare the changes in blood
      pressures between groups from V1 to V3, our primary test of efficacy. Additional mean
      contrasts will be constructed to evaluate the consistency of any benefit of HIRREM through
      subsequent visits beyond V3. Comparisons of changes in all secondary outcomes will be
      assessed in a similar fashion.
    
  