
    
      Patients >18 years of age with an america society of anesthesiologist classification of I or
      II who were scheduled to undergo elective laparoscopic colorectal surgery were included. The
      exclusion criteria were a history of neuromuscular, renal, or hepatic disease, a history of
      low abdominal surgery; treatment with drugs known to interfere with neuromuscular function.
      Patients were randomised to either the moderate or deep neuromuscular blockade group using
      Random Allocation Software (version 1.0). Premedication with intravenous midazolam at 0.03
      mg/kg was performed in the reception area. In the operating room, routine monitoring was
      performed, including electrocardiography, non-invasive arterial pressure measurements, and
      pulse oximetry. Additionally, acceleromyography was applied to monitor the response of the
      corrugator supercilii muscle. Neuromuscular management and monitoring were performed
      according to the Good Clinical Research Practice guidelines. After the induction of
      anaesthesia with propofol and remifentanil using target-controlled infusers and before
      rocuronium administration, the TOF-Watch-SX was calibrated and stabilised; a 50-Hz tetanic
      stimulation was applied for 5 s, the TOF-Watch-SX was calibrated, and a series of
      train-of-four (TOF) measurements were documented for >2 min until a stable baseline was
      obtained (<5% variation in the TOF ratios). Next, intravenous rocuronium at 0.6 mg/kg was
      administered, and tracheal intubation was performed after confirmation of relaxation.
      Anesthesia was maintained with desflurane and target-controlled infusion of remifentanil
      while monitoring the bispectral index. A continuous dose of intravenous rocuronium (10-60
      mg/hr) was used to maintain moderate (TOF count of 1 or 2) or deep (post-tetanic count [PTC]
      of 1 or 2) neuromuscular blockade. The IAP alarm(IAP>15mmHg) rate were checked. Any movement
      during the operation as reported by the surgeon or anaesthesiologist was recorded. At the end
      of the operation, the surgeon rated the surgical condition on a 5-point scale. Patients in
      the moderate group were reversed with neostigmine at 50 µg/kg and glycopyrrolate at 10 µg/kg
      at a TOF count of 1 or 2, and patients in the deep group were reversed with intravenous
      sugammadex at 4 mg/kg at PTC of 1 or 2. The time from administration of the reversal agents
      to a TOF ratio of 0.9 was recorded. Postoperative pain and opioid consumption were evaluated
      at 24, 48h postoperatively. Postoperative nausea and/or vomiting, dry mouth, were also
      evaluated at the same time points.
    
  