
    
      Pterygium is a fibrovascular tissue growing on conjunctiva and cornea. The
      disturbance/morbidity caused by pterygium is diverse, ranging from mild esthetic disturbance
      and till recurrent inflammations and significant decrease of visual acuity. Rate of pterygium
      is between 20%-49% of general population, while increase in these numbers is observed in the
      population of equatorial regions. Pterygium usually appears at age of 22-49 years. While the
      rate of pterygium appearance increases with the age, the recurrence rate after surgical
      removal is higher in younger patients. Treatment of pterygium is surgical. The main
      challenges during surgery are peeling of pterygium and prevention of recurrence. During the
      last two decades several methods were developed and became widely accepted for pterygium
      surgery. The emphasis in modifying pterygium surgery is done on initial phase of surgery -
      techniques of pterygium separation and the final phase - the wound closure methods,
      additionally adjuncts (such as Mitomycine C) became widely used. These modifications are
      considered to improve the surgical outcomes and decrease the rate of complications and
      recurrence rate. Currently popular techniques of pterygium separation include Blunt
      dissection + keratectomy (blunt separation of the tissue + dissection of superficial layers
      of cornea); Avulsion technique (Avulsion of the pterygium head by creating tension on the cap
      edge+ further optional blunt dissection); Air assisted dissection (injection of air into the
      side of pterygium cap to create good separation plane).

      Alcohol 20% is widely used in surface refractive surgery, where it helps to peel easily the
      epithelium of the cornea. Several reports show a positive role of alcohol in treatment of
      recurrent corneal erosions resistant to other treatments. At microscopic level - the ethanol
      splits basement membrane at the level between lamina lucida and lamina densa, additionally
      ethanol destroys the hemidesmosome junctions between epithelial cells. No consensus exists on
      ethanol influence on keratocyte viability and function: some studies show delayed wound
      healing and significant keratocyte damage, while other works show no significant alteration
      in keratocyte number while using alcohol.

      At the phase of pterygium separation our purpose is to check the safety and efficiency of
      alcohol 20% for peeling of pterygium from ocular surface.

      Various closure techniques exist, 3 of the widespread techniques are: Bare sclera (with
      adjunct such as mitomycine C) - the wound is left as it is, without closure. Sliding
      conjunctival flap- conjunctiva from adjacent region is dissected, moved to the wound area and
      sutured. Amniotic membrane transplantation, using biological glue to adhere the membrane.
      Amniotic membrane does not carry HLA antigens - so that no HLA compatibility tests are
      needed. Amniotic membrane underwent screening of infectious diseases and was cryopreserved.
      Amniotic membrane is applied with its mesenchimal part towards sclera and basement membrane
      side upwards. Adhesion of amniotic membrane is achieved by biological glue (containing
      thrombin and calcium as main ingredients)

      We intend to compare each of these methods of wound closure in conjunction with using alcohol
      20 % for pterygium separation.
    
  