
    
      There are two study phases during the whole course of the study. PHASE 1: EXAMINER
      CALIBRATION Examiner will be calibrated before the study period with 10 volunteers.

      The intra-examiner reliability will be assessed using intraclass correlation coefficient. The
      volunteers will be recruited based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Clinical Parameters:

      i. Probing pocket depths (PPD) at 6 sites per implant ii. mBI at 6 sites per implant iii. mPI
      at 8 sites per implant Clinical parameters (i) to (iii) will be performed at day 0 and day 7.

      PHASE 2: STUDY INTERVENTION Study participants who are visiting University Dental Cluster or
      any other dental clinics or hospitals will be referred for this study. They will be enrolled
      at NUH University Dental Cluster if they fulfill the inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Groups:

        -  Test: Subjects in this group will receive a single tufted brush and interdental brushes
           of an appropriate size that will fit the interdental spaces around the implant.

        -  Control: Subjects in this group will only receive interdental brushes.

      Randomization:

      Study subjects will be randomly assigned into either test or control group based on a
      computer generated randomization code after screening of inclusion and exclusion criteria and
      signing of informed consent form.

      Blinding and Allocation Concealment:

      The study examiner who will be doing the clinical examination and collecting the study data
      will be blinded to the group allocation; however it is not possible to blind the study
      subjects to the group allocation. The clinician, who will be performing the treatment and
      providing oral hygiene instructions, will be given a sequentially numbered envelope
      containing the subject's group allocation after non-surgical periodontal therapy has been
      performed and before giving the oral hygiene instructions.

      Clinical Parameters:

      i. Probing pocket depths (PPD) (6 points per implant) ii. mBI (6 points per implant) iii. mPI
      (8 points per implant) iv. Characteristics of the implant and implant crown: tissue level or
      bone level, supraor submucosal margin, degree of overcontour as seen on periapical radiograph
      v. Peri-apical radiograph of implant taken with parallel technique Clinical parameters (i) to
      (iii) will be performed at baseline, 2-weeks, 1 month, 3 months, and 6 months post
      instrumentation.

      Clinical parameter (iv) and (v) will be performed at baseline.

      Radiographic Analysis:

      Peri-apical radiographs will be taken with paralleling technique to determine that there is
      peri-implant bone loss beyond 2mm at baseline.
    
  