
    
      Approximately 64,770 cases of cancer involving the kidney and renal pelvis were diagnosed in
      the United States in 2012 and 13,570 deaths occurred from these tumors. The rate of Renal
      Cell Carcinoma (RCC) has increased by 2% per year for the past 65 years. The reason for this
      increase in unknown but smoking and obesity are risk factors for the development of RCC.
      Early stage disease is typically treated with resection with definitive intent with partial
      or radical nephrectomy. Patients with metastatic disease are often treated with systemic
      therapy with palliative intent. Systemic therapeutic options include so-called targeted
      therapies, and less often chemotherapy and immunomodulatory therapies (interferon alpha and
      interleukin-2).

      The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved six targeted agents for the treatment of
      advanced and metastatic renal cell carcinoma that fall into two general classes - vascular
      endothelial growth factor (VEGF) inhibitors and inhibitors of mammalian target of rapamycin
      (mTOR). On the basis of several randomized phase III studies, vascular endothelial growth
      factor receptor-2 (VEGFR2) inhibitor therapy has become the generally preferred treatment for
      recurrent and metastatic ccRCC (clear cell Renal Cell Carcinoma) in the first-line setting.
      Treatment of ccRCC with VEGF-inhibition in the first-line metastatic setting, is associated
      with a progression-free survival of approximately 11 months. Vascular endothelial growth
      factor (VEGF) inhibitor therapy in the second-line remains active, but to a lesser degree -
      progression-free survival (PFS) has been reported to be between 5 and 7 months.

      Adjuvant treatment of high-risk, early-stage ccRCC with VEGFR2 TKI therapy following
      definitive resection has become an area of active investigation. The ASSURE trial (ECOG 2805)
      recently completed accrual, and other adjuvant trials - i.) SORCE (sorafenib for 3 or 1 year
      versus placebo), ii.) S-Trac (sunitinib versus placebo) - are in accrual.

      Axitinib (AG-013736, Pfizer Inc.), a receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitor that is selective for
      VEGFR1, 2, and 3, is an important new agent for use in metastatic RCC. Axitinib has been
      examined extensively in RCC, and it has been shown to be safe, well-tolerated, and highly
      active. On January 27, 2012, the FDA approved axitinib for the treatment of advanced RCC
      after failure of one prior systemic therapy.
    
  