
    
      OBJECTIVE: This is a natural history/disease pathogenesis protocol for evaluation of patients
      with or at risk for acute stroke, transient ischemic attack (TIA), or other disturbances of
      cerebrovascular circulation. The purpose of this protocol is to generate natural history data
      to serve as the basis for future hypothesis-driven protocols as well as to contribute to the
      clinical and physiological understanding of cerebrovascular disease through the description
      of disease manifestations and the relationship among clinical, hematologic, and radiologic
      variables, as well as identifying potential subjects for future studies on stroke and other
      cerebrovascular diseases.

      STUDY POPULATIONS: Patients will be recruited from the collaborative stroke program between
      NINDS and affiliated hospitals and will be followed for the duration of their
      hospitalization. Select subjects will then be seen for follow for up to one year.

      DESIGN: Clinical issues to be addressed will include disease manifestations, natural history,
      acute disease management, and psychological/behavioral impact of the disease. Because of the
      nature of acute cerebrovascular disease, it is important to note that the research performed
      under this protocol will not interfere with emergency clinical evaluation or treatment of
      subjects, as specified in the clinical care pathway in place for the standard care of stroke
      patients at participating hospitals. Due to the emergency nature of clinical evaluation and
      therapy for stroke patients, waiver of written informed consent in certain circumstances for
      minimal risk procedures during acute period (e.g., collecting extra tubes of blood during
      initial phlebotomy for emergency room blood tests) will be required when it is impossible to
      obtain consent prior to critical emergency treatment procedures that may change the values of
      the variables. Patients will not be treated with experimental therapies as part of this
      protocol. Data collected under this protocol may be shared with other NIH researchers and
      databases and the National Institutes of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) Repository
      if the subject approves this option in the informed consent.

      OUTCOME MEASURES: In addition to clinical, imaging and laboratory data that are part of
      routine clinical care of the patient, a variety of outcomes will be collected, e.g., infarct
      volume, clinical outcomes on NIH Stroke Scale, modified Rankin Score, Barthel Index, blood
      marker of inflammation, coagulation and gene expression. Statistical analysis plans will be
      developed as specific questions and hypotheses are generated.
    
  