
    
      Pain, quality of life and functionality are associated with each other, and patients with SCI
      are affected by each (4, 5) thus producing limitations in the participation of daily
      activities and self-care. Pain, mainly chronic pain, has an effect on emotional states as
      well as cognition regarding pain and anticipation which lead to catastrophization. The
      previously mentioned is broadly related to chronic diseases that present pain of poor
      prognosis and are detrimental to quality of life and risk of suicide (6-9) thus having
      enormous impacts on health systems.

      The effects of hydrotherapy in patients with NP secondary to SCI are unknown which is why
      this study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of hydrotherapy in the decrease of NP,
      catastrophization of pain, quality of life and disability in a group of patients with SCI.

      The main hypothesis of the study is that (i) hydrotherapy is effective in reducing
      neuropathic pain in patients with NP secondary to SCI. Likewise, another hypothesis to prove
      is that (ii) hydrotherapy decreases the catastrophization of neuropathic pain in patients
      with NP secondary to SCI compared to standard physical therapy, and that (iii) hydrotherapy
      improves the quality of life and the disability of patients with NP secondary to SCI compared
      to standard physical therapy.

      This study is a randomized controlled clinical trial of parallel groups under conditions of
      usual clinical practice. Participants will be selected from the list of patients attending
      the Spinal Trauma Clinic of the Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Unit of a Specialized
      Trauma Center.

      Those eligible for the study are patients whose clinical evaluation and physical examination
      result in a diagnosis of neuropathic pain secondary to trauma according to the International
      Spinal Cord Injury Pain (ISCIP), and those that meet the following criteria: over 18 years of
      age and a DN-score 4 (Douleur Neuropathique-4) equal to or greater than 4 and level of injury
      below C3.

      Those eligible for the study are patients whose clinical evaluation and physical examination
      result in a diagnosis of neuropathic pain secondary to trauma according to the International
      Spinal Cord Injury Pain (ISCIP), and those that meet the following criteria: over 18 years of
      age and a DN-score 4 (Douleur Neuropathique-4) equal to or greater than 4 and level of injury
      below C3.

      Te population requires a medical evaluation, when it is finished, the participants will be
      randomized into the control and intervention groups. The patient will be informed and
      reminded via phone call about the first day of therapy initiation.

      The comparison groups will be: Intervention Group (Hydrotherapy) and Control Group (Standard
      Physical Therapy). Participants will be assessed at the following times (Figure 2. Timeline):

        1. Measurement 1 - Baseline - At the beginning of the intervention (Both groups start in
           their respective groups, for 9 weeks).

        2. Measurement 2 - At the end of the intervention (one month after the end of the
           interventions).

      The participants assigned to the intervention (hydrotherapy) will receive the treatment for 9
      weeks (2 days per week) , resulting in a total of 18 sessions of Hydrotherapy. Each session
      will be held for a duration of 45 minutes to 1 hour. Likewise, the control group will have 18
      standard physical therapy treatment sessions during the same 9 weeks, with the same duration
      for each session as the hydrotherapy group.

      The instruments that will be used are validated worldwide. The DN-4 (Douleur Neuropathique-4
      items, to identify the presence of neuropathic pain, scale of catastrophization of pain and
      intensity of neuropathic pain. Pain Catastrophization Scale (PCS - Pain Catastrophizing
      Scale) and the Numerical Pain Scale (END) will be used to catastrophization of pain and
      intensity of neuropathic pain.
    
  