
    
      180 primary health care facilities in Nigeria are participating in this study. In one arm of
      this trial, 60 of the participating facilities are randomly assigned a physician (in addition
      to existing clinic staff); in a second arm, 60 facilities are randomly assigned an additional
      mid-level provider (of similar training to existing providers); and the third arm consists of
      facilities that receive no additional providers (the control group). Assigned providers will
      practice in those facilities for approximately one year. Stratifying by treatment arm, the
      investigators further randomize 10-15 enumeration areas within each facility catchment
      (service) area to either a Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) arm or to a control arm. The cash
      transfer is intended for currently pregnant women in those enumeration areas and is
      conditioned upon attending four antenatal care visits, giving birth in the facility, and
      attending at least one postnatal visit.

      To measure the effects of the interventions the investigators randomly sample 15 households
      in each facility catchment area and enroll all currently pregnant women within the study
      enumeration areas. Women at an advanced stage of pregnancy - third trimester - are excluded
      because such women will not be exposed to the intervention for the majority of their
      pregnancy. All household members are interviewed at baseline, midline (6 months later) and
      endline (12 months later) to collect information about health-seeking behavior and health
      status. Pregnant women are also interviewed at baseline and approximately 1-3 months after
      birth to collect information about health care utilization and birth outcomes. Additionally
      the investigators collect data from the participating health facilities and providers. Using
      a combination of provider surveys, clinical vignettes, direct clinical observation, and
      patient exit interviews the investigators examine the effects of the intervention on service
      delivery and quality.
    
  