
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the objective response rate (ORR) as measured by a modified Response Evaluation
      Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1 in subjects with extensive stage small cell
      lung cancer undergoing treatment with combination pembrolizumab and epacadostat.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the progression free survival (PFS) as measured by a modified RECIST v1.1 in
      subjects with extensive stage small cell lung cancer undergoing treatment with combination
      pembrolizumab and epacadostat.

      II. To assess the overall survival in subjects with extensive stage small cell lung cancer
      undergoing treatment with combination pembrolizumab and epacadostat.

      III. To assess the >= grade 3 drug related adverse event profile of combination pembrolizumab
      and epacadostat in subjects with extensive stage small cell lung cancer.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess tumor genomics, T-cell, myeloid-derived suppressor cells, and receptors
      (including PD-L1, IDO1, etc) in relation to response rates.

      II. To assess cell free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (cfDNA), cell free ribonucleic acid (RNA)
      (cfRNA), micro RNA (miRNA), and exosomes as predictors for outcomes to treatment with
      pembrolizumab and epacadostat in subjects with extensive stage small cell lung cancer and to
      evaluate plasma for predictive markers for outcomes to therapy.

      III. Blood samples will be also be stored for future evaluation.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) on day 1 and epacadostat orally (PO) twice
      daily (BID) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 35 courses in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients benefiting from treatment may
      continue for an additional 17 courses.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then every 12 weeks
      thereafter.
    
  