
    
      BACKGROUND: The backbone of scientific evidence to address most scientific questions,
      including behavioural interventions, is randomized controlled trials (RCTs). Prostate cancer
      is the most common malignancy in men, affecting 1 in 7 men. Almost 50% of these men will
      receive androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) at some point after diagnosis to reduce disease
      progression and prolong survival. ADT is associated with multiple adverse effects, including
      diminished quality of life (QOL), fatigue, reduced muscle mass, and metabolic effects.
      Numerous RCTs in the setting of men on ADT have demonstrated that exercise programs,
      particularly supervised 1:1 in-centre programs, are clinically effective. However, they are
      resource-intensive and have low scalability. Alternative delivery models such as group-based
      supervised exercise or home-based exercise are promising alternatives but require rigorous
      efficacy data. While conducting a two-centre exercise trial comparing different exercise
      delivery models, fewer than 40% of eligible men agreed to participate. Two common reasons why
      men declined participation were distance to exercise centres and unwillingness to be
      randomized. Novel clinical trial designs, such as preference-based trials, may help answer
      effectiveness questions and enhance generalizability by recruiting a more representative pool
      of men. Increased efficiencies in recruitment, however, may come at a cost of bias with
      non-randomized designs as well as differential effects of exercise and varying adherence. In
      parallel with a multi-centre phase III RCT funded by CIHR, we propose to conduct a pilot
      preference-based trial, examining 3 key issues. First, can we successfully enroll men who are
      unwilling to be randomized due either to distance from centre or a strong preference for one
      exercise delivery model? Second, are these men different from men who are randomized in terms
      of baseline characteristics, study retention, and adherence to the intervention? Third, are
      the benefits of an exercise program similar to men who are randomized to the same arm?

      OBJECTIVES:

      To determine, in men on ADT who are otherwise eligible to participate in a RCT of different
      exercise delivery models but decline to be randomized due to distance from the study centre
      or strong preference for one exercise delivery model:

        1. What proportion of these men are willing to be enrolled in a preference-based trial.

        2. How comparable are these men who agree to participate in the intervention arm of their
           choice to those randomized to the same arm in terms of baseline characteristics, study
           retention, and adherence to the intervention?

        3. How comparable are the benefits in terms of quality of life and physical fitness
           outcomes among men in the preference-based arms to those in the same randomized
           intervention arm?

      METHODS: Patients aged 18 or older on ADT for high-risk/locally advanced, biochemically
      relapsed, or asymptomatic metastatic prostate cancer will be eligible if they are otherwise
      eligible for an ongoing phase III RCT of exercise but decline to participate due to either
      distance from study centre or strong preference for one exercise delivery model. The main
      phase III RCT is examining a 6-month individualized, progressive, mixed-modality exercise
      program including aerobic, resistance, and flexibility components delivered using one of two
      delivery models: supervised in-centre group exercise 3 times weekly or home-based exercise
      supported by a Fitbit, smart phone app, and remote health coach.

      To meet the objectives of this pilot preference trial, we will enroll 50 men per preference
      arm at three experienced study sites (Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, Toronto, Scarborough
      and Rouge Hospital, Scarborough and the University of Calgary, Calgary and). We will examine
      the proportion of otherwise eligible men who decline participation in the RCT but agree to
      participate in a preference trial as well as reasons for declining. We will compare the
      baseline sociodemographic, fitness, and clinical characteristics of these men with
      corresponding men from the randomized trial. We will examine study retention and adherence
      (measured via sessional attendance, health coach contact, and accelerometry). We will also
      calculate preliminary within-group effect estimates for our co-primary outcomes (fatigue
      (FACT-Fatigue) and aerobic fitness (6-minute walk test) as well as various secondary
      outcomes.

      SIGNIFICANCE: Behavioural interventions require significant patient commitment and although
      most RCTs to date have shown evidence of benefit on various outcomes, recruitment rates have
      been low and many otherwise eligible men are not willing to be randomized for different
      reasons. Designing trials that allow inclusion of such men is obviously going to improve
      generalizability but whether the results of interventions are similarly effective and
      understanding the feasibility and potential biases of enrolling such men are fundamental
      unresolved issues. This pilot study will take advantage of an existing trial to begin to
      answer these questions and determine whether a larger preference-based trial is worth
      undertaking. Our findings have potential widespread implications for behavioural trials
      across many health care settings.
    
  