
    
      Research Background

      Macular neovascular disease, is a group of diseases with subfoveal choroidal
      neovascularization, including age-related macular degeneration (AMD), polypoidal choroidal
      vasculopathy (PCV), pathological myopia (PM) and etc. Due to the high permeability of
      immature blood vessel wall, consequent bleeding, and scarring，macular neovascularization
      often leads to severe vision loss. It has become the focus of World Health Organization's
      blindness- prevention cause [1]. Currently, the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) has
      been widely recognized as an important promoter for neovascularization. And a series of
      large-scale clinical studies revealed that anti- VEGF drug is the only effective way for
      macular neovascular disease [2], Anti-VEGF drug has been awarded as one of the top ten
      scientific and technological progress by Nature magazine.

      Conbercept is an anti-VEGF drug developed independently by Chinese researchers in recent
      years, it competitively prevents the binding of VEGF to its receptor and inhibits the
      downstream pathway activation, and has a higher binding affinity to VEGFA than other widely
      used anti-VEGF drugs. Many multicenter double blind random controlled study showed that
      conbercept has good efficacy and safety in treating macular neovascular diseases. In 2013,
      conbercept has been approved by the State Food and Drug Regulatory Administration of China
      and now has been widely used and recognized.

      Clinical trial results showed that the conbercept has good efficacy and safety in treating
      macular neovascular diseases [3], but the exact therapeutic regimen and the efficacy in the
      real world still needs to be further studied, the reasons are as follows:

        1. The efficacy and safety data of conbercept are collected from rigorous random controlled
           trials (RCT), it cannot fully reflect the clinical application of conbercept in the real
           world. Therefore, the knowledge of the therapeutic regimen, safety and efficacy of
           conbercept is still limited.

        2. Conbercept has been approved for wet-AMD only, but in clinical practice, some doctors
           applied other "off-label use" of conbercept. These "off-label use" has become a common
           phenomenon all over the world for the instruction book of drugs usually lag behind
           scientific researches. There is no specific law or regulatory document of drug off-label
           use in China until now.

        3. Anti-VEGF drugs are expensive and often require multiple treatments, besides, some
           patients have poor or even no response to the drugs. This resulted enormous waste of
           medical resources. So, how to accurately find out those patients who have good response,
           how to develop individualized therapeutic regimen, and the response of patients in the
           real world need to be urgently investigated in the aspect of pharmacogenomics, and
           pharmacometabolomics.

      Therefore, the investigators plan to carry out real-world researches of conbercept on
      treating macular neovascular diseases has significance and urgency.

      Scientific assumptions

      The investigators intended to conduct a nationwide， non-intrusive, prospective,
      observational, and multicenter registration study to investigate the efficacy of conbercept
      in the real-world. And this study will explore the pharmacogenomics and pharmacometabolomics
      of conbercept, relationships of phenotype and the effectiveness of the drug, optimize the
      therapeutic regimen, then reduce the financial burden of patients and save the limited
      medical resources to achieve the purpose of accurate treatment.

      For three unanswered questions raised in the background, the researchers carried out the
      following purposes:

        1. Investigate the safety and efficacy of conbercept in treating neovascular macular
           disease in the real world.

        2. Find out whether the "off-label use" of conbercept on PCV and PM have good efficacy.

        3. Explore the pharmacogenomics and pharmacometabolomics of conbercept through large-sample
           registration study.

      Research Plan

      Program schedule: Total 2 years (1 year on enrollment, 1-year on observation) Start time:
      February of 2017 (FPFV, First Time Patient First Visit) End time: December of 2018 (LPLV, the
      last time Last Patient Last Visit) Clinical study report (CSR): December of 2018; Publish:
      June of 2019

      This is an observational study, the investigators aim to observe and collect 5000 patients
      from forty nationwide ophthalmic centers that receive ocular injections of conbercept to
      treat macular neovascular diseases during December 2016- November 2017. And the follow-up
      observation last for one year. The investigators do not interfere patients' treatment plan
      during the entire research.

      Registration time:

      V1: baseline (enrollment period), V2: 1month after treatment, V3: 3 months, V4: 6 months, V5:
      12 months.

      Data collection and transfer:

      In each visit, patients' demographic information, vital sign, history of systematic diseases,
      concomitant medication, eye disease history, eye examinations record, safety information and
      blood samples are collected. Clinical data and fundus imaging data collected by forty
      clinical centers will be uploaded to Shanghai Jiaotong University Ophthalmic Reading Center
      database then be analyzed and evaluated together.

      Statistics Program: Statistical general principles:

      All data will undergo descriptive statistics and statistical tests，analysis will be based on
      baseline and follow-up data.

      Sample size:

      Plan to enroll 5,000 patients by 40 hospitals. The amount will depend on the registration
      capacity and follow-up rate.

      Safety: observe the number of cases and the percentage of adverse events and severe adverse
      events of conbercept in real world.

      Possible bias and solutions:

      Patients lost to follow (such as patients from other places, can not undergo regular local
      follow up): Solution 1, enroll in local patients or patients who plan to have regular and
      long-term follow-up in our hospital; 2, Follow up and register by telephone.

      Poor patient compliance: offer some compensation for patients' transport costs.

      Patients who cannot afford the drugs due to economic conditions: pharmaceutical has policies
      on drug donation for this population.

      Quality control and Management:

      Object Data Management: Ensure that all enrolled patients have signed informed consent. Each
      visit information should be timely, accurately and completely recorded and entered into the
      electronic case report form (CRF). The electronic CRF should be consistent with the original
      medical records. All adverse events, concomitant medications should be documented, serious
      adverse events should be reported to the relevant authorities within 24 hours.

      Follow-up management: follow-up should be conducted according to required time point and
      rules. Researchers should try to find out the reasons of losing visit and avoid them. If
      patients failed to come to clinic, then the researchers should make a phone call follow up.
      If patients refused to continue participating in the study for some concerns, they should be
      interpreted by reasonable encourages to continue cooperation.
    
  