
    
      The proposed study involves a single-blind, Phase I randomized controlled trial (RCT) on the
      effects of supervised treadmill walking exercise training on learning and memory, hippocampal
      structure/function, and cardiorespiratory fitness outcomes in fully-ambulatory (i.e., EDSS ≤
      4.0) persons with multiple sclerosis (MS) who have impairment in learning new information.
      This study will compare the effects of 3 months of supervised, progressive (both intensity
      and duration) chronic treadmill walking exercise (designed based on pilot work [Sandroff et
      al., 2015; 2016a; 2016b] and American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) guidelines) with
      those of an active control condition (i.e., stretching-and-toning activities) on learning and
      memory, hippocampal volume and resting-state functional connectivity, and cardiorespiratory
      fitness. Learning and memory represents the primary outcome, whereas hippocampal volume and
      resting-state functional connectivity and cardiorespiratory fitness represent the secondary
      outcomes. Such an investigation will provide the first Class I evidence for the effects of
      treadmill walking exercise training on those outcomes in MS.

      During baseline, participants will first complete a battery of neuropsychological tests,
      followed by an incremental exercise test to exhaustion on a motor-driven treadmill to measure
      cardiorespiratory fitness, and will undergo a MRI scan. Those outcomes will be measured by
      assessors who are blinded to condition. Participants will undertake several
      neuropsychological tests addressing various aspects of learning and memory. These tests
      include the California Verbal Learning Test-2 [Delis et al., 2000] and Selective Reminding
      Task [Buschke & Fuld, 1974] as measures of verbal learning and memory, and the Brief
      Visuospatial Memory Test-Revised [Benedict, 1997] and 10/36 Spatial Recall Test [Rao et al.,
      1984] as measures of visuospatial learning and memory. Cognitive processing speed will be
      measured using the Symbol Digit Modalities Test [Smith, 1982], verbal fluency will be
      measured using the Controlled Oral Word Association Test [Benton, 1994], and executive
      control (i.e., inhibitory control) will be measured using a modified flanker task [Eriksen &
      Eriksen, 1974]. Cardiorespiratory fitness will be measured as peak oxygen consumption
      (VO2peak), using an incremental exercise test to exhaustion on a motor-driven treadmill and
      an open-circuit spirometry system (ParvoMedics True One 2400, Sandy, UT) for analyzing
      expired gases using a modified Balke protocol. This protocol is commonly used for measuring
      cardiorespiratory fitness in older adults [e.g. Colcombe et al., 2004] and persons with
      chronic stroke [e.g., Macko et al., 1997] and further is consistent with the ACSM guidelines
      for exercise testing of MS patients [ACSM, 2013]. Lastly, participants will undergo
      structural and resting-state functional connectivity magnetic resonance images of the
      hippocampus. The MR instrument that will be used is an FDA-approved Siemens 3 T clinical
      imager. Following baseline testing, participants will be randomly assigned to either the
      exercise training or active control condition using concealment. Participants further will
      blinded to condition (i.e., unaware that the treadmill walking exercise training condition
      represents the experimental condition and the stretching-and-toning condition represents the
      active control condition).

      The exercise training will include 3-months of supervised, progressive light, moderate, and
      vigorous intensity treadmill walking exercise, and will be based on ACSM guidelines for
      exercise prescription [ACSM, 2013]. We selected treadmill walking exercise as the aerobic
      exercise modality based on pilot work that suggests that treadmill walking might exert larger
      beneficial effects on cognition compared with stationary cycling [Sandroff et al., 2015], and
      that such benefits occur for light, moderate, and vigorous intensity treadmill walking
      exercise [Sandroff et al., 2016]. The exercise training itself will take place 3 times per
      week over 3 months, led by trained exercise leaders, and will initially consist of 15 minutes
      of light-to-moderate intensity treadmill walking exercise and eventually progress to 40
      minutes of vigorous intensity exercise by month 3. The stretching-and-toning activities will
      be included as a minimal exercise, active control condition. The control condition will be
      delivered using the same frequency and duration of the treadmill walking exercise condition.
      The stretching-and-toning activities will be based on a manual provided by the National
      Multiple Sclerosis Society, and stretching-and-toning activities will be progressively
      included over the course of the 3-month study period. Participants will further be asked to
      not undertake additional exercise (i.e., not join a gym and begin exercising) over the
      duration of the study. The cognitive, cardiorespiratory fitness, and MRI outcomes will be
      assessed again following the 3-month study period by assessors who are blinded to condition.

      The data will be analyzed using mixed-factor ANOVA with time (pre- and post-) as a
      within-subjects factor and condition (exercise or control) as a between-subjects factor on
      learning and memory, hippocampal, and cardiorespiratory fitness outcomes (see Specific
      Aims/Hypotheses 1 and 2 in the Primary Study Objectives and Study Hypothesis sections).
      Effect sizes will be expressed as partial eta-squared (ηp2) and Cohen's d [Cohen, 1988].
      Spearman's rho rank-order correlations (ρ) will be performed for the associations among
      changes in cardiorespiratory fitness, hippocampal structure/function, and learning and memory
      for those who underwent the treadmill walking exercise training condition (See Specific
      Aims/Hypotheses 3 and 4 in the Secondary Study Objectives and Study Hypothesis sections). The
      effect sizes from the interaction terms from the ANOVAs and correlations will serve as effect
      sizes for the subsequent power analyses required for a subsequent Phase II RCT.
    
  