
    
      This will be a multi-centre, single-blinded, randomised control trial. Patients will be
      randomised at each site to undergo FGM with or without PRP.

      Step 1 in both groups is the same. Under LA (or GA if the patient is unable to tolerate
      this), a fat graft is taken from just behind the mastoid process, or more posteriorly just
      beneath the hairline if necessary. The graft is kept moist in 0.9% saline.The ear canal is
      injected with LA and the edges of the perforation are freshened. Gelfoam is placed into the
      middle ear and the fat graft placed on top of this until it touches the underside of the TM
      and slightly bulges through. In an attempt to achieve standardisation of surgical technique
      between sites, surgeons will be provided with an operative video to watch beforehand.

      Step 2. The surgeon is informed of the randomisation outcome into Group 1 or 2. Group 1 (Non
      PRP): patients will have FGM alone, and this will simply be covered with a piece of
      saline-soaked Gelfoam cut to completely cover the perforation and graft.

      Group 2 (PRP): as for Group 1, but the Gelfoam will instead be soaked in PRP derived from the
      patient's own whole blood. The generation of PRP is descibed below: -

        -  10-20 mL of autologous blood collected from an antecubital vein is placed in an
           adenosine citrate dextrose-acid (ACD-A) collection tube to prevent premature activation

        -  Blood immediately placed in the centrifuge at 1100g for 10 minutes (once)

        -  Supernatant removed and collected into syringe

        -  Injected onto surface of fat graft

        -  Rest added to piece of gelfoam

        -  Place gelfoam + PRP on the TM perforation

      Post op care: patients will be asked to keep their ear dry, and cover it with a cotton ball
      when taking a shower or bathing for the first week, but otherwise to leave it open. They will
      be given an eye dropper, and instructed to use 2 drops of white vinegar in the ear three
      times a day for 10 days, with the head tilted over to allow the vinegar to reach the fat
      graft. Vinegar drops are an effective treatment for Pseudomonas infection, the most common
      infection in the external ear canal, and are commonly used in external ear infections. If
      this causes any discomfort, the patients will be instructed to stop this, and this
      information will be recorded at first follow up. If there is infected discharge, the patient
      will be instructed to contact the surgeon, and will be treated with ciprofloxacin-containing
      eardrops for one week. The occurrence of such an event will be recorded, but will not be a
      censoring event for the purposes of the study.

      Follow up schedule: Patients will be followed at 2 weeks, 6 weeks and 3 months post surgery.

      A planned interim analysis will be performed at the half-way point of the study; each centre
      will be compared for heterogeneity with the other sites using ANOVA, for both group 1 and
      group 2. Data from sites with heterogeneous data may be discarded, and/or other sites
      recruited, and/or existing site enrollments increased as needed to allow adequate patient
      recruitment.

      Our primary outcome measure will be tested with an unpaired t-test between the two groups.
      The investigators will also perform secondary analyses of the degree of closure in the
      non-complete closure populations between the two treatment arms using Wilcoxon non-parametric
      testing

      Power analysis: the investigators have deemed a 30% difference in closure rate between the
      two groups as clinically significant. The investigators estimate the closure rate for the fat
      alone to be 50%, based on previous publications. To show a difference of closure rate of 70%
      in the blood treated group, with a power of 0.8 and an alpha error of 0.05 would require 45
      subjects in each group. This is for a binary outcome of pass fail. The investigators
      anticipate some drop out, because of failure of follow up, in the order of 30% at 3 months,
      and so aim to recruit 46 subjects in each arm.
    
  