
    
      Background: Dementia risk reduction is considered a public health priority. However, there is
      a paucity of related interventions among low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), such as
      the Philippines, despite the higher number of dementia cases in these regions. Meanwhile,
      individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), being at risk for dementia, are important
      targets for interventions to promote cognitive health.

      The enrichment of physical activities with cognitive exercises, known as dual-task training,
      is an innovative approach that has been noted to potentially improve cognitive outcomes in
      persons with MCI. Zumba is a popular dance worldwide, which combines rhythmic aerobic steps
      and whole-body movements. It has a modified version for older adults, called Zumba Gold, but
      information about its effects on older people is limited.

      Literature states that ensuring sufficient cognitive load in complex motor activities is
      important to achieve significant and superior cognitive outcomes. Dual-Task Zumba Gold (DTZ),
      an intervention combining Zumba Gold and simultaneous cognitive training, and is a novel and
      inexpensive non-pharmacological intervention that may enhance the cognition of persons at
      risk for dementia. However, its feasibility and potential efficacy among older people with
      MCI are unknown.

      Objectives of the Study: There are two objectives in this study: (1) To determine the
      feasibility and acceptability of a Dual-Task Zumba Gold (DTZ) intervention among
      community-dwelling individuals with MCI. (2) To investigate the preliminary efficacy of the
      DTZ intervention in improving the cognitive function among the recruited participants with
      MCI.

      Methods: This is a mixed-method pilot study, involving quantitative and qualitative methods
      to evaluate the study outcomes. The proposed 12-week DTZ intervention will be conducted three
      times/week for 45-60 minutes among individuals with MCI. Cognitive domains of executive
      function, visuospatial ability, memory, and complex attention will be stimulated through
      mental exercises which will be performed concurrently with the dance steps during particular
      sequences of the Zumba Gold dance.

      Sixty participants will be recruited, and then randomly allocated to treatment (DTZ) and
      control groups (health education). The feasibility of the intervention will be assessed by
      participant recruitment and retention rate, adherence rate, and implementation fidelity.
      Acceptability will be evaluated quantitatively via self-report attitudes towards the
      intervention. Moreover, qualitative data will be collected via focus group discussions to
      obtain their feedback toward the intervention.

      Changes in cognitive function will be assessed as the primary outcomes, to be measured via
      the following tools: Philippine versions of Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA-P) and
      Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE-P) for global cognition; Trail Making Tests A and B (TMT
      A & B) for executive functioning; Digit Span Test (DST) and MoCA-Memory Index Score
      (MoCA-MIS) for memory. Secondary outcomes to be evaluated include quality of life (Perceived
      Well-being Scale), mood (Geriatric Depression Scale-Short Form), functional mobility (Short
      Physical Performance Battery), and bodily measures (blood pressure, body mass index, and
      waist circumference).

      Content analysis will be utilized to analyze qualitative data from the interviews. Meanwhile,
      descriptive statistics, Chi-square test, and independent t-test will be used to analyze the
      subjects' characteristics and compare the two groups at baseline. General Linear Model (GLM)
      approach will be used to determine the intervention's preliminary efficacy at the
      post-treatment period.
    
  