
    
      Acromegaly is caused by increased production of growth hormone (GH) from a usually benign
      pituitary tumor. The disease causes a number of complications including disturbances in
      glucose metabolism and about 25% of the patients develop diabetes. Most patients are cured
      upon surgery alone, but many require additional medical treatment, and in rare cases
      radiotherapy. A disadvantage of radiotherapy is a risk of radiation damage to nearby areas
      such as the hypothalamus. The true extent of irradiation induced hypothalamic dysfunction,
      however, remains uncertain.

      Data have shown significant improvement and often normalization of glucose metabolism upon
      surgical cure from acromegaly, whereas data suggest that such improvement is less likely in
      patients receiving additional radiotherapy.

      The hypothalamus is part of the so-called 'gut-brain axis', where gastrointestinal hormones
      through interaction with the hypothalamus plays a significant role in the regulation of
      appetite and glucose metabolism. Incretins are the most prominent gastrointestinal hormones
      involved, with the incretin-effect referring to food-induced insulin secretion, which in
      healthy subjects is responsible for up to 70% of the insulin response after oral glucose
      intake. The investigators hypothesize that radiation conditional influence of the
      hypothalamus may compromise the gut-brain activity and thereby affect the incretin-effect and
      gastrointestinal-mediated glucose disposal (GIGD; i.e. sum of all gastrointestinal-derived
      factors that contribute to glucose metabolism) in patients with acromegaly.

      The aim of the study is to investigate the long term effect of surgery with or without
      additional fractionated radiation therapy on glucose metabolism as assessed by
      incretin-effect and GIGD in acromegaly, in order to identify possible associations with
      treatment modality.

      Design: observational case-control study Participants: Acromegalic patients who have
      previously received (N=12) or did not receive (N=12) pituitary irradiation as part of their
      treatment, and 12 matched healthy controls.

      Investigation: Extended oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), followed by isoglycaemic
      intravenous glucose infusion (IGII) with concurrent measurement of plasma-glucose, -insulin,
      -C-peptide, -glucagon, glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and glucose-dependent insulinotropic
      peptide (GIP) at fixed time-points.
    
  