
    
      The endoscopic management of patients on anti platelet agents (APA) is a wide problem, due to
      the dramatically increasing prevalence of patients on these therapies. The benefit / risk
      balance to stop or continue the APA for the digestive endoscopic procedure confronts us every
      day in clinical practice to another: the relationship thrombosis / hemorrhage. The
      maintenance of an APA is particularly essential for acute coronary episode, but in the long
      term, in prevention of recurrent thrombotic cardiovascular disease. Molecules most commonly
      used today are aspirin and clopidogrel.

      Current recommendations from the European Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ESGE) allow
      the maintenance of aspirin for the polypectomy. Some preliminary data show that the risk of
      bleeding during endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) with aspirin is not significantly higher
      than polypectomy. The concept of polypectomy / EMR without stopping aspirin is progressively
      accepted and returned gradually to the usual practice. However, these procedures are still
      not allowed under clopidogrel, or in a dual APA therapy, in the absence of relevant data on
      the subject in the literature.

      However recent studies disrupt this problem for different reasons: i) endoscopic haemostatic
      preventive measures have demonstrated efficacy in reducing the rate of immediate and delayed
      bleeding post polypectomy or EMR; ii) the inadequate modification or untimely stopping APA
      treatment is always complicated by severe vascular thrombosis events in 5% of patients; iii)
      three retrospective studies relativize the risk of bleeding after a colonic polypectomy under
      clopidogrel. It is therefore essential to carry out a prospective, large-scale, multicenter,
      study to clarify the risk of post colonic EMR/polypectomy bleeding in patients under
      clopidogrel alone or in combination (aspirin and clopidogrel) taking into account the
      endoscopic preventive measures used in daily practice by endoscopists in expert centers
      (clip, ligature and loop devices, preventive adrenalin injection).

      The aim of the "MEDOC" study is to determine the incidence of immediate and delayed bleeding
      after colonic polypectomy and / or EMR for patients on clopidogrel.

      The study presents an interventional prospective multicentric and national design.

      300 patients will be included. The duration of the study inclusions will be 18 months.

      It is expected in this work an incidence of post-polypectomy bleeding close to that observed
      during the implementation of these actions in the population without any anti platelet
      agents.
    
  