
    
      This is a single-center, open-label study in adult renal transplant patients.Twenty five
      patients with functioning HLA matched living donor kidney transplants will receive TLI, rATG
      and an infusion of cluster of differentiation (CD)34+ (Stem/Progenitor cells) selected
      granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) mobilized blood cells combined with CD3+ T
      cells (Stem/ Progenitor cells) from their transplant donors.Transplant recipients will have
      their maintenance Immunosuppressive drugs adjusted for four weeks before starting the TLI and
      ATG conditioning regimen. Mycophenolate Mofetil (MMF) will be maintained at 0.5 gm twice a
      day per day during this four week period during TLI and ATG treatments, and increased to 1
      gram twice a day immediately after the completion of TLI at day 14.

      MMF will be tapered starting 6 (six) months later. Tacrolimus levels will be targeted to
      blood trough levels of 4-6 ng/ml in the month before the start of the conditioning regimen.
      This target would be increased to 8-10 ng/ml at the start of the TLI and ATG conditioning
      regimen. At serial time points (1) graft function will be monitored. (2) chimerism will be
      measured in recipient white blood cell subsets, (3) protocol biopsies of the graft will be
      obtained. An attempt will be made to discontinue Tacrolimus at 12 months if (1) chimerism is
      detectable for least 180 days after the CD34+ and CD3+ cell infusion, (2) there is no Graft
      Versus Host Disease (GVHD), (3) there is stable graft function without clinical rejection
      episodes and (4) lack of histological rejection on protocol biopsies.

      Recipients will be given the target dose of ≥ 8 x 10^6 CD 34 + cells/Kg and a dose of 5x10^6
      CD3+ cells/Kg.The dose would be sequentially increased to 10, 15 and 25 x 10^6 CD3+ cells/Kg
      if fewer than 4 of 5 consecutive patients achieve whole blood chimerism of ≥ 30 % at 60 days.
      If 4 of 5 patients achieve this level of chimerism, then all subsequent enrolled patients
      will receive this dose.
    
  