
    
      β-thalassemia result from a decrease in β- globin chains which result in a relative excess of
      α-globin chains . Approximately 1.5% of the population is estimated to be carriers for
      β-thalassemia . Around 60,000 new births are recorded to be affected by β-thalassemia per
      year in the world . In Egypt, it was estimated that 1000/1.5 million live births per year
      suffer from thalassemia; β -thalassemia is the most common type, with a carrier rate starting
      from 5.3%-9% . Depending on severity of hematological and clinical conditions, β-thalassemia
      is classified into three types, namely, β-thalassemia minor (β-TMI) (also called as carrier),
      β-thalassemia intermedia (β-TI) and β-thalassemia major (β-TM). The clinical severity of
      β-thalassemia intermedia has ranged from asymptomatic carrier state to severe
      transfusion-dependent type. β-Thalassemia minor is clinically asymptomatic but can be
      characterized by specific hematological features .

      A high incidence of thromboembolic event has been observed in patients with β -thalassemia.
      Endothelial dysfunction occurred in those patients was attributed to peroxidative tissue
      injury because of continuous blood transfusions . Carotid atherosclerosis was positively
      associated with serum ferritin independent of traditional cardiovascular risk factors and
      transfusion-related iron overload in β-thalassemia major (β-TM) has been associated with the
      onset of cardiovascular complications, including cardiac dysfunction and vascular anomalies.
      Increased iron overload has also been reported in patients with non-transfusion dependent
      thalassemia (NTDT) Direct iron-related injury is responsible for different kinds of
      cardiovascular abnormalities, including progressive worsening of diastolic and systolic
      ventricular function, increased arterial stiffness and pulmonary hypertension .

      It has previously demonstrated that both patients with β-TM and β-TI exhibit a global
      impairment of arterial vasorelaxation and increased carotid intima-media thickness (cIMT) as
      compared with control healthy subjects , those findings strongly support the notion that the
      severe arterial dysfunction in thalassemia may indicate an additional clinical vulnerability
      for venous thromboembolism. Epidemiologically, vascular events appear at a relatively young
      age with a four times higher incidence in β-TI as compared with β-TM patients . Carotid
      intima-media thickness is related both with incident and prevalent cardiovascular disease and
      is accepted measure of subclinical atherosclerosis . It also increases the risk for future
      myocardial infarction (MI) .

      Lipid abnormalities have been detected in different types of β -thalassemia, and also in
      various hematological disorders including sickle cell disease, glucose-6-phosphate
      dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency, spherocytosis, aplastic anemia and myelodysplastic syndrome
      . Patients with β - thalassemia are at risk of developing premature atherosclerosis because
      of those abnormalities .

      Inflammatory biomarkers including C-reactive proteins and cytokines (IL-6) are found to be
      increased in various inflammatory conditions and have been used by a number of workers as
      biomarker of inflammation in thalassemia . The iron laden insult to the tissues in
      transfusion dependent thalassemic patients has been monitored using the high sensitive
      C-reactive proteins as biomarker of inflammation and vascular risk .

      High Sensitive C-reactive protein(hsC-RP)is clinically proven as a method to predict vascular
      risk and to enhance event rates in clinical trials. As hsC-RP and IL-6 levels measured in
      apparently healthy populations also predict future vascular risk; hsC-RP and IL-6 levels have
      been shown to correlate with endothelial dysfunction, arterial stiffness, and extent of
      subclinical atherosclerosis . IL-6 signaling has also been linked to plaque initiation and
      destabilization , to microvascular flow dysfunction , and to adverse outcomes in the setting
      of acute ischemia .

      Adiponectin, an adipose tissue secreted protein, has been well recognized to exhibit
      insulin-sensitizing, anti-inflammatory and anti-atherosclerotic properties . Its level is
      associated with atherosclerosis markers such as inflammation, oxidative stress, and
      endothelial dysfunction . Its anti-inflammatory action, resulting in decreased production and
      inhibition of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) action, decreased IL-6 production, and human
      studies previously reported an inverse association between adiponectin level and C-RP , TNF-α
      and IL-6 .

      Adiponectin varies according to body mass index with lower levels in obese individuals , in
      type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and in hypertensive patients.

      Circulating low adiponectin levels (hypoadiponectinemia) is considered an independent risk
      factor for endothelial dysfunction and modulating vessel wall health . It has been correlated
      with elevated risk factors of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and associated with
      hypertension, dyslipidemia, and inflammation in both the general population and in diabetic
      patients .
    
  