
    
      1. Phase 1 A total of 30 240 patients with AF will be prospectively and consecutively
           enrolled and applied conventional ablation strategy with AI-blinded using contact force
           sensing catheter (Thermocool SmartTouch Catheter, Biosense Webster Inc.). Conventional
           ablation will be performed signal reduction-guided, point by point ablation using
           Visitag automated annotation criteria (2520-35W, target contact force 10-20g30g, target
           time: 30-40sec for anterior/roof segments, 2015-30sec for posterior/inferior segments).

           AI value will be derived from comprehensive off-line analysis of ablation parameters
           including contact force, time, power and AI of these 30 240 patients by predefined 14
           segments.

           Through comparison of AI of each segment with or without acute outcomes including PV
           residual potential after first encirclement/early reconnection (ER)/dormant conduction
           (DC), minimal AI value would be drawndetermined, and optimal AI value will be suggested
           for future AI-guided ablation strategy Phase 2 study (AI-guided ablation strategy).

        2. Phase 2 The Phase 2 study aims to evaluate the feasibility of applying optimal AI values
           derived from the Phase 1 study, and to verify optimal values through AI-guided ablation.
           Thirty patients with AF will be prospectively and consecutively enrolled. AI information
           will be opened to the operator during ablation, and Visitag annotation criteria will
           also be used for AI-guided ablation with pre-set minimum target values for each segment
           derived from the Phase 1 study. After the procedure, the proportion of ablation points
           within the target AI value will be calculated by evaluation of the feasibility of the
           AI-guided ablation strategy. Acute outcomes of PVI including PV residual potential after
           first encirclement, ER, and DC will be evaluated based on predefined segments.

        3. Comparison of conventional vs. AI-guided ablation The investigators will compare the
           acute outcomes of PVI using two different strategies: conventional vs. AI-guided
           ablation. During 1 year of follow-up in both groups, AF recurrence will be evaluated at
           3, 6, 9 and 12 months using rhythm surveillance (ECG or 24-hour Holter monitoring). The
           AF recurrence rate at 1 year after PVI will be compared between the two groups. In
           addition, total ablation time, fluoroscopic time, procedure time, and complication rates
           for the index procedure will be compared between the two groups.
    
  