
    
      The use of invasive mechanical ventilation is one of the most frequent therapies in intensive
      care units (ICUs). There are several types of indications, depending on the failure:
      essentially neurological, hemodynamic or respiratory.

      In recent years, the notion of lung damage induced by mechanical ventilation (VILI) has led
      to major changes in ventilator settings in both ICUs and operative rooms (Ors). The reduction
      of the tidal volume (TV) to 6-8 mL/kg of ideal body weight, the use of an individualized
      positive end-of-expiratory pressure (PEEP) and the possible use of pulmonary aeration
      optimization therapies (alveolar recruitment manoeuvres, prone positioning sessions...) have
      become essential to increase patient's survival.

      Withdrawal of invasive mechanical ventilation remains a daily issue and traditionally
      requires the transition from fully controlled ventilation to pressure support ventilation.
      Among specific settings of the latter, the adjustment of the trigger value (or threshold for
      triggering the ventilator) has not been explored to date. The trigger threshold corresponds
      to the sensitivity of the ventilator to detect patient's inspiratory effort and then deliver
      the predefined pressure support to inflate the lungs and deliver a tidal volume. The lower
      (or more sensitive) the trigger threshold, the smallest patient's effort will be rewarded. On
      the other hand, the higher the threshold, the greater the inspiratory effort required from
      the patient. Usually, this value is set by default to the minimum level to avoid
      self-triggering of the ventilator. With the objective to optimize pulmonary aeration, the use
      of higher trigger levels could increase diaphragmatic work (with a potential re-training and
      reinforcement effect) and contribute to better alveolar recruitment in the postero-inferior
      territories that are traditionally the most impacted, following a higher diaphragmatic
      motion. The authors propose to explore the impact of different trigger levels on pulmonary
      aeration (evaluated by electrical impedance tomography) and ventilatory parameters, in order
      to validate our hypotheses and before considering a trial with the objective of defining
      individualized trigger levels, according to patient's respiratory mechanics and pulmonary
      parenchyma morphology, with potential benefits on ventilator weaning.
    
  