
    
      The principal objective of this study is to evaluate the detection rate, the false negative
      rate and the overall accuracy of the lymphofluoroscopic research of the sentinel lymph nodes
      after periareolar injections of Indocyanine Green (ICG) in combination and in comparison with
      our classical intramammary and peritumoral injections of 99mTc-HSA-Nanocolloids in patients
      with breast cancer. These patients are currently out of the inclusion criteria and still
      undergo systematically complete axillary node dissection.

      In this study (which would include at least 200 patients over a period of 2 years, with at
      least 100 patients after neoadjuvant chemotherapy) the involved surgeons would continue to
      perform complete axillary node dissections.

      The radioactive SLN would be retrieved ex vivo in the axillary piece (with the gamma probe,
      after intramammary and peritumoral injections of radiocolloids the day before the surgery, or
      at least 3 hours before, with scintigraphic preoperative images as already performed
      routinely for patients described in the introduction 1 of this letter). These radioactive
      lymph nodes would thereafter been controlled for their possible fluorescence (with our
      fluorescence camera and after periareolar injection of ICG in the operating room just before
      the surgery). Finally, in the service of Pathology, all the lymph nodes found by the
      pathologist in the axillary piece will be controlled for their possible fluorescence.

      With this approach, the surgeon will not have to search for SLN and the operative duration
      will not be extended.

      Secondary objectives:

      The current literature about the results of SLNB technique has not yet considered the
      influence of the addition of SPECT-CT imaging (standard approach in our institute since more
      than 3 years) to planar imaging. In this study, we propose to analyse in a prospective manner
      the contribution of SPECT-CT: contribution of the analysis of the signal intensity of active
      lymph nodes on SPECT slides to define a resection threshold corresponding to lymph nodes at
      risk of being pN+, accuracy for the anatomic localization, better accuracy of the number of
      SLN on the SPECT-CT versus planar image, better definition of the number of lymph nodes (to
      be analysed on the CT) covered by a radioactive spot (we have already observed 3 adjacent
      lymph nodes under one only active spot).

      In this last case, such spots covering several lymph nodes would be analysed for the possible
      fluorescence of each lymph node.

      The fluorescence of the detected lymph nodes will be analysed semi-quantitatively and related
      to their pN+ characteristics (pNi, pNµ, pN1, pNmacro). This first analysis may have major
      implications when our surgeons will perform an in vivo research of fluorescent SLN (see also
      Bourgeois et al. 2003).

      Finally, we propose to analyse the kinetic and the vascular characteristics (aspects of the
      vessels on the images) of ICG migration from its injection point to the axilla. We will try
      to define possible predictive parameters of extended and/or macroscopic involvement of
      axillary lymph nodes.
    
  