
    
      Prospective study of neovascular AMD subjects with type 1, 2, or 3 neovascularization that
      have not been treated with prior anti-VEGF therapy. Subjects will be scheduled for
      intravitreal aflibercept injection (IAI) at baseline, week 4, week 8, week 16, week 24, week
      36, and week 48. Additional injections can be administered during the remaining visits on an
      as needed basis per PI discretion based on the presence of any intraretinal or subretinal
      fluid on OCT, heme visualized on examination, reduction of BCVA by 5 or more ETDRS letters,
      or evidence of either increased area, density, or activity of the brush border of the
      neovascularization on OCT angiography. There will be a minimum of 21 days between subsequent
      injections. Each subject will therefore receive a minimum of 7 injections and up to a maximum
      of 13 injections throughout the study period. No injection will be given on the exit visit,
      week 52. OCT angiography and spectral domain OCT imaging will be performed at baseline and
      every 4 weeks thereafter

      The above procedures are standard of care for neovascular AMD subjects.

      As part of this study, these subjects will also undergo imaging of both eyes with OCTA at
      each visit. This is not standard of Care and is research.

      The only procedure that is being performed for research is the OCT-A. The injections and all
      other procedure are SOC based on physician discretion and clinical need. The investigators
      will not be modifying the dosage amounts or frequency.

      A subgroup of willing subjects will undergo OCT angiography every 2 weeks for the first 12
      weeks.

      Indocyanine green angiography will be performed at baseline for all subjects to establish
      baseline subject population characteristics. Fluorescein angiography will be performed at
      baseline, week 12, and week 52 for efficacy monitoring. Detailed OCT angiography analysis
      will be performed to identify anatomical and morphological biomarkers of growth progression
      and disease activity. In addition to qualitative structural and morphological analysis,
      detailed quantitative OCT angiography analysis of the neovascular lesion using automated or
      manual capillary density maps and area calculation will be performed at each visit to
      determine the detailed microvascular response of neovascular complexes to IAI therapy.
    
  