
    
      Sleep is a key factor in a person's health, and we actually spend one third of our lives
      sleeping. The latest figures show a prevalence of insomnia in 20-30% of French adults. Sleep
      disorders are a growing public health concern.

      Treatment for insomnia is often some form of drugs; however, the side effects of these
      treatments (sedatives, hypnotics or anti-anxiety medications) are significant. Non
      drug-treatments like music therapy are growing in popularity. The objective of this study is
      to demonstrate the effectiveness of musical interventions on sleep disorders in general
      population.

      It is a prospective, multicentered, double-blind, randomized comparative intervention study,
      comparing 3 parallel patient groups. Patients included in this study will be selected by
      their physicians according to the severity of their disorders. Enrollment period will last
      for 2 months and the study will last 3 months. The primary outcome (score on Pittsburgh Sleep
      Quality Index, PSQI) is a discrete quantitative variable. The statistical tests used will
      concern the comparison of the average deltas of each group by using analysis of variance
      (ANOVA). The selected alpha risk, or Type 1 error, is 5%.

      The results expected in this study are a significant decrease in Pittsburgh scale scores in
      the music intervention group. The decrease in Pittsburgh scale scores should be compared to
      the results from this study: Qun Wang and Al; The Effects of Music Intervention on Sleep
      Quality in Community-Dwelling Elderly, The Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine,
      2016. In this 3-month study, the average change compared to the baseline is 6.44 in the
      musical intervention group and 3.28 in the control group. The pooled standard deviation is
      estimated to be 3.53.

      Musical intervention is non-invasive, so it's a low-risk therapeutic tool for general
      practice that may be useful in the management of sleep disorders. Its effectiveness, if
      demonstrated, could lead to new recommendations for the treatment of sleep disorders, and
      reduce the use of medication such as sedatives and hypnotics.
    
  