
    
      Central line associated bloodstream infection (CL-ABI) is an important and preventable cause
      of nosocomial infections and is responsible for considerable morbidity and mortality. It is
      estimated that 5 to 26% of patients experience an infectious complication from their central
      venous catheter [1]. In the United States, it is estimated that nearly 50,000 patients
      develop central line associated bloodstream infections in the ICUs annually, at a rate of
      approximately 5 infections per 1000 catheter days [2] and as many as 15,000 deaths annually.
      Central line associated bloodstream infections are also associated with increased hospital
      and ICU lengths of stay in the ICU (2). Estimates of the cost of CL-ABI to hospitals range
      from $25,000 to $65,000 per patient [3, 4].

      The Centers for Disease Control have published guidelines for the prevention of CL-ABI that
      represent a collaborative effort by a multidisciplinary coalition of professional
      organizations that provide evidence based recommendations to prevent catheter related
      infections [5]. The interventions emphasize five distinct practices, including: education and
      training of healthcare providers who place and care for catheters, utilizing maximum sterile
      barrier precautions during catheter placement, skin preparation using 2% chlorhexidine,
      avoiding routine replacement of central lines as a strategy to reduce infection, and using
      antiseptic or antibiotic coated lines in the event that infection rates remain high despite
      adherence to the above measures [5].

      Several studies have demonstrated impressive reductions in CL-ABI from the application of
      these strategies, ranging from 18 to 100% reductions and realizing significant reductions in
      mortality and cost [2]. The simple introduction of maximum sterile barrier precautions to
      insert central lines has been observed to dramatically reduce infection rates for over a
      decade [6]. However, the CDC's guidelines, despite their seeming simplicity, have been found
      to be frequently insufficiently applied, whether by ignorance or omission (2) In the past 12
      months there have been a total 24 documented central venous catheter (CVC) infections at
      SLRHC. At RH the total number of central line days since June 2005 was3,567 with a cumulative
      rate of infection of 2.8 per 1000 central line days and at SLH a total of 8,524 central line
      days with an infection rate of 4.3 per 1000 central line days. These infection rate figures
      are above the benchmark experience. The cost of CVC infections to hospitals in the United
      States is estimated to be $45,000 per infection (7). For SLRHC the cost incurred over the
      past 12 months is estimated to be $1,080,000.

      Training and education of healthcare personnel and the utilization of maximum sterile
      precautions are two important areas. Residents still most frequently learn central line
      placement techniques by the "see one, do one, teach one" method, which by its very definition
      allows for a multitude of techniques in practice. While this teaching theoretically includes
      the utilization of maximal sterile precautions for central line placement, the focus of
      teaching, and of residents' anxieties, is most often focused on the proper placement of the
      line, not the sterile technique used to place it. Residents in non-surgical fields may not be
      comfortable with maximum sterile technique in bedside procedures, and surgical residents may
      be somewhat blasé about the need for such detail.

      Medical simulators allow residents to practice skills in a realistic and interactive
      environment that minimizes risk to patients. Studies have found simulation to be an effective
      means for teaching skills as diverse as ACLS and airway management to laparoscopic surgical
      skills (8, 9, 10). Additionally, the use of audio-visual equipment in a medical simulator to
      record a resident's performance gives valuable firsthand feedback that is otherwise not
      available, as it allows residents to visualize their own missteps (11). This is hypothesized
      to be of particular value in the proper acquisition of physical skills such as maximum
      sterile precautions.

      We plan to examine the utility of a medical simulation environment that replicates an ICU
      setting to first assess medical residents' ability to utilize and maintain maximum sterile
      precautions in the placement of central venous lines using a standardized scoring tool and
      subsequently, assess the impact of videotape training vs. individual simulated debriefing on
      performance of correct MBP.

      We hypothesize that medical residents, who have baseline training in the placement of central
      venous lines, will show improvement following simulation and viewing of the training
      videotape, and that greatest improvement will be seen in the residents who go through a
      debriefing simulated method. We hypothesize that PGY 2 and 3 medical residents undergoing
      simulation-based training in maximal barrier precaution technique during central venous
      catheter (CVC) placement will have good recall after 3 months
    
  