
    
      Early detection and diagnosis of pulmonary nodules is clinically significant regarding
      optimal treatment selection and avoidance of unnecessary surgical procedures. Deferential
      pathology results causes widely different prognosis after standard surgery among pulmonary
      precancerous lesion, atypical adenomatous hyperplasia (AAH) as well as adenocarcinoma in situ
      (AIS), and early stage invasive adenocarcinoma (IAC). The micro-invasion of pulmonary
      perifocal interstitium is difficult to identify from AIS unless pathology immunohistochemical
      study was implemented after operation，which may causes prolonged procedure time and
      inappropriate surgical decision-making. Key feature-derived variables screened from CT scans
      via statistics and machine learning algorithms, could form a radiomics signature for disease
      diagnosis, tumor staging, therapy response adn patient prognosis. The purpose of this study
      was to investigate whether the combined radiomic signature based on the focal and
      perifocal（5mm）radiomic features can effectively improve predictive performance of
      distinguishing precancerous lesions from early stage lung adenocarcinoma. Besides,
      immunotherapy response is various among patients and no more than 20% of patients could
      benefit from it. None reliable biomarker has been found yet expect Programmed death-ligand 1
      (PD-L1) expression, the only approved biomarker for immunotherapy. However recent reports
      suggested that patients could benefit from immunotherapy regardless of PD-L1 positive or
      negative. On the contrast, radiomics has show it advantages of non-invasiveness,
      easy-acquired and no limitation of sampling. Therefore, we applied this strategy in
      prediction for the immunotherapy response of advanced NSCLC lung cancer patients receiving
      immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs), which would prevent some non-benefit patient from the
      adverse effect of ICIs.
    
  