
    
      In Upper cross syndrome upper trapezius, pectoralis major, and levator scapulae become tight
      and rhomboids , serratus anterior, middle and lower trapezius, and deep neck flexors,
      including scalene becomes weak. The postural muscles have tendency to become tight while the
      phasic muscles have tendency to become weak and inhibited. Thus typical pattern of altered
      posture and muscular imbalance occurs whenever dysfunction of muscle start. mainly muscular
      imbalance between weak and tonic muscles leads toward this upper cross syndrome. Soft tissue
      and cervical spine disorders are found out to be the major contributor in neck pain but when
      postural abnormality becomes the reason behind neck ache than this is categorized as Upper
      cross syndrome due to this imbalance in muscles our body has to suffer from severe
      consequences.rounded shoulder posture is a result of protracted girdle of shoulder due to
      muscular imbalances between agonist and antagonist muscles resulting in extreme pain and
      exaggerated cervical curvature.Imbalanced stress on cervical vertebrae is responsible in
      creating extra pull on neck and head similarly change in normal posture is responsible in
      overloading, weakening or tightening of cervical area. Characteristics of patient presenting
      with UCS will have forward head posture, kyphosis ,hunch of thoracic spine (rounded
      shoulder),winged scapulae, protracted and elevated shoulder and reduced thoracic spine
      mobility. UCS with the passage of time can detoriate persons physical fitness and health ,it
      is not only responsible for changes in posture of upper back i.e hypokyphosis over time, but
      it is also responsible for inducing respiratory problems including asthma. It also cause neck
      back shoulder and chest wall pain, this pain can be caused by muscular imbalance leading to
      overuse and fatigue of muscle because of movement dysfunction of back and neck.when muscles
      become fatigued they start generating more amount of inflammatory chemicals resulting in
      becoming more sore and increased spasticity. With the passage of time biomechanical and
      postural changing will induce osteoarthritis in upper thoracic and lower cervical spine in
      early ages. Functional Shoulder impingement syndrome is also considered to be another
      complication of Upper cross syndrome. Therefore it is necessary to correctly diagnose and
      treat this condition before its complication starts worsening.
    
  