
    
      Eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) is an increasingly recognized rare disease of children and
      adults characterized by symptoms including nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, dysphagia and
      food impaction that occur in conjunction with esophageal eosinophilia. To date, the only
      method to make EoE diagnoses and follow treatment responses in EoE is invasive endoscopy with
      biopsy. While endoscopy is generally safe, an accurate, less invasive, inexpensive,
      comprehensive and durable test is urgently needed to determine therapeutic efficacy. To
      address this need, the investigators will use a novel application of an existing technology,
      the Enterotest™ (a string-based test used to detect intestinal Giardiasis), to measure
      esophageal inflammation (herein termed the Esophageal String Test - EST). The investigators
      supportive Preliminary Data provide proof-of-principle for the ability of ESTs to capture
      esophageal inflammatory mediators in luminal samples from patients affected with EoE. The
      investigators prospective study demonstrates that: (1) levels of eosinophil-derived granule
      proteins (MBP1, EDN, ECP, EPX, CLC/Gal-10) in esophageal mucosal biopsies correlate with
      levels quantitated in EST-captured samples, i.e., levels in luminal secretions captured by
      the EST correlate with mucosal inflammation, and (2) these luminal biomarkers of eosinophilic
      inflammation significantly correlate with EoE disease activity. These findings provide strong
      support for using ESTs as novel minimally invasive instruments to monitor therapeutic
      efficacy in EoE. The global objective of this project is therefore to bring the "Esophageal
      String Test" (EST) to commercialization, so that it can be used to monitor therapeutic
      efficacy in children and adults with EoE. The investigators hypothesize that ESTs will
      capture an EoE Biomarker Panel (EBP) reflective of disease activity. The Specific Aims are
      to: (1) Identify an EoE Biomarker Panel (EBP) that will improve the sensitivity and
      specificity of the EST for monitoring disease activity and (2) Validate the ability of the
      EST EBP to monitor therapeutic efficacy in 1-hour sampling time. The investigators supportive
      Preliminary Data demonstrate the feasibility of using ESTs in both children and adults with
      EoE to measure disease activity (esophageal inflammation) in an overnight (12-hour) test, and
      shorter time periods, currently performed before a scheduled endoscopy with biopsy. In this
      project, The investigators propose to shorten this time frame to a 1-hour test, a clinically
      relevant time point that will markedly facilitate its use and potential impact in the
      outpatient clinic setting.

      Public Health Relevance/Impacts: At least four major impacts should result from these
      studies:

      (1) Identification of an EBP will permit monitoring of esophageal inflammation in EoE; (2)
      the EBP will be relevant to following disease progression, treatment responses, management
      and pathogenesis of EoE, (3) validation of the EST EBP will enable development of rapid and
      inexpensive assays to follow treatment responses, thus reducing the number of follow-up
      endoscopies with biopsy that are currently performed, and (4) provide a device to monitor EoE
      disease activity where endoscopy with biopsy may not be available or affordable.
    
  