
    
      Esophageal Adenocarcinoma is a Lethal Cancer with a Rapidly Increasing Incidence. Barrett's
      Esophagus (BE) is the Strongest Risk Factor for Esophageal Adenocarcinoma. Endoscopic
      Ablation Induces Reversion of Barrett's Esophagus, and Decreases Progression of Disease.
      Unfortunately, data demonstrate a risk of recurrence of BE following successful eradication.
      Recent data published by the candidate and colleagues from the Ablation of Intestinal
      Metaplasia Containing Dysplasia (AIM Dysplasia) study demonstrate that approximately 25% of
      subjects who experience successful eradication of dysplastic BE will develop recurrent BE.

      Therefore, following successful endoscopic ablation, patients receive ongoing endoscopic
      surveillance. More recently, a simple, non-endoscopic device, termed the Cytosponge, has been
      developed for endoscopic screening of subjects at risk for BE. Cytosponge demonstrated a
      sensitivity of 90% and a specificity of 94% for the detection of BE.

      We expect these investigations to lead to a less costly, highly accurate, less invasive and
      more preferred screening paradigm for the large number of subjects who have undergone
      endoscopic ablative therapy.

      The Cytosponge is a simple, non-endoscopic device developed for endoscopic screening of
      subjects at risk for Barrett's esophagus (BE) by investigators at the University of Cambridge
      in the U.K. The Cytosponge is an ingestible capsule enclosing a compressed spherical mesh
      sponge of 3 cm diameter, the center of which is attached to a string. The capsule and string
      are swallowed with water. The string is held at the mouth without tension by means of a
      cardboard tab attached to the string, and esophageal peristalsis and gravity move the capsule
      into the stomach. After 5 minutes (during which the capsule dissolves and the sponge is
      liberated), the sponge is withdrawn by gentle traction on the string and as it does so,
      collects cells from the lining of the esophagus. The sponge is placed in fixative, then the
      cells are pelleted, and processed into paraffin blocks. The pellets are immunostained with
      trefoil factor 3, which is interpreted simply as either positive or negative by the presence
      of any staining.
    
  