
    
      Currently, ultrasound-guided transversus abdominis plane (UTAP) blocks (regional anesthetic
      blocks) are being employed for the care of urological surgery patients. Local and regional
      anesthesia is commonly used throughout surgical fields. However, ultrasound-guidance can be
      challenging, particularly in larger, obese patients. It is unknown how such techniques
      compare to laparoscopic-guided blockade, with respect to time to perform, learning curve, and
      postoperative analgesia. The transversus abdominis plane lies deep within the abdominal wall,
      potentially allowing for greater ease of access from a laparoscopic approach from within than
      the ultrasound guided percutaneous approach.

      Prior randomized studies have been completed comparing UTAP and Placebo. In 2012 Hosgood et
      al. compared UTAP and placebo (UTAP w/ saline) in 46 live-donor laparoscopic nephrectomy
      patients (24 UTAP vs. 22 placebo). Pain control (measured using the 0-10 VAS scale) was
      greater on post-operative day (POD) 1 in patients receiving UTAP than in controls, 19 (15)
      vs. 37 (20) (presented as mean (SD)), respectively. A similar randomized study in 2014
      compared UTAP and placebo (UTAP w/saline) in 21 hand assisted laparoscopic nephrectomy
      patients (10 UTAP vs. 11 placebo). The study was initially powered for 50 patients but with
      decreased accrual secondary to a surgeon taking a leave of absence during the study period.
      Pain scores were recorded using the 0-10 VAS score. Postoperatively at 24 hours (median
      (IQR)) UTAP patients demonstrated decreased postoperative pain than placebo patients (1 (0-2)
      vs. 4 (2-6)) on the VAS score, respectively.

      A larger study, done in 2016, with 80 randomized patients undergoing retroperitoneal
      laparoscopic urologic surgery compared UTAP (40) and saline UTAP (40). Pain scores were
      assessed using the 0-100 VAS score scale. On POD1, UTAP group had lower pain scores (mean
      (SD)) of 8.4 (5.9) vs. placebo 28.3 (12.2).

      The most recent study, done in 2018, examined 100 randomized patients undergoing
      robotic-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomies. Fifty patients were given UTAP blocks while
      the others received no block. A Numerical Rating Scale (assumed to range from 0-10 as not
      otherwise specified) was used to assess pain. Patients receiving the block at 24 hours had
      better pain control (mean (SD)) (1.8 (0.82) vs. 3.57 (0.64)).

      While all of these studies point to potential efficacy of UTAP, no data has been published to
      date comparing laparoscopic administration of the TAP block (LTAP) to ultrasound guided
      administration. While these regional anesthetic blocks carry a theoretical risk of hematoma
      or damage to surrounding structures, none of the above studies report any complications with
      the injections.

      The study team aims to prospectively compare Placebo (local administration), UTAP, and LTAP
      blocks in patients undergoing robotic surgery of the prostate and kidney. The study team
      expects to be able to equally efficiently administer the blocks using direct visualization
      and ultrasound guidance. The study team expects that a negative result would obviate the need
      for longer operative time by eliminating the need for the separate ultrasound guided block
      while a positive result would demonstrate the increased utility of preoperative ultrasound
      blocks in managing postoperative pain.
    
  