
    
      Hypothermia has been shown to have a protective effect following trauma to the central
      nervous system and the peripheral auditory system. We have previously demonstrated a
      protective effect of mild hypothermia on auditory function caused by cochlear implant
      electrodes in animal models. Preservation of residual hearing of patients undergoing cochlear
      implantation is highly desirable and based on these animal studies, it may be possible to
      achieve in human subjects using mild degrees of hypothermia. We propose to investigate the
      hypothesized protective effect of intra-operative hypothermia on adult subjects undergoing
      cochlear implantation.

      Inclusion Criteria: Adults greater than or equal to 18 years of age with some measurable
      auditory function who are undergoing cochlear implantation as routine management of severe to
      profound hearing loss.

      Exclusion Criteria: Pure tone average hearing (mean of .5, 1 and 2 KHz) worse than 100dB; Age
      > 70 years; History of arrhythmia or ischemic heart disease; sickle cell trait or disease;
      immune incompetence; coagulation disorders; revision cochlear implant; body-mass index > 35;
      cold related disorders.

      Phase I: Up to 40 healthy adult subjects who have qualified for CI will undergo implantation
      with core body temperature lowered to 34 degree Centigrade for approximately one hour before
      electrode insertion and 30 minutes after insertion. Otherwise, the surgical technique will be
      unchanged from our standard procedure.

      The heating/cooling blanket is an FDA approved device. similar temperature controlling
      blankets are used in virtually all operations done under general anesthesia. Each subject's
      temperature will be gradually lowered only after they are put to sleep. Warming will being at
      least 30 minutes before the subject is awakened. We will measure and record the subject's
      temperature every 5 to 15 minutes while they are in the operating room and also while they
      are in the recovery room.

      Each subject will undergo a battery of audiometric tests (CNC words, HINT sentences, pure
      tone thresholds, and immittance) within one month prior to implantation, at one month post
      operatively, at 6 months post operatively and 1 year postoperatively. Outcomes will be
      analyzed by PI after 10 subjects have completed the 1 month test interval. If outcomes
      indicate proof of principle (measurable pure tone responses in greater than or equal to 60%
      of subjects), phase two of the study will be initiated. If not, outcomes will be analyzed
      after 20, 30, and 40 subjects until evidence of hearing conservation or lack of it is
      established, leading to the following study or precluding it.

      Phase II: Up to 80 healthy adults who have qualified for CI will be randomized into control
      group (CI surgery using standard procedure at core body temperature of 37 degree C) or active
      group (identical core body temperature of 34 degrees C). Subjects will be randomized using a
      random table of numbers. The patient, surgeon and audiologist will be blinded to the group
      assignment. Only the study coordinator will have the sequestered and locked list of
      randomization and blinding. Only the anesthesiologist will know the patients' assignment at
      the time of surgery. The audiologist will not be present in the O.R. or in the outpatient
      clinic, but will only test the patient post surgery. Each subject will undergo a battery of
      audiometric tests (CNC words, HINT sentences, pure tone thresholds, and immittance) just
      prior to implantation, at 1 month post operatively, at 6 months post operatively and at 1
      year postoperatively.
    
  