
    
      Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria: All adults (≥18 year) with confirmed IBD on a biologic agent or
      with plans to initiate this within 1 month (defined as any anti-TNF, natalizumab, vedolizumab
      or ustekinumab) will be enrolled into a prospective cohort (initially in a pilot setting at 5
      sites, later with full funding involving all sites of the CRA). Individuals with current
      biologic use will be included (i.e. prevalent users), with records collected as to time of
      initial biologic start, and prior specific formulations. Ideally, new initiators of biologic
      agents will be recruited at the visit where the decision is made to start a biologic agent.
      Those with a prior history of one of the 4 described paradoxical outcomes associated with a
      biologic agent will also be included as prevalent cases in order to increase the sample size,
      with appropriate clinical information collected per medical record. All data on prevalent
      cases will be entered historically prospective follow up with still occur to ensure that
      paradoxical reaction does not recur.

      Exposures: Data will be collected at baseline including demographic and disease specific
      factors, concomitant medications, laboratory data, as well as serum and plasma for banking.

      Follow up: Individuals will be followed at 6 month intervals either via email, telephone
      interviews or at the time of clinic follow-up visits. Data event forms for outcomes occurring
      at any point during follow up will be collected real-time in clinic, or if triggered by
      standard follow-up at 6 months.

      Outcome of paradoxical immune reaction: Outcomes are defined as a) psoriaform skin lesion, b)
      drug-induced lupus c) demyelinating disorder or d) vasculitis. In the event of a de-novo
      paradoxical reaction, specific information will be collected from sites in an event capture
      form, with data abstracted from routine clinical care for the paradoxical reaction. Medical
      records will be obtained confirming the response, with copies of pathology (dermatologic
      biopsy)or radiology (MRI) reports when applicable. For specific event capture forms.
      Individuals will continue to be followed every 3 months after the outcome via telephone
      contact to determine whether resolution and/or recurrence occurred and changes in medical
      therapy. At resolution of the event, patient will return to 6 month follow up. Serum and
      plasma will also be re-collected at the time of first outcome in cases for exposure to
      baseline samples and to those of controls (those on biologics without paradoxical immune
      reaction). Serum and plasma will be collected at the time of event diagnosis, when possible
      (within 2 months). If not possible, blood draw can be "missed" in circumstances where patient
      is not seen in clinic in this window.

      Timeline for study contacts:

      The top timeline is for an individual who does not develop an event, baseline in-person
      consent and serum collection, contact every 6 months for telephone contact visit or follow up
      visit during the time of routine clinic follow-up. The bottom line is for someone who does
      develop an event, with closer follow-up until event resolution, and repeat serum collection.
      Contacts therefore range from 3-6 months, with the vast majority having follow up at 6 month
      intervals.
    
  