
    
      The appearance of a food matrix into the duodenum, both during a meal and during the
      postprandial phase results in a feed-back from different parts of the intestine to the
      stomach, to the small intestine and to the central nervous system. All these processes
      inhibit, in concert, food processing in the gastrointestinal tract, satiation and appetite
      sensations and, consequently, food intake. These processes are involved in the so-called
      intestinal brake. The location at which the feedback process is initiated determines the
      severity of the brake effect; the entry of nutrients into the duodenum and jejunum activates
      the so-called duodenal and jejunal "brakes": negative feedback mechanisms that influence the
      function of more proximal parts of the gastrointestinal tract. Activation of both of these
      feedback mechanisms results in reduction of food intake and inhibition of hunger, probably
      partly by inhibition of gastric emptying rate (thus contributing to enhanced and prolonged
      gastric distension) and small intestinal transit time. More distal in the small intestine,
      the ileal brake is a feedback mechanism that results in inhibition of proximal
      gastrointestinal motility and secretion and increase feelings of satiation and reduction of
      ad libitum food intake.These results all point to a potentially powerful role of the ileal
      brake in the regulation of digestion, with direct or indirect impact upon eating behaviour
      and satiation.

      The current scientific data strongly suggest that activation of the ileal brake provides the
      most powerful feedback mechanism to gastrointestinal transit and, especially, satiety signals
      and food intake. Most studies have used fat as macronutrient. The effects of several amounts,
      types and preparations of fat on the ileal brake have previously been investigated and
      reported.

      Until present, the effects of the other macronutrients to induce the ileal brake remain
      largely unknown. There is evidence that carbohydrates induce the ileal brake. Proteins may
      also exert effects, although data are scarce and not convincing. However, it becomes more and
      more accepted that proteins may induce stronger effects on satiation and food intake than fat
      or carbohydrates.

      In this study we're going to investigate the effect of intraileal infusion of casein and
      sucrose on ileal brake activation.
    
  