
    
      Sepsis is a life-threating organ dysfunction resulting from the dysregulated response of the
      host to an infection. It is estimated that 1.5 million people present with sepsis annually in
      Northern America and another 1.5 million people in Europe; 30 to 50% of them die making
      sepsis the leading cause of death. The key-point in the management of sepsis is the early
      resuscitation with broad- spectrum antimicrobials and intravenous fluids, if possible within
      the first hour. However, it is not easy to achieve this goal, especially among patients
      assessed in the Emergency Department (ED), as the diagnosis of an infection is often delayed
      until the patient's laboratory and imaging tests are completed.

      In an attempt to improve the failure of physicians for early sepsis recognition in the ED,
      several markers have been developed. The most widely used biomarkers are the absolute number
      of neutrophils, C-reactive protein (CRP) and procalcitonin (PCT). HemoSpec is a device
      capable of incorporating clinical information from the patient with laboratory data. The
      analysis provides information on white blood cell morphology, CRP, PCT, interleukin (IL) -6
      and suPAR. The device software has been created from all of the above information collected
      from prospective cohorts of patients from Greece and Germany. The diagnostic function of
      HemoSpec has so far been validated in two Phase II studies. The first study took place in
      Germany and involved 60 patients (20 controls, 20 with systemic inflammatory response and 20
      with sepsis) who were hospitalized at the University Hospital in Jena. The second study is
      currently being conducted in Greece and aims to use the information from the HemoSpec device
      for the prospective categorization of patients with confirmed infection in patients with
      sepsis and in patients without sepsis.

      The above two studies share a common Phase II design in order to validate HemoSpec's
      diagnostic ability among patients who are clinically diagnosed with sepsis. The clinical
      reliability of HemoSpec can be verified in a multicenter prospective trial involving patients
      assessed in the ED. The present study aims to assess the diagnostic ability of the device in
      ED patients with clinical signs of infection who have a significant risk of death that makes
      them likely to suffer from sepsis.
    
  