
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Evaluate the overall survival and progression-free survival in patients with stage III
           or IV ovarian epithelial cancer, primary peritoneal cancer, or fallopian tube cancer
           treated with neoadjuvant paclitaxel and carboplatin followed by surgery and adjuvant
           paclitaxel and carboplatin.

        -  Estimate the percentage of these patients whose disease is successfully cytoreduced to
           less than 1 cm in diameter following neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

        -  Evaluate the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Explore the relationship between tumor p53 expression, proliferation rate as measured by
           proliferating cell nuclear antigen and apoptotic rate, and human tumor cloning assay
           results at time of debulking surgery with progression-free survival and overall survival
           in these patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive neoadjuvant therapy comprising paclitaxel IV over 3 hours followed by
      carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 courses in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 35 days of receiving the
      third course of chemotherapy, patients with at least a 50% reduction in CA 125 undergo
      debulking surgery. Within 35 days of undergoing surgery, patients with a tumor reduction to
      below 1 cm receive adjuvant therapy comprising paclitaxel IV over 3 hours followed by
      carboplatin intraperitoneally (IP) on day 1 and paclitaxel IP on day 8. Treatment repeats
      every 28 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then
      annually for up to 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 55 patients will be accrued for this study within 3 years.
    
  