
    
      Promising evidence suggests that cognitive training regimens may have some beneficial effects
      on cognition in older adults. However, the improvement from computer-based cognitive training
      (CBCT) diminish over time which highlights a fundamental challenge for CBCT interventions.
      Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) can enhance certain cognitive skills,
      particularly when stimulation is combined with rehearsal of relevant behaviors. Importantly,
      these benefits have been shown to persist up to 2 months after the intervention.

      This study will lay the groundwork for larger scale studies that will combine CBCT with
      neuromodulation, potentially leading to the development of a persistent, transferrable,
      multimodal technique to preserve cognition in older adults. In this study, participants will
      be randomly assigned to receive either real or sham tDCS for 5 consecutive days in
      conjunction with CBCT. The participant's cognition will be assessed with a neuropsychological
      assessment at baseline, 1 week, 2 weeks, and 2 months in order to determine any changes.

      Additionally, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) will be used to characterize the
      relationship between baseline differences in brain plasticity and cognitive changes induced
      by tDCS+CBCT. The effects of TMS on cortical activity have been shown to depend on a variety
      of neuroplasticity-related mechanisms. In this study, changes in motor physiology (called
      motor evoked potentials (MEPs)) induced by TMS will be used. Stimulation of the motor cortex
      with TMS induces robust, transient, and readily quantifiable changes in motor excitability,
      which are sensitive to changes in the mechanisms of neuroplasticity. Investigators
      hypothesize that individual variability in brain plasticity, measured by changes in MEP
      response to TMS, will predict the degree of cognitive benefit afforded by tDCS+CBCT.

      Study Visits:

      ---------------- Visit 1 - Consent and Screening (2 hours) Review enrollment documents and
      conduct baseline neuropsychological assessment

      ---------------- Visit 2 - Visit 5 - tDCS + CBCT (30 minutes) Subjects will receive either
      real or sham stimulation along with cognitive training

      --------------- Visit 6 - tDCS + CBCT & Follow-up (3 hours) Subjects will receive either real
      or sham stimulation along with cognitive training & follow-up neurospychological assessment

      --------------- Visit 7 - TMS (3 hours) Subjects will receive TMS in order to induce MEPs

      ------------ Visit 8 - 2 week follow-up (1 .5 hours) Follow-up neuropsychological assessment

      ----------- Visit 9 - 2 month follow-up (1.5 hours) Follow-up neuropsycological assessment
    
  