
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare the effect of second look surgery with or without intraperitoneal
      mitomycin and fluorouracil on the 3 year survival rate of patients with colorectal cancer who
      are at high risk for peritoneal cavity cancer. II. Compare the quality of life of patients
      treated with these regimens. III. Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      center, risk group, presence of symptoms (yes vs no), and isolated disease (yes vs no). After
      primary surgery, all patients receive 6 months of chemotherapy consisting of leucovorin
      calcium IV followed by fluorouracil IV over 10 minutes on days 1-5 every 4 weeks. Patients
      then undergo second look surgery or laparoscopy at 8-12 months. Second look surgery or
      laparoscopy may be performed earlier if markers increase progressively for unknown reasons or
      symptoms of peritoneal cancer occur. Patients with recurrent disease that can be resected are
      randomized to one of two treatment arms. Patients with no residual disease or with
      unresectable disease are followed for survival. Arm I: Patients undergo complete resection of
      all detectable lesions followed immediately by intraperitoneal (IP) mitomycin on day 0 and
      fluorouracil IP on days 1-4. Patients also receive systemic chemotherapy consisting of
      leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours and fluorouracil IV bolus, followed by fluorouracil IV
      over 22 hours on days 1 and 2. Systemic chemotherapy repeats every 2 weeks for 6 months. Arm
      II: Patients undergo complete or partial resection and then receive systemic chemotherapy as
      in arm I. Quality of life is assessed at baseline and then every 4 months for 3 years. All
      patients (including nonrandomized patients) are followed every 4 months for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 152 patients (76 randomized) will be accrued for this study.
    
  