
    
      The consumption of non-nutritive sweeteners has a high prevalence. The effect of
      non-nutritive sweeteners in both beta-cell function and insulin resistance it is unknown.

      Previous studies performed in animal models and humans with diverse characteristics have
      shown variable effects of different non-nutritive sweeteners in variables related to glucose
      metabolism.

      Due to the high consumption of non-nutritive sweeteners it is relevant to know its effect in
      beta cell-function and insulin sensitivity.

      In this study the effects of sucralose, a non-nutritive sweetener that is highly consumed in
      the population, on insulin sensitivity and beta-cell function will be evaluated.

      54 participants with normal glucose tolerance, normal weight, and without chronic diseases
      with a low consumption of non-nutritive sweeteners will be included. The participants will be
      randomly assigned to consume sucralose or to a control group.

      During the first visit an oral glucose tolerance test with 75 g of glucose will be performed.
      Fasting and 2-hour glucose will be measured in order to rule-out diabetes, abnormal fasting
      glucose, or glucose intolerance.

      During the second visit a three-hour IV glucose tolerance test will be performed
      administering 0.3 g/kg of glucose and insulin 0.03 U/kg. Samples will be taken following the
      minimal model described by Bergman.

      After this visit, the group assigned to receive sucralose will ingest 15% of the adequate
      daily intake (ADI) of sucralose and the control group will abstain of any non-nutritive
      sweetener consumption during 14 days. At the end of this period a third visit to repeat the
      IV glucose tolerance test will be performed.

      Samples will be analyzed measuring glucose and insulin concentrations to evaluate acute
      insulin response (AIR), glucose effectiveness (SG), first phase pancreatic response (ф1), and
      second phase pancreatic response (ф2). In addition, hormones involved in appetite and satiety
      (leptin, ghrelin, and peptide tyrosine tyrosine) will be quantified at the beginning and end
      of the intervention.
    
  