
    
      Cervical cancer is the third most common cancer worldwide. The causative agent responsible
      for cervical cancer is the persistent infection with oncogenic Human Papillomavirus (HPV).
      Rates of cervical cancer and HPV infection are increased particularly in HIV-infected women
      due to immunosuppression with cervical cancer categorized as an AIDS-defining diagnosis.
      Despite the promise of HPV vaccine in the prevention of cervical cancer, the widespread
      availability of this vaccine is limited due to cost and accessibility. Therefore, prevention
      strategies to reduce the risk of cervical cancer after HPV exposure entail treatment at the
      premalignant state, including low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (LSIL) and
      high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSIL), along with the eradication of HPV
      infection. There is a desperate need for an inexpensive, non-invasive alternative method to
      treat these premalignant cervical lesions and potentially suppress HPV infection.

      Curcumin, an extract from turmeric, a popular culinary spice, has been used in traditional
      Indian medicine for its anti-inflammatory and anti-infectious properties. Recent studies have
      shown the potential effect of curcumin to reduce tumors and precancerous lesions in animal
      and human cancer cells. It is postulated that curcumin achieves its effect on cancer cells by
      modulating different cellular pathways as well as altering HPV effect on tissue cells.

      The purpose of this study is to see if curcumin can suppress HPV infection in women with LSIL
      disease or treated HSIL disease. The researchers plan to explore the effect of curcumin as a
      potential medical treatment in HIV-uninfected and infected women with mild precancerous
      lesions of the cervix or recently treated high-grade precancerous lesions at risk for
      persistent HPV infection. About 200 women with low-grade precancerous lesions of the cervix
      or recently treated high-grade precancerous lesions will be enrolled to either insert 2000 mg
      of curcumin capsules in their vagina once a week or placebo after undergoing colposcopy or
      LEEP. They will have a repeat visit in 6 months where they will undergo a Pap smear and HPV
      test to determine if there are higher rates of HPV clearance after curcumin administration.
      If HPV is present or the Pap smear is abnormal, patients will then undergo colposcopic
      examination to evaluate cervical histology.
    
  