
    
      The Embodied Empathy pilot study designed for first year medical students intends to bring
      baseline data, and a formal research study into the embodied VR and empathy training
      conversation. With very little data supported research happening in the field, there is an
      abundance of thought, and opinion concerning the potential of embodied VR by academics, the
      media, and the tech industry. The Embodied Empathy pilot study hopes to build the case for
      this kind of work as a viable method of experiential training to increase empathy and reduce
      bias with the implementation of validated scales, controlled data collection, and in depth
      research through a pilot study, because essentially, it is the study the field needs to move
      forward in our embodied VR work.

      We are Alfred, created by Carrie Shaw of Embodied Labs, is an embodied VR narrative project
      of an elderly man who has difficulty understanding his doctor's explanation of his diagnosis
      due to both vision and hearing loss. The VR user sees a visual spot comparable to that which
      keeps Alfred from fully seeing his doctor and the papers before him. The user also struggles
      to hear the diagnosis - an embodied loss of hearing. Alfred tries to complete a cognitive
      test and fails, not because he is not intellectually sound, but because he cannot hear or see
      what is happening in a meaningful way (Wanshel, 2016, Shaw). Similarly, Embodied Empathy will
      illuminate the patient's experience, but with the addition of sensorial input, and engaged
      movement, bringing to light the subtle and not so subtle barriers to patient-centered care.
      In We are Alfred, the VR user sits passively as they watch Alfred's story unfold in a 360
      degree virtual world.

      The University of New England has initiated a multi-year educational project that uses VR
      technology and software from Embodied Labs, focusing on older adult health, but they did not
      utilize validated scales for data collection or a control group among other limitations
      (Dyer, Swartzlander, Gugliucci, 2018). A noted difference between the Embodied Labs software,
      and the Embodied Empathy pilot study is that researchers also incorporate user interaction
      between the VR world and the real world through sensorial input - touch, smell, interacting
      with objects, and mimicking the body movements of the patient, whose point of view the
      students are embodying. Beyond these differences, researchers also hope to produce a pilot
      study on firmer ground that can be further built upon by ourselves and others in the field
      with validated scales, and formal research study practices.

      The Embodied Empathy pilot study will give medical students the opportunity to proverbially
      walk a mile in their patients' shoes. Allowing them to embody patients' stories, they will
      face their hardships and impairments to understand their perspectives and to honor the
      feeling of identifying with another and wanting to help from a place of deep understanding
      (Bertrand, Guegan, Robieux, McCall, and Zenasni, 2018). Embodied Empathy has the potential to
      impact patient care by highlighting movement patterns or lack of movement patterns,
      identifying states of being, detailing how the patient takes and receives information, being
      sensitive to the relationship of the patient to the space they occupy, as well as how they
      move through the world.

      Researchers hope the Embodied Empathy pilot study will have an impact on the first year
      medical student's understanding of what aging means to a body and a person's life with the
      hopes that the immersive, and embodied VR experience will inspire interest in the field of
      gerontology.

      The VR experience will make immediately palpable a sensorial experience of geriatric
      patients' daily lives (e.g., difficulty opening a pill bottle, difficulty arising from a
      sitting position, blurred vision due to glaucoma, decreased memory, depression, etc.),
      ultimately allowing users to look past patients' external circumstances to humanize and
      increase the quality of their care.
    
  