
    
      In sub-Saharan Africa, engaging HIV-infected men in HIV care and treatment and engaging
      HIV-uninfected men in prevention has proven challenging. Along all steps of the HIV
      care-seeking cascade, men exhibit worse care-seeking behaviors. They are less likely to seek
      HIV testing and counseling (HTC), initiate combination antiretroviral therapy (cART), and be
      retained in cART care. Poor care-seeking has resulted in a lower prevalence of viral
      suppression and earlier mortality. Additionally, men rarely engage in the antenatal
      care-seeking of their female sexual partners, leading to worse maternal and infant outcomes.
      This low level of engagement has been noted in Malawi's Option B+ prevention of mother to
      child transmission (PMTCT) program, and has been a critical barrier to female Option B+
      uptake and retention, and a missed opportunity for engaging men.

      There is promising evidence that couple-based approaches within Malawi's Option B+ prevention
      of mother to child transmission program could address all of these challenges: poor male
      engagement in the HIV continuum of care, low male adoption of biomedical HIV prevention
      approaches, sub-optimal female engagement in the continuum of care, and poor or uncertain
      infant outcomes. Our team has designed a couples-based intervention to address these
      challenges, and will conduct a randomized controlled trial (N=500 couples) to assess
      intervention effectiveness at one year. Results from this study are expected to inform how
      best to address family outcomes in an Option B+ program.

      This study has the following aims described below:

      Aim 1: Determine whether the couple-based intervention increases new HIV-positive diagnoses
      among HIV-infected male sex partners, helps HIV-infected men engage and remain in care, and
      contributes to male viral suppression compared to individual standard of care. The
      investigators will compare the couple-based intervention to standard of care for increasing
      the proportion of men who are aware of being HIV-infected, the proportion of these men who
      initiate and remain in cART care, and the proportion of these men with viral suppression at
      one year.

      Aim 2: Determine whether the couple-based intervention identifies HIV-discordant couples and
      decreases the likelihood of male exposure to HIV compared to individual standard of care. The
      investigators will compare the intervention to standard of care for increasing the number of
      men with non-HIV exposure from their female partner through consistent condom use, viral
      suppression, abstinence, or a combination of these methods over one year.

      Aim 3: Determine whether the couple-based intervention improves female cART retention and
      viral suppression compared to individual standard of care. The investigators will compare the
      intervention to standard of care for female cART retention and viral suppression at one year.

      Aim 4: Determine whether the couple-based intervention improves infant early infant diagnosis
      uptake compared to individual standard of care. Explore uptake of early infant diagnosis and
      rates of mother-to-child transmission and child survival in the two intervention arms.

      Aim 5: Develop an in-depth understanding of HIV transmission dynamics in Lilongwe. Using the
      biomarkers and behavioral survey, we will seek to understand transmission timing, direction,
      and context in Lilongwe. We will compare women with recent HIV infection to a population of
      HIV-uninfected controls (n=350) to understand predictors of HIV acquisition in pregnancy in
      Malawi.
    
  