
    
      1. Quality control plan:

             1. All vaccinators should get professional training held by local Health Bureau, and
                be qualified by local Health Bureau.

             2. All the clinical trial related staffs are trained by provincial or prefectural
                Center for Disease Control and prevention (CDC) at the beginning.

             3. Provincial and prefectural CDCs conduct supervision at each step, especially during
                field vaccination and Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) investigation.

             4. Data valid check is designed to work in the database inputting, double entry and
                validation is also required.

             5. The field works are conduct under SOP (Standard Operating Procedures), The SOP for
                vaccination procedures which include vaccinee recruitment and vaccination practice
                etc. is 'Immunization Work Specification' issued by China Ministry of Health in
                2005. The SOP for AEFI surveillance is 'AEFI surveillance guideline' issued by
                China Ministry of Health in 2010.

        2. Statistical plan

             1. Safety evaluation The analytic data include all reactions or events within 30 days
                after vaccination, compare the incidence of reactions among different vaccines, the
                statistical method is chi-square.

             2. Immunogenicity evaluation Compare the antibody positive rate and Geometric Mean
                Concentration between pre-vaccination and post-vaccination, and among different
                vaccine combinations.

        3. safety evaluation method

           At the time of vaccination, vaccinees were instructed to report any adverse event to
           physicians or vaccination providers. Adverse events that were fatal or that resulted in
           disability and clusters of events (i.e., notably high numbers of similar adverse events
           related to a certain vaccine) were required to be reported within 2 hours after their
           occurrence. The following adverse events were required to be reported within 2 days
           after their occurrence: anaphylaxis or other allergic reactions occurring within 24
           hours after vaccination; fever (axillary temperature, >38.5°C), angioedema, or a local
           injection-site reaction (diameter, >2.5 cm) occurring within 5 days after vaccination;
           purpura, an Arthus reaction, febrile convulsion, seizure, or polyneuritis occurring
           within 15 days after vaccination. Other reactions that were common and minor (e.g., mild
           pain and fatigue) were not required to be reported.

        4. Immunogenicity evaluation

      Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (abbreviated as ELSIA) is used to quantitatively test
      immunoglobulin G (IgG) of measles, rubella, mumps, test kit is provided by Virion\Serion
      company. Rotavirus Immunoglobulin A (RV-IgA) is used to test the antibody of rotavirus.
    
  