
    
      This is an open-label (the researchers and participants know the treatment the participant is
      receiving), multicenter (more than 1 study site), long-term safety and efficacy study of
      intranasal esketamine plus an oral antidepressant in participants with treatment-resistant
      depression (TRD). Participants will enter the study either directly (direct-entry
      participants) or after completing the Double-Blind Induction Phase of ESKETINTRD3005
      (transferred-entry participants). The study consists of 4 phases: Screening Phase (4 weeks),
      Open-Label Induction Phase (4 weeks), Open-Label Optimization/Maintenance phase (48 weeks),
      and Follow up Phase (4 weeks). Transferred entry non-responders in the ESKETINTRD3005 may
      enter study at the Open-Label Induction Phase and responders in the ESKETINTRD3005 may enter
      Optimization/Maintenance phase. In the Open-Label Induction Phase, participants will
      self-administer flexibly-dosed intranasal esketamine (participants who are less than (<) 65
      years old self-administer 56 mg or 84 mg dose, participants who are greater than or equal to
      (>=) 65 years old self-administer 28 mg, 56 mg or 84 mg dose) twice weekly for 4 weeks. The
      starting dose for all participants >= 65 years old will be 28 mg. In addition, each
      direct-entry participants will be assigned to receive 1 of 4 selected oral antidepressant
      medications (escitalopram or sertraline or duloxetine or venlafaxine extended release [XR]),
      initiated on Day 1 of the open-label induction phase and continued through the duration of
      the study. Transferred-entry participants will continue their same antidepressant from
      ESKETINTRD3005 through the duration of this study. Participants who are responders at the end
      of the Open-Label Induction phase and transferred-entry responder participants (from study
      ESKETINTRD3005) will enter the Optimization/Maintenance Phase where intranasal esketamine
      treatment sessions will be reduced from that in the induction phase (twice weekly) to weekly
      for the first 4 weeks of this phase, and then individualized to either once weekly or once
      every other week based on the severity of depressive symptoms. Participants' safety and
      depressive symptoms will be assessed and monitored throughout the study.
    
  