
    
      Synopsis of study protocol

      This pilot randomized clinical trial compares newly diagnosed T1D youth who are started on
      CGM (the intervention group) versus those who are not (the control group). The investigators
      will examine group differences over a 6-month period (Phase 1) on two sets of outcomes:
      psychosocial variables and glycemic variables. After the initial comparison of intervention
      to control across the first six months after diagnosis, the investigators will conduct a
      longitudinal follow-up (Phase 2) of glycemic and psychosocial variables for an additional 18
      months. The CGM system used in this study is the Dexcom G5 System with the Share function
      (FDA Approved). An IDE was obtained to use this system in a non-adjunctive manner.
      Participants will complete Phase 1 in six months. Phase 2 includes 3 more assessments
      conducted every six months until participants are two years post-diagnosis.

      Study Procedures

      Participants will be recruited at two centers: Stanford University and the Barbara Davis
      Center for Diabetes, University of Colorado. Participants will be enrolled while inpatient or
      within 1 month of diagnosis. Once identified, study staff will approach potential
      participants to explain the study, determine eligibility, and obtain informed consent. Once
      enrolled in the study, participants will be randomized. Participants will be randomized at a
      2:1 ratio, intervention to control. The investigators will also stratify by age group to
      ensure equal representation of ages across groups. The age groups (in years) are 2-6, 7-11,
      and 12-17. To ensure safety in the youngest group, recruitment of participants in the age 2-6
      years group will not begin until the investigators have at least 2 weeks of non-adjunctive
      CGM use data in at least 3 participants aged 7-17 years. Data will be reviewed by the DSMB on
      these 3 participants and if deemed safe by the DSMB, the investigators will start enrolling
      participants in the youngest age group.
    
  