
    
      Methods Research design

      A single - blind, randomized controlled trial design was used to examine the effects of a
      fall prevention exercise program in reducing fall incidence and fall risks for
      community-dwelling older adults at a risk for falls. The study was approved by the ethics
      committee of University of Thessaly.

      Sample Forty (40) community dwelling elderly individuals, both males and females, were
      recruited from nursing homes. Convenience sampling was used. Subject eligibility criteria
      were: a) 65 years of age and older, b) absence of serious health problems or neurological
      diseases, c) absence of dementia, d) no recent surgeries. Out of the 40 subjects meeting the
      above criteria, 20 were randomly assigned to the control group (mean age 79.3±5.49) and 20 to
      the rehabilitation group (mean age 79.6±7.38). In both groups, 10 subjects reported at least
      one incidence of falling during the past year whilst the remaining 10 the absence of any.

      Base line assessment A structured questionnaire was used to record a) anthropometric and
      demographic data (age, weight, height, profession etc.), b) comorbid medical conditions
      (e.g., hypertension, diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease, psychiatric illness), c)
      prescribed medications including psychotropic medications (antidepressants, and sedative
      hypnotics), d) use of walking aids, e) prior history of falls and fall-related injuries
      during the past year, f) prior surgeries

      Procedure

      The experimental group was designed to undergo supervised exercise 2 days a week for 8
      consecutive weeks for 45-50 min/session. The intervention program was implemented at the
      nursing home facilities. The control group did not receive any intervention during that
      period and were instructed to pursue their habitual daily life activities.

      Instruments and assessments (outcome measures) Participants were assessed prior to the
      beginning of their program and 15 days after the completion of the intervention. Parameters
      being assessed were: weight, height, BMI, systolic pressure, diastolic pressure, heart rate,
      grip strength, upper and lower limb force, plus upper and lower extremity elasticity,
      equilibrium and functionality.

      Mobility was assessed using the Time Up & Go Test (TUG) which was measured by recording the
      time taken to stand up from a standard chair (43cm), walk 3m at a natural pace, turn around,
      and sit back down in the chair. Expected time for the completion of this task is estimated at
      7-10''. (Viccaro et al 2011)

      Functional balance was assessed with the Berg Balance Scale that has been developed to
      measure an elderly person's static and dynamic balancing abilities. It is composed of a total
      of 14 items and a full score of 56 points. The time required is around 15 minutes. Higher
      scores indicate better degrees of balance. Based on the total score participants are
      classified in: a) need for a wheelchair (0-20 points), b) need of aiding tools to walk (21-40
      points), c) independent (41 points or higher). Persons with scores of 40 points or higher are
      not likely to fall (Berg et al., 1992 ; Bogle & Newton 1996; Downs et al 2013)

      Grip strength was measured using the SAEHAN hand grip dynamometer. The subject was sitting on
      a standard chair with the elbow flexed at 900. When the subject was ready, he would begin to
      strain the device in a maximal isometric effort, maintaining, at the same time, high
      concentration, as this was a required condition for maximal results. No other body movement
      was allowed during testing.

      Lower Limb's strength was assessed through the "sit to stand 10" trial. Subjects were asked
      to sit on a chair, stand up and return to the sitting position for 10 consecutive times at
      full speed, with no intervals between. Normal time expected for the successful completion of
      the trial was estimated at 24"-27"

      Lower Body Flexibility was assessed using a modified Sit and Reach test. This test was
      performed in a standard chair with one leg fully extended and the other in a flexed position.
      Participants reached forward with one hand as far as possible and held this position for
      three seconds. Distance between fingers and toes was measured.

      For Upper Body Flexibility assessment, subjects were instructed to bring their hand back as
      high as possible in order to reach the A7 vertebra. The distance between the thumb and the A7
      vertebra was measured (Collins et al 2004) Intervention The intervention protocol was
      starting with a 10 minute warm up (5 minutes circular walking combined with neck rotation in
      clockwise and counterclockwise fashion and 5 minutes upper and lower limp stretching
      exercises) and was followed by 30 minutes of exercises that were aiming to muscle
      strengthening, balance improvement and functionability enhancement. The muscle strengthening
      routine consisted of exercises both from standing and sitting position using an elastic band
      (hip flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, knee flexion and extension, ankle dorsi and
      plantar flexion), heel and toe standing, upper limb strengthening using dumbbells. Balance
      training consisted of standing on one leg, shifting weight laterally from one foot to the
      other, staggered stance, side stepping. Functionalibility improvement was promoted through
      walking upstairs and downstairs, standing up from sitting to upright position. At the end a 5
      minute cool down procedure was following consisting of circular walking, mild head movements
      and upper and lower body stretching.

      Throughout the whole duration of the intervention the elderly subjects were provided with
      constant feedback for the maintenance of the proper sitting and standing posture.

      Breathing rate, blood pressure and heart rate were monitored at every interventional session.
      All participants were asked to immediately declare any symptom or feeling of dizziness or
      general discomfort and on that case the current intervention would stop.
    
  