
    
      The interaction of aging, cancer, and bone loss is poorly understood. Cancer or cancer
      therapy could potentially accelerate bone loss and increase the risk for osteopenia or
      osteoporosis. The hypothesis of this observational study is that secondary causes of bone
      loss are prevalent in patients with breast and prostate cancer who are high risk for
      treatment related bone loss. In order to test this hypothesis, this prospective pilot study
      will systematically evaluate secondary causes of bone loss in a cohort of patients with
      nonmetastatic breast and prostate cancer with osteopenia/osteoporosis.

        1. Identify patients with nonmetastatic breast cancer newly diagnosed with
           osteopenia/osteoporosis (Dual Energy X-ray Absorptiometry Bone Density scan T-score
           average between hip (femoral neck) and spine (L1-L4) of less than -1.0 to -2.5/ less
           than -2.5, respectively).

        2. Identify patients with nonmetastatic prostate cancer newly diagnosed with
           osteopenia/osteoporosis (Dual Energy X-ray Absorptiometry Bone Density scan T-score
           average between hip (femoral neck) and spine (L1-L4) of less than -1.0 to -2.5/ less
           than -2.5, respectively).

        3. Refer patient to City of Hope Endocrinology Osteoporosis Clinic.

        4. Approach patient in consecutive order in which they have been referred to Endocrinology
           Osteoporosis Clinic.

        5. Describe the study to the patient: patient consents or refuses.

        6. Once consented, the patient's medical records are reviewed and Dual Energy X-ray
           Absorptiometry Bone Density reports are obtained from City of Hope records or the
           screening medical institution records to confirm diagnosis of osteopenia/osteoporosis or
           normal bone health.

        7. Study participants will undergo an evaluation for secondary causes of bone per standard
           of care with patient questionnaires.

        8. Furthermore, laboratory tests that support secondary causes of bone loss will be
           retrospectively collected via chart review.
    
  