
    
      Background:

      Multiple myeloma (MM) remains largely an incurable disease with an estimated median survival
      of 6-7 years in standard risk myeloma and 2-3 years in high risk disease despite treatment
      with autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT).

      Maintenance therapy to achieve sustained suppression of residual disease following
      chemotherapy or ASCT has long been viewed as a desirable approach for extending survival in
      MM.

      Giving the immunomodulatory drug lenalidomide after induction or re-induction treatment may
      stimulate the immune system in various ways to stop or slow the return of cancer.

      It is not yet known how immune stimulatory effects of extended dosing with lenalidomide in
      the maintenance setting correlate with clinical benefits.

      Objectives:

      Assess T cell (cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4), cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8),
      natural killer T cell (NKT) and normal killer (NK) cell numbers in peripheral blood during
      the

      course of lenalidomide maintenance therapy in treated MM patients.

      Eligibility:

      Patients with multiple myeloma who have achieved stable disease or better response, assessed
      at greater than or equal to 4 weeks after completing induction or re-induction treatment

      Age greater than or equal to 18 years

      Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance Status (PS) of 0-2

      Adequate hematological parameters defined by: absolute neutrophil count greater than or equal
      to 1.0 K/microL, hemoglobin greater than or equal to 8 g/dL, and platelet count greater than
      or equal to 75 K/microL

      Adequate hepatic function, with bilirubin < 1.5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN), and
      aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) < 3 times ULN

      Adequate renal function with creatinine clearance (CrCl) of greater than or equal to 40
      mL/min. CrCl will be calculated using the Cockcroft-Gault method. If the calculated CrCl
      based on Cockcroft-Gault method is <40 mL/min, patient will have a 24 hr urine collection to
      measure CrCl. The measured CrCl must also be greater than or equal to 40 ml/min

      Design:

      Single arm, single stage, phase II trial of lenalidomide maintenance for treated MM patients
      who have stable or responsive disease.

      After screening, eligibility determination, and enrollment; subjects will receive
      lenalidomide 10 mg by mouth daily on days 1-21 of repeated 28-day cycles. When necessary,
      lenalidomide will be held and restarted in accordance with accepted clinical dose
      modification guidelines.

      Subjects may continue lenalidomide until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity or
      completion of two years of lenalidomide therapy and the 30 day safety follow-up visit.

      Blood will be obtained to assess changes in T cell (CD4, CD8), NKT and NK cell numbers by
      flow-cytometric analysis at pre-specified time points during lenalidomide maintenance.

      Blood samples and/or bone marrow samples where possible, will be used for additional research
      studies, which may include functional analyses of immune-cell subsets, analyses for
      cytokines, chemokines, antibodies, tumor cell antigen targets, and/or other markers.
    
  