
    
      Anderson-Fabry disease is a rare X-linked lysosomal disorder, mainly affecting
      cardiovascular, renal and nervous systems. Cardiac injury is the leading cause of death in
      these patients. Heart involvement is characterized by left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH),
      myocardial scarring and/or inflammation, Bradyarrhythmias or tachyarrhythmias, heart failure
      and represents the main cause of death in these patients. Since 2001, specific therapies
      (enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) first and pharmacological chaperone migalastat more
      recently) are available to treat these patients.

      Migalastat is a small-molecule pharmacological chaperone stabilizing speciﬁc mutant forms of
      the enzyme (α-Gal ) and promoting its catabolic function. These mutant forms of α-Gal are
      deﬁned as amenable to Migalastat. In patients with amenable mutations, orally administered
      Migalastat is a potential alternative treatment to intravenous ERT. Because of its chemical
      nature (small molecule) and route of administration (orally), Migalastat would avoid
      ERT-associated immunogenicity and infusion-associated reactions. Additionally, the higher
      volume of distribution of migalastat relative to ERT suggests enhanced penetration of organs
      and tissues. Theoretically, the chaperoning of α-Gal by Migalastat to lysosomes may better
      mimic natural enzyme trafficking and result in more constant α-Gal activity than biweekly ERT
      infusions.

      Two main clinical studies have been published so far about safety and efficacy of Migalastat
      in AFD, demonstrating good safety, tolerability and comparable efficacy to ERT. These studies
      reported a significant decrease in LV mass index assessed by 2D echocardiography (-6,6 g/m2
      in 33 patients after 18 months of therapy), mostly in patients with overt cardiac involvement
      and greater than the changes observed with ERT (-2 g/m2 in 16 patients after 18 months of
      therapy).

      Calculation of LV mass by 2D echocardiography is based on the "Devereux formula", assuming
      that the LV is a prolate ellipsoid with a 2:1 long/short axis ratio and symmetric
      distribution of hypertrophy. This is not always the case in AFD Cardiomyopathy, showing a
      wide variety of hypertrophy patterns. Moreover, since linear measurements of LV wall
      thickness and diameters are cubed in this formula, even small measurement errors in
      dimensions or thickness have a strong impact on accuracy.

      Cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) represents the gold standard technique for ventricular mass,
      volumes and function estimation because of the possibility to directly measure these
      parameters without geometrical assumption. Therefore, CMR has an excellent inter-study
      reproducibility both in normal and in pathologic hearts, overcoming 2D echocardiography.
      Beyond its high reproducibility in LV mass measurement, CMR offers the unique possibility of
      non-invasive tissue characterization. This concept includes both detection and quantification
      of myocardial fibrosis by Late Gadolinium Enhancement images and application of new
      techniques, namely T1 mapping, detecting myocardial sphingolipid storage even before LVH
      occurs. Also, CMR allows a detailed characterization of myocardial deformation by feature
      tracking. Feature tracking CMR (FT-CMR) approximately applies the same principles of speckle
      tracking echocardiography (even though with differences methods of image acquisition and
      reconstruction) in order to measure global and segmental myocardial deformation. The strength
      of FT-CMR consists of its relatively unrestricted access to large fields of view, its high
      spatial resolution and its relatively high signal to noise and contrast to noise ratios.

      MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNAs that regulate gene expression at the
      post-transcriptional level. MiRNAs have emerged as key regulators of several physiological
      and pathophysiological processes. Besides their intracellular function, recent studies
      demonstrated that miRNAs can be exported or released by cells and circulate in blood in a
      remarkably stable form. The discovery of circulating miRNAs opens the possibilities to use
      circulating miRNA patterns as biomarkers for several pathologies also for cardiovascular
      diseases. In a recent study, a common microRNA signature in AFD patients regardless of gender
      and age has been identified.15 miRNAs differentially expressed between 10 AFD subjects and 10
      normal controls (NC) have been found. The levels of these 15 miRNAs in plasma sample of 10
      subjects with LVH and no mutation in the Galactosidase Alpha (GLA) gene have also been
      studied. Among these 15 miRNAs, 3 discriminated AFD patients from subjects with LVH. In
      particular, 2 microRNAs (mir-199a-5p and mir126a-3p) were up-regulated and 1 miRNA
      (mir-423-5p) was down-expressed in AFD patients. Interestingly, in a recent study increased
      plasmatic levels of miR-126 and miR-199a were significantly associated with a lower major
      adverse Cardiovascular (CV) event rate in patients with coronary artery disease. Instead,
      elevated plasmatic levels of mir-423-5p is strongly related to the clinical diagnosis of
      Heart Failure. Several evidences indicate that the aberrantly expressed plasmatic miRNAs in
      AFD are linked to microvascular or macrovascular damage involved in the typical AFD
      vasculopathy and could be attractive as diagnostic markers as well as for the monitoring of
      the pharmacological treatment.

      Integration of all these aspects allows a complete morpho-functional evaluation of cardiac
      involvement in AFD and a detailed monitoring of the effects of specific drugs.

      This study is designed to provide a comprehensive evaluation of the therapeutic effect of
      Migalastat on cardiac involvement, integrating a morphological, functional and bio-humoral
      assessment of heart involvement. 15 patients with amenable mutation, clinical indication to
      Migalastat and signs of early or overt cardiac involvement with will undergo a complete
      cardiological evaluation before and 18 months after therapy with Migalastat. The
      cardiological assessment will include ECG, 2D echocardiography, CMR, cardio-pulmonary test,
      dosage of peripheral biomarkers (TnT High Sensitive; NT-proBNP, mir-199a-5p and mir126a-3p,
      mir-423-5p).
    
  