
    
      Latinos are the largest racial/ethnic minority group in the U.S., and report substantial and
      widening health disparities. Prevalence of type II diabetes is 60-100% higher in Latinos than
      in non-Latino Whites, and incidence in Latinos is projected to increase by 500% by 20503. The
      largest disparities are projected for Latino women (Latinas). Rates of overweight and obesity
      are 23% and 37% higher in Latinas than in White women respectively, and have grown faster in
      Mexican American women, by far the largest subgroup of Latinas, than in White women during
      the past decade. Given that Latinos are projected to comprise nearly one-third of the US
      population by 2050, this signifies a pressing public health concern in terms of costs,
      diminished quality of life, and lost life years. Interventions are therefore needed that are
      not only linguistically adapted for this population but address their specific barriers.
      "Mediated" intervention delivery approaches (e.g., mail, phone, or web delivered) that
      emphasize home-based, lifestyle activities show larger effect sizes than face-to-face
      approaches, are more cost-effective, are likely more sustainable, and may be particularly
      appropriate for Latinas, as they reduce the burden of time, childcare, and transportation,
      barriers commonly cited by Latinas. Thus in the previously funded parent grant (R01NR011295)
      we responded to PAR-07-379, "Behavioral and Social Science Research on Understanding and
      Reducing Health Disparities," by modifying an existing print-based mail-delivered PA
      intervention and adapting it specifically for Latinas in the North Eastern U.S. with low
      acculturation, literacy, and socioeconomic status (SES), and testing the modified
      intervention in a randomized controlled trial (N=266). Participants in the PA intervention
      arm showed significantly greater increases in at least moderate intensity activity,
      increasing from 1.87 min/week at baseline to 73.36 min/week at 6 months (vs. 3.02 min/week to
      32.98 min/week in a contact control group). However, this is still well below the national
      guidelines of 150 minutes per week. This intervention therefore shows potential in promoting
      initial PA adoption, yet enhancements are needed to further help people achieve levels of PA
      that will prevent disease and reduce health disparities. The objectives of this renewal are
      to 1) enhance the intervention to achieve greater increases in PA, 2) assess its potential
      clinical impact by measuring changes in biomarkers, and 3) increase its generalizability by
      replicating it in Latina women, all of which would further the goal of designing an
      innovative behavioral intervention to promote health and prevent illness in diverse
      populations.
    
  