
    
      Hernias of the abdominal wall are among the most common surgical disorders, with over 350,000
      patients requiring repair annually for a total cost of $3.2 billion. Despite their
      prevalence, outcomes remain poor and variable, with recurrence rates that range between 32%
      and 63% at 10 years and a 5-fold difference in recurrence rates between surgeons. With the
      introduction of new repair techniques and continuous advances in biomedical devices and
      technology, it is difficult for practicing surgeons to stay abreast of new developments and
      incorporate these advances into their practice. Collaborative learning through video review
      can support continuous professional development and aid practicing surgeons in adopting new
      approaches and continually improving their own technical skills.

      Surgeons have limited time to invest in surgical quality improvement despite recognizing its
      importance. A critical gap in our current knowledge is the optimal approach to video-based
      collaborative learning. The effectiveness of two approaches to video review and performance
      feedback are herein proposed to be compared: synchronous surgical coaching versus
      asynchronous feedback. This study will be performed in partnership with the Abdominal Core
      Health Quality Collaborative (ACHQC), formerly Americas Hernia Society Quality Collaborative
      (AHSQC). This name change took place in July 2020. Surgeons will be paired with a coach and
      will participate in collaborative review of ventral hernia repairs. Participants will be
      randomized to undergo in-person coaching or asynchronous feedback utilizing a web-based video
      platform or will be assigned to a wait-list control group. All participants will submit 2
      procedural videos pre- and post-intervention for self-assessment and blinded expert review
      utilizing a previously validated assessment instrument to measure technical skill. The
      primary outcome is change in 30-day procedural outcomes, which are captured and risk adjusted
      in the ACHQC. Participants will be followed for 2 years to assess long-term recurrence rates.
      Other secondary outcomes include intervention adherence, time spent in review, and the
      perceived value of the different approaches.

      These interventions will have immediate impact. Working with the ACHQC, the potential exists
      to improve quality and decrease costs for the 350,000 patients that require a ventral hernia
      repair annually. In addition, this will provide a new paradigm for surgical quality
      improvement and continuing professional development.
    
  