
    
      There is a considerable variation in the need of anaesthetics for the individual patient. For
      measuring the hypnotic component (i.e. sleep) during anaesthesia, no reliable monitoring
      system was available before Bispectral Index, BIS (Aspect Medical) was commercially launched
      about ten years ago. BIS is based on complex mathematical and statistical processing of the
      electroencephalogram, EEG.

      A widespread use of BIS has been limited in part by high costs. Last year a considerably
      cheaper EEG monitor, Cerebral State Monitor, CSM (Danmeter), was launched into the marked.
      The validation of CSM is so far limited to very few cases comparing BIS and CSM offline. No
      large scaled clinical study has been performed to test whether CSM also reflects depth of
      hypnosis in a reliable way.

      We set up a study on 60 relatively healthy patients, undergoing various kind of surgery in
      general anaesthesia. The study is approved by the Regional Committee of Ethics in Medicine,
      Health Region East, and all patients give written informed consent. Both monitors (BIS and
      CSM) are applied to the patients, but only information from BIS is available for the
      anaesthetist throughout surgery. Information from the two monitors and from the routine
      monitoring equipment as well as from the actual delivery of anaesthetics is sampled online
      into a designed data program (Rugloop, Demed, Belgium).

      The output from BIS and CSM will afterwards be analyzed together with statistical experts, to
      see if CSM can predict the time for falling asleep and time for awakening just as good as
      BIS. The curves for the two monitors will also be compared, qualitatively and quantitatively,
      to see if they perform equally well.

      Inclusion criterias:

        -  Written informed consent

        -  ASA 1-3

        -  Age 18 - 75

        -  Surgery in all parts of the body except from the face/head in general anaesthesia;
           surgery expected to last for 30 - 120 minutes

      Exclusion criterias:

        -  Extreme over- or underweight

        -  Epilepsy or other conditions or medications that would probably influence on the EEG

        -  Alcohol- or drug abuse

        -  Contraindication for the actual anaesthetics, being propofol and remifentanil
    
  