
    
      The in-home respite intervention group will receive in-home respite care also called
      "Baluchonnage". During that period, lasting at least five days (24/24hours), an internally
      trained or experienced care worker for persons with dementia takes over all caregiving tasks
      while the caregiver takes a break. This care worker also writes down his/her observations in
      a diary. The content of this diary enables the caregiver to validate their perceptions,
      provides strategies to deal with difficult situations, and let them feel that somebody can
      truly understand their daily challenges. The control group receives usual care (standard
      dementia care).

      Participants of the in-home respite intervention group will be recruited by Baluchon staff
      when asking for a first or a new period of in-home respite care. First, Baluchon staff will
      describe the study to the dyads and ask them about their preparedness to participate. When
      they give their verbal consent contact information will be forwarded to the research team who
      will then contact them by phone. During this call a home visit will be planned to sign the
      informed consent and complete the baseline assessment. Participants in the control group will
      be recruited from several general practitioners spread over the different regions in Belgium.
      Potentially, in a later phase, control group participants will also be recruited via Memory
      Clinics in Belgium.

      Similar to the recruitment of the intervention group, the physician will give some
      information about the study. When verbal consent to participate is given to the physician,
      caregivers will be contacted by phone by the research team to check eligibility. This will be
      done by listing different support strategies (including "Baluchonnage") and ask the caregiver
      if they would be interested to receive this type of support. Also previous use of
      Baluchonnage will be questioned because this is not allowed in the control group. When
      caregivers appear to be eligible the research team will plan a home visit to sign the
      informed consent and complete the baseline assessment.

      Data collection of caregiver and care-recipient characteristics and research outcomes will be
      gathered at several assessment moments. The baseline assessment will be conducted during a
      home visit by a member of the research team. Background characteristics and baseline values
      of the research outcomes will be gathered during this assessment. For the intervention group
      this will be in the week preceding the respite period. For the control group this will take
      place after inclusion. A second assessment will be done in the intervention group two weeks
      after having the intervention. A third assessment moment will be done 6 months after
      inclusion and a last follow up assessment will be conducted after 12 months. To fulfill the
      assessments after the baseline assessment, caregivers will be contacted by telephone. All
      questionnaires will be available in Dutch and French for use in Belgium. When no valid
      translation of a certain questionnaire exists in Dutch or French for Belgium a back-forward
      translation method will be performed.

      For caregivers the researchers will obtain the following background characteristics: age,
      gender, region, marital status, ethnicity, educational level, relationship with the
      care-recipient, employment status, living situation and time spent in caregiving. In both
      study groups the reason for (potential) use of respite will be asked. Earlier use of
      Baluchonnage will also be questioned to intervention group participants. Time spent in
      caregiving (measured twice) will be calculated using the RUD instrument (Resource Utilization
      in Dementia). For the care-recipient the following background characteristics will be
      collected at baseline: age, gender, marital status, ethnicity, region, National Registration
      Number, educational level, being on a waiting list for long-term nursing home placement,
      dementia-specific medication use, and severity of dementia. The National Registration Number
      of the person with dementia will be gathered. This will allow us to trace study participants
      in the IMA database (Intermutualistisch Agentschap) and gather information on resource use
      and date of placement in a nursing home over a longer time period than the trial. ADL
      (Activities of Daily Living) functioning will be measured using the Belgian Katz scale and
      severity of dementia with the Global Deterioration Scale. Both will be measured twice
      (baseline and after 6 months).

      Sample size calculation is performed using SPSS SamplePower 3®. First, literature was
      searched to determine the needed effect size and standard deviation (SD) allowing to
      distinguish a statistical significant and clinical relevant difference in the primary
      outcome, i.e. burden. Based on the findings of a similar high quality intervention study an
      effect size of 0.4 was used in the analysis, which implies a difference of six points on the
      ZBI scale (Zarit Burden Interview), and a SD of 15. Also, an average drop-out rate of 20% was
      taken into account, a power of 80% and a significance level at 0.05. Based on these values a
      total of 124 caregiver/care-recipient dyads will be needed for the intervention group. To
      reduce selection-bias inherent to quasi-experimental studies an allocation ratio of 1:2 will
      be used to allow matching techniques. As a result 248 caregiver/care-recipient dyads will be
      needed in the control group.

      When appropriate, i.e. if the intervention demonstrates an effect in the study endpoints,
      within-trial and modeled cost-effectiveness analyses will be conducted in a separate economic
      evaluation plan. First the analysis will be performed from the perspective of the health care
      payer taking into account direct health care costs for the government's health care budget
      (RIZIV/INAMI) as well as patients' co-payment. Assuming that policy makers would consider
      reimbursement of in-home respite in the future the daily cost of Baluchonnage will thus be
      included in the analyses. Alongside the costs of Baluchonnage other costs of healthcare
      resource use including hospital and community care will be included. Additionally, also a
      full societal viewpoint will be undertaken not only including potential health care costs for
      the health care budget and patients, but also all other direct and indirect costs for
      caregivers and patients. Because in this viewpoint everyone affected by the intervention
      should be considered, caregiver time and costs (i.e. time spent in caregiving and
      productivity loss) as well as resource use and costs of other sectors (f.e. food delivery)
      should be included. Based on the KCE (Belgian Health Care Knowledge Center) guidelines for
      health economic evaluations in Belgium future costs will be discounted at 3% and future
      QALY's at 1.5%. Health utilities or QALY's of caregivers from both intervention arms will be
      derived from the Belgian public preference list based on scores on the EQ-5D (general utility
      instrument). Decision analytic modeling will be carried out to extrapolate effects of the
      intervention found in the trial to a longer time horizon. The model will be based on results
      from the trial as well as existing data from literature. Assumptions, hypotheses and sources
      of information will be represented in a transparent and clear way. Finally, the model will be
      validated by experts.

      Data on resources used by the care-recipient of each study group will be obtained by an
      adapted version of the RUD instrument at baseline and after six months inclusion. This RUD
      instrument attempts to include all resource use including: health care resource use
      containing hospital resources (in-patient and out-patient attendances,…) and community care
      resources (general practitioner visits, nurse visits,…), caregiver and patient resources
      (time spent in caregiver,…), and resource use in other sectors (social worker visits, home
      help visits,…). Duration and frequency of the used services will be multiplied by each unit
      cost of the corresponding service. These unit costs will be obtained from the Belgian
      Reimbursement scheme using standard fees for regularly insured patients and other publicly
      available sources. Time spent in caregiving will be calculated at baseline and after six
      months using the recall method for which also a part of the RUD instrument will be utilized.
      Next, the amount of time spent in caregiving will be monetized using the opportunity cost
      method which estimates the value of lost informal caregiver benefits due to spending time on
      providing informal care. For informal caregivers not active on the labor market wage rates of
      similar people will be imputed. Basically, productivity loss should be included but given the
      average high age of informal caregivers it can be expected that productivity loss will have a
      negligible impact on costs because most of them are retired. Nevertheless, based on the
      results of mean age and employment status of the included caregivers the researchers will
      decide to whether or not include productivity loss as a cost. The costs of the intervention
      will be obtained from the current unit cost per day of Baluchonnage and multiplied by the
      amount of days the in-home respite care was delivered. Currently the daily cost of
      Baluchonnage is set at 350€/day covered by charity and 65€/day direct cost for the patient.
      Additional costs above the fixed daily tariff for Baluchonnage will also be included such as:
      travel expenses during the respite period and having a pet (5€ extra per day). Additionally,
      willingness to pay for one day of in-home respite care by Baluchon will be obtained from both
      study groups using the contingent valuation method (CVM). This method can be defined as a
      stated preference method for eliciting a monetary value to a health care program. In this
      trial a closed response format will be used. Finally, for use in the decision analytic model,
      costs of nursing home placement will be derived from the average daily cost for staying in a
      nursing home in Belgium at the time of completing secondary endpoint.

      Descriptive statistics will be represented to draw a clear profile of the characteristics of
      study participants. Therefore the mean, percentages and the standard deviations of all
      continuous variables will be displayed. To determine possible baseline differences between
      the groups, mean values of baseline characteristics will be compared using independent sample
      t-tests for continuous variables if normally distributed or by performing Pearson's
      chi-square test for categorical variables. To help control for bias and confounding
      statistical techniques such as propensity score matching will be used. Propensity score
      matching can be seen as a tool to simulate a RCT setting. In this way the observed effect can
      be considered an unbiased estimate of the real effect. To investigate possible effects of the
      intervention on the primary and secondary outcomes, analysis of variance will be conducted if
      the outcome variables are normally distributed. A P-value of 0.05 will be considered as
      significant. All analyses will be based on intention to treat also taking drop-outs into
      account and avoiding overestimation of respite care effects. When the intervention is
      effective a cost-effectiveness analysis in a separate economic evaluation plan will be
      performed. Also ICERs (Incremental Cost-Effectiveness Ratio) will be calculated for the mean
      and upper and lower confidence levels of the costs and consequences. To explore uncertainty
      one-way-sensitivity analysis will be conducted around the ICER and illustrated in a Tornado
      diagram. Additionally, on all input variables a probabilistic sensitivity analysis, also
      called Monte Carlo analysis, will be conducted to test robustness of the model. These results
      will also be illustrated. Finally, the results and the willingness to pay threshold of the
      Belgian Health Care System will be presented in a cost-effectiveness acceptability curve. To
      compare time to nursing home placement of persons who use respite care to those who don't,
      the researchers will use Kaplan-Meier survival curves to illustrate association between the
      comparison groups. By additionally conducting a log-rank test statistical difference between
      the groups in time to placement can be found.
    
  