
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Paclitaxel is designed to block cancer cells from dividing, which may cause them to die.

      Oxaliplatin is designed to keep new cancer cells from growing

      Bevacizumab is designed to prevent or slow down the growth of cancer cells by blocking the
      growth of blood vessels.

      Study Drug Dose Levels:

      Up to 12 study drug dose levels will be tested in this study. Participants will be enrolled
      in groups of 3. The first 3 participants will be enrolled at the lowest dose level. If there
      are no intolerable side effect seen, the next 3 participants will be enrolled into the next
      higher dose level. This will continue until acceptable dose levels of the study drugs are
      found. The dose level that you are assigned to will depend on when you enroll on this study.
      You will receive the same dose level for the entire study unless you develop side effects, in
      which case doses of the drugs will be decreased by your doctor.

      Drug Administration:

      If you agree to participate in this study, you will have a catheter placed in your abdomen
      before receiving study drug. A catheter is a sterile flexible tube that will be placed while
      you are under local anesthesia. Your doctor will explain this procedure to you in more
      detail, and you will be required to sign a separate consent form.

      On Day 1, you will receive bevacizumab followed by paclitaxel through a needle in your vein
      over 24 hours.

      On Day 2, after you have completed the paclitaxel infusion, you will be given about 1 quart
      of fluid containing oxaliplatin into the abdomen through the catheter over 15 minutes.

      On Day 8, you will be given about 1 quart of fluid containing paclitaxel into the abdomen
      through the catheter over 15 minutes.

      Every 21 days is called a study "cycle."

      Study Visits:

      During each cycle, you will see your doctor in his office to make sure that you are still
      eligible to receive study drugs.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests each day during
           hospitalization and then once a week as an outpatient.

        -  A urine sample will be collected once each cycle for routine tests.

        -  You will have scans such as a chest x-ray, CT, MRI, Positron emission tomography (PET),
           and/or PET/CT scan after every 2 cycles (6 weeks) or earlier if the study doctor thinks
           it is in your best interest, or the cancer gets worse. These scans are to check the
           status of the disease. If the study doctor thinks it is more appropriate for you, other
           types of scans may need to be performed. The study doctor will discuss these scans with
           you, and you may be asked to sign a separate consent form.

      Length of Study:

      You will be taken off study if the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      If you are taken off study, you will be asked to have an end-of-study visit. At this visit,
      the following tests will be performed:

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  You will have repeat scans such as a chest x-ray, CT, MRI, PET, and/or PET/CT scan to
           check the status of the disease. If the study doctor thinks it is more appropriate for
           you, other types of scans may need to be performed. The study doctor will discuss these
           scans with you, and you may be asked to sign a separate consent form.

      This is an investigational study. Paclitaxel, oxaliplatin, and bevacizumab are FDA-approved
      drugs, but their use in this study is investigational. Up to 72 patients will take part in
      this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  