
    
      Patients aged 18-80 years who confirmed with COVID-19 and classified as severe were enrolled
      in the study, and then separated randomly into two groups: a berberine group (B group) and a
      control group (C group). The diagnostic criteria for severe cases are in accordance with the
      Diagnosis and Treatment Guideline of patients with COVID-19 issued by the National Health
      Commission of the People's Republic of China (Edition 7). In general, patients diagnosed with
      COVID-19 pneumonia must also meet any of the following criteria: appears shortness of breath,
      respiratory rate (RR) ≥ 30 times/min; SPO2 ≤ 93% at rest; the ratio of partial oxygen
      pressure of arterial blood (PaO2) to oxygen absorption concentration (FiO2) ≤ 300mmHg
      (1mmHg=0.133KPa); pulmonary imaging showed the lesion progression >50% within 24-48 hours.
      All enrolled patients were given general support therapy, oxygen therapy, antiviral drugs, in
      combination with antibiotics and small doses of glucocorticoids if necessary, nutritional and
      organ function support. Patients in the berberine group (B group) were given berberine 0.3g
      tid orally or tube feed daily, while patients in the control group (C group) were given
      montmorilonite orally if they presence of diarrhea. The duration of the study intervention
      was 14 days and followed up to discharge. Investigators record general information about
      patients at admission, including age, gender, age, exposure history, time from onset of
      symptoms to hospital, APACHE II score, the presentation of X-ray, comorbidity, mechanical
      ventilation, fever or not,gastrointestinal symptoms. Investigators also evaluate the
      gastrointestinal function daily,including gastrointestinal symptoms (nausea, vomiting,
      abdominal pain, abdominal distension or diarrhoea), frequency of diarrhea, the
      characteristics of stool (Bristol scal). Peripheral blood are collected on day 1,3, 7 and 14
      after admission to determine the level of interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-1β (IL-1β),
      interleukin-10 (IL-10) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF-α). Laboratory tests are also performed
      to evaluate leucocyte, c-reactive protein (CRP), and procalcitonin (PCT) levels at the same
      time. Glutamate transaminase (ALT), glutamate transaminase (AST), urea nitrogen (Bun),
      creatinine, prothrombin time (PT), partially activated prothrombin time (APTT), and
      Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score are used to evaluate organ function on day
      1,3, 7 and 14 after admission. Investigators also record the adverse events associated with
      the drug, length of stay and the prognosis at discharge. The patients are blinded to the
      group allocation. Two physicians are responsible for data processing, one is responsible for
      recording and collecting, and the other is responsible for checking, and they are all blind
      to the research.
    
  