
    
      This was a prospective, single-center, randomized, active-controlled, double-blind, age de
      escalation study in healthy Gambian PCV-naïve adults (18-40 years old), PCV primed toddlers
      (12-15 months old) and PCV-naïve infants (6-8 weeks old).

      In the adult cohort, at least 34 eligible PCV-naïve adults (18-40 years old) were planned to
      be randomized into the study to receive a single dose of either SIILPCV10 or Pneumovax 23 in
      a 1:1 ratio on Day 0 (V1), with stratification by sex (although no fixed proportion of males
      and females was required in the cohort as a whole).

      In the toddler cohort, at least 112 eligible PCV-primed toddlers (12-15 months old) were
      planned to be randomized into the study to receive a single dose of either SIILPCV10 or
      Prevenar 13 in a 1:1 ratio on Day 0 (V1).

      Each adult and toddler subject underwent a total of 4 clinic visits, including at least 1
      screening visit (V0) no more than 14 days prior to Day 0, a vaccination visit on Day 0 (V1),
      and follow-up clinic visits at 7 (+3) and 28 (+14) days after vaccination (V2 and V3,
      respectively). A total of 3 blood samples were obtained for laboratory safety and
      immunogenicity assessments.

      In the infant cohort, at least 200 eligible PCV-naïve infants (6 to 8 weeks old) were
      randomized into the study to receive 3 doses of either SIILPCV10 or Prevenar 13 in a 1:1
      ratio along with standard Expanded Program on Immunisation (EPI) vaccinations (pentavalent
      diphtheria, tetanus, whole-cell pertussis, hepatitis B, and Haemophilus influenzae type b
      combined vaccine [DTwP-HepB-Hib], oral poliovirus vaccine [OPV], rotavirus vaccine [RV], and
      inactivated poliovirus vaccine [IPV]).

      Each infant subject underwent a total of 9 scheduled visits for the primary series: at least
      1 screening visit (V0); 3 primary vaccination visits at 28 (+14)-day intervals (V1, 3, 5);
      follow-up clinic visits at 7 (+3) days after each primary vaccination (V2, 4, 6); and 2
      follow-up visits 28 and 84 days after the last primary vaccination (V7 and V8, respectively).
      Windows for follow-up and subsequent vaccination visits were calculated based on the actual
      calendar date of the prior vaccination, rather than relative to the day of randomization.
      Vaccinations included the blinded PCV study vaccine (SIILPCV10 or Prevenar 13) and the
      unblinded EPI vaccines (DTwP-HepB-Hib, OPV, RV, and IPV).

      A total of 2 blood samples were obtained for the primary series (V0 and V7), with the first
      sample used for safety laboratory eligibility assessment, and if randomized, for baseline
      immunogenicity testing. Immunogenicity testing was also done on the second sample.

      During the supplemental booster phase, infant subjects underwent 2 additional visits: a
      fourth (booster) vaccination visit (V9) at ≥ 9 months of age, and a follow-up visit 28 days
      after the booster dose (V10). The EPI vaccines scheduled for 9 months of age in The Gambia
      were not given as part of the study. However, study personnel contacted parents of infant
      subjects to remind them of the need to attend this EPI vaccination visit at the due date to
      allow for effective scheduling of the subsequent booster. The vaccine (SIILPCV10 or Prevenar
      13) was given at least 4 weeks after the routine EPI vaccines given at 9 months of age in The
      Gambia (measles and rubella, yellow fever, and OPV). Infants who received SIILPCV10 at V9
      were offered a booster dose of Prevenar 13 at least 56 days following the SIILPCV10 boost.
      Immunogenicity testing was performed on 2 additional blood samples collected during the
      booster phase (V9 and V10).

      In the adult and toddler cohorts, on the day of vaccination, a malaria rapid test was
      performed using a finger prick to rule out parasitemia and a urine pregnancy test was
      performed (in adult women who were not surgically sterile) to rule out pregnancy before final
      eligibility was confirmed and randomization occurred. In the infant cohort, on each day of
      vaccination, a malaria rapid test was performed using a finger prick to rule out parasitemia
      before vaccination occurred. Any infant showing signs of acute illness or abnormal vital
      signs on the day of vaccination were not vaccinated until recovery was documented by the
      study team.

      After all vaccinations, subjects were monitored for solicited reactogenicity. All adult and
      toddler subjects were monitored for AEs at each clinic visit until V3, and ongoing AEs at
      study exit were followed until last subject last visit (LSLV). Infant subjects were monitored
      for AEs at each clinic visit until V8. For infants who participated in the booster phase of
      the study, AEs were recorded at V10, and any conditions present at V9 were considered
      baseline.

      SAS software was used to analyze data.
    
  