
    
      Antibiotics, and especially beta-lactams, are among the most used drugs in the world. The
      good use of antibiotics and the prevention of selection of resistant strains has been a
      public health priority for many years. In this context, it is essential to obtain effective
      antibiotic concentrations at the site of infection. In order to obtain effective
      concentrations, ceftazidime, cefepime, cefotaxime, piperacillin and meropenem are
      administered in this population by continuous infusion at high dose. Although beta-lactams
      are mostly well tolerated, they can cause adverse effects such as severe neurological
      toxicities.

      The critically ill patient has physiological alterations that can significantly alter the
      pharmacokinetics of drugs. Several studies have clearly shown that the pharmacokinetics of
      beta-lactams in the critically ill patient is different from those of other patients.
      Depending on the clinical context and the co-morbidities of the patient, sub-therapeutic or
      potentially toxic concentrations can be observed for the same dosage. The risk of ineffective
      treatment and the development of resistance remains, despite the high doses administered. In
      addition, this pharmacokinetic variability may be responsible for the observation of toxic
      concentrations and the occurrence of adverse effects in this population.

      Following these arguments, therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) of beta-lactams accompanied by
      personalized dosage adjustment appears to be an essential tool to optimize the management of
      critically ill patients. Although strongly recommended, the TDM of beta-lactams in the
      critically ill patient accompanied by a dosage adjustment is not currently performed
      systematically in all patients.

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the impact of the use of a systematic therapeutic
      drug monitoring of beta-lactams in the critically ill treated with cefotaxime, ceftazidime,
      cefepime, meropenem or piperacillin, in terms of efficacy and prevention of neurotoxicity.
    
  