
    
      The American Cancer Society estimates that approximately 29,480 men will die of prostate
      cancer in the United States in 2014. Many of these men were initially diagnosed with
      aggressive prostate cancer (so-called "high risk" prostate cancer), often with cancer that
      extended beyond the prostate gland itself or was of a high Gleason score, or was associated
      with a Prostate Specific Antigen [PSA] level > 20 ng/ml. In contrast to the more favorable
      outcomes in men with low and intermediate risk disease, nearly 50% of men with high-risk
      prostate cancer will have a recurrence of their cancer despite a complete course of
      treatment. One of the mainstays of care for men with high-risk prostate cancer is a
      combination of radiation therapy and hormone suppression (more appropriately called androgen
      deprivation [ADT]). Despite advances, a clear need exists for improved clinical management of
      high risk disease.

      One of the challenges in the overall management of men with high risk prostate cancer is the
      lack of a reliable test allowing clinicians to monitor tumor response both during and after
      radiation therapy. The commonly used marker, prostate specific antigen (PSA), is less useful
      in men receiving ADT. In these men, the PSA is level is strongly suppressed by the ADT and is
      a less reliable surrogate for detecting active tumor. Importantly, ADT is given both during
      and for up to 3 years following radiation therapy, limiting the utility of PSA testing for an
      extended period of time during which the window for curative therapies may close. The
      development of an accurate, noninvasive monitoring test is needed, to guide early
      implementation of salvage strategies aimed at increasing the proportion of patients cured of
      their disease.

      Prior research from our group and several others has demonstrated that prostate cancers
      nearly universally harbor stable, cancer-specific changes (modifications) of the DNA.
      Furthermore, published studies have shown that this modified (methylated) DNA can be readily
      detected in urine and blood specimens from men with primary prostate cancer.

      Investigators hypothesize that large scale assessment of cancer-specific DNA changes and
      rearrangements in the urine and plasma of prostate cancer patients using technology developed
      by our group (qMBD-seq), will allow for more informative and accurate tracking of disease
      burden and therapeutic response in men receiving radiation therapy and ADT for high-risk
      prostate cancer.

      Investigators have two straightforward primary objectives for this pilot study. First we will
      establish the background levels of modified DNA in individuals with no history of prostate
      cancer. Second, investigators will quantify cancer-specific methylated DNA in men with known
      high risk prostate cancer. Investigators will begin by collecting urine and plasma specimens
      from normal volunteers. In parallel investigators will collect specimens for quantitation of
      cancer-specific DNA modifications in men with known high-risk prostate cancer receiving
      standard treatment in the Department of Radiation Oncology. Patient samples will be collected
      at multiple time points before, during, and after radiation treatment and then will be
      subjected to careful DNA sequencing and analysis. This will allow investigators to
      simultaneously characterize and quantify prostate cancer specific DNA occurring anywhere in
      the genome, thereby allowing investigators to predict which patients have prostate cancer
      still present in their body after treatment even if the PSA is very low or undetectable. If
      successful, this project will be an important first step in the development of a noninvasive
      test to track disease burden and therapeutic response during and after radiation therapy for
      high-risk prostate cancer.
    
  