
    
      Frontal fibrosing alopecia (FFA) is a primary lymphocytic cicatricial alopecia, that was
      first described in postmenopausal women, by Kossard in 1994. Since then, FFA has also been
      reported in premenopausal women and rarely in men.

      The exact cause of FFA is unknown. One possible reason can be the disturbed immune response
      to some component of the scalp hair follicles, however, whether or not the hair loss is
      caused by hormonal fluctuations is under question. Some authors, consider that FFA is a
      variant of liquen planopilaris (LPP). Whether FFA is truly an LPP variant or is a distinct
      entity with shared clinical features remains to be determined. FFA was also diagnosed in
      family members (mother and daughter) suggesting a possible genetic contribution.

      Clinically, it is characterized by progressive frontal and temporoparietal recession of the
      hairline due to inflammatory destruction of hair follicles. Hair loss occurs in a band-like
      distribution and the depth of recession can be from 0,5-8 cm. Often, a small number of
      isolated hairs are spared within the band of alopecia.

      Loss of eyebrows (partial or complete) is a finding in FFA and in some cases, can precede the
      hairline recession. The affected skin is atrophic, shiny, and often lighter than the
      chronically sun-exposed forehead skin.

      The diagnosis of FFA is usually made on the basis of clinical findings, and laboratory tests
      are rarely required. Dermoscopy, a noninvasive tool can help for the diagnosis of FFA; The
      dermoscopic features of FFA are: Absence of follicular openings, perifollicular scale, and a
      feeble perifollicular erythema. Perifollicular erythema at the receding hairline may be a
      sign of active disease.

      Since the first description of FFA, many reports have been published, and the number of new
      cases of FFA appears to be increasing.

      Currently, there are no evidence-based studies to guide treatment and there is no clearly
      defined line of treatment for the condition. Therefore treatment options vary among
      clinicians.

      The aim of this study is to find if intralesional triamcinolone acetonide (compared to area
      treated with placebo) may help to halt or slow down the progression of this disease.

      The patients are divided into two groups (A and B):

        1. Group A: right half-head (active border of the disease): treatment with intralesional
           triamcinolone acetonide left half-head (active border of the disease): placebo (saline
           solution)

        2. Group B: right half-head (active border of the disease):placebo (saline solution)

      left half-head (active border of the disease): intralesional triamcinolone acetonide

      The aim of this study is to find if intralesional triamcinolone may help to halt or slow down
      the progres- sion of this disease.

      All patients provide written informed consent before participating in the study, which is
      performed according to the Declaration of Helsinki.
    
  