
    
      Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) such as obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM2) are one
      of the main causes of death in the world and in Mexico. According to the 2016 National Health
      and Nutrition Survey (ENSANUT), 9.4% has previously diagnosed diabetes and the prevalence of
      overweight and obesity is 71.2% in adults. Among the main risk factors for the development of
      these diseases are an unbalanced diet, physical inactivity and sedentarism.

      According to the World Health Organization (WHO), accumulating at least 150 minutes/week of
      moderate-vigorous physical activity either during occupational, home, leisure time and
      transportation for at least 10 continuous minutes could result multiple benefits, such as the
      reduction of seven types of NCDs including DM2 and obesity. It has been observed that
      cycling, compared to other activities during leisure time, appears to be an efficient form of
      daily exercise and feasible to increase physical activity levels even in the most physically
      inactive individuals.

      According to a cross-sectional study in 14 countries including the United States, it was
      observed that adults who commuted by bicycle had a lower risk of DM2 and obesity.
      Additionally, results from randomized controlled studies have shown that cycling may help
      reducing body fat and increase maximal oxygen consumption. However, some factors, such as the
      lack of attractive bike paths and the lack of safe spaces, may reduce this pattern.

      The shared bicycle program has been implemented in more than 30 countries including Mexico.
      Among the main objectives of this program - in addition to integrating the bicycle as a form
      of active transportation - includes the design of a new infrastructure to offer safety and
      comfort to cyclists. This type of program has been evaluated in different countries. Results
      show that the combination of interventions, that is, the construction of bicycle facilities
      and the shared bicycle programs increased trips in Barcelona and Paris. In Barcelona, it was
      observed that this program increased the quality of life and decreased air and noise
      pollution. In Montreal, this program was found to attract young people and people within the
      highest socioeconomic status. In Valencia, Spain, it was reported that the bicycle system
      increased energy expenditure by 257 METs / min / week and helped reducing 2kg. of body weight
      in a school year. In Japan, pedaling for 30 minutes to work was found to have an effect on
      mental health. Finally, in the United States, it was observed that those who use active
      transportation to go to work have a lower probability of obesity, elevated triglyceride
      levels, diastolic blood pressure, and fasting glucose.

      The ECOBICI program is a shared bicycle system within Mexico City. Since 2010, this program
      has been managed by the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Mobility, initially
      operating with 1,200 bicycles and 84 bicycle stations around Mexico City. It currently
      belongs to the Comprehensive Mobility Program 2018-2024, aiming at the accessibility of the
      population in the use of bicycles, promoting their use as an air pollution free transport.
      This program has been awarded within the urban public transport area, for improving air
      quality and for seeking a change in society.

      Authorities of the ECOBICI program conducted a users' survey in 2014, this included questions
      related to the program and health aspects of the users. It was observed that 36% of those
      surveyed perceived an improvement in their physical condition, 15% reported having an
      improvement in their health and 8% reported having lost weight, however, to date there are
      few prospective studies that report the effect of the use of public bicycles on the levels of
      physical activity and health indicators.

      Procedure The project is divided into two phases: phase 1 - initial evaluations and phase 2 -
      follow-up. Through social media (twitter and Facebook) adults interested on getting involved
      in the ECOBICI program and adults who are not involved in the program or physical activities
      aimed to improve their health will be invited to participate. All individuals interested on
      participating in this study will received an email indicating a day and time for a zoom
      meeting. The investigators will perform two zoom meetings, one for the intervention group and
      another for the control group. Within the intervention group meeting the investigators will
      explain them the study, benefits and risks to participate and the investigators will randomly
      allocate adults in intervention group 1 (free annual program fee) and intervention group 2
      (annual program fee paid by participants). Within the control group meeting the investigators
      will explain them the study, benefits and risks to participate.

      PHASE 1 (month 0). All adults who agree to participate must read and sign the consent letter
      before getting involved into the study. Then, the investigators will ask participants to
      answer a 20-minutes long questionnaire and will perform anthropometric and blood pressure
      measurements. All participants will be evaluated in the ECOBICI module considering COVID-19
      hygiene guidelines. At the end of this phase, adults will be invited to participate in PHASE
      2 of the study. If agree to participate, the investigator will ask for their cell phone
      number or home phone number to be contacted later.

      PHASE 2 (months 1.5 and 3). The investigators will ask them if we could monitor their bicycle
      trajectories using the data from the Ministry of Mobility. In addition, the investigators
      will ask adults to use the STRAVA app (GPS app that monitors bike paths) every time they ride
      the bike. A manual will be send by email within instructions on how to download the
      application and how to use it. In addition, they will be instructed to send us by email the
      bike trajectories stored in the STRAVA application.

      During month 1.5, the investigators will call them to conduct another survey focused on
      physical activity levels, diet, mental health, and health indicators (same survey that was
      conducted in month 0).

      In month 3, the investigators will quote the patients in the ECOBICI module, within this
      visit a final questionnaire and anthropometric and blood pressure measurements will carry
      out.

      All people who agree to participate in the TWO PHASES of the study will receive a voucher for
      $ 250 pesos ($1.25 USD).
    
  