
    
      Purpose of the trial: The purpose of the study is to evaluate the effectiveness of automated
      mobile phone text message-based intervention for secondary prevention after acute coronary
      syndrome hospitalization.

      Trial design: Two-parallel arm, single-blind, block randomization.

      Primary endpoint: The proportion achieving guideline levels of modifiable risk factors (LDL-C
      <70mg/dL, blood pressure <140/90 mm Hg, exercising regularly [≥5 d/wk × 30minutes of moderate
      exercise per session], nonsmoker status, and BMI <25). The investigators prespecified in the
      statistical analysis plan the efficacy variable of proportion achieving combined risk factor
      control (achieving risk factor targets in 4 or more of the 5 modifiable risk factors listed
      above) as a measure of a multiple risk factor effect.

      Secondary endpoints: The plasma LDL-C level at 6 months, Level of physical activity, Blood
      Pressure, Medication adherence measured via Morisky scale, Proportion of non-smokers, Body
      mass index (BMI), Rates death and hospitalization up to 6 months.

      Duration of follow-up: 6 months

      Trial treatment:

      Intervention: The treatment group will receive the usual discharge treatment, instructions
      and information for acute coronary syndrome patients as well as the text-messaging
      intervention. The program will include a variety of topics such as standard follow-up care
      reminders as well as general self-management and healthy living habits texts. There will be
      four streams: one for patients who are non-smokers and are free of diabetes; one for
      current/recent smokers; one for diabetic patients; and one for smoker and diabetic patients.
      Texts will be sent out 4 times per week for 180 days. All participants in the same stream
      will receive the same texts in the same order.

      Control: The usual care group will receive standard discharge treatment, instructions, and
      information for patients with acute coronary syndrome. The participants will also receive SMS
      thanking for their participation in the trial, reminders of trial appointment and informing
      if they have changed contact details. The frequency of this SMS will be monthly.

      Expected sample size, enrollment and expected number of centers:

      Sample size = 160 Recruitment start date: November, 2017 Recruitment end date: May, 2019
      Follow-up end date: November, 2019 Number of centers: 1

      Statistical considerations:

        -  Intention to treat analysis

        -  The trial has >90% power (2 sided alpha = 0.05) to detect 15% difference in achieving
           risk factor targets in 4 or more of the 5 modifiable risk factors listed.
    
  