
    
      With the introduction of array comparative genomic hybridization (CGH), genome-wide high
      resolution analysis for DNA copy number alterations became feasible. This technology has been
      principally used in patients with mental retardation. Depending on the eligibility criteria
      and resolution of the array, around 10 % of patients with mental retardation are found with
      cryptic chromosomal imbalance. This figure arises 20 % for patients with mental retardation
      and multiple congenital anomalies. Alteration of the lipid metabolism and/or regulation of
      satiety, obesity (except in presence of other "exogen" factors) can be considered as a
      developmental disorder. Also, different syndromes with obesity have been associated with
      chromosomal abnormalities, such as 1p36 deletion syndrome, 2q37 deletion syndrome, chromosome
      14 maternal disomy … So we can expect that syndromic obesity is similarly associated with sub
      cryptic chromosomal abnormalities. Some "isolated" patients with obesity have been described
      with cryptic chromosomal imbalance found by array CGH, but no study has been realized in
      cohorts of patients selected for syndromic obesity.

      Characterization of cryptic chromosomal anomaly(ies) in a patient will also be useful to
      precise the management and follow-up of the patient and to give the family an adapted genetic
      counselling.

      We will define a cohort of patients with syndromic obesity and propose them to realize a
      first screening looking for the "common" aetiologies of syndromic obesity. If this screening
      is normal, array CGH will be realized. This analysis implies a blood sampling of 5 ml in
      patient and his parents.

      Genes present at the deleted or duplicated loci characterized in the patients will be study
      to determine if some could be specifically implicated in the development of obesity. These
      same genes could be implicated in isolated obesity. Our study will be also useful to precise
      the aetiological screening of syndromic obesity, and determine the place of array-CGH.
    
  