
    
      Background:

        -  Despite being the leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide, there is only limited
           knowledge of tumor heterogeneity in lung cancer. There is also limited knowledge of
           tumor heterogeneity of other less common thoracic malignancies, such as thymic
           epithelial tumors and mesothelioma. The extent and causes of intra-tumor and
           inter-metastatic heterogeneity in thoracic malignancies and how they compare to other
           tumor types is of utmost importance in managing lung cancer. Newer approaches of
           treating malignancies by targeting immune cells or tumor microenvironment are emerging.
           Adoptive cellular therapy (ACT) is one such approach. How this therapy affects
           individual metastatic sites and specific clones of tumor cells is poorly understood.

        -  Little is known about the clonal architecture of advanced, heavily-treated urothelial
           carcinoma or the dynamics that lead to metastasis and chemotherapy and immunotherapy
           resistance. Urothelial carcinomas have a high somatic mutation rate (median 5.5 per
           megabase) similar to that of non-small cell lung cancer and melanoma. Urothelial
           carcinoma tumors are extremely heterogenous and the extent of heterogeneity post
           treatment is an important area of research that should be further explored.
           Understanding the genetic and clonal evolution of urothelial carcinoma tumors will
           eventually help guide management of treatment-resistant metastatic tumors. Comprehensive
           tissue procurement by rapid autopsy will serve as a valuable mechanism to further
           characterize aggressive treatment-resistant, metastatic urothelial carcinomas and other
           rare genitourinary histologies.

        -  Ovarian carcinoma is frequently associated with poor clinical outcome and metastatic
           disease. Although metastatic processes are becoming more understandable, the genomic
           landscape and metastatic progression in ovarian cancer has not been elucidated. Despite
           prior efforts such as The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and other analyses that were
           predominantly focused on samples from patients who had upfront debulking surgery, an
           understanding of the molecular and cellular heterogeneity of ovarian cancer based on
           highly clinically annotated samples is lacking.

        -  Tumor heterogeneity can be evaluated in a comprehensive manner by deep sequencing and
           globally analyzing genomic and proteomic alterations of simultaneous core biopsies from
           several areas of the primary tumor and metastases. These analyses correlated with
           clinical outcomes can further the evaluation of tumor heterogeneity. However, such
           studies are not feasible in a clinical setting.

        -  Tissue procurement by rapid autopsies provides an effective way for such an
           investigation.

      Hypothesis:

      - Clonal evolution and selection of tumor cells can be assessed by examining genomic and
      proteomic alterations of tumor samples obtained from multiple sites of primary and metastatic
      sites.

      Objectives:

      - Procure primary and metastatic tissue of thoracic malignancies, ovarian cancer, bladder
      cancer and from patients treated with an ACT shortly after death, to investigate tumor
      heterogeneity and immune microenvironment intratumorally, between paired primary and
      metastatic sites, and among inter-metastatic tumors using integrated genomic and proteomic
      analysis.

      Eligibility:

      - Adult patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), small cell lung cancer
      (SCLC), extrapulmonary small cell cancer (ESCC), pulmonary neuroendocrine tumor (pNET),
      thymic epithelial tumor, mesothelioma, bladder cancer (including urothelial carcinoma and
      other rare bladder or kidney histology), ovarian cancer, and patients treated with an ACT,
      with no expected chance of cure and an expected survival of less than 3 months.

      Design:

        -  Forty patients with NSCLC; 30 each with SCLC, thymic epithelial tumors, and
           mesothelioma; 6 each of ESCC and pNET; 20 patients with bladder cancer; 20 patients with
           ovarian cancer; and 20 patients treated with an ACT will be autopsied in this study. The
           accrual ceiling for the study will be set at 205 in order to account for subjects that
           for whatever reason do not undergo autopsy.

        -  Patients will be admitted for inpatient hospice when an investigator evaluates that
           death is clinically imminent.

        -  Upon expiration, rapid autopsy will be performed and tissue will be obtained from the
           primary tumor site, if identifiable, and multiple metastatic sites to assess tumor
           heterogeneity and immune microenvironment using deep sequencing and global genomic and
           proteomic analyses.

        -  Archival tissue from patients, if available, will be used to evaluate these changes from
           several stages of tumor progression.
    
  