
    
      Background: The evidence supporting the Transcendental Meditation (TM) technique as a
      treatment for posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) has advanced considerably in the past
      decade. With a recent randomized controlled trial (RCT) suggesting statistical superiority to
      active control treatments for PTSD (e.g., Present Centered Therapy [PCT]) and noninferiority
      to first-line PTSD psychotherapies, additional research evaluating the benefits and
      cost-effectiveness of TM for PTSD among Veterans is needed.

      Methods and design: This paper describes the rationale and design of a Phase 3 RCT comparing
      TM to PCT for PTSD in Veterans. In this multisite trial, 450 Veterans meeting DSM-5 criteria
      for PTSD will be recruited from nine VA and academic medical center sites across the U.S.
      Study outcomes include changes in PTSD diagnosis and symptom severity (primary), suicidal
      ideation, alcohol use, and depressive symptoms. Participation includes baseline testing and
      post-treatment assessments at 12, 24, and 36-weeks. During each assessment visit, Veterans
      will complete diagnostic interviews, including the Clinician-Administered PTSD Scale for
      DSM-5 and the Alcohol Timeline Followback, as well as validated self-report measures.
      Cost-effectiveness of the treatments will be measured using intervention and healthcare
      costs, the proportion with PTSD diagnosis removed, and Quality-Adjusted Life Years. Finally,
      single-site substudies will examine pre-to-post-treatment changes in PTSD biomarkers and on
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

      Discussion: Despite progress in PTSD treatments, new evidence-based treatments are still
      needed for Veterans who drop-out of or respond poorly to existing trauma-focused
      psychotherapies and that may assist Veterans with common PTSD-comorbidities such as
      depression, suicidal ideation, and substance use. This multisite trial seeks to advance the
      science and potential application of TM as a treatment for PTSD in Veterans.
    
  