
    
      Rationale:

      A high blood lactate and a high peripheral to central temperature difference (deltaT) are
      associated with a higher mortality in critically ill patients. Both measures are signs of a
      reduced microcirculatory bloodflow or vasoconstriction and are associated with shock. On the
      other hand, it has not been shown yet that interventions leading to improvement of this
      temperature gap reduces mortality or improves any other outcome measurement. Moreover, it is
      unknown which medication can best be used to improve deltaT and lactate clearance.

      Ketanserin is being used in the intensive care setting for decades to optimize circulatory
      parameters. Ketanserin is a serotonin type 2-receptor blocker (5-HT2). Blocking the 5-HT2
      receptor with ketanserin can attenuate pathological vasoconstriction. In these ways
      ketanserin can reduce vasoconstriction and can improve the microcirculation. As a
      consequence, the enhanced blood flow in the skin will increase the peripheral temperature and
      decrease deltaT. At the same time an increased flow in the microcirculation may lead to a
      reduction in lactate production.

      Objective:

      To determine the effects of a continuous ketanserin infusion on peripheral temperature and
      lactate clearance in critically ill patients with either a high lactate or a high deltaT.

      Study design:

      A multicentre double blind randomized controlled trial.

      Study population:

      All adult intensive care patients above 17 years old with a deltaT of >6°C with informed
      consent given by the patient or legal representative.

      Intervention (if applicable):

      The intervention is a continuous pump driven Ketanserin infusion of 0.75 ug/kg/min for eight
      hours.

      The control group will receive the same volume of glucose 5%.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      Change in DeltaT (measured per hour) Change in lactate (measured per 2 hours)

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      The risks of ketanserin infusion are limited but can be a QTc prolongation and a slight
      decrease in blood pressure. The study needs an arterial blood sample on inclusion, and after
      2, 4, 6 and 8 hours of 1.5 ml each. In addition, a 6 ml blood sample at T=4 and T=8 hours.
    
  