
    
      This is an, open-label, two-cohort protocol designed to evaluate the activity of targeted
      therapy and SABR in ALK positive lung adenocarcinoma.

      Cohort A will evaluate the combination in ALK-inhibitor naïve patients. Cohort B will
      evaluate the combination in patients who have received treatment with one prior ALK
      inhibitor.

      Ceritinib will be administered to the patient until disease progression by RECIST 1.1,
      unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, or discontinuation of the trial for any other
      reason including death.

      The primary focus of this protocol is identifying response in ALK+ lung cancer patients.
      Patients with Ventana assay and Vysis FISH probe positive tumors will be treated. Evidence of
      ALK gene rearrangement will also be considered eligible for the trial.

      Primary Objective:

      Cohort A: Superiority of ceritinib + SABR median PFS compared to historical control of 10
      months (expected to be 20 months)

      Endpoint:

      Cohort A Median PFS defined as time from initiation of ceritinib until disease progression by
      RECIST 1.1, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, or discontinuation of the trial for
      any other reason including death.

      Primary:

      Cohort B: Superiority of ceritinib + SABR median PFS compared to historical control of 7
      months.

      Endpoint:

      Cohort B: Median PFS defined as time from initiation of ceritinib until disease progression
      by RECIST 1.1, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, or discontinuation of the trial
      for any other reason including death.

      Secondary:

        -  Report Overall survival Overall survival

        -  Report Time to 2nd SABR Time from start of systemic therapy to first day of second
           course of SABR

        -  Report Time to 3rd SABR Time from start of therapy to first day of third course of SABR

        -  Report proportion of patients CR/PR/stable disease at 6 and12 months Number of patients
           with CR/PR/stable disease for 6 and 12 months after initiation

      Safety:

      -Demonstrate safety of ceritinib followed by SABR Describe toxicity and adverse events (CTCAE
      v.4) compared to historical controls.
    
  