
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      Obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome (OSA) patients might have varying degrees of
      laryngopharyngeal mechanical hyposensitivity; however, these findings come from studies
      performed with methods having weak inter-rater reliability and accuracy evidence.

      The purpose of this study is to validate the measurement of laryngopharyngeal
      mechanosensitivity in patients with OSA using a recently developed laryngopharyngeal
      endoscopic esthesiometer and rangefinder (LPEER). The LPEER includes an air-pulse generator
      and an endoscopic laser rangefinder and works coupled to a conventional fiberoptic endoscope.
      This device generates air-pulses ranging from 0.04 mN to 16.5 mN in order to cover a wide
      range of laryngopharyngeal reflexes and sensory thresholds. Depending on the reflex or
      sensory threshold to be explored the LPEER is configured to deliver a sequence of 10
      air-pulses of different intensity.

      METHODS:

      The study will be prospective, double blinded, and with a randomized and crossover assignment
      of the raters.

      Subjects will be recruited from patients with suspected OSA referred for baseline
      polysomnography to a sleep laboratory of a tertiary care university hospital. They will
      undergo a laryngopharyngeal sensory test using the LPEER, which includes measurement of the
      thresholds for the velopharyngeal, hypopharyngeal and aryepiglottic fold psychophysical
      sensitivity.

      Intra- and inter-rater reliability will be evaluated using the Bland-Altman's limits of
      agreement plot, the intraclass correlation coefficient, and the Pearson or Spearman
      correlation coefficient, depending on the distribution of the variables.

      Diagnostic accuracy will be evaluate plotting ROC-curves using as reference standard basal
      polysomnogram. The sensory threshold values for patients with mild, moderate, and severe OSA,
      will be determined and compared using ANOVA or Kruskal Wallis test, depending on the
      distribution of the variables.The discriminative capacity as well as correlations between
      laryngopharyngeal sensory thresholds and OSA severity indexes will be explored in subgroups
      of subjects with normal and abnormal sensation. The relationship between sensory thresholds
      and OSA severity indexes will be explored by linear equations as well as by second- and
      higher-order polynomial equations.

      The laryngopharyngeal endoscopic esthesiometer and rangefinder (LPEER), could be a new tool
      for the evaluation and monitoring of laryngopharyngeal sensory involvement in patients with
      OSA, which, if proved valid, could help to increase the knowledge about the
      pathophysiological mechanisms of this condition and potentially help finding new therapeutic
      interventions for OSA.

      ETHICS:

      This study will follow the Declaration of Helsinki principles and national legal regulations
      about research in human subjects. The protocol was approved by the Institutional Review Board
      of Fundacion Neumologica Colombiana and all recruited subjects will provided a signed
      informed consent.

      DISSEMINATION:

      The results will be disseminated through conference presentations and peer-reviewed
      publication.
    
  