
    
      This is a 12 months,randomized, multicenter, open-label, pragmatic-group study in
      postmenopausal women and male aged 50 years or old with osteoporosis or osteopenia in China
      to evaluate the efficacy and safety of different anti-osteoporpsis intervention strategies,
      including

        -  Group1: Basic treatment group (elemental calcium 600mg/ day + vitamin D 1000IU/day)

        -  Group2: Basic treatment+ anti-osteoporosis drug group (alendronate, zoledronate,
           tripopeptide, denosumab, activated vitamin D, menatetrenone soft capsules according to
           the patient's condition)

        -  Group3: Basic treatment + non-drug treatment group(diet, exercise, rehabilitation
           therapy).

      Eligibility for participation will be determined by medical history, physical examination,
      and laboratory results obtained during a screening visit. About 180 postmenopausal women and
      elderly male with osteoporosis or osteopenia will be included in this study.

      All subjects will be given informed consent before starting any examination and test. The
      following data of all subject will be collected: liver and kidney function, HbA1c, fasting
      blood glucose, fasting lipid profile, serum calcium, serum phosphate, parathyroid hormone,
      25-hydroxy vitamin D, bone turnover markers(BTMs) (inculding serum procollagen type I
      N-propeptide, serum C-terminal telopeptide of type I collagen,osteocalcin and alkaline
      phosphatase), thoracic and lumbar spine X-ray, bone mineral density(BMD) by dual energy
      X-ray.

      Then they will be randomized into three groups at a 1:1 ratio. Every group will be given
      calcium carbonate and vitamin D. In the group 2, the medication will be decided by the doctor
      according to the patients' condition. Particularly, denosumab has not been approved for male
      adaptation, we will sign an additional informed consent.

      All subjects will be followed by visiting clinic every three months and complete the
      examinations to assess the safety and efficacy. Safety indexes: liver and kidney function,
      urine routine test and 24-h urine calcium. Efficacy indexes: BMD change, BTMs changes and
      fracture reduction. All subjects will be followed 12 months and data will be collected and
      analyzed.
    
  