
    
      Azacitidine therapy is effective in prolonging survival in higher risk MDS patients provided
      therapy is administered at 28 day-cycles until progression or loss of response.

      A study conducted several years ago shows that although most responses to azacitidine
      occurred within 6 cycles, continued azacitidine therapy led to a further improvement in
      response category in almost half (48%) of all responders with a median of 3 additional
      cycles, and that 92% of patients achieved their best response by Cycle 12. In a randomized
      phase 3 trial conducted by the US Cancer and Leukemia Group B, which compared azacitidine
      with best supportive care, most responses occurred during the third or fourth month of
      azacitidine therapy. The phase 3 Cancer and Leukemia Group B study also showed that 90% of
      responses occurred within the first 6 cycles of treatment and that best response generally
      occurred 2 cycles after the first response-all of which is consistent with the current
      findings. Taken together, these data suggest that although some effects of azacitidine
      manifest promptly, additional courses are usually necessary before best response is achieved.
      Therefore, continuing azacitidine therapy offers the best chance of enhanced benefit if
      treatment is tolerated and there is no evidence of disease progression.

      Azacitidine may affect the differentiation and growth of the MDS clone without necessarily
      eradicating it, suggesting that repetitive and prolonged exposure to azacitidine may be
      necessary for both the initial effects and the subsequent augmentation of response.
      Discontinuation of azacitidine therapy is in fact invariably followed by loss of response,
      disease progression and short survival. Treatment should be optimized to deliver at least 6
      cycles, and in responsive patients until progression. In clinical practice, however, AZA is
      often discontinued after few cycles. Prematurely interrupted therapy could be the cause of
      inferior outcomes registered in "real life" studies. This inconsistency may be due to
      differences in adherence to dose, schedule, and minimum number of cycles, as well as to the
      management of patients with severe comorbidities. Proper management of first-line azacitidine
      therapy, with appropriate doses and prolonged treatment, may partially reduce primary
      resistance. This is why it is extremely important to maintain treatment until progression,
      despite scarce compliance of the patients to subcutaneous injections. Anyhow, it is clear
      that the azacitidine effect is transient, with responses maintained for 6 to 24 months.

      Survival of the patients with refractory/relapsed disease is extremely short. A premature
      arrest of treatment may thus provoke loss of response and accelerate progression. In order to
      improve the compliance to treatment of MDS patients who have shown optimal responses to
      azacitidine, an oral formulation of the drug could indeed be advantageous. Oral therapy with
      CC 486 could free patients from hospital and caregiver dependence, as well as from injection
      site reactions, consequently improving quality of life, without altering the necessary
      continuation of treatment. During the present Covid-19 outbreak it has became even clearer
      that treatment with medications in oral formulation, under strict control of treating
      physicians, may indeed, beyond improving quality of life, decrease the risk of exposure to
      infections derived by in hospital administered therapy for MDS patients.

      An oral formulation of azacitidine like cc486 provides an opportunity to deliver the drug at
      lower systemic doses over a more prolonged schedule that can be practically achieved with
      parenteral therapy. In addition, an oral formulation that can be taken at home rather than in
      the hospital/clinic setting represents an opportunity for patients with MDS to have a more
      convenient route of administration, thus alleviating the morbidity of injection and avoiding
      the inconvenience and resource utilization costs associated with frequent hospital/clinic
      visits. In addition, intervention with azacitidine in patients with MDS that have obtained a
      response after sc azacitidine may offer better quality of life and possibly a survival
      advantage.
    
  