
    
      According to the requirement of the Strategy of Polio Eradication & Endgame Strategic Plan
      2013-2018, bivalent oral attenuated live poliomyelitis vaccine against type 1 and 3 (bOPV)
      and inactivated poliomyelitis vaccine made by Sabin strain (sIPV) need to be used to
      eradiation both the wild poliovirus and vaccine-derived poliovirus. To evaluate the safety
      and immunogenicity by different sequential immunization schedules of bOPV and bOPV in dragee
      candy with sIPV,a randomized, double blind, single center and parallel phase Ⅲ clinic trial
      was performed in Guangxi Province in China. A total of 1200 infants at 2 months old were
      selected, and randomlydivided into 12 different groups (100 individuals were included in each
      group) administrated the vaccines at 0, 28, 56 days schedule.The detail of each group as
      following:1)1-dose cIPV + 2-dose bOPV (Candy); 2)1-dose sIPV + 2-dose bOPV (Candy); 3)2-dose
      cIPV + 1-dose bOPV (Candy); 4)2-dose sIPV + 1-dose bOPV (Candy); 5)2-dose cIPV + 1-dose tOPV
      (Candy); 6)2-dose sIPV + 1-dose tOPV (Candy); 7)1-dose cIPV + 2-dose bOPV (Liquid); 8)1-dose
      sIPV + 2-dose bOPV (Liquid); 9)2-dose cIPV + 1-dose bOPV (Liquid); 10)2-dose sIPV + 1-dose
      bOPV (Liquid); 11)2-dose cIPV + 1-dose tOPV (Liquid); 12)2-dose sIPV + 1-dose tOPV
      (Liquid).Blood Sample was collected before vaccination and one month after the third dose of
      vaccination. Neutralization antibody against type I, Type I and Type III poliomyelitis virus
      were detected to evaluate the seroprotection rates and antibody geometric mean
      concentrations. The fecal samples were collected to test viral shedding.The safety by
      different sequential schedule of the vaccines was also evaluated.This part of study have
      already been done in 2016.

      To further evaluate the immunity duration of different sequential immunization schedules for
      bOPV and IPV ,more importantly,trying to research the effectiveness of bOPV booster
      immunization,the previous study will continue.

      The detail of the research as following:

      The subject, who have already receipted 3-dose polio vaccine for primary immunization in
      phase III clinical trail in Guangxi and with the result of the paired-serum, are recruited
      again.In order to research the immunity durability of primary immunizations of primary
      immunization(3 doses of immunization),blood samples are collected from the subject aged 24
      months,36 months and 48 months separately.Neutralization antibody titers for against type I,
      Type I and Type III poliomyelitis virus are detected,moreover,the positive rate and antibody
      geometric mean titers are analyzed.

      A single dose of bOPV（liquid/candy) will be given orally to subjects at the age of 48 months
      which can in support of the effectiveness research of booster immunization with bOPV. To
      protect the rights and interests of subjects,the investigator can use other poliovirus
      vaccine such as IPV instead when bOPV（liquid/candy）is not available.

      The anticoagulant blood will be collected separatly at 48 months and the 28 days after
      booster immunization from subjects,which will be used to detect cellular immune response.
    
  