
    
      The study will be conducted in two phases, beginning with a pilot (Phase I). The aim of the
      pilot will be to develop and test four types of housing modifications in both modern houses
      (those with brick or stone walls) and traditionally constructed houses (those with mud
      walls). The housing modifications will include: (1) full house screening (eaves and windows),
      (2) partial house screening (eaves or ceiling), (3) eave tubes, and (4) eave ribbons.
      Community input will be sought during the development of the housing prototypes.

      In the pilot, all 4 interventions will be implemented in both modern and traditional houses,
      plus a control arm in each group. All households will have access to PBO LLINs. Community
      input will be sought during the development of the housing prototypes. The pilot will include
      10 arms in total, each consisting of 20 households, equal to 200 households (160 in the
      intervention and 40 in the control arm) in total. The feasibility and effectiveness of the
      interventions will be assessed through a qualitative study (FGDs and interviews), evaluation
      of the costs and implementation of the interventions, and entomology surveys (using CDC light
      traps). One to two housing interventions will be selected for Phase II following the review
      and discussion of the pilot results with the trial steering committee.

      Phase II will include a cluster-randomised trial. A cluster will be defined as a village (or
      segment of a village consisting of ~100 households). In the cluster-randomised trial, up to 2
      interventions vs 1 control arm will be assessed in 20 clusters per arm (60 clusters total).
      The clusters will be non-contiguous, with a buffer zone of 300-500m. All households in the
      selected clusters will have PBO LLINs; households in intervention clusters will also receive
      the specified housing modifications. The impact of the interventions will be assessed through
      a cohort study, cross-sectional community surveys, entomology surveillance, a qualitative
      study, and an economic evaluation. The primary outcome of the trial will be clinical malaria
      incidence in children aged < 60 months as measured in the cohort study.
    
  