
    
      The possibility of optimizing the results of an early and effective reopening of the occluded
      artery by reducing/avoiding the impact of the so-called reperfusion injury has been for many
      years one of the most elusive objectives of pharmacological research, with evolving
      hypothesis and targets.

      A recently published trial has provided support to a line of investigation focused on the
      role of mitochondrial dysfunction, the so-called permeability transition, as cause of
      irreversible myocardial injury associated to reperfusion. In fact, a single dose of the
      widely used immunosuppressant agent, CsA, a potent inhibitor of mitochondrial permeability
      transition pore opening, was reported to limit ischemia-reperfusion injury in 50 patients
      with anterior MI who underwent primary PCI.

      Since infarct size and left ventricular function are the main determinants of long-term
      morbidity and mortality, a single measure to limit infarct size is of potential clinical
      benefit. Therefore the results of the previously mentioned trial should be replicated in a
      larger sample size, before going on to a trial with clinical endpoints.

      - Sample size

      Assuming an incidence of the primary endpoint of 55% in the control group, we calculated that
      444 patients (222 patients per group) will be required for the study to have 80% power to
      detect a 25% relative improvement (resulting in an endpoint frequency of 68.7% in the CsA
      group) with a 5% drop-out rate and a two-sided alpha level of 5%. The size of the trial will
      allow to investigate treatment benefit for the secondary endpoint hsTnT: assuming a
      concentration of 2.7 ng/mL on day 4 (common SD=2.1) in the control group, the study will have
      a 90% power to show a 25% reduction with CsA at a two-sided alpha level of 5%.

      - Safety

      Adverse events with intravenous CsA (i.e. anaphylactoid reactions/anaphylactic shock, acute
      renal failure, or hypertensive crisis) are reported to be very rare. In this trial, patients
      will receive only one iv dose of CsA, therefore we expect a low probability of adverse
      effects related to repeated administrations, i.e. acute renal failure or hypertensive crisis.
      Nonetheless a close monitoring of the safety of the single dose of CsA is foreseen with
      monthly examination of data of safety by the Steering Committee.
    
  