
    
      As expected, the prevalence increases with longer prevalence periods, and generally, women
      have more NP than men. Neck pain (NP) is a major public health problem, both in terms of
      personal health and overall well-being as well as indirect expense. For instance, the total
      cost of NP in the Netherlands in 1996 was estimated at about 1% of the total health care
      expenditure or 0.1% of the Dutch gross domestic product.Accurate prevalence estimates are
      desirable to serve as a basis for etiological studies and health care evaluation, and to
      assess the effect of NP in general populations. Unfortunately, prevalence studies on NP show
      great variation in both quality and results. For instance, the point prevalence varies
      between 6% and 22%, and 1-year prevalence between 1.5% and 75%.Neck pain is becoming
      increasingly common throughout the world. It has a considerable impact on individuals and
      their families, communities, health-care systems, and businesses. The estimated 1-year
      incidence of neck pain from available studies ranges between 10.4% and 21.3% with a higher
      incidence noted in office and computer workers. While some studies report that between 33%
      and 65% of people have recovered from an episode of neck pain at 1 year, most cases run an
      episodic course over a person's lifetime, and, thus, relapses are common. The overall
      prevalence of neck pain in the general population ranges between 0.4% and 86.8% (mean:
      23.1%); point prevalence ranges from 0.4% to 41.5% (mean: 14.4%); and 1 year prevalence
      ranges from 4.8% to 79.5% (mean: 25.8%). Prevalence is generally higher in women, higher in
      high-income countries compared with low- and middle-income countries, and higher in urban
      areas compared with rural areas. Many environmental and personal factors influence the onset
      and course of neck pain. Most studies indicate a higher incidence of neck pain among women
      and an increased risk of developing neck pain until the 35-49-year age group, after which the
      risk begins to decline. The Global Burden of Disease 2005 Study is currently making estimates
      of the global burden of neck pain in relation to impairment and activity limitation, and
      results will be available in 2011. Nonspecific or simple neck pain, is the most common form
      of pain in the neck, affecting two out of three people at some point in their lives. While
      the exact etiology of the pain is often unknown, most cases of non-specific neck pain are
      caused by mechanical factors such as sprains and strains of the muscles or ligaments in the
      neck. Inflammation of the facet joints or the joints between the vertebrae leads to an
      aggravation of these structures during movement (i.e. when turning or bending the neck),
      giving rise to pain.Other factors that can contribute to the development of mechanical neck
      pain include Poor posture (i.e. prolonged sitting in a 'bent-forward' position), Physical
      overload, Stress, Smoking, and Poor psychological health, etc.Most cases of nonspecific neck
      pain are acute and resolve within three to six weeks with minimal intervention, although some
      people suffer from recurrent pain. However, if neck pain persists for longer than three
      months, it is considered chronic and further treatment may be warranted. Furthermore, if neck
      pain persists or gets worse, it can cause numbness or referral pain in the arm.In general,
      neck pain refers to pain that occurs between the occipital bone, thoracic vertebra, and
      shoulder joint. While the majority of people suffer from non-specific or mechanical neck
      pain, other types of neck pain.Symptoms of non-specific neck pain include Stiff neck,
      Restricted movement of the neck, Pain when moving the neck, which may spread down an arm and
      even into the finger, Sensation of 'pins and needles' in part of an arm or hand (caused by
      irritation of a nerve from the neck/spinal cord going to the arm), Crunching sound when
      bending or turning the neck.The Kinesio Taping Method is a definitive rehabilitative taping
      technique that is designed to facilitate the body's natural healing process while providing
      support and stability to muscles and joints without restricting the body's range of motion as
      well as providing extended soft tissue manipulation to prolong the benefits of manual therapy
      administered within the clinical setting. Latex-free and wearable for days at a time, Kinesio
      Tex Tape is safe for populations ranging from pediatric to geriatric, and successfully treats
      a variety of orthopedic, neuromuscular, neurological, and other medical conditions. The
      Kinesio Taping Method is a therapeutic taping technique not only offering patients the
      support they are looking for, but also rehabilitating the affected condition as well. By
      targeting different receptors within the somatosensory system, Kinesio Tex Tape alleviates
      pain and facilitates lymphatic drainage by microscopically lifting the skin. This lifting
      affect forms convolutions in the skin thus increasing interstitial space and allowing for a
      decrease in inflammation of the affected areas.Based upon years of clinical use, Kinesio Tex
      Tape is specifically applied to the patient based upon their needs after evaluation. The
      findings of the clinical evaluation or assessment dictate the specifics of the Kinesio Tex
      Tape application and other possible treatments or modalities. With the utilization of single
      "I" strips or modifications in the shape of an "X", "Y" or other specialized shapes as well
      as the direction and amount of stretch placed on the tape at the time of application, Kinesio
      Tex Tape can be applied in hundreds of ways and has the ability to re-educate the
      neuromuscular system, reduce pain and inflammation, optimize performance, prevent injury and
      promote good circulation and healing, and assist in returning the body to
      homeostasis.Evaluation and assessment are key to the treatment of any clinical condition. In
      order to get the desired results from a Kinesio Tex Tape application as well as any other
      treatment, a full assessment of the patient is necessary. In some cases, the treatment of a
      condition may require treatment of other underlying conditions as well. This assessment
      should include manual muscle testing, range of motion testing, gait assessment, and any other
      orthopedic special tests that you deem necessary. The information gained from these
      assessments will allow for the proper treatment protocol to be laid out. Kinesio Tex Tape can
      be a valuable addition to this protocol. It has been proven to have positive physiological
      effects on the skin, lymphatic and circulatory system, fascia, muscles, ligaments, tendons,
      and joints. It can be used in conjunction with a multitude of other treatments and modalities
      within the clinic and is effective during the rehabilitative and chronic phases of an injury
      as well as being used for preventative measures.It includes surgical versus non-surgical
      treatment options.Neck pain is a common complaint. Many Conservative treatments are available
      to patients and accepted as standard forms of practice, including such common conservative
      strategies as medication, physical medicine methods, manual treatments, and education of
      patients.The best advice for recovering from simple neck pain is to use anti-inflammatory
      medications or muscle relaxants to ease the pain and to resume normal activities as soon as
      possible. Gently moving the neck in all directions several times a day will prevent the neck
      from stiffening up.Treatment options for mechanical neck pain include Physiotherapy (i.e.
      heat, cold, traction, manipulation), Gentle neck exercises, Learning proper sitting posture,
      Yoga for improving neck posture, Massage therapy, Pressure point therapy, and Kinesio taping.
      Kinesiology taping (KT) is a therapeutic tool and has become increasingly popular within the
      sporting arena. Taping has been used for a long time for the prevention and treatment of
      sporting injuries. KT is not only used for sporting injuries but for a variety of other
      conditions. It was developed by Japanese chiropractor Kenzo Kase in the 1970s with the
      intention to alleviate pain and improve the healing in soft tissues. There are many proposed
      benefits to KT, including proprioceptive facilitation; reduced muscle fatigue; muscle
      facilitation; reduced delayed-onset muscle soreness; pain inhibition; enhanced healing, such
      as reducing edema, and improvement of lymphatic drainage and blood flow.An RCT was conducted
      which concluded that In daily practice, manual therapy is a favorable treatment option for
      patients with neck pain compared with physical therapy or continued care by a general
      practitioner. Patients with acute WAD receiving an application of Kinesio Taping, applied
      with proper tension, exhibited statistically significant improvements immediately following
      application of the Kinesio Tape and at a 24-hour follow-up. However, the improvements in pain
      and cervical range of motion were small and may not be clinically meaningful. Future studies
      should investigate if Kinesio Taping provides enhanced outcomes when added to physical
      therapy interventions with proven efficacy or when applied over a longer period. Patients
      with mechanical neck pain who received cervical thrust manipulation or Kinesio Taping
      exhibited similar reductions in neck pain intensity and disability and similar changes in
      active cervical range of motion, except for rotation. Changes in neck pain surpassed the
      minimal clinically important difference, whereas changes in disability did not. Changes in
      cervical range of motion were small and not clinically meaningful. Because investigators did
      not include a control or placebo group in this study, investigators cannot rule out a placebo
      effect or natural changes over time as potential reasons for the improvements measured in
      both groups. This study shows that Kinesio Taping leads to improvements in pain, pressure
      pain threshold, and cervical range of motion, but not a disability in a short time.
      Therefore, Kinesio Taping can be used as an alternative therapy method in the treatment of
      patients with MPS.
    
  