
    
      Background/Rationale: It is important that individuals with serious mental illness have
      access to treatments that meet their preferences, and that they make informed choices among
      alternative treatments. Too often, preferences are not being routinely elicited, nor used to
      guide which treatments are made available. Schizophrenia is a serious mental illness that is
      common and produces substantial disability when poorly treated. National treatment guidelines
      specify that individuals with schizophrenia should receive evidence-based treatments that
      improve outcomes. For example, obesity is a pressing problem in this population, a
      side-effect of commonly used medications, and a cause of cardiovascular disease and premature
      mortality. There are multiple, different psychosocial interventions for weight management
      that can lead to reduced weight. None are widely used. If individuals' preferences were
      routinely assessed, then clinicians and managers would know when to make alternative
      treatments available.

      Objectives: This project implements and evaluates a method for routinely assessing the
      treatment preferences of individuals with schizophrenia. The objectives are to: 1) develop a
      computerized, kiosk-based system that delivers education regarding treatment options for
      weight, uses conjoint analysis to elicit preferences, and meets the cognitive needs of
      individuals with schizophrenia; 2) study the feasibility and acceptability of implementing
      this method at a mental health clinic; and, 3) evaluate the extent to which this method
      predicts use of evidence-based weight services, and satisfaction with services at three
      months.

      Methods: This is a prospective evaluation of preferences, treatment use, and satisfaction in
      individuals with schizophrenia. 94 individuals are enrolled who are overweight and receiving
      treatment at a busy, urban mental health clinic. These participants use a kiosk system that
      provides them with education about treatment options, and assesses their preferences
      regarding alternative treatments for weight. They are then offered a weekly, intensive,
      evidence-based psychosocial treatment for weight. Research assessments occur at baseline and
      3 months. Treatment preferences are analyzed to determine how they relate to use of weight
      treatment, and satisfaction with treatment.

      Significance: People with serious mental illness could benefit from access to effective
      treatments. Implementing these treatments would be facilitated by routinely collecting
      information regarding individuals' preferences. If the assessment method in this study is
      found to be feasible, acceptable, and accurate, it could be used to support implementation of
      improved care at clinics, medical centers, and community-based programs.
    
  