
    
      Optimising the clinical fitting of a cochlear implant to an individual listener is an
      important aspect of post-operative clinical care. The level of success experienced by any
      individual with a cochlear implant can be influenced, to a significant extent, by the quality
      of the clinical programming by the audiologist. During clinical programming the audiologist
      typically measures the amount of electrical charge required to elicit first hearing (the
      T-level) and to provide a loud but comfortable percept (the C-level) on each of the 22
      electrodes. The amount of electrical stimulation required for a threshold and a comfortably
      loud percept varies across the electrodes of the array and also across individual users.
      Appropriately set lower and upper electrical stimulation levels are vital for ensuring that
      the listener is able to detect reasonably soft sounds whilst loud sounds are perceived as
      loud while remaining comfortable. Achieving this result across the relevant frequency range
      is a prime aim of programming.

      There are a number of challenges in achieving optimal fitting of cochlear implant recipients
      in the clinical setting. First, there are varying skill levels and experience level of health
      professionals and allied workers involved in programming devices for cochlear implant
      recipients, often resulting in variability in the quality of the program (or MAP) provided to
      an individual. Second, there are varying levels of access to specialized equipment such as
      sound booths which are required for some types of audiometric measures to be reliably
      obtained. Finally, there are increasing demands on clinical capacity, with the specialized
      centres typically treating recipients having limited resources and ability to effectively
      manage the rapidly increasing population.

      As a result, there is an increased need for effective, quality-controlled but streamlined
      management of implanted recipients.

      The aim of the current study is to investigate the potential use of specific metrics in
      assessing the quality and optimizing an individual's cochlear implant fitting. Assessment of
      the sensitivity and specificity of specific metrics that are potential predictors of
      inaccurate T-levels and C-levels is important to determining best methods for streamlined
      high quality fitting, as well as automated adjustments for optimizing. One of the key
      objectives is to integrate a new technological advance in the form of in-situ audiometry,
      which removes the need for a sound booth to conduct audibility checks of the program. Other
      planned investigations relate to identifying the metrics which best identify maps that are
      not optimized, and to development and assessment of a range of techniques which may be able
      to be effectively applied in the clinical setting.
    
  