
    
      Before treatment starts, patients will have a complete history (including details of previous
      chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and surgery for systemic disease). Patients will have a complete
      neuropsychological exam and will have their Karnofsky Performance Score (KPS) figured out.
      Seven cognitive function tests and a quality of life (QOL) questionnaire will be given to the
      patients as well. It will take about 40 minutes to complete the QOL questionnaire.

      Patients in this study will be randomly picked (as in the toss of a coin) to be in one of two
      treatment groups. Patients in one group will receive immediate whole brain radiation therapy.
      Patients in the other group will hold off on radiation and just be closely observed. There is
      an equal chance of being in either group.

      All patients will receive radiosurgery treatment to the known metastases (1-3 lesions) at the
      beginning. All participants will be followed with serial diagnostic and functional MRI.
      Experimental functional imaging will be used to evaluate short-term memory and picture
      recognition as well as blood flow within the brain.

      Formal neuropsychological testing will also be performed at each follow-up interval. Patients
      must come back at 4 months for neuropsychological testing. Patients will be seen for
      follow-up with neuropsychological evaluation, as well as diagnostic/function MRI at 1 , 2 , 4
      , 6 , 9 , 12 , 15 , and 18 months and then every six months from then on. Each visit will
      require about 40 minutes of time.

      Cost information related to protocol treatment and subsequent therapies will be tracked and
      collected for cost analysis between the two treatment groups.

      Patients who did not receive whole brain radiation and develop recurrent disease shall
      receive treatment based on the number of lesions. If there are greater than 2 lesions, whole
      brain radiation will be given. If there are 1-2 lesions, patients will be randomly assigned
      to a local treatment (surgery or radiosurgery) or whole brain radiation therapy. Further
      recurrences in patients having not yet received whole brain radiation will be given this
      treatment at the time of recurrence.

      The expected length of the study is 3.8 years with 6 months follow-up following the end of
      the study. Thus, the length of participation can range from 6 months for patients enrolling
      at the end of the study to over 4 years for patients enrolling at the beginning.

      This is an investigational study. A total of 152 patients will take part in the study. All
      will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  