
    
      Following ethics approval by the University of Manitoba and the Winnipeg Regional Health
      Authority, 44 participants will be recruited for the study. During the intake session,
      subjects will complete informed and assent consent, participant information and knee
      demographic forms. A radiographic report of the knee confirming that the subject is
      skeletally immature will be obtained from the referring orthopedic surgeon or performed at
      the Pan Am clinic. For only the ACL-injured subjects, a clinical examination diagnosis and
      KT-1000 test will confirm the injury. Anthropometric data, such as age, height, weight, range
      of motion, leg circumference and the pubertal maturation observation scale (PMOS), will be
      collected. All subjects are required to pass the standardized screening protocol prior to
      continuing with the testing procedures.

      Testing Sessions:

      Each subject will participate in 4 follow-up test sessions after the initial intake;
      Pre-exercise session at the start of the study, Follow-up #1 at the mid-point of the study,
      Follow-up #2 at the end of the study and a Test-retest session during the no exercise phase
      of the study. Within the same week as completing the intake session, all subjects will
      complete the pre-exercise test session. All follow-up testing sessions will include: 1.
      Subjective evaluation of knee function via the Pedi-IKDC and Physical Activity Questionnaire
      for Children (PAQ-C), 2. Standardized warm-up on a stationary bike, 3. Dynamic balance
      evaluation using the SEBT and Y-Balance tests, 4. Strength testing using the Biodex
      isokinetic dynamometer and core stability tests, and 5. Knee laxity testing using the
      KT-1000. Both ACL-injured and healthy knee subjects will be randomly divided into two groups,
      Group A & B. The week following baseline testing, Group A will begin the 5-week NMT protocol,
      complete a follow-up #1 testing session, then receive no intervention for 5 weeks, and return
      for a follow-up #2 testing session. The week following baseline testing, Group B will receive
      of no intervention for 5 weeks, then complete a follow-up #1 test session, complete the
      5-week NMT protocol and then return for a follow-up #2 testing session. The test-retest
      session will be conducted during the first week of the "No Exercise" phase.

      Neuromuscular Training (NMT) Sessions:

      The established Neuromuscular Training (NMT) protocol is supervised, progressive program in
      which the patient maintains balance on three different support surfaces while a clinician
      administers purposeful manipulations of the support system.1 The patient maintains a
      single-leg stance on the rollerboard and tiltboard surfaces, and a two-leg stance with one
      foot on a roller board while the other is on a platform. Participants will complete two
      training sessions per week, for five weeks for a total of 10 training sessions. During each
      session, both legs will receive training for 2-3 sets of 1 minute duration on each of the
      support surfaces. Subjects will complete all training sessions with a Certified Athletic
      Therapist or Physiotherapist at the Pan Am clinic.
    
  