
    
      This pilot intervention represents the final Aim of the NIMH-sponsored study "Syndemics and
      Loss from the HIV Care Continuum in India." This trial will be conducted at the Y.R. Gaitonde
      Centre for AIDS Research and Education (YRG CARE), located in Chennai, the capital of Tamil
      Nadu state and one of the epicenters of the Indian HIV epidemic.

      The investigators will recruit 50 adult (age >=18) PLHIV presenting to care at YRG CARE and
      ART-naïve. Participants will be recruited at their first visit to YRG CARE, at which the
      participant's HIV diagnosis is established or confirmed and the participant receives initial
      counseling and clinical care. At this recruitment stage, research assistants will conduct a
      pre-intervention questionnaire including measures of depressive symptoms, internalized
      stigma, self-efficacy, mental health, and physical health. The investigators will then
      randomize the patient to usual care vs. enhanced-care intervention (25 in each arm).

      The enhanced-care intervention will be multi-faceted, reflecting the likelihood of multiple
      syndemic conditions as well as evidence from LMICs suggesting that programs combining
      multiple approaches are the most effective in improving retention in care.

      The enhanced-care intervention will consist of the following components:

        1. Active outreach, including bidirectional weekly SMS messaging / automated voice
           messaging (depending on literacy)

        2. Appointments (specific appointment times/dates).

        3. Financial support, including free clinic visits, labs, medications, and transportation
           incentives on a sliding scale based on distance to clinic

        4. Microenterprise, including bag-making or food-making ventures for women

        5. Enhanced counseling. Participants in the enhanced-care intervention will participate in
           an individual enhanced counseling program called Steps to Success, based upon a Life
           Steps and Problem Solving curriculum.
    
  