
    
      Background:

        -  The prognosis for patients with cancer who have relapsed or progressive disease after
           allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allotransplant) is poor. Effective
           therapies for patients who fail withdrawal of immune suppression and administration of
           donor lymphocyte infusions (DLI) have not been identified.

        -  Increasing the efficacy of allotransplant without increasing toxicity is a major goal of
           transplantation research. A major research effort within the Experimental
           Transplantation and Immunobiology Branch (ETIB) is to identify ways to build on the
           allogeneic platform to treat relapse after allotransplant.

        -  We hypothesize that a single fraction of radiation to tumor prior to administration of
           donor lymphocytes will increase the potency of systemic graft-versus-tumor (GVT) effects
           without increasing graft-versus-host disease (GVHD).

      Objectives:

      - To determine the safety, in relation to GVHD and allograft function, and efficacy, in terms
      of systemic tumor response, of administering single-fraction, targeted radiotherapy with or
      without DLI to patients with persistent tumor after allotransplant.

      Eligibility:

        -  Adults with hematologic malignancies that progress or recur after allotransplant,
           successful donor T cell engraftment, and trial of withdrawal of immune suppression.

        -  Disease that is amenable to radiation as well as additional measurable disease outside
           the radiation field.

        -  Subjects with treatment-refractory acute or chronic GVHD will not be eligible.

      Design:

        -  Subjects will receive radiation in a single, 8-Gy fraction to sites of disease. At least
           one site of measurable disease will remain untreated with radiation for evaluation of
           systemic response.

        -  There will be two arms. Arm A will include subjects with available donor lymphocytes and
           who have not had GVHD requiring systemic treatment; they shall receive a DLI the day
           after completion of radiation. Arm B will include those who have previously required
           systemic therapy for GVHD, are at high risk of significant GVHD, and/or who do not have
           available donor lymphocytes; they shall receive radiation without DLI.

        -  Additional disease that is outside the field of radiation will be monitored for systemic
           effects of the therapy.

        -  Subjects will be monitored on an outpatient basis for the development or exacerbation of
           GVHD, excessive hematologic toxicity or other toxicity from radiation, and for tumor
           responses for at least 60 days.

        -  Enrollment:

             -  Treatment Subjects: The protocol will treat 21 subjects per arm (total 42). There
                are stopping rules after 8 and 15 patients per arm for excessive GVHD or radiation
                toxicity.

             -  DLI Control Subjects; 15 control subjects who receive DLI for persistent disease as
                part of their care on another National Institutes of Health (NIH) protocol, will be
                included to compare the immunologic effects of radiation followed by DLI (Arm A)
                with DLI alone.

             -  Donor Subjects: Related donors of Arm A Treatment Subjects and DLI Control Subjects
                will be enrolled for collection of clinical DLI product, a portion of which will be
                used for research (up to 36 Donor Subjects).
    
  