
    
      Background: In real-life, ADT is often continued after catheter ablation for persistent AF.
      No study investigated whether ADT continued beyond the blanking period reduces recurrence
      after a first ablation for persistent AF.

      Purpose: The aim of this trial is to investigate whether continued ADT (ADT ON) reduces
      recurrence of atrial tachyarrhythmia (ATA) in the first year after contact-force guided PVI
      for persistent AF.

      Hypothesis: Continued use of ADT beyond the blanking period reduces recurrence of ATA in the
      first year after PVI .

      Eligibility: Subjects that are planned for catheter ablation for persistent AF.

      Inclusion: Symptomatic persistent AF resistant to ongoing or prior ADT (failed ADT).
      Persistent AF is defined as the presence of any prior AF episode ≥7 days.

      Exclusion: Any prior AF episode ≥12 months, any recurrence of AF <3 days after cardioversion.

      Echo criteria: advanced valvular heart disease, left atrium (LA) volume >37ml/m2, left
      ventricle (LV) ejection fraction <35% (except if suspected tachycardiomyopathy), septal
      diameter >15mm, Life expectancy <1 year, BMI >35.

      Trial design: This is a prospective, multi-center, randomized (1:1), open label, blinded
      endpoint study (PROBE). Eligible subjects who sign the study informed consent form at the
      time of procedural planning will be randomized into one of two study arms: In the ADT off arm
      (ADT OFF), ADT will be stopped at 3 months after the first procedure. In the ADT ON arm, ADT
      will be continued at 3 months until 1 year follow up (FU).

      First ablation and blanking: In both arms, catheter ablation will consist of 'CLOSE'-guided
      PVI only (abl index and interlesion distance). High-density voltage mapping will be performed
      during sinus rhythm. After ablation, ADT is continued/restarted during the 3-month blanking
      period (except for amiodarone). During the blanking period cardioversions are allowed. At the
      3-month visit, all patients will be cardioverted if ATA is present.

      Repeat ablation strategy: In case of recurrence of ATA's after 3 months, a repeat ablation is
      recommended. Depending on the reconnection status of the pulmonary veins (PV), repeat
      ablation will consist of either PVI only or a patient-tailored ablation approach (antral
      isolation, superior vena cava (SVC) isolation, isolation of low voltage, linear lesions).
      Patients stay on the ADT ON or ADT OFF arm.

      Primary Endpoint: Any documented ATA (atrial fibrillation, AF, atrial tachycardia, AT, atrial
      flutter, AFL) lasting >30s from 3 months through 12 month follow-up after the first
      procedure.

      Secondary Endpoints:

      ATA recurrence in patients with early peristent AF (defined as AF ≤3 months) Incidence of
      repeat ablation Unscheduled visits and hospitalisation ADT or ablation related adverse events
      QOL and symptoms Outcome after repeat ablation

      Sample size: In the ADT OFF group ATA recurrence after a first PVI is expected to be 50%. ADT
      are expected to reduce ATA recurrence to 30%. Given power of 80% and α of 0.05 up to 200
      subjects need be enrolled in this study (20 per center)
    
  