
    
      Interstitial cystitis/bladder pain syndrome (IC/BPS) is a chronic pain disorder involving the
      genitourinary tract. IC/BPS disproportionately affects women with over 80% of patients with
      IC/BPS as female. Like other chronic pain conditions, IC/BPS is physically and emotionally
      taxing on patients. IC/BPS costs the United States over $100 million annually due to direct
      healthcare costs and loss of worker productivity. The exact pathophysiology of the disease is
      unknown, leading to a limitation in our ability to treat the disorder effectively. The
      current leading etiologic theory is that IC/BPS is a neurologically-derived chronic systemic
      pain syndrome due to its association with musculoskeletal pelvic pain, irritable bowel
      syndrome, chronic fatigue syndrome, fibromyalgia, and vulvodynia. Although several options
      exist to treat IC/BPS, therapeutic effects are often transient. Previous studies in chronic
      pain disorders have shown that multimodal treatment is more effective than single-agent
      treatment, so future therapy should aim to augment rather than replace current treatments.
      Bladder instillation is a commonly used treatment in which a mixture of different agents is
      instilled into the bladder to improve IC/BPS symptoms. The data on the efficacy of bladder
      instillations, as well as which ingredients in the mixture are effective, are limited. Small
      studies have shown the potential of steroids in decreasing IC/BPS; the mechanism of action is
      hypothesized to be due to decrease inflammation in the bladders of these patients. The
      knowledge gap that exists is the necessity of a steroid in the bladder instillation treatment
      for IC/BPS symptoms especially since this tends to be the most expensive ingredient.

      To evaluate the utility of a steroid in the bladder instillation treatment of IC/BPS, we
      propose a randomized, double-blind, controlled trial that will compare the efficacy of
      bladder instillations with and without triamcinolone acetonide on IC/BPS symptoms in women.
      We hypothesize that the addition of triamcinolone acetonide in bladder instillation therapy
      will result in a more robust treatment response than bladder instillations without
      triamcinolone acetonide. Our rationale is based on 1) the results of small studies that
      showed improvement of IC/BPS symptoms with use of a steroid and 2) the hypothesized mechanism
      of action of steroids decreasing inflammation in the bladder.
    
  