
    
      Background: Immunotherapy has emerged as a new therapeutic strategy for the treatment of
      multiple myeloma (MM). The current immune-based strategies include the FDA-approved
      monoclonal antibodies elotuzumab1 and daratumumab2 targeting SLAMF7 and CD38 respectively, as
      well as immune approaches undergoing active clinical investigations such as bispecific T-cell
      engager,3 antibody-drug conjugate4 and cellular therapies like chimeric antigen receptor T
      cells.5-7 All of these treatment strategies are currently being tested in relapsed and
      refractory MM. However, MM patients, particularly those in the later stage of the disease,
      often have an impaired immune system.8-13 Given their curative potential, the investigator
      believe that immunotherapies should be used up front when the patient's immune system is
      still capable of mounting a normal immune response. Here the investigator propose to
      investigate the immune repertoire of MM patients at the time of diagnosis vs. 1st vs. 2nd vs.
      3rd relapse. This study will provide insights into the immune status of MM patients before
      and after disease transformation and help identify patients who will benefit from
      immunotherapy. It will also allow us to predict the efficacy of these immune-mediated
      strategies and their associated toxicity. By understanding the immune-microenvironment in MM
      patients during disease progression, the investigator will be able to better design
      immunotherapeutic strategies for maximal success.

      Samples: Peripheral blood samples from 20 newly diagnosed, 20 relapsed and/or refractory MM
      patients and 10 healthy donors will be collected before therapy. An additional peripheral
      blood sample will be collected at relapse in patients experiencing an early relapse (within
      12 months from the start of therapy).

      The project will include both a retrospective collection and a prospective collection of
      samples. Samples will be used for the current study after informed consent from the patient.
      The samples will be processed by Ficoll Paque gradient to isolate peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Peripheral blood serum will be collected as well.

      Enrollment time: 9 months
    
  