
    
      Background: Thrombotic thrombocytopenia purpura / haemolytic uremic syndrome (TTP/HUS) is a
      rare blood disorder with a high mortality rate of >95% when left untreated. In 1991,
      researchers discovered that treating TTP/HUS with plasma exchange vs. plasma infusion
      dramatically improved the survival rate, from 60% to 80%.The optimal plasma dose for treating
      TTP/HUS is unknown; however, recent research suggests that high-dose plasma exchange may
      improve survival in patients with TTP/HUS.

      Hypothesis: Treatment of TTP/HUS with high-dose vs. standard-dose plasma exchange will
      significantly decrease the composite outcome of 1) treatment failure at day 5 and/or 2)
      non-response or death at 2 weeks.

      Methods: The investigators will conduct a multi-centre, parallel group randomized controlled
      trial. The investigators anticipate recruiting 150 eligible patients with idiopathic TTP/HUS
      from 9 centres across Canada over 2.25 years. Patients will be randomized to receive
      high-dose plasma exchange (125 ml/kg/day up to 10 L/day plasma volume) or standard-dose
      plasma exchange (50-75 ml/kg/day; approximately 1-1.5 plasma volume). The primary composite
      outcome includes treatment failure at day 5 or non-response or death from any cause at 2
      weeks. Secondary outcomes include the individual components of the primary outcome,
      non-response or death from any cause at month 1 and month 6, days to remission, duration of
      hospital stay, number and volume of plasma exchange treatments, and cost minimization.

      Research Team: Our multi-centre team is part of the Canadian Apheresis Group, which was
      established in 1980 and currently operates in 30 centres across Canada. Collectively, the
      Canadian Apheresis Group treats 150 TTP/HUS patients each year. Our team includes experienced
      haematologists, nephrologists, epidemiologists and a biostatistician. The investigators have
      successfully collaborated on several projects and have an excellent publication record (>50
      publications across more than 15 journals including the New England Journal of Medicine).

      Timeline and Budget: Because TTP/HUS is a relatively rare disorder (an orphan disease), the
      investigators will recruit patients over 2.25 years from across Canada to achieve a
      sufficiently large sample size. A cost minimization study will be carried out in conjunction
      with the RCT to provide insight into potential costing.

      Future Directions: If the investigators can demonstrate that high-dose plasma exchange
      significantly improves the primary outcome, the investigators will pursue a multi-national
      collaboration with American, Chinese and European Centres to investigate other important
      outcomes including optimal dosing, cost-effectiveness and survival.

      Implications: This study has the potential to be the first major advancement in treating
      TTP/HUS in twenty years.
    
  