
    
      Despite the advancement in catheter ablation technology over the past decade, the essential
      step in therapy entails identification and accurate mapping of the arrhythmia mechanism and
      its anatomical substrate. These are performed with the assistance of mapping systems and
      catheters able to record high fidelity local electrical activity of the heart (electrogram,
      EGM) and display it in three-dimensional views. Current mapping systems are limited by slow
      and incomplete arrhythmia mapping, limiting successful therapies.

      The Rhythmia™ Mapping System (Rhythmia), including its novel basket catheter (IntellaMap
      Orion™ High Resolution Mapping Catheter), is an FDA approved mapping system available for use
      during clinical, standard of care electrophysiology procedures at BIDMC. Its unique design
      allows improved mapping resolution of cardiac arrhythmias, particularly those with complex
      disease substrate, such as atrial and ventricular tachycardias. Specifically, the
      investigators plan to enroll patients undergoing electrophysiology study and ablation for
      atrial flutter/fibrillation, atrial tachycardia and ventricular tachycardia. The system was
      developed to provide high-resolution maps based on the rapid, automated acquisition of a very
      large number of low noise electrograms. This mapping system was designed to improve the speed
      and clinical outcomes over other systems that do not have this rapid automated acquisition
      capability.

      The Rhythmia mapping system is FDA approved and will be made available for use in clinical
      procedures at BIDMC. Rhythmia will be installed in one of the three electrophysiology labs at
      BIDMC and the use of the system is at the discretion of the electrophysiologist performing
      the procedure. Thus, using or not using the Rhythmia system to guide arrhythmia mapping and
      ablation is not a deviation from the standard of care.

      The goal of this registry study is to examine the clinical utility of the system to create
      accurate electroanatomical maps and validate the data acquired by comparing it with
      historical cohorts of electroanatomical signals and their corresponding maps created with the
      traditional Carto®3 electroanatomic mapping system (Biosense Webster, Inc).

      Patients will only be approached for enrollment when the treating physician has elected to
      utilize the Rhythmia mapping system during the standard clinical procedure. The data acquired
      will be collected by a member of the research team in a clinical registry for offline
      analysis.

      The aim/hypotheses tested by this study include:

        -  The Rhythmia mapping system will result in the creation of accurate, high resolution 3D
           electroanatomical maps, defined as the ability to successfully map the arrhythmia
           circuit (yes/no) and ablate the arrhythmia (yes/no).

        -  The time to create an electroanatomical map with the Rhythmia mapping system will be
           significantly shorter than in historical cohorts using the traditional Carto®3 system.
    
  