
    
      Acoustic rhinometry is a technique that utilizes sound waves to measure nasal patency. The
      reflections of the waves off of the nasal structures allow one to assess the volume and cross
      sectional area of the nasal cavity. It is a non-invasive procedure that can be performed in a
      rapid, convenient, and reliable manner. There is minimal discomfort for the patient and it
      can be performed easily in the office. There is no distortion of nasal anatomy or functioning
      as a result of the procedure.

      Nasometry is a technique to measure the oral and nasal components of nasalance. Nasalance is
      an objective measure of the nasal component of speech that is determined by the ratio of
      acoustic pressures emitted from the nasal and oral cavities. 'Nasality' is the term used to
      characterize the nasal component of speech, and is a subjective measure.

      The Nasometer (Kay Elemetrics Corp Lincoln Park, NJ) is a computer-based device that analyzes
      acoustic energy that is emitted from the oral and the nasal cavity during speech. It consists
      of two microphones that are separated by a plate. The upper microphone measures nasally
      emitted acoustic energy, and the lower microphone measure the acoustic energy emitted from
      the oral cavity.

      Nasalance is an important measure in speech pathology. In situations where velopharyngeal
      competence is in question, nasometry objectively documents the nasal component of speech as
      normal, hypemasal or hyponasal. It has been found to be of tremendous benefit in the
      management of patients with cleft palate and velopharyngeal incompetence. The subject is
      relaxed, and is fitted with a headgear apparatus. This apparatus is placed such that a plate
      lies in a horizontal plane that rests midway between the nose and the mouth. There are
      microphones on the upper and lower surfaces of the plate that capture sound energy produced
      from the nasal and oral cavities respectively. The subject is then asked to read standard
      passages. The three most commonly used passages are described here, and will be used in our
      study. The 'Rainbow' passage is most representative of standard English speech. The 'Zoo'
      passage has no nasal consonants, and the 'Nasal' passage has the highest number of nasal
      consonants.

      While the subject is reading, the microphone captures sound pressure levels which are emitted
      from the nasal and the oral cavities. This data is analyzed by the attached computer and
      presented graphically. The computer also provides a nasalance score for each of three above-
      mentioned passages. Normative data is available for each of these passages for adults and
      children. By comparing the data obtained from the subject with the normative means and
      standard deviations, the investigator can categorize the subject's voice as normal, hyponasal
      or hypernasal. The nasalance score that is generated can also be used to monitor the efficacy
      of speech therapy and surgical interventions.
    
  