
    
      BACKGROUND There is increasing evidence that intraoperative aesthetic management influences
      outcomes. (5). Besides this the occurrence of low MAP, low minimum alveolar concentration
      (MAC) and low bispectral index (BIS) increased hospital stay and mortality.

      Conventional intraoperative monitoring can result in occult low levels of blood flow and
      oxygen delivery that lead to complications that only occur days or weeks following surgery
      and give false re-assurance to the anaesthetist that he or she is doing a "good job".
      Advanced monitoring devices and new parameters have shifted the focus of anaesthesia
      management from macro- to microcirculation with the emphasis on the determinants of oxygen
      delivery and tissue oxygenation. There are more and more trials showing that introduction of
      new monitors and treatment protocols with predefined treatment limits or targets
      (goal-directed optimisation of hemodynamic parameters) improves long-term patient outcome and
      reduces morbidity and mortality by over 50%. Several studies have shown benefit when
      individualised; targeted oxygen delivery algorithms incorporating both fluid resuscitation
      and vasoactive drugs were used with high-risk surgical patients. The measurement of regional
      cerebral oxygen saturation can predict cognitive dysfunction after cardiac surgery. BIS
      monitoring facilitates anaesthetic titration, and reduced anaesthetic exposure and decreased
      the risk of postoperative cognitive dysfunction. There is reduction in strokes, less
      mechanical ventilation and shorter length of stay (LOS) with the use of INVOS.

      However, all new methods have been studied separately and there is a lack of studies to show
      the effect of combined (multimodal) monitoring on mortality and occurrence of complications,
      including cognitive decline. All gathered data indicate that the combined use of new methods
      (assessment of fluid status, depth of anaesthesia and tissue oxygenation) with adherence to
      appropriate protocol might radically improve perioperative management and outcome of
      high-risk surgical patients.

      Besides, questions are raised what the optimal goals (healthy population derived normal
      values, preoperative values, maximal values) should be. Lately, studies have shown that
      optimising cardiac output and oxygen delivery to higher (supra-normal) values intra- and
      postoperatively did not affect post-operative complications rate, intensive care unit stay or
      hospital length of stay. Probably the target should be maintaining patient's blood flow and
      oxygen delivery at preinduction levels. The question was also raised in fluid management.
      Liberal approach can lead to oedema of the intestines and other tissues, which may be
      responsible for poor tissue healing and other complications. In abdominal surgery,
      protocol-based fluid restriction reduced the incidence of perioperative complications such as
      cardiopulmonary events and disturbances of bowel motility while improving wound and
      anastomotic healing and reducing hospital stay in comparison to liberal fluid management. One
      of the trials has shown 52% lower rate of major postoperative complications in restrictive
      group than in the conventional group.

      HYPOTHESIS The present study tests the hypothesis that intraoperative multimodal monitoring
      with hemodynamic optimisation, BIS-guided anaesthesia and maintenance of optimal cerebral
      oxygen saturation will reduce cognitive decline.
    
  