
    
      Our study aim to set a standard patient selection and imaging protocol based on previous
      positive trials for endovascular therapy in AIS patients. Local efficacy and safety data of
      the FDA mechanical devices mainly Penumbra Aspiration System and Solitaire Flow Restoration
      device will be collected to create a local database for future service development. Clinical
      predictors for poor clinical outcomes despite successful recanalization will be looked for.

      Intra-arterial treatment consisted of arterial catheterization with a micro-catheter and
      micro-guide wire to the level of occlusion. Mechanical treatment could involve thrombus
      aspiration technique or use of a retrievable stent. The method of intra-arterial treatment
      will leave to the discretion of the involved interventionist. Only devices that have received
      U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or Conformite Europeenne (CE) approval will be used
      in the trial. One or more members of each intervention team have to have completed at least
      five full procedures with a particular type of device.

      Outcome and Safety Measures:

      The primary outcome is 90 days modified Rankin scale. The modified Rankin scale is a 7-point
      scale ranging from 0 (no symptoms) to 6 (death). A score of 2 or less indicates functional
      independence.

      Secondary outcomes include:

        1. NIHSS score at 24 hours and at 7 day or discharge if earlier

        2. Activities of daily living measured using Barthel index and NIHSS at 90 days

        3. Percentage of successful recanalization, defined as modified Thrombolysis in Cerebral
           Infarction (mTICI) of 2b (more that 50% of distal branches visible) or 3 (all distal
           branches visible) assessed at the end of procedure

        4. Efficacy of work flow with time measure on onset to CT, CT to groin puncture, puncture
           to reperfusion and number of pass of device before successful recanalization

        5. Final infarct volume measured by plain CT brain at 3 days after procedure

        6. Death
    
  