
    
      Physical inactivity is a growing health problem in the United States, especially for older
      people with chronic diseases such as COPD; in fact people with COPD are among the least
      active. Low levels of physical activity (PA) are associated with negative health outcomes
      including an increase in mortality and COPD exacerbations. Current PA guidelines focus on
      moderate-to-vigorous physical activities (MVPAs) that are too strenuous and not feasible for
      long term maintenance in many people with COPD. The investigators propose a new paradigm for
      promoting PA in this population; focus on increasing time spent in light physical activity
      (LPA) and decreasing time spent in sedentary behavior. Growing evidence suggests that
      substantial health benefits are associated with increases in the volume of LPA. The
      investigators are testing the efficacy of the Active-for-Life (Active-Life) intervention. The
      central hypothesis is that Active-Life will have positive effects on objectively measured PA.
      Active-Life is a 10 week intervention designed to increase total PA with an emphasis on
      increasing the time spent in LPA and decreasing sedentary time. Active-Life establishes a
      goal for subjects, to increase total PA, combined LPA and MVPA, at least 60 minutes a day.
      This far exceeds the effects of other published PA interventions for people with COPD and if
      successful will advance PA science in clinically important ways. The Active-Life program was
      developed by Dr. Larson and through a series of preliminary studies; its feasibility is well
      established and preliminary data are promising. The investigators are conducting a randomized
      controlled trial comparing Active-Life against an active control. They will enroll 183 people
      with moderate to very severe COPD. Outcomes will be measured at baseline, end of the 10 week
      intervention and at 3, 6 and 12 months after the end of the intervention. The primary
      dependent variables are objectively measured PA and sedentary behavior, measured with
      ActivPAL and Actigraph accelerometers simultaneously. Secondary outcome measures are
      indicators of frailty: 6-minute distance walk, isometric strength of knee flexors and
      extensors, Short Physical Performance Battery and self-reported physical function. Potential
      mediators include barriers-efficacy for PA and outcome expectations for PA.
    
  