
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the incidence of early mortality in patients with multiple myeloma treated
           with melphalan and autologous peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) transplantation followed
           by fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and allogeneic PBSC transplantation.

        -  Determine the incidence of early allogeneic graft failure (before day 100 after
           allogeneic PBSC transplantation) and the incidence of severe acute graft-versus-host
           disease (GVHD) in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the overall and disease-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Correlate changes in the T-cell population with clinical outcome, such as survival, in
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Correlate changes in the T-cell population with the incidence of GVHD, use of
           immunosuppressive agents, and effects of fludarabine in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the degree of chimerism after allogeneic PBSC transplantation and the time
           course over which it is established in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive melphalan IV over 15 minutes on day -1. Autologous peripheral blood stem
      cells (PBSCs) are reinfused on day 0. Patients also receive sargramostim (GM-CSF)
      subcutaneously (SC) or IV over at least 30 minutes daily beginning on day 1 and continuing
      until blood counts recover. Beginning 100-182 days after autologous PBSC transplantation,
      patients receive fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on days -6 to -2 and cyclophosphamide IV over
      1-2 hours on days -3 and -2. Allogeneic PBSCs are infused on day 0. Patients may receive a
      second allogeneic PBSC infusion on day 1. Patients also receive GM-CSF SC or IV over at least
      30 minutes daily beginning on day 1 and continuing until blood counts recover. Cyclosporine
      is administered IV or orally twice daily as graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis,
      beginning on day -1 and continuing until day 60, followed by a taper in the absence of GVHD.

      Patients are followed for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total 19-46 patients will be accrued for this study within 3 years.
    
  