
    
      Rationale: the six minute walking test (6MWT) is a recognized clinical test to evaluate
      exercise capacity in different diseases and different conditions. In COPD patients the 6MWT
      is a marker of severity, influenced by the severity of airway obstruction as well as of
      comorbidities. This test has been shown as a predictor of survival and need of
      hospitalization. The modalities of performance are described in International Guidelines. The
      usually reported measure is the distance in meters walked in 6 minutes. However, besides the
      pathological conditions, this result is influenced by the individual demographic and
      anthropometrics characteristics. The Minimal Clinically Important Difference in COPD subjects
      is reported to be 30 meters (m.). A decrease greater than 30 m., as compared to the previous
      year, is a predictor of death risk. During the test some physiological variables should be
      monitored such as heart rate (HR), and pulse oxymetry (SpO2). An oxyhemoglobin desaturation
      >4% or a SpO2 <90% during the test, are also predictors of increased risk of death or
      hospitalization. In addition, also the difference between the HR at baseline and that after
      one minute after the end of the test (recovery heart rate: HRR) seems to be a predictor of
      survival and COPD exacerbation rates. Despite the report of a single variable during the test
      is considered as a limit, changes in monitored variables are seldom analyzed together with
      the distance walked. In the past there have been some attempts of multifactorial evaluation
      of 6MWT, however up to date, there is no system considering together the changes of different
      variables. We wonder whether a multidimensional index based on variables monitored during the
      6MWT would better predict 24 month exacerbations and mortality in COPD patients.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective: To develop and validate a multidimensional index in COPD subjects with
      different grades of severity as assessed by the Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive
      Lung disease as a predictor of 24 month exacerbation rate.

      Secondary Objectives: To evaluate the predictive value of 24 month mortality. To evaluate the
      relationship of this index and other accepted clinical predictors.
    
  