
    
      Several studies suggest that acceptance and use of opioid medicines for relief of chronic
      pain are increasing substantially, and that opiodergic medications and chronic pain each
      perturb neuroendocrine functions, especially those of the hypothalamic pituitary, adrenal,
      and gonadal axes. The objectives of the proposed protocol, entitled "Effects of Chronic
      Musculoskeletal Pain and Opioidergic versus Placebo Interventions on Neuro-endocrine Function
      in Men," are three fold:

        1. To determine whether long term opioid usage in men with chronic pain due to
           osteoarthritis results in abnormalities of ACTH, cortisol, LH and testosterone
           secretion.

        2. To evaluate whether placebo analgesia results in a similar hormonal response as elicited
           by an opioid analgesic. Prior imaging studies have shown that placebo analgesia is
           associated with activation of similar parts of the cortex as with analgesic intake.

        3. To evaluate the effects of chronic pain per se on ACTH, cortisol, LH and testosterone
           secretion.

      To address these questions, we propose a 4-part study. In part I, 12 healthy men will be
      compared with 12 men with chronic osteoarthritis (OA) pain on long term opioids and 12
      narcotic naive men with chronic OA pain by means of 12 hour overnight frequent blood sampling
      for measurement of cortisol, ACTH, LH and testosterone.

      In part II, 36 narcotic naive patients with chronic OA, pain, all of whom will have undergone
      overnight hormone sampling in Part I, will be randomized to one of three treatment groups: MS
      Contin (15-90 mg), placebo and "standard treatment."

      Doses of placebo and MS Contin will be escalated over 4 weeks in a similar fashion with
      two-week maintenance and 2 week taper. At the end of maintenance at 6 weeks, all patients
      will return for repeat 12 hour frequent sampling of the same hormones as in Part I. At the
      end of part II, patients will be invited to go on to an open label treatment period with MS
      Contin (15-120 mg) in part III of the study, which will consist of 6-week dose escalation and
      8 weeks maintenance. At that point patients will be referred back to their physicians with
      recommendations for continued treatment with MS Contin, if patients are interested in this
      option.

      Patients will be followed by phone for 6 months. At that point they will be asked to return
      to clinic for part IV, an outpatient AM sample of testosterone, LH, ACTH and cortisol. The
      primary endpoints of this study will be measures of LH, testosterone, ACTH, and cortisol
      secretion, whereas the secondary endpoints will be neurobehavioral indices such as pain and
      bothersomeness on visual analog scales, the Oswestry Disability Index, Multidimensional Pain
      Inventory, and the Beck Depression Inventory. It is anticipated that this study will provide
      novel information regarding the effects of chronic musculoskeletal pain, and treatment with
      opioids versus placebo, on selected neuroendocrine functions in men.
    
  