
    
      Scientific justification Elderly patients, especially geriatric patients, represent an
      increasing percentage of patients receiving anesthesia. Thus, among the population over 75
      years old, the annual rate of anesthesia represents 16.8 / 100 inhabitants. women and 19.6 /
      100 in men. This is a growing population, but also the most fragile population with a
      mortality amounting to 44.4 / 10000 anesthesia. After 85 years, one out of every two
      anesthetized patients is ASA 3 or higher. The first cause of mortality linked to anesthesia
      today remains respiratory complications, particularly those of infectious origin. The care of
      this population presents a major public health challenge. Studies on the use of curare and
      especially rocuronium are relatively old and did not study a geriatric population, so in the
      group aged the average age was 70 years.

      Several studies show an increase in the duration of neuromuscular blockade in patients over
      the age of 70, regardless of any renal failure, with extremes of persistent curarization more
      than 2 h after a single dose. However, no study to date has investigated the duration of
      deep-tissue neuromuscular blocking (train of four (TOF) <1) required for performing certain
      surgical procedures, including laparoscopic surgery.

      Several studies show that elderly patients have increased sensitivity to residual
      curarization.

      In this context, a study on the kinetics of the curare and in particular rocuronium is
      necessary in order to evaluate if the "standard" induction dose of 0.6 mg / kg is adapted to
      this population or if this dose requires an adjustment to reduce the respiratory risks
      associated with residual curarization.

      General description of the research Objectives To compare the duration of curarization
      induced by rocuronium (0.6 mg / kg of real weight) between young patients (18-50 years old)
      and old men (> 80 years old).

      Evaluation criteria

      Primary judgment criterion:

      Total curarization time (DCT, defined as the sum of the installation time + deep curarization
      time + recovery time The installation time (Dinstall) is defined as the time between the
      injection of rocuronium and the disappearance of the responses to the train of four (TOF =
      0).

      The deep block duration (Dprof) is defined as the time between the disappearance of the
      responses to the train of four (TOF = 0) and the reappearance of the first response to a
      train of four (TOF = 1).

      The recovery time (Drécup) will be evaluated for both a T4 / T1 recovery ≥ 0.9 (Drécup0.9)
      and a T4 / T1 ratio ≥ 1.0 (Drécup1.0). recovery will also be assessed by the ratio of
      T4/Tref, i.e. the ratio of the 4th response to a TOF stimulation and the mean of the 4
      responses to a TOF stimulation before administration of a neuromuscular blocking agent. This
      ratio is measured by the TofScan (IdMed, Marseille, France).

      Research Methodology Patients will be anesthetized, as in clinical routine, with propofol in
      target controlled infusion anesthesia (TCI) according to the Schnider model at the effect
      site. Analgesia will be provided either by remifentanil or sufentanil.

      Neuromuscular block will be monitored using TofScan (IdMed, Marseille, France), with
      accelerometry measurement at the adductor pollicis. The TOF-WatchSX will be calibrated in cal
      2 mode, as defined by the manufacturer. (12) Neuromuscular blockade will be induced by a
      single dose of rocuronium 0.6 mg / kg of actual weight. The intensity of the neuromuscular
      block will be measured by a train of four every 15 s from the curare injection to TOF = 0
      (Dinstall): then every minute until TOF = 1 (Dprof); then every minute until T4/T1 ≥ 0.9
      (Drécup0.9) and T4/T1 ≥ 1.0 (Drécup1.0). Dinstall, Dprof, Drécup0.9 and Drécup1.0 will be
      recorded, as well as time to recovery of T4/Tref of 0.9 and 1.0.

      Patient selection: inclusion and non-inclusion criteria, recruitment modality

      Criteria for inclusion:

        -  Patient aged 18 to 50 or ≥ 80 years

        -  Body mass index (BMI) between 18.5 and 35

        -  Intervention requiring general anesthesia with intubation

      Criteria of non-inclusion:

        -  Rocuronium allergy

        -  Need for rapid sequence induction

        -  Clinically apparent hepatocellular insufficiency

        -  Renal insufficiency requiring dialysis

        -  ASA> 2 in the group of 18 to 50 years

      Materials and techniques used Monitoring of the TofScan (IdMed, Marseille, France) monitor at
      the level of the adductor pollicis. The electrodes are placed at the ulnar edge of the arm 2
      cm apart.12 Registration of the Tref value before administration of rocuronium. Measurement
      of the neuromuscular block intensity every 15s from the neuromuscular blocking facility to
      TOF = 0, then measured every minute of the neuromuscular block up to TOF = 1(Dprof) and
      finally measured every minute until decurarisation spontaneous T4 / T1 ≥ 0.9 (Drécup0.9) and
      T4 / T1 ≥ 1.0 (Trécup1.0). The time to recovery of T4/Tref to 0.9 and 1.0 ill also be
      recorded.

      Normothermia is maintained (temperature> 36 ° C) by the use of a forced air system (Bair
      Hugger) with temperature monitoring by oesophageal probe.

      Statistics

      Number of patients:

      To estimate the number of patients to be included in each group, we postulate that the DCT of
      patients 80 and over is, on average, at least 30% greater than the CSD of patients under 50
      years of age.

      The mean DCT of the under-50 group is around 60 minutes and a standard deviation of 11
      minutes. By setting the alpha risk at 5% and the expected power 80%, it will be necessary to
      include 14 patients per group, or 28 in total.

      Statistical analysis :

      Descriptive analysis: calculation of%, means, standard deviations, quartiles and extreme
      values Principal analysis: the mean DCT will be compared by a matched series average
      comparison test, then by a linear regression model with adjustment for potential confounders,
      excluding matching factors.

      Secondary analyzes: The secondary endpoints will be compared by a MacNémar test and a
      Student's t-test on matched series and possibly by conditional logistic and linear regression
      models to allow an adjustment for potential confounding factors.

      Threshold of significance: 5% Software: SAS v9.4
    
  