
    
      The study includes the following 3 phases:

        1. Discovery phase: During the Discovery phase, we will conduct 1-hour focus groups at
           school sites with parents (N=8) and school mental health providers (N=4), who are
           considered major stakeholders and potential users of the dHealth tool. The purpose of
           these groups is to obtain feedback and guidance on features and procedures in order to
           maximize the usability and feasibility of the dHealth tool. This design includes
           participants who have completed a parenting skills treatment (CLS) and thus would be
           better informed to comment on needs for the augmented treatment. Stakeholders will be
           queried about their preferences regarding the application layout, tools, content, and
           features (e.g., reminders, badges). Recorded focus group sessions will be transcribed
           and coded for themes related to usability and feasibility.

        2. Design and Build phases: Feedback from the discovery phase will be incorporated into the
           design and build phases, during which time prototypes will be put through proof of
           concept testing with parents and school clinicians who had participated in the discovery
           phase. Qualitative data will be collected at 2 time points during the design and build
           phases. Quantitative data will be gathered using the System Usability Scale (SUS) for
           each component prototype (e.g., description of skill, video examples, interactive
           activities). A fully functioning application will be completed at the end of the build
           phase and ready for the test phase.

        3. Test Phase: The test phase is a 2-month pilot open trial of the dHealth tool with
           parents. We will provide the dHealth tool to parents who participated in the prior
           phases (N=8) as well as a new sample of parents who will have just completed CLS but who
           did not participate in the prior phases (N=8). Inclusion of these latter parents will
           allow for an assessment of the generalizability of the tool components to a new group of
           parents right after they complete in-person treatment. Parents will use their own device
           or will be provided with a study tablet. Parents will be advised to use the tool daily
           to record parenting strategy use and to access information/training as needed.
           Qualitative semi-structured interviews during and after the trial will assess reactions
           to the platform (usability, feasibility, acceptability) to inform refinements and
           identify barriers and facilitators relating to use. Primary outcomes focus on usage
           metrics with the tool (e.g., frequency of use, module and activity completion, time,
           repeat activity), reported daily parenting skills use on the tool, and measures of
           feasibility and acceptability. Application usage analytics will be collected by the
           mobile application, providing objective descriptives including how often and for how
           long individuals access the application and each component, as well as how users
           navigate through the application. This data will be analyzed for patterns associated
           with tool satisfaction ratings, feasibility, and acceptability ratings and reported
           skill utilization. Secondary outcomes of parent knowledge, motivation and confidence in
           using EBT skills; parenting practices, ADHD symptoms and functional outcomes will be
           assessed before and after tool usage.
    
  