
    
      Suspected deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a frequent clinical problem and remains a diagnostic
      challenge. The diagnostic approach of DVT relies on sequential diagnostic tests, such as the
      assessment of clinical probability, plasma D-dimer measurement, and compression
      ultrasonography (CUS).

      Clinical probability has a fair predictive accuracy either evaluated implicitly or by
      clinical prediction rules and is useful for identifying patients with a low prevalence of DVT
      who can be usually fully investigated by non invasive tests.

      The D-dimer test has been extensively evaluated in the exclusion of DVT, particularly in
      outpatients. ELISA D-dimer and second-generation latex agglutination (immuno-turbidimetric
      tests) have a remarkably high sensitivity and have been proved safe first-line tests in
      association with clinical probability to rule out DVT in outcome studies. The clinical
      usefulness of D-dimer is defined by the proportion of patients in whom DVT may be ruled out
      by a normal result and it is determined by the specificity. However, ELISA and
      second-generation latex agglutination (immuno-turbidimetric tests) tests have a quite limited
      overall specificity of around 35% to 40%.3 Therefore, many investigators tried to increase
      the D-dimer thresholds in particular in elderly patients to increase the rate of patients in
      whom the diagnosis could be excluded by this easy and inexpensive test. Several studies have
      shown that D-dimer levels increase with age, which turns in a decreased specificity of the
      D-dimer test at the usual threshold in the elderly, and thus to a less useful test to exclude
      both DVT and pulmonary embolism (PE) in older patients. For example, ELISA D-dimer is able to
      rule out PE in 60% of patients aged less than 40 years, but in only 5% of patients above the
      age of 80. In this study, raising the cutoff value to various points between 600 microg/L and
      1000 microg/L increased specificity, but this came at the cost of safety with more false
      negative test results. In this analysis, however, no stratification was made for clinical
      probability and the sample was small.

      Recently, the investigators retrospectively assessed the value of a progressive cutoff
      adjusted to age in a wide sample of 1712 patients with suspected PE. This "new" cutoff was
      defined for D-Dimer test positivity in each patient by multiplying patient's age by 10. All
      patients with a D-Dimer level below 500 microg/L, and all patients above 50 years whose
      D-Dimer levels were inferior to their age multiplied by 10 were considered as having a
      negative D-Dimer test. Using the conventional cutoff, the VIDAS® D-Dimer test was negative
      (below 500 microg/L) in 512/1712 patients (29.9%) and none had PE during initial workup or
      the three-month follow-up period.

      Using the cutoff adjusted to age (cutoff for D-Dimer test positivity equals age multiplied by
      ten, in microg/L), the figure was as follows. D-Dimer levels were below the adjusted cutoff
      in 615/1712 patients (35.9%, number needed to test 2.8). This represented a statistically
      significant 20.1% increase in the number of patients in whom the D-Dimer test was considered
      as negative, p=0.0002. Of these 615 patients, 5 had PE during initial workup (0.8%, 95
      percent confidence interval 0.4 to 1.9%).

      In a recently published a prospective outcome validation study of the age-adjusted cutoff in
      patients with a clinically suspected PE.13 The study included more than 3300 patients with
      suspected PE and showed that the three-month thromboembolic risk in patients with an nonhigh
      (or unlikely) clinical probability and a D-Dimer level between 500 microg/L and the
      age-adjusted cutoff was of 0.3% (95% CI: 0.1 5 to 1.7%). These results were in line with the
      one found in patients with a D-dimer level below the usual cutoff of 500 microg/L: 0.1% (95%
      CI: 0.0% to 0.7%). Moreover, in patients above 75 years the age-adjusted cutoff allowed to
      increase five-fold the number of patients in whom PE could be excluded without imaging test.

      As PE and DVT are often considered as a similar disease, the investigators plan a prospective
      outcome study in which this progressive or "new" cutoff (age X 10 µg/L) will be used in
      patients with suspected DVT. In this multicentre study, clinical probability will be assessed
      by the Wells score (Table 1) and an ELISA D-dimer test (Vidas D-dimer Exclusion® test
      (Biomérieux, Marcy l'Etoile, Paris, France) or an immuno-turbidimetric test Innovance D-dimer
      (Siemens, Munich, Germany) will be performed. Patients with a nonhigh or "unlikely" clinical
      probability with the Wells score and a normal "new" D-dimer cutoff will be considered as not
      having DVT, and will be followed for three-months to assess possible VTE recurrences. The
      main outcome will be the rate of thromboembolic events during a formal 3-month follow-up in
      patients not anticoagulated on the basis of this strategy. Patients with a D-dimer
      measurement above the age-adjusted cutoff will be investigated with CUS as currently
      admitted.
    
  