
    
      PCOS is the most common endocrine abnormality of reproductive-aged women in the United
      States, affecting approximately 5 million women (1). The exact prevalence of PCOS in the
      adolescent population is unknown mainly attributed to the diagnostic challenge PCOS presents
      as the characteristics of normal puberty overlap with the signs and symptoms of PCOS (2). The
      key features of PCOS include menstrual irregularity, hyper¬androgenism, and polycystic
      ovarian morphology on ultrasound. However, clinical presentation may vary. It is a complex
      heterogeneous condition with life-long psychological, reproductive, and metabolic
      manifestations that impact a woman's health throughout her lifespan. PCOS is associated with
      major metabolic consequences including hyperinsulinism (i.e. increased insulin secretion),
      insulin resistance (i.e. decreased insulin sensitivity), obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus,
      dyslipidemia, cardiovascular disease, endothelial dysfunction, defective fibrino¬lysis, as
      well as endometrial carcinoma (3).

      Particular disease processes show a predilection for certain racial and ethnic groups.
      African-American [AA] adults are at increased risk of obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus,
      cardiovascular disease mortality, and hyper¬tension compared to Caucasian [CA] adults. Past
      studies (4-9) have found that AAs have increased insulin secretion and decreased insulin
      sensitivity compared to their CA counterparts in adolescence and adulthood and even in
      childhood. These findings are secondary to the combination of increased insulin secretion and
      resistance with decreased insulin sensitivity and clearance noted in African-Americans. It is
      this combination of altered glucose metabolism that places AAs at increased risk of
      cardiovascular and metabolic morbidity. It has been proposed that hyperinsulinism or
      increased insulin secretion is a compensatory response by the pancreatic β-cell to increased
      insulin resistance. However, it has also been speculated that it is insulin resistance that
      is the compensatory response occurring in response to insulin hyper-secretion caused by
      pancreatic β-cell dysregulation (10-11).

      Hyperinsulinism and insulin resistance are known inherent features of PCOS. Several studies
      have demonstrated significant hyperinsulinism with insulin resistance and lowered insulin
      sensitivity in adolescents and adults with PCOS when compared to BMI-matched healthy control
      subjects (12-18). Marked differences in insulin sensitivity/resistance and PCOS phenotype
      have been reported in adults of different races/ethnicities with PCOS (19-23), however; other
      studies have refuted these claims (24-27). The objective of this study is to examine the
      differences in insulin secretion between AA and CA adolescents with PCOS. We will also
      examine differences in insulin sensitivity/resistance between AA and CA adolescents with
      PCOS.

      Primary Aim: To determine the influence of racial/ethnic background on insulin secretion in
      adolescent females with PCOS.

      Secondary Aim: To determine the influence of racial/ethnic background on insulin
      sensitivity/resistance in adolescent females with PCOS.

      Hypothesis: AA adolescent females with PCOS will have increased insulin secretion and
      decreased insulin sensitivity (i.e. increased insulin resistance) compared to CA adolescent
      females with PCOS.

      To address this hypothesis, we will utilize one of the gold standards endorsed by the
      American Diabetes Association that satisfactorily assess insulin secretion and insulin
      sensitivity/resistance. The method utilized in this study is the frequently sampled
      intravenous glucose tolerance test with minimal model analysis (MINMOD FSIVGTT) (28-32).
      Using the data that is gathered as part of our primary and secondary aims, we will also
      conduct an exploratory analysis to examine the influence of PCOS phenotype on insulin
      secretion and insulin sensitivity/resistance and the influence of racial/ethnic background on
      PCOS phenotype.
    
  