
    
      At the end of 2017, HIV-AIDS affects more than 36 million people worldwide, more than
      three-quarters of whom live in sub-Saharan Africa, and a quarter of the infections are among
      young people and adolescents. Every hour, 4 adolescents (aged 15-19) are newly infected with
      HIV in the world, and 3 of them are adolescents. Three infections occur in sub-Saharan
      Africa, and for five adolescents living with HIV, there are seven girls (aged 10 to 19) in
      the same situation. This gender disparity increases when adolescents reach adulthood. This
      group of the population may well deserve the term "key and vulnerable population". In the era
      of international commitment to end the AIDS epidemic by 2030, especially to stop new
      infections, it is essential not to neglect part of the epidemic because it would effectively
      represent a reservoir for maintaining the epidemic and make these eradication goals
      impracticable. Data on virological success among adolescents on antiretroviral treatment are
      generally scarce and this is much more striking in Central Africa. Also, information on the
      frequency of emergence of resistant viruses and the consequences for the effectiveness of
      available treatments is rare. However, in the absence of such data, it is difficult, if not
      impossible, to take the right decisions to improve the care and monitoring of adolescents. In
      addition, the few available data indicate high virological failure rates and high frequencies
      of drug resistance, which may indicate a need to further investigate virological failure
      events in this population.

      This study will be conducted in Cameroon among 289 adolescents during 9 months, where access
      to biological monitoring is a major challenge, especially with low access to viral load
      testing. The results of this project will inform on the current state of success of ARV
      treatments in this population. Moreover, the other goal of this study is to conclude on the
      need to conduct a larger study at the national or regional level according to the results
      obtained
    
  