
    
      The long term goal of this research is to help reduce the incidence of SSIs caused by SA,
      both MSSA and MRSA strains. This will help improve the safety and effectiveness of health
      care for Americans. Achievement of this goal requires that we first address the following
      critical knowledge gaps: (i) which surgical patients should be screened pre-operatively; (ii)
      which body site(s) should be screened for optimal SA detection, and (iii) which
      decolonization approach is optimal for outpatient use. The goal of this study is to conduct
      the research needed to determine pre-operative SA carriage rates (including by strain type
      and site of carriage), to evaluate the practicality (adherence, cost) of a SA decolonization
      protocol that is self-administered by patients at home. We are conducting randomized clinical
      trial (RCT) of the efficacy of nasal mupirocin ointment, chlorhexidine gluconate (CHG) mouth
      rinse, and CHG pre-operative bathing, as performed by the patient at home for 5 days
      pre-operatively. This protocol will be compared with the current standard of care, usually
      1-2 showers with an antiseptic soap before the procedure. Briefly, the aims are as follows:

      Aim 1: Determine the efficacy of a novel decolonization protocol, compared with standard of
      care, for eradicating SA carriage pre-operatively in surgery out-patients. We hypothesize
      that the SA eradication rate will be 2-3 times higher in the intervention arm compared with
      the standard of care arm.

      Aim 2: Obtain data to inform sample size calculations and cost estimates for a future trial
      to prevent SSIs, determine screening requirements, and assess treatment adherence. We will:
      determine the proportion of pre-operative patients who are SA carriers and the sites of
      carriage, by SA type, determine adherence to the study intervention and standard of care,
      reasons for non-compliance, and gather cost data to provide preliminary evidence of potential
      cost-effectiveness of the intervention.

      Aim 3: Identify risk factors (demographic, medical) for SA carriage. Gather preliminary data
      on SSIs in study subjects.
    
  