
    
      Goals To build a training system and DBS and cffDNA prenatal screening procedure that is
      suitable to rural China.

      Objectives Develop a standardized prenatal screening test training program. Evaluate the
      efficiency and cost-effectiveness of DBS and cffDNA prenatal screening procedure in rural
      China.

      Specific activities

        -  Train the medical staff: Select two hospitals in Pinggu Village. Train all of the
           obstetricians and family doctors, nurses in these counties about the prenatal screening
           test as well as DBS and cff DNA technology. Build a series of standardized training
           profiles for the doctors and nurses. Evaluate the knowledge of the trained staff and
           compare the prenatal screening rate as well as some key health outcome variables pre and
           post the training.

        -  collect DBS sample in the 2nd trimestaer: Two thousand pregnant women will receive
           prenatal screening. DBS sample together with serum screening samples will be collected
           in the second trimester.

        -  Cff DNA for DBS high risk pregnant women: Cff DNA is offered to confirm the positive
           screening test results.

        -  amniocentesis for Cff DNA high risk pregnant women: Amniocentesis is offered for
           confirmation of the test results.

        -  Follpw-up the neonatal outcome: All of the pregnancy and neonatal outcomes will be
           followed.

        -  Statistical analysis: We can estimate the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of DBS
           followed with cff DNA screening procedure. We can give the recommendation to the
           government for a potential expansion of new screening diagnosis procedure to be used in
           the countryside.

      Analytic methods Build the database by visual Foxpro 5.0. Use the SAS9.2 software to do
      statistical analysis.

      Expected results and products Develop standardized prenatal screening test training program
      for the doctors and nurses in rural China. Estimate the training outcome. Estimate the
      detection rate of DBS and compare with maternal serum screening test. Estimate the
      sensitivity of specificity of cffDNA test. Estimate the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of
      DBS and cff DNA screening procedure. Make sure if DBS and cffDNA is suitable to rural China
      and successfully decreases the birth defects.

      Timetable

        -  Year 1 Select the hospitals and form the contracts with local staff. Develop the
           training program and finish training. Evaluate the training outcome. Start to collect
           DBS samples followed with cffDNA. Enroll the pregnant women in the second trimester who
           sign the consent form.

        -  Year 2 Follow-up the pregnancy and neonatal outcomes. Finish the statistical analysis
           and paper writing.
    
  