
    
      Nighttime agitation and sleep disturbance in persons with dementia (PWD) causes patient
      suffering, may accelerate cognitive decline, leads to burdened caregivers, and is costly to
      manage. Pharmacological interventions are primarily antipsychotics and hypnotics.
      Effectiveness is unconvincing, and these drugs are associated with falls, strokes, and death.
      There is a lack of tailored, effective, and sustainable treatments for nighttime agitation
      and sleep disturbance in PWD. The investigators approach to this problem is innovative
      because, unlike pharmacological interventions in the past, it tailors the intervention to a
      treatable condition, restless legs syndrome (RLS), which may be causing the nighttime
      agitation and sleep disturbance. In previous research, the investigators showed that about
      24% of PWD have an undiagnosed sleep disorder, RLS; that RLS was associated with nighttime
      agitation and sleep disturbance in PWD; and the investigators developed and validated an RLS
      diagnostic and outcome measure suitable for PWD. In order for the investigators' work to
      significantly impact standards of clinical practice, evidence is needed on whether RLS
      behaviors cause nighttime agitation, and if treating RLS behaviors reduces or stops nighttime
      agitation and improves sleep in PWD. The investigators have chosen gabapentin enacarbil
      (GEn), as the RLS treatment in this research because it is FDA approved for RLS and has a
      favorable safety profile. The investigators propose an 8-week, double-blind
      placebo-controlled randomized clinical trial of GEn versus placebo in 156 community-dwelling
      and long-term care facility residents with nighttime agitation, sleep disturbance, and RLS.
      The specific aims of this pilot study are to: 1) Determine the effect of GEn, compared to
      placebo, on nighttime agitation (primary endpoint) in PWD with RLS. The investigators
      hypothesize that compared to the placebo control group, the treatment group will have fewer
      nighttime agitation behaviors. 2) Describe the safety profile of GEn compared to placebo in
      this population. 3) Estimate the effect size of GEn compared to placebo on nighttime sleep
      and RLS behaviors. The investigators hypothesize that compared to the placebo control group,
      the treatment group will have better nighttime sleep and fewer RLS behaviors. 4) Explore
      whether frequency of RLS behaviors is a causal mechanism for nighttime agitation. The
      investigators hypothesize that frequency of RLS behaviors will mediate the effect of GEn on
      nighttime agitation behaviors. The results of this study and future definitive trials have
      the potential to radically shift and drastically improve standards of clinical practice for
      assessment and treatment of three highly prevalent, often comorbid conditions in PWD: RLS,
      nighttime agitation, and sleep disturbance. For scientists, the results may provide insight
      into the mechanism for nighttime agitation and sleep disturbance in PWD and inform future
      research. For PWD, the findings may result in less nighttime agitation and discomfort from
      RLS, improved nighttime sleep, and improved sleep may enhance daytime cognitive functioning
      and quality of life. Application of the findings into the home setting may result in fewer
      nursing home admissions for PWD and less caregiver burden because the PWD (and their
      caregivers) can get more sleep.

      COVID-19 Modifications - The impact of COVID-19 social distancing on the well-being of
      community-dwelling older adults with Alzheimer's disease related dementia and their family
      caregivers who live with them is unknown. They have been confined to their homes. Social and
      physical activities may be restricted to television and phone calls, and exposure to bright
      outdoor light is likely infrequent or absent. Exposure to sunlight and both social and
      physical activity are critical for healthy sleep patterns. For those with the
      neuropsychiatric symptom of excessive motor activity, such as agitated pacing, being
      restricted to the home may cause even greater suffering. In addition, family caregivers may
      be exhausted, stressed, and burdened, even more than usual, because they have not had access
      to support services such as adult day care, respite, and senior centers. All of the factors
      associated with social distancing - lack of understanding of what is happening, inadequate or
      no caregiver support services, isolation, restricted movement, insufficient sunlight, social
      and physical activity, caregiver exhaustion, and increased caregiver burden - may adversely
      impact the wellbeing of older adults with Alzheimer's disease related dementia. Further,
      because older adults with dementing illness are unable to cognitively and verbally express
      their distress, it is likely that social distancing will increase agitation behaviors, worsen
      sleep patterns, and increase the need for antipsychotic and sedating medications to manage
      agitation behaviors and sleep disturbances. We now examine the impact of social distancing on
      the well-being of older adults with Alzheimer's disease related dementia and their family
      caregivers who are living together in community settings. A sample of 30 family caregivers
      will be recruited for qualitative phone interviews to explore the impact of social distancing
      on the well-being of older adults with Alzheimer's disease related dementia. The specific
      aims are to: 1) explore the impact of social distancing on nighttime agitation, sleep
      patterns, and use of antipsychotics and other sedating medications; and 2) ask caregivers for
      their recommendations on ways to minimize the impact of social distancing on the well-being
      of older adults with Alzheimer's disease related dementia and their caregivers.

      During the time-period where limitations are placed on in-person interactions, researchers
      will conduct all recruitment, consent, data collection, and intervention activities with
      participants using remote procedures rather than any procedure that would require in-person
      interaction. After the university releases restrictions on in-person research activities,
      researchers may resume in-person activities and/or continue optional telepresence
      interactions.
    
  