
    
      Genital Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) infection is the most common sexually transmitted
      infection (STI) in the United States and worldwide. Over 50% of sexually active adolescents
      will become infected with HPV. HPV infection is strongly associated with the development of
      anogenital dysplasias and invasive cancers. Because HPV is a STI, optimal prevention in women
      will depend on prevention in their partners as well. Males remain a significant reservoir of
      HPV and vaccinating them will be essential for rapidly preventing transmission of HPV in the
      community.

      P1085 is a sub study of P1047, which investigated the safety and immunogenicity of
      Quadrivalent HPV (QHPV) in HIV-infected girls and boys, age 7 to <12 years of age. This study
      was a placebo-controlled trial that compared a recommended three dose schedule of QHPV in one
      study arm (Arm A) with an arm that received placebo (Arm B). P1047 has thus far demonstrated
      that QHPV can be safely administered to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected boys and
      girls and will stimulate seroconversion in more than 95% of vaccinees. However, these
      antibody levels were 30-50% lower than those achieved in children without HIV infection.
      Since levels of vaccine-induced antibodies decline with time after vaccination, it is
      uncertain if vaccine-induced immunity will be life-long. This concern is supported by some
      evidence that naturally acquired HPV-specific antibody might decline to a level that will
      permit re-infection. Comparative persistence data for HPV-specific antibody is available for
      5-6 years after vaccination of almost 1000 children without HIV infection (manufacturer's
      data, unpublished), but there is no such information available from HIV-infected vaccinees.

      We seek to determine the long-term durability and kinetics of the vaccine-induced
      HPV-type-specific antibody and CMI responses in HIV-infected children that were, and are
      being, immunized in P1047. These subjects are a unique cohort that will allow us to approach
      this specific clinical issue.
    
  