
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Clozapine is an atypical antipsychotic drug considered the "gold standard" in the treatment
      of resistant psychosis and also in patients who have had adverse effects with others drugs
      previously indicated as first line. It has been described that almost two thirds of patients
      who do not respond to first and second generation antipsychotics respond to clozapine
      treatment. Despite its effectiveness in positive, negative symptoms and the risk of suicide,
      clozapine presents a risk of adverse effects ranging from potentially dangerous ones. such as
      agranulocytosis or myocarditis, to others that are considered mild but that they can
      compromise the quality of life of patients and non-compliance. One of these mild, but
      extremely annoying, side effects is sialorrhea. The prevalence of sialorrhea secondary to
      clozapine reported by different studies range from 30% to 80% and it seems to be a
      dose-dependent relationship. This great variability observed in the studies probably has to
      do with the tendency that clinicians have to underestimate this side effect. In addition, the
      presence of sialorrhea can impact negatively in the subject causing a decrease in self-esteem
      and feeling of security, greater social isolation and an increase in stigma.

      JUSTIFICATION OF THE STUDY:

      Due to the consequences that sialorrhea has on the quality of life perceived by people in
      Clozapine treatment and the relationship with possible therapeutic abandonment, in addition
      to the low systematic evaluation of this side effect, it is considered relevant to establish
      a systematic evaluation of clozapine induced sialorrhea in the different mental health
      devices of our center.

      OBJECTIVES:

      To measure the prevalence of sialorrhea in patients treated with clozapine and its impact on
      subjective perception of quality of life. The possible relationship between the Clozapine
      dose and sialorrhea severity, as well as severity prediction will be evaluated based on the
      clinical and sociodemographic variables collected.

      HYPOTHESIS:

        1. The prevalence of sialorrhea in people treated with clozapine is at least 30% of
           patients receiving this antipsychotic treatment.

        2. The presence of sialorrhea is directly related to a worse perception of the perceived
           quality of life in patients treated with clozapine.

        3. The presence of sialorrhea is directly related to the prescribed dose of clozapine,
           presenting a dose-dependence relationship.

        4. There is an association between the total daily dose of clozapine and the severity of
           sialorrhea in patients treated with clozapine.

      MATERIAL AND METHODS:

      Study design:

      A quasi-experimental study will be carried out to measure the prevalence of sialorrhea in
      patients treated with clozapine in different Units of the INAD.

      To estimate the sample size, people with the diagnosis of schizophrenia or schizoaffective
      disorder will be collected in the Units above mentioned in 2018, it was a sample size of 250.

      Based on that the incidence of refractory schizophrenia is around 30% to 50% of cases, the
      number of patients potentially candidates to be treated with clozapine would be 125.

      The final sample size has been calculated with the following tool available on the web
      http://.fisterra.com/mbe/investia/9samples/9samples.asp, with a 95% confidence interval and
      an accuracy of 3%, expecting sialorrhea in 30% of the cases and including a proportion of
      losses around 15%. The final sample will be 129 patients.

      Methodology:

      Nursing team will be responsible to inform the patients about the study, to enroll them and
      to obtain informed consent. Also they will administer 3 clinical scales previously used in
      hypersalivation studies (Maher et al. 2016; Wai Hong Man, Jantine Colen-de Koning, Peter
      Schulte and Ingrid van Haelst 2017) through the direct observation of the sialorrhea
      presented by the patient with stable treatment with clozapine. The scales will be
      administered only once and there won't be any longitudinal follow-up.

      The scales are:

        1. The Nocturnal Hypersalivation Rating Scale (NHRS): A validated scale of 5 items used to
           assess the severity of nocturnal salivation. Scores range from the non-presence of
           nocturnal salivation to wake up a minimum of 3 times during the night due to
           hypersalivation (Spivak et al. 1997).

        2. Drooling Severity and Frequency Scale (DSFS): A validated scale to evaluate the severity
           of daytime sialorrhea (Rashnoo and Daniel 2015). Scores range from no presence of
           sialorrhea to a profuse sialorrhea where saliva wets the body or even objects and
           furniture (saliva falls on the table when the person is sitting) based on a 5-point
           scale.

           Both severity and frequency scores are added to give a final score of the daytime
           sialorrhea.

        3. Impact on the quality of life scale: It is a 5-point scale that range from no impact on
           quality of life to a major problem.

      In addition, sociodemographic variables such as age, date of birth, race, date of diagnosis,
      as well as variables clinics such as diagnosis, years of disease evolution, total daily dose
      of Clozapine treatment and other prescribed treatments.

      All this information will be included in an anonymous database (subjects will be identified
      by a study code and the database will not include personal data).

      Statistic analysis:

      The data analysis will be carried out using the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences
      (SPSS statistical program), version 25.0. The distribution of the sociodemographic and
      clinical characteristics of the sample will be analyzed using descriptive statistics.
      Likewise, to describe the possible linear associations between quantitative variables related
      to clozapine and sialorrhea will use the coefficient of correlation. Finally, an exploratory
      regression analysis will be done to predict the severity of the sialorrhea based on clinical
      and sociodemographic variables. The limitations of the study will be the foreseeable studies
      of quasi-experimental studies: that do not allow establishing cause-effect relationships
      between variables or calculate incidence.
    
  