
    
      This study aims to strengthen management of nutrition program during post-disaster recovery
      for underfive children. In this study the following steps will be carried out.

      Phase 1: Situation analysis is carried out with two approaches. The first approach is to
      analyze secondary data in the form of data related to nutrition, health and description of
      the affected population. The second approach is primary data collection by conducting a
      qualitative study in the form of in-depth interviews and focus group discussion (FGD)
      involving the local government and other parties related to the disaster management in East
      Lombok. Then, interviews and FGDs will be conducted to chief of villages and staff, community
      leaders and refugees, especially mothers with children under five children to complete data
      on the status and IYCF practices. The results of this situation analysis will be reported to
      the local government and also used as a basis for improving the implementation of the next
      stage.

      Phase 2: Preparation of technical guidelines for the nutrition recovery program for underfive
      children by the research team based on situation analysis and literature review which has
      been carried out previously.

      Stage 3: Representatives from ECE teachers and health workers from Public Health Centers will
      be trained on the implementation of parenting class and its monitoring. Then, together with
      the researchers, ECE teachers and community health workers will carry out the weekly
      parenting class, periodic monitoring and program evaluation.

      Stage 4: At this stage there will be an intervention in the form of nutrient-dense food
      supplementation and psychosocial care for mothers with the concept of "Community
      Participation". Mothers and community members such as cadres will be involved in joint
      activities to provide nutrient-dense food for underfives children.

      Stage 5: At the end of the activity an evaluation and monitoring program will be conducted by
      the research team in collaboration with the district health office.
    
  