
    
      Bone mineral density (BMD) peaks in early adulthood and declines progressively with aging. As
      BMD declines from normal, to low (formerly called osteopenia), to osteoporosis, risk of
      fractures progressively increases. In an effort to prevent bone loss and reduce fracture
      risk, most widely accepted guidelines including the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force and
      Surgeon General's Office now recommend BMD screening of older adults using dual energy x-ray
      absorptiometry (DXA). The rationale for screening is that patients and their providers will
      use DXA results as a "cue to action" and take necessary steps to enhance bone health through
      lifestyle modification (e.g., weight bearing exercise), Calcium/Vitamin D supplementation,
      and pharmacotherapy when indicated. However, multiple studies have demonstrated that patients
      and providers often fail take recommended actions following DXA testing, thus defeating much
      of the purpose of screening. Over the past five years we have systematically developed and
      pilot tested a low-cost and practical patient activation intervention based upon the Health
      Belief Model. The intervention consists of the DXA scanning center mailing each patient a
      customized letter containing the results of their DXA scan plus educational information about
      osteoporosis, supplemented by a follow-up phone call from a nurse educator. Preliminary
      studies have demonstrated that the intervention is well received by both patients and
      providers and enhances bone-related quality of care. The overarching objective of the current
      proposal is to rigorously examine the impact of our patient activation intervention on
      bone-related quality of care in adults undergoing screening DXA scans through a
      randomized-controlled trial conducted at three study sites. In addition, we will examine the
      real-world costs associated with our intervention and the impact of our intervention on the
      overall cost-effectiveness of BMD screening. We hypothesize that the activation intervention
      will increase optimization of Calcium/Vitamin D intake, enhance use of pharmacotherapy when
      indicated, will improve patient satisfaction with their bone-related healthcare, and improve
      patients' osteoporosis specific knowledge when compared with usual care
    
  