
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory autoimmune disease characterized by a
      multitude of symptoms, which greatly reduce the quality of life of patients. In addition to
      sensory and visual sensory disorders, movement disorders, paresis, fatigue and other physical
      symptoms, 65-95% of patients with MS also suffer from cognitive impairments. These cognitive
      impairments develop in the later course of the disease and express themselves in slower
      processing speed, delays in learning and memory performance, and executive dysfunction. In
      recent years, non-pharmacological approaches aimed at improving cognitive performance in MS
      have increasingly come into focus, including the transcranial direct current stimulation
      (tDCS).

      TDCS has only been investigated in a few studies that had the aim to improve cognitive
      performance in MS. Further, it has only been carried out in combination with cognitive
      training paradigms and repeated stimulation sessions. Mattioli and colleagues (2016) could
      e.g. show that after 10 sessions of cognitive training with tDCS stimulation of the
      dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, there was greater improvement in symbol-digit modalities test
      (SDMT) in the experimental group than in the control group. Similarly, Charvet and colleagues
      (2018) showed that after 10 sessions of cognitive training with simultaneous tDCS stimulation
      of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, the experimental group showed a significant
      improvement in the domains of attention and response variability compared to the control
      group. These studies therefore reflect an interaction between cognitive training and tDCS,
      and do not allow any conclusions to be drawn about the effect of tDCS on specific processes.
      It is not yet known whether tDCS alone can positively influence specific cognitive functional
      impairments.

      Therefore, the present study wants to investigate whether acute application of tDCS can
      improve specific cognitive functions. An adapted version of the clinically SDMT was
      conducted, as this test is one of the most widely used tests to describe cognitive
      impairments in MS. Based on a meta-analysis by Silva and colleagues (2018), that shows which
      brain areas are related to the implementation of the SDMT, the parietal cortex (BA7) is
      stimulated bilaterally with either excitatory (anodal) or inhibitory (cathodal) tDCS.
    
  