
    
      More than one third of all people admitted to ICUs in hospitals require mechanical
      ventilation for respiratory failure. Many people who survive after being on mechanical
      ventilation for a prolonged time have significant issues with recovery and quality of life
      when discharged from the ICU. They are also more prone to depression, which increases patient
      suffering and the need for medical care, decreases quality of life, and is associated with
      increased mortality. Previous research indicates that antidepressant medications may improve
      quality of life and recovery in people who have had a heart attack, but that behavioral
      treatments are not effective in this case. Treating depression in ICU patients with
      respiratory failure has not been examined. In this study, antidepressant medications will be
      given to people who have been on mechanical ventilation in an ICU to determine the
      effectiveness of antidepressants in improving medical recovery and quality of life. Only a
      small number of participants will be enrolled in this trial to test the methods and theory;
      if it is successful, a larger trial will be conducted to determine whether these findings can
      be widely generalized.

      Participation in this study will last 8 weeks, with follow-up assessments lasting for 6
      months. Participants on a ventilation machine will be randomly assigned to receive either
      escitalopram, which is an FDA-approved antidepressant, or a placebo pill. A healthy surrogate
      may need to enroll participants in the study, because participants will begin treatment while
      in the ICU and may not be able to make an informed decision. The medication or placebo
      treatment will last for 2 months, continuing at the participant's home after discharge from
      the ICU. Dosage levels will begin at 10 mg per day and will be increased to 20 mg per day for
      some participants after 3 to 5 weeks. Every 2 weeks, participants will complete
      questionnaires by phone or in person about their medical and psychological symptoms and about
      whether they are taking the study medication. At 8 weeks, participants will complete an
      in-person interview about depression symptoms, quality of life, and physical function. At 9
      weeks, participants will complete a telephone interview about medication withdrawal. Finally,
      at 4 and 6 months, participants will complete interviews about depression and general health.
    
  