
    
      Biorepository samples will be utilized in a variety of research studies intended to help in
      the diagnosis and/or treatment of patients, including the possible identification of
      therapeutic targets or genetic identifiers of cancers and possibly other diseases. Various
      technologies including gene expression, genotyping, DNA and RNA sequencing, protein and
      metabolite analysis may be used in the course of the various studies An exemplary project
      currently under consideration is one in which Scripps Genomic Medicine is comparing the DNA
      sequence of both a patient's tumor and their germline DNA to identify genetic differences
      between the two. These differences could help identify specific pathways that are regulating
      the tumor and disease thus leading to potentially valuable information in how to treat that
      individual patient as well as other patients with similar genetic characteristics. In
      addition, differences between the tumor and germ-line observed in multiple patients could
      help identify therapeutic targets that are cancer specific. A secondary exemplary project
      which is currently underway is one in which Scripps Genomic Medicine is undertaking RNA
      sequencing to identify "fusion genes" which are hybrid genes formed from two previously
      separate genes and are a type of genetic mutation that has been identified in certain types
      of cancers including those of the prostate and breast and certain forms of leukemia.
      Identifying new fusion genes could provide valuable insights into both treatment protocols
      and new therapeutic targets.

      The goal of this project is to expand and improve the bio-repository already established
      within the Scripps Genomic Medicine (SGM) group. Presently, the collection has been focused
      on the collection of predominately prostate tumors and blood as the corresponding normal
      tissue. The current collection is annotated with pathology information and limited medical
      information collected from the patient during the consenting process; no post surgical
      information is collected. We believe that collection can be enhanced by (i) modifying the
      tumor collection process, (ii) simplifying the means of consenting the patients such that it
      relies upon the general surgical consent and (iii) using de-identified medical data already
      consolidated in the Cancer registry as a means of annotating the tissue samples.
    
  