
    
      Psychomotor delay is observed in approximately 3% of the general population and has various
      causes: environmental, genetic (gene or chromosome) or unknown. Chromosomal abnormalities
      have been identified in 15% of syndromic psychomotor delay (ie. associated with another
      symptom). Balanced chromosomal translocations are observed in one out of every 1000
      individuals and only 6% of patients with de novo apparently balanced translocations have an
      abnormal phenotype (Warburton, 1991). Review of the literature, concerning the microarray
      analysis of de novo apparently balanced translocations in patients with psychomotor delay,
      reveals:* in 40% of cases: an abnormality not identified on the karyotype, either at the
      translocation breakpoints or at a different location on the genome,* in 60% of cases: no
      abnormalities are found with a resolution of up to 25kb (Schluth-Bolard et al., 2009). The
      technique generally used to clone a breakpoint and identify a disrupted gene is a "walk" on
      the chromosome. This technique uses fluorescent probes, such as BACs or PACs, located on the
      derivative chromosomes on both sides of the breakpoints. This technique is labor-intensive,
      time-consuming and expensive because one must probe along the derivative chromosomes, closer
      and closer to the breakpoint, in order to find the probe overlapping the breakpoint. The
      investigators propose an original, innovative and quick technique to map chromosome
      translocation breakpoints in patients with psychomotor delay and no abnormalities on
      microarray analysis. The main aim is to develop a technique to identify new genes by cloning
      and mapping chromosome translocation breakpoints. These genes would then be candidate to
      explain the phenotype of the patient.The study covers a 24 month period and includes 10
      patients. The feasibility of the technique, as well as its application to routine laboratory
      diagnosis, will be evaluated. The study was approved by our local Bioethics Committee and
      respects french law of bioethics.Methodology:Patients well be selected during staff meetings
      including clinicians and biologists. An initial microarray analysis well be performed to
      identify a gain or loss of genetic material. Samples for which no gain or loss is identified
      well then undergo flow cytometry to isolate the derivative chromosomes. Each derivative
      chromosome well then be hybridised to a new microarray, thus revealing the breakpoint. The
      breakpoints will be confirmed by FISH technique and molecular biology techniques well be
      applied to clone and sequence the breakpoints. Databases well be used to check for genes
      located in or around the breakpoints. Required information: Administrative data (3 first
      letters of the last name and 2 first letters of the first name, date of birth, identification
      of parents, informed consent). Clinical and biological data (phenotype, karyotype, other
      genetic studies). Expected results: Development of rapid and less expensive technique to
      clone translocation breakpoints, Identification of genes potentially involved in mental delay
      and anomalies of embryo development, Evaluation of the distribution of various causes of
      syndromic mental delay (unbalanced translocation on microarray, additional rearrangement on
      microarray, gene disruption, or unidentified cause).
    
  