
    
      In Germany, kidney transplant patients form the largest group in solid organ transplantation.
      Improvements in diagnosing and treating medical problems and complications have lead to
      enhanced survival rates after transplantation. A crucial factor for the long-term success of
      kidney transplantations is the patients' life-long adherence to immunosuppressant medication.
      Numerous aspects influencing adherence have been investigated empirically. Across studies,
      social support has been shown to have an important impact on levels of patients' adherence to
      treatment. In kidney patients, lower levels of social support have been found to be a risk
      factor for non-adherence to immunosuppressant therapy, and impaired integration of the
      transplantation.

      From other long-term and potentially life-threatening medical conditions such as breast
      cancer, the patients' husbands/wives, or spouses are often the primary source of (social)
      support and of central importance with regard to treatment-related decisions. Thus, spouses
      are important agents in the course of treatment but are also under considerable (additional)
      strain. Most studies on psychosocial outcomes of organ transplantation have focused on either
      patients or spouses. However, medical, social, and psychological aspects influence
      transplantation outcomes and patients' as well as spouses functioning in complex interaction
      and should be investigated accordingly.

      The study at hand aims at investigating the nature of marital / relationship quality and
      communication, social support behaviors, emotional arousal, and psychological distress in
      patients and their spouses after kidney transplantation. Additionally, the role of these
      variables of interest for important post-transplantation outcomes such as the patients'
      adherence to immunosuppressive medication and quality of life in both patients and spouses
      will be analyzed.
    
  