
    
      Large clinical trials have confirmed the value of systemic adjuvant therapy in decreasing the
      risk of recurrence and death in patients with early breast cancer. However, the need to
      identify breast cancer patients who will benefit from adjuvant therapy, while sparing others
      from the side effects of futile treatment, is spurring research into predictive markers of
      chemotherapy sensitivity and resistance. In the adjuvant setting, extremely large trials and
      long follow-up would be required to prospectively validate the predictive value of biomarkers
      of chemotherapy sensitivity or resistance. In part this is because response is not directly
      observable. Preoperative chemotherapy for large tumors (>3cm) or inoperable breast cancer is
      well established and is the standard of care for locally advanced breast cancer. Data from
      large series of patients have demonstrated that preoperative (neoadjuvant) chemotherapy leads
      to significant reduction of tumor size (downstaging) and improves both the rate and the
      cosmetic results of breast- conserving surgery. The degree of response to neoadjuvant therapy
      has been shown to predict improved overall survival. This is therefore an attractive setting
      to study predictors of response because tissue is accessible from pre- therapeutic biopsies
      and tumor response is directly observable.

      In an early proof-of-principle pilot study of single agent neoadjuvant docetaxol, we
      identified a predictive gene expression pattern, and, using leave-one-cross validation, a
      method of internal validation, we demonstrated that the pattern was likely to accurately
      discriminate between responders and non-responders (Chang, J.C., et al., Gene expression
      profiling for the prediction of therapeutic response to docetaxel in patients with breast
      cancer. Lancet, 2003. 362(9381): p. 362-9). A similar pilot study of neoadjuvant AC
      undertaken by a collaborator in the UK suggests that different profiles will be predictive
      for AC response.

      In order to definitively determine predictive patterns for both regimens (T and AC) using
      improved technology for RNA preparation and a larger, more comprehensive gene expression
      array, we undertook a randomized Phase II trial of these two widely used regimens (Protocol
      H-11624 - A RANDOMIZED MULTICENTER TRIAL OF NEOADJUVANT TAXOTERE AND ADRIAMYCIN/CYTOXAN (AC):
      A BIOLOGIC CORRELATIVE STUDY). The trial is nearing completion, having recruited more than 90
      patients out of an expected 120 patients. To date, the risks associated with this study have
      been modest, and there have been no unexpected adverse events. The laboratory work is well
      underway and gives every indication that clinically useful classifiers to predict treatment
      efficacy will result.
    
  