
    
      Subjects with mucosal leishmaniasis or cutaneous leishmaniasis from which Leishmania have
      already been identified were potentially eligible to be treated with miltefosine via this
      protocol. Treating Physicians with potentially eligible subjects contacted the protocol
      Principal Investigator (PI), and received the case report forms (CRF) from the PI. The
      Treating Physician completed the screening CRF pages for demographics, medical history,
      leishmaniasis history, clinical laboratory results that were available, and identification of
      Leishmania in the lesion, and sent the completed CRF pages to the PI. If after PI review, the
      subject was potentially eligible for the protocol, the PI sent the protocol, the miltefosine
      package insert, the informed consent form, and a blank copy of FDA form 1572 to the Treating
      Physician. Although this protocol would have already been approved by a "central"
      Institutional Review Board (IRB), if there was an additional need to have the Treating
      Physician's local IRB approve the protocol, the Treating Physician would obtain the approval,
      and obtain informed consent from the subject. The rest of the laboratory tests were
      accomplished so that all screening laboratory tests were completed prior to enrolling a
      potential subject. If in the physician's opinion the subject appeared eligible for
      enrollment, the Treating Physician sent to the PI the local IRB signature page (if needed),
      protocol signature page, informed consent signed by both the subject and the Treating
      Physician, the rest of the completed CRF pages for screening, and the form 1572 completed
      with the Treating Physician's information plus the Treating Physician's curriculum vitae.
      After the PI's review of these forms, the investigational product was sent from the drug
      repository to the Treating Physician for that subject's use.

      Treatment was daily for 28 consecutive days. During treatment at weeks 1, 2, and 4, the
      subject returned to the treatment facility to be assessed for adverse events and to receive
      additional supply of medication if needed. Compliance with drug administration was assessed
      by subject interview and pill count. Blood for transaminase and creatinine values were drawn
      at the midpoint and at the end of therapy.

      Subjects returned to the treatment facility to be examined clinically at Study Week 6, Study
      Months 3 and 7 months for mucosal leishmaniasis and cutaneous leishmaniasis subjects, and
      also at Study Month 13 for mucosal leishmaniasis subjects.
    
  