
    
      General description: The overall study procedure requires assessment of eligibility and
      safety for inclusion in the study through a) the screening questionnaire; b) medical history,
      which will be derived from subject and combined with a review of his/her medical record after
      signing the consent; and c) interview, physical examination and laboratory tests from
      screening visit if required.

      Screening questionnaire: All subjects, whether they are interviewed during a clinic visit or
      call in response to fliers, will be given the pre-screening questionnaire. This will be given
      to people who voluntarily express interest in the study. Participants who do not disclose any
      conditions that would exclude them from participating will be invited to a health screening
      visit.

      Health screening visit: The purpose of the pre-study health screening is to perform a more
      detailed assessment than is provided in the screening questionnaire to determine if potential
      subjects are eligible to participate in the study. A member of the research team will first
      read the consent form with the subject, describe the health screening and study visits, and
      answer any questions that the subject has regarding the nature of the study and/or study
      procedures. The screening visit will consist of the following:

        -  Reading and signing the study consent. The subject will be given a copy of the consent.

        -  Collection of information on demographics and current and past health history.

        -  Ascertain participants medical history through participant interview and a review of
           his/her medical record

        -  A physical exam, which will include measuring and recording vital signs (temperature,
           blood pressure, heart rate, breathing rate), height, weight (if not documented in
           medical record in past 3 months).

        -  Collection of a blood sample for laboratory testing, if required.

        -  Pre-menopausal women of child-bearing potential we will undergo a serum pregnancy test,
           using a small amount of blood from the sample collected above.

        -  Ascertainment of current and recent past medications.

      If the subject is a patient at Tufts Medical Center, a research team member may access the
      potential participant's medical record after the subject has signed the consent form to
      further screen for potential exclusion criteria, ascertain laboratory test results that are
      necessary for determining eligibility, and confirm the medical history provided by the
      potential participant and medication list. If the participant is not a patient at Tufts
      Medical Center, then the research team member will obtain permission to obtain the
      participant's medical record from his/her physician.

      For non-pregnant women of childbearing age (pre-menopausal) who are sexually active, use of
      an acceptable birth control method will be required for participation. They will be requested
      to sign a statement of compliance prior to participating in the study stating that they are
      employing one of the below-listed forms of contraception between the screening and study
      visits.

        -  condoms with spermicide

        -  diaphragm with spermicide

        -  injectable contraceptives (Depoprovera)

        -  transdermal contraceptives (Ortho-Evra and Nuvaring)

        -  intrauterine device (IUD)

        -  permanent sterilization (i.e. tubal ligation, vasectomy, essure)

        -  abstinence from sexual activity

        -  hysterectomy

        -  oral contraceptives

      If the study visit occurs 3 weeks or more after the health screening, the female subjects
      will undergo a second, urine-based pregnancy test on the morning of the study visit. In
      addition, healthy women will be required to continue employing an accepted birth control
      method and not attempt to become pregnant for at least one month following completion of the
      final study visit. Women with CKD will be requested to continue employing an accepted birth
      control method for at least two months following completion of the final study visit.

      If a potential subject is taking trimethoprim containing medications or cimetidine, the study
      physician will discuss with the attending physician whether it is safe for the person to stop
      these medications for one week prior to the study. If not, then the person will be excluded
      from participation. If a potential subject is taking non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents
      or medications that block the renin-angiotensin system, the study physician will discuss with
      the potential participant and the attending physician whether maintenance of stable dose of
      these medications is possible. If a change in the subject's medication regimen is required
      immediately prior to the study visit, the subject will be rescheduled for a later date.

      Eligibility will be determined by the principal investigator or other physician
      co-investigators based on the medical history obtained from the participant, and their
      medical records and the results of the laboratory test that were included in the medical
      record or obtained during the health screening visit). Eligible subjects will be contacted to
      see if they remain interested in participating in the study. A study visit date will then be
      scheduled. All subjects will receive a stipend for the health screening.

      Screening prior to at-home dosing of KI The main concern when subjects are asked to take KI
      on the morning prior to the study visit is the possibility that the patient is allergic to
      iodine and will thus have a reaction to the KI in the unobserved environment at home. The
      research team will identify subjects with known allergies in advance by screening the
      subjects' medical records (if available) and through the health-history interview conducted
      via telephone by the study coordinator. Subjects who are not sure if they have an iodine
      allergy because they have not eaten shellfish or have never received contrast dye and,
      therefore, cannot say with sureness that they are not allergic will be excluded from
      participation.

      Supplying the KI tablet to the subject prior to the study visit The KI tablet will be
      supplied to the study participant from 2 days to approximately 2 weeks prior to the study
      visit. The tablet and the instruction sheet will be mailed to the subject or supplied during
      the health screening visit at the Clinical and Translational Research Center (CTRC); however,
      if the subject is a patient at the KBPC and has an appointment with their physician within
      approximately 2 weeks of the study visit, a member of the research team may provide the KI
      tablet and instruction sheet at the clinic visit. Otherwise, all subjects will be asked to
      provide their mailing address during the phone interview to ensure that the tablet is sent to
      the correct address.

      Per the IosatTM package insert, the tablet should be stored in a dry place at room
      temperature and out of direct sunlight. Subjects will also be instructed to keep the tablet
      in a place where someone else cannot accidentally consume it (i.e., a child, spouse, etc).
      These storage techniques will be conveyed to the subject in the included instructions. The
      tablets are available individually wrapped in foil blister packs to protect them from the
      effects of UV light, which can damage the KI. To further decrease the likelihood of damage to
      the tablet due to improper storage or handling, all tablets will be packaged in a secondary
      pill bottle with child-safe caps by the Tufts Medical Center pharmacy.

      Subjects will be instructed to take the KI tablet on the morning of the day before the study
      visit between 6:00 AM and 10:00 AM. Instructions with the tablet will include:

        -  An additional warning, in bold typeface, instructing the subject to not take the tablet
           if they even suspect that they might have an iodine allergy.

        -  Proper administration. Per the package insert, the tablet can be consumed with water,
           low fat milk, low fat chocolate milk, or orange juice.

        -  Symptoms of an allergic reaction and steps to take in the event that the subject
           experiences a reaction (per the IosatTM package insert).

      In addition to listing the emergency phone number '911' on the package, the contact numbers
      of Dr. Stevens (PI) and the study coordinator will be included in the event that the subject
      has any questions or concerns. On the morning of the study visit, the research staff will ask
      the subject to give verbal confirmation that they have taken the KI dose and record the
      approximate time at which the subject took it.

      Subjects taking medications that interfere with creatinine, who can safely cease taking the
      medication, as described in the exclusion criteria, will be reminded to stop these
      medications 1 week prior to the study visit at this time. In addition, a member of the
      research team will contact the subject 2-3 days prior to the visit date to ensure that the
      subject is clear on all directions and has no questions or concerns. During this call, the
      subject will be reminded to take the KI tablet at the specified time. When possible, the
      study personnel will also call the subject at approximately 9:00 AM on the morning of the day
      before the study visit to ensure that the subject took the tablet.

      Non-diabetic subjects will be requested to fast overnight and to avoid changes in
      non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents or medications that block the renin-angiotensin
      system. Subjects with diabetes will be asked to eat a light breakfast the morning of the
      study visit. Subjects will be asked to maintain adequate oral hydration and to ingest two to
      three glasses of non-caffeinated beverages prior to arrival to facilitate the collection of a
      baseline urine collection and an additional two to five glasses upon arrival at the CTRC.

      Upon arrival on the morning of the study visit, the nursing staff will ask the study subject
      to provide verbal confirmation that they took the KI pill and will document and record on the
      study flow sheet the approximate time that the subject took the tablet. If the pill was not
      taken within the allowed time range of 6:00 AM to 10:00 AM, the subject will not be able to
      participate in the study visit. A research team member will obtain informed consent from the
      participant and a copy of the consent will be given to the subject. The nursing staff will
      measure and record the subject's height, weight, blood pressure, temperature, pulse rate,
      respiration rate; confirm that the subject has not experienced any changes in
      physical/psychological health since the screening; and collect a baseline urine sample. As
      outlined above, if three weeks or more has elapsed since the health screening, women of
      childbearing age will be administered a urine pregnancy test, prior to the insertion of the
      IV lines, using an aliquot of the baseline urine sample. The test kits used will be purchased
      from a local pharmacy by the site principal investigator or her delegate and provided to the
      CTRC staff. Nursing will interpret the results of the test and the principal investigator
      will verify a negative result prior to initiation of the GFR measurement. If the test yields
      a positive result, the study visit will be immediately terminated.

      Subjects with diabetes will be requested to bring their own testing devices. The CTRC has
      their own testing devices if the subject forgets to bring his or her own. Subjects will be
      asked to check their blood sugar upon arrival at the CTRC. If they are unable to perform the
      measurement, the nurses will do so. The study physician will be informed of low (less 100
      mg/dl) or high (greater than 200) blood sugars. Otherwise, the participant will follow their
      normal routine for checking blood sugar. For example, if they check after each meal, then
      they will be asked to do so. If they only check once a day, then they will not be asked to
      check again. Participants will be fed breakfast and lunch and therefore there is no concern
      for hypoglycemia over the course of the study visit.

      A saline lock and intravenous line will be inserted at two different sites and two drops of
      saturated solution of potassium iodide (SSKI) will be administered at least 30 minutes and no
      more than six hours prior to the administration of 125I-iothalamate to prevent uptake by the
      thyroid. Baseline laboratory tests will include serum creatinine, cystatin C, blood urea
      nitrogen (BUN), C-reactive protein (CRP), electrolytes and albumin.

      The markers to be administered will be prepared by a pharmacist at the Tufts Medical Center
      Pharmacy. The pharmacist will prepare the markers such that they can be administered directly
      by the nurse. That is, the correct dose will be placed in a syringe that can be administered
      directly to the participant. A member of the research team will obtain the drugs and bring
      them to the CTRC for administration by the nurse.

      After collection of the baseline blood sample and a separate sample for tissue banking
      (optional), 50 mg Inulin/kg will be administered by bolus IV, followed by a sustaining dose
      of 18.8 mg/square area/min. Approximately 30 minutes later, 35 µCuries of 125I-iothalamate
      will be injected subcutaneously to allow for a 60 minute equilibrium time. After a further 30
      minutes, 5 ml of Iohexol (Omnipaque 300, 300mg/mL of organic iodine) and 10 uL/kg of Gd-DTPA
      will be administered via a bolus IV injection through the same IV line as inulin. Iohexol
      will be given first over 1 minute, followed by saline flush of the intravenous line, followed
      by Gd-DTPA over one minute. Subjects with an eGFR < 30 mL/min/1.73 m2, as determined from
      their medical record or the serum creatinine measurement from the health screening, will not
      receive Gd-DTPA. The syringes used to administer the iohexol and Gd-DTPA will be weighed to
      the nearest tenth gram on the same scale before and after injection. Nurses at the CTRC will
      monitor the participant at the time of the administration and throughout the study.

      Blood samples for plasma clearance measurements will be obtained from the second IV line,
      which will also remain in place throughout the course of the study visit. To maintain the
      patency of the IV access for the purpose of the serial blood collections, normal saline will
      be administered at a rate of approximately 20-30 c.c. per hour from a 500 c.c. bag of normal
      saline.

      The administration of inulin will be considered time 0. Following the iohexol administration,
      blood samples will be taken at approximately 10, 30, 120, and 240 minutes from the second
      intravenous line. For participants with estimated GFR less than 45 ml/min per 1.73 m2, as
      determined from the screening visit or the subject's medical record, a sample will be drawn
      at 360 minutes. The exact time of the sample will be recorded.

      Following the 180-minute timed void, all voluntary voids will be collected but the volume of
      oral fluid intake will match the urine output (i.e. water loading to stop). The nursing staff
      will continue to monitor fluid balance. For all urine samples, a bladder scan will be
      conducted immediately before and immediately after the subject urinates to assess the
      completeness of bladder emptying. Following the equilibration period for inulin (90 minutes)
      and 125I-iothalamate (60 minutes), four timed urinary clearance periods of at least 30
      minutes will begin. Blood samples for urinary clearance measurements will be taken following
      each bladder emptying. Blood samples for plasma clearance measurements will be taken at
      approximately 10, 30, 120, 150, and 240 min. For patients with estimated GFR <30 mL/min per
      1.73 m2, an additional blood sample will be collected at 360 min. Subjects are free to move
      around during the GFR test.

      Participants will be fed a breakfast consisting of a standardized protein content following
      collection of the 30 minute blood sample and a lunch of similar protein content. Subjects
      with diabetes will be given a meal that is consistent with their treatment regimen and asked
      to administer their medications and check their blood sugar levels during the course of the
      study visit as they would normally do, in the manner prescribed by their treating physician.

      At the conclusion of the study, both intravenous lines will be removed. Subjects will remain
      at the CTRC for at least 30 minutes following removal of the IV lines. During that time,
      nursing staff will re-measure and record the subject's vital signs (height, weight, blood
      pressure, temperature, pulse rate, respiration rate). Upon successful completion of a study
      visit, subjects will receive a stipend

      Subjects will undergo repeat study visits with a target time of one month between visits. The
      second study visit will proceed in an identical manner with the exception that urinary
      clearance of inulin will only be measured in a subset of the study participants during the
      second visit.
    
  