
    
      This prospective study will take place at Hotel Dieu de France hospital in Lebanon. One
      hundred children aged 16 and under, undergoing cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass
      (CPB) for congenital heart diseases will be included between May 2020 and May 2021. The
      surgeries to be included will be the tetralogy of Fallot, transposition of the great
      arteries, ventricular septal defect, atrial septal defect and the atrioventricular canal
      defect. Any premature under 35 weeks of gestation, the presence of a genetic disease, an
      abnormal renal ultrasound, a preoperative renal failure with creatinine abnormal for age, or
      repeated urinary tract infections will be excluded from the study. After obtaining the
      informed consent of the parents, demographic information (age, weight, height, sex) will be
      collected..

      Serum creatinine, lactic acid, urinary NGAL marker, and O2 saturation will be measured before
      the operation.

      A pediatric NIRS sensor will be placed on the right side below the costo-vertebral angle
      covering the right kidney and continuous rSO2 will be recorded every 5 to 10 minutes
      throughout the operation as well as with each change of situation, then every hour in
      pediatric resuscitation until 24 hours postoperatively. The children will be divided into 2
      groups of 50 patients each; Grp 1: No clinical intervention will be performed based on the
      NIRS and Grp 2: several maneuvers will be performed in case the NIRS values are below 50%,
      such as an increase in cardiac output, temperature, hemoglobin to optimize the NIRS value by
      up to 80%.

      Surgical information (cardiac pathology, surgical procedure, operating time, duration of CPB,
      duration of aortic cross-clamping, duration of circulatory arrest, intraoperative
      complications) will be collected.

      All patients will receive standard standard care during the study period. Patients will
      receive continuous infusion of furosemide (0.5-1 mg / kg / 6 hours) within the first 24-48
      hours postoperatively.

      Postoperatively, the need for catecholamines, the hemodynamic stability according to the
      Vasoactive-Inotropic Score (VIS), the delay to extubation, the stay in intensive care, the
      complications that occurred and the need for recourse to the dialysis will be noted.

      Creatinine and lactic acid will be measured immediately postoperatively and then once a day
      until D2 and D7.

      The urinary NGAL marker will be dosed immediately postoperatively and then at 2h, 6h, 12h and
      24h with hourly monitoring of diuresis and NIRS until 24h postoperatively.
    
  