
    
      Background

        -  Cancer of any type is a serious disease and despite all the progress made from past
           research, there is still much that is poorly understood at the molecular level.

        -  Recent advances in biomedical technology platforms have emerged as critical tools for
           accelerating personalized medicine.

        -  The collection of human tissue specimens has been an invaluable resource for conducting
           translational cancer research using these developing technologies.

        -  The ultimate goal is to understand the molecular indicators of cancer development and
           progression.

        -  While it is ideal to be able to study clinical samples, specifically tissue biopsies,
           they are however precious and are often difficult to obtain in sufficient quantities or
           numbers to conduct proteomic or molecular profiling studies.

        -  There exists, however, a vast archive of pathologically characterized clinical samples
           in the form of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue blocks.

        -  The preservation of these tissue blocks and/or slides for long-term (years) storage is
           an important asset that aids in translational and clinical research.

        -  This protocol will describe the procedures for receiving, labeling and storing
           paraffinembedded tissue blocks and/or slides until they are needed for future analysis.

        -  When blocks are ready for analysis, the requestor will then follow the IRB protocol
           specific to that study.

      Objective

      -To obtain tissue blocks and slides from outside pathology departments for cancer patients
      being treated at the Genitourinary Malignancies Branch (GMB) and Affiliates Center for Cancer
      Research (CCR), National Cancer Institute (NCI) in order to store them for future studies and
      analysis (e.g., using molecular technology platforms).

      Eligibility

      -Patients suspected of having, or with biopsy proof of malignant disease will be evaluated in
      the Genitourinary Malignancies Branch (GMB) and Affiliates Clinics, NCI.

      Design

        -  This protocol is not a research study.

        -  Tissue blocks and slides will be acquired from outside pathology departments and
           received by the Clinical Pharmacology Program of the OCD/CCR/NCI for coding.

        -  Bar-coded tissue blocks and slides will then be transferred to the Laboratory of
           Pathology/CCR/NCI for proper long-term storage.
    
  