
    
      FLT PET Scan:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will have an FLT PET scan.

      An FLT PET scan uses the 3'-Deoxy-3'-18f-Fluorothymidine solution, which contains a small
      amount of radioactive material. The radioactive nature of the solution allows the scanner to
      "see" it in certain places in your body. You will receive the solution by vein through a
      catheter. A central venous catheter is a sterile flexible tube that will be placed into a
      large vein while you are under local anesthesia. Your doctor will explain this procedure to
      you in more detail, and you will be required to sign a separate consent form.

      After the injection, you will need to rest quietly until it is time for the scan. The amount
      of rest time may vary, but be prepared to wait for about 60 minutes. During the scan, you
      will lie flat on your back on a table. After the solution is injected into a vein, the PET
      scanner takes pictures of the radioactive solution as it moves through the body and collects
      at various sites in the body. By watching how the solution travels through the body and
      studying where the solution collects, researchers may be able to learn where the disease is
      in your body. The entire procedure should last about 60-70 minutes.

      You must not eat or drink anything except water for at least 6 hours before the FLT PET scan.

      About 2 minutes after the FLT solution is injected, blood (about 10 teaspoons) will be drawn
      from the catheter. This blood will be drawn to measure how much FLT is in your body and may
      help the study staff understand the images better.

      Length of Study:

      After the FLT PET scan is complete, your active participation on this study will be over.

      Follow-Up Medical Record Review:

      About 30 days after the FLT PET scan, you will be contacted by phone by the study staff to
      check if you are having any side effects. The phone call should last about 15 minutes.

      Your medical records will continue to be reviewed for up to an additional 5 years to learn
      how you are doing, what other treatments you may have had and how they worked, if you had any
      new brain problems, or if the tumor came back.

      This is an investigational study. The 3'-Deoxy-3'-18f-Fluorothymidine solution is not FDA
      approved or commercially available. At this time, 3'-Deoxy-3'-18f-Fluorothymidine solution is
      only being used in research.

      Up to 20 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  