
    
      Study Drugs:

      Etoposide is designed to block cell growth by breaking the DNA, which may cause the cells to
      die.

      Valproic acid was first designed as an anti-seizure medication. It was also found to change
      cancer cells and make them more sensitive to etoposide.

      Screening Tests:

      Before you start treatment on this study, you will have "screening tests". These tests help
      your doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this study.

        -  Your medical history will be reviewed.

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will be asked how well you are able to perform the normal activities of daily living
           (performance status evaluation).

        -  You will complete a questionnaire about your activities or daily living. The
           questionnaire will take about 5 to 10 minutes to complete.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests. This routine blood draw
           may include a pregnancy test for women who are able to have children. To be eligible to
           take part in this study, the pregnancy test must be negative.

        -  Urine may be collected to check for metabolic disease. This urine sample may include a
           pregnancy test for women who are able to have children. To be eligible to take part in
           this study, the pregnancy test must be negative.

        -  You will have a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computed tomography (CT) scan.

        -  If your doctor thinks it is necessary, you may have additional blood and/or urine tests.

      Dose Escalation:

      When you begin the study, you will begin receiving the lowest dose level of valproic acid.
      Every week, the dose will be increased. This will continue until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is found. Once the MTD is found, you will continue to receive that dose level of
      valproic acid while you are on study. However, if your doctor thinks it is necessary, this
      dose level could be lowered.

      If you are a child (less than or equal to 18 years of age), the amount of etoposide that you
      take while on study will not change.

      If you are an adult (more than 18 years of age), your will receive a low dose of etoposide
      while the MTD of valproic acid is being found. After the MTD of valproic acid is found, your
      dose of etoposide will be increased every week until the MTD is found. However, if your
      doctor thinks it is necessary, this dose level could be lowered.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You will receive valproic acid and etoposide every evening in pill form.

      If you have difficulty swallowing the pills, etoposide can be given in the evening in liquid
      form. Valproic acid can be given in liquid form, divided in 2 doses per day, 1 in the morning
      and 1 in the evening.

      Study Visits During Dose Escalation:

      While your valproic acid or etoposide medication is being increased, every week you will have
      a physical exam and blood (about 2-3 tablespoons)and urine will be collected for routine
      tests.

      Every other month, you will have CT or MRI scans to check the status of the disease. You may
      have these tests and procedures more often if your doctor thinks it is necessary.

      Study Visits After Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD):

      Every month, you will have a physical exam, and blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) and urine will
      be collected for routine tests.

      Every other month, you will have CT or MRI scans to check the status of the disease.

      Every 6 months, a portion of the blood or urine collected for routine tests will be used for
      a pregnancy test for women who are able to have children.

      -You may have these tests and procedures more often if your doctor thinks it is necessary.

      Length of Study:

      You may remain on study for up to 2 years. You will be taken off study if the disease gets
      worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      Once you are off study, you will have an end-of-study visit. At this visit, the following
      tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  If your doctor thinks it is necessary, you will have a CT or MRI to check the status of
           the disease.

      Follow-Up:

      Once you are off study, you will be contacted by telephone once a year to check the status of
      the disease. The phone call will take 2-3 minutes.

      This is an investigational study. Etoposide is FDA approved and commercially available.
      Valproic acid is FDA approved and commercially available for the treatment of seizures. The
      use of these drugs together is investigational. Up to 120 patients will take part in this
      multicenter study. Up to 100 will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  