
    
      One highly-promoted, evidence-based model for chronic illness service delivery for children
      is the Care Model for Child Health in the Medical Home. The Medical Home (MH) model has been
      promoted as way to improve quality while making care more efficient. Communication among
      members of the health care team is an essential part of the model, with sharing of care
      between providers preferred by families, PCPs and specialists. However, communication between
      referring and consulting physicians is frequently missing. Failure of communication can
      produce uncoordinated care, which may contribute to unmet family needs, duplication or
      omission of needed medical services, and medical errors.

      Data on effectiveness of specific MH interventions, especially in children, are scarce. A
      large intervention in the MH setting was tested using written care plans and use of forms as
      tools to promote communication with specialists. Results indicated decreases of 40 to 70% in
      parent reports of lost work/school time, ER visits, and hospital admissions. Additional
      studies produced decreased hospitalizations and emergency room use in children.

      Family-centered care (FCC), a Medical Home core component, has been conceptualized for
      measurement purposes as having four components: communication with health care providers,
      shared decision making, providing families with needed information, and self-care management
      and support. Interventions to improve FCC through parent-to-parent support groups and
      community-based support have produced increased parent confidence and problem-solving
      ability. Studies of asthma have shown that teaching primary care providers to take a
      family-centered approach to medication prescribing as part of an overall education protocol
      improves symptoms and decreases follow-up visits, and using a family coordinator to help
      physicians and parents interact more effectively is integral to improving asthma outcomes.

      Shared decision-making (SDM), an element of FCC and an approach favored by family advocacy
      groups to help parents achieve the greatest benefits for their children with special needs,
      is addressed by our proposed intervention. Merely providing information to patients and
      families is not sufficient; families must be able to express preferences, participate in
      dialogue, and make informed decisions as partners with physicians.

      The proposed project addresses the health care quality gaps outlined above by improving
      primary care-specialty-parent communication, family-centered care, and shared decision-making
      within the MH model. It also addresses knowledge gaps by examining the effectiveness of an
      important recommended component of the MH and investigating the relationship between the
      intervention and both process and outcome measures, in a "real-world" practice setting. If
      the aims of the project are achieved, we will have discovered a practical way to improve care
      that can be promoted to payers and policymakers.
    
  