
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS) is the most common chronic autoimmune demyelinating and
      neurodegenerative disease of the central nervous system (CNS) of disabling neurological
      diseases in young adults in France. Patients with MS can present a wide range of symptoms
      spread over time and space such as motor, sensory, visual or vesico-sphincter deficits. One
      of the current challenges in treating patients with symptoms suggestive of MS is to assess
      the risk of an inflammatory flare in order to avoid or limit the installation of an
      irreversible neurological handicap. At present, the inflammatory activity of the disease is
      evaluable only by cerebral imaging (MRI). However, these examinations can not be carried out
      as often as necessary because of their accessibility, cost, duration and the potential
      deleterious effects of gadolinium accumulation. This is why a blood biomarker able to report
      early on the inflammatory activity of the disease would be of great help during the
      monitoring and treatment of patients. TWEAK (TNF-related weak inducer of apoptosis or
      TNFSF12) is a pro-inflammatory cytokine member of the TNF family. This cytokine is
      overexpressed in tissues with chronic inflammatory diseases such as MS. It is produced by
      monocytes / macrophages and microglial cells and can exist in soluble or membrane form.the
      investigators of our clinical department were the first to describe the pro-inflammatory role
      of TWEAK in MS. Indeed, we have demonstrated in an animal model of MS that the inhibition of
      TWEAK makes it possible to reduce the severity of the disease. Our recent work (manuscript
      submitted for publication) has also shown results from a series of 28 patients with MS
      suggesting that the serum TWEAK assay may be an early marker of thrust occurrence. the
      investigators propose to study the concentration variations of the serum soluble form of
      cytokine TWEAK during the first year of MS and to analyze their correlation with the
      occurrence of an inflammatory disease outbreak. the investigators will perform a prospective
      study in which 50 patients with MS in the isolated clinical syndrome stage will be included
      over a 12-month period. Mental Cerebral MRIs will be performed for each patient at baseline
      (T0), month 6, and month 12. Serum dosages of TWEAK will be performed each month for each
      patient for one year. Patients will also be treated with soluble TNF, the leader in the TNF
      family of ligands, anti-TWEAK antibodies (which may interfere with the activity and dosage of
      TWEAK) as well as C-reactive Protein C ( search for intercurrent infectious episode). These
      dosages will be correlated with the clinical evolution (appearance or not of an inflammatory
      flare) as well as the data of the imagery (number of lesions raised or not by the
      gadolinium).
    
  