
    
      This revised application is a clinical trial designed to evaluate crestal bone level changes
      when implants are placed into extraction sites and immediately provisionalized. Extraction of
      maxillary incisor teeth is a common procedure as documented in our school clinics.
      Traditional treatment when a tooth is extracted includes a period of healing followed by
      placement of an implant. Our preliminary data indicates that the delayed approach results in
      labial bone loss with resultant horizontal deficiency in over 50% of cases, requiring hard
      and soft tissue grafting to achieve a functional result. Additional preliminary data
      indicates that grafting the extraction site and/or immediate implant placement and
      provisionalization results in a functional restoration, without the need for additional
      adjunctive grafting procedures. It is unclear how the crestal bone levels change during
      healing of the extraction site prior to implant placement, in contrast to immediate implant
      placement, with immediate provisionalization with a crown. We hypothesize that there will be
      differences in the crestal bone levels (primary endpoint), and differences in soft tissue
      levels and indices (secondary endpoints) between implants immediately temporized, placed
      either delayed or immediately after tooth extraction, with more bone loss in the immediate
      placement group (experimental) compared to the delayed placement group (control). The
      long-term goal is to determine if the crestal bone remodeling after tooth extraction or the
      apical position of the implant determines the final level of the crestal bone. Two groups of
      45 patients will be evaluated. All subjects will have a single rooted maxillary tooth
      extracted. One group will have the socket grafted with mineralized bone and allowed four
      months prior to implant placement. The crestal bone in this group will have remodeled during
      the four months of healing prior to implant placement. The second group will have the implant
      placed immediately after tooth extraction, thus the crestal bone will remodel in the presence
      of the implant and the immediately placed temporary restoration, as a one-stage procedure.
      For both groups, the implants will be immediately temporized with a crown after implant
      placement. Standardized hard and soft tissue data will be collected pre-extraction as
      baseline, and then prospectively for at least two years in this trial, to compare the methods
      and contrast the effectiveness of the proposed immediate restoration therapy.
    
  