
    
      The purpose of study was to evaluate four research hypotheses as follows:

      H1: Using ShotBlocker during intramuscular antibiotic injection reduces the patient's
      injection pain.

      H2: Using ShotBlocker during intramuscular antibiotic injection increases the patient's
      satisfaction with the injection.

      H3: Using a local vibrator device during intramuscular antibiotic injection reduces the
      patient's injection pain.

      H4: Using a local vibrator device during intramuscular antibiotic injection increases the
      patient's satisfaction with the injection.

      Sampling of the Research: The sample number was determined at the 0.5 effect size and 0.05
      error level with the power analysis performed by taking into account the numerical values of
      the findings obtained from a previous study (Thomas, Qureshi & Sharma, 2018) on this subject.
      ShotBlocker group: 35; Local vibration group: 35, Control Group: 35 people.

      The sample of the study will consist of volunteer patients who apply to the adult emergency
      department, who are administered antibiotics (amoxicillin / cefuroxime sodium) upon the
      physician's request, and who meet the inclusion criteria.

      Criteria for inclusion in the study:

        -  Being over the age of 18,

        -  Having no communication problem such as seeing, hearing and understanding problem,

        -  Having no disease that can cause sensory loss,

        -  Not having had IM injection in the last week,

        -  Having no complication related to IM injections such as pain, abscess, infection, tissue
           necrosis, and hematoma at the injection site.

      Data Collection Tools: Research data will be collected using the Structured Information Form
      created by the researchers, VAS Pain and VAS Satisfaction Scales.

      Structured Information Form; Five questions regarding the descriptive characteristics of the
      participants (age, gender, body mass index (BMI), educational status, marital status) were
      included. BMI (kg/m2) of the participants will be calculated by the researcher.

      Procedure:

        1. Initial Assessment:

           Verbal information will be given to the participants and their written consents will be
           obtained prior to the intramuscular injection. The "Structured Information Form"
           consisting of five questions will be applied by face to face interview method, BMI will
           be calculated by measuring height and weight and recorded in the "Structured Information
           Form".

           ShotBlocker is a patented tool developed by Bionix (Toledo, OH, United States). It is a
           small, flat, horseshoe (U-shaped) shaped plastic tool with a thickness of 2 mm, which is
           used for pain control in intramuscular and subcutaneous injections, suitable for all age
           groups, has no known side effects, does not have drug properties, is non-invasive. Since
           it is not an invasive device, it is stated by the manufacturer that it can be used
           several times for the same patient after washing with soap. The protruding surface of
           the vehicle is placed in the area to be applied just before injection. Short blunt bumps
           on the surface of the vehicle do not pierce the skin (www.bionix.com).

           Local Vibrator one of the electric vibrator devices (dolphin massager device, 210-240 V,
           50 Hz) produced by different brands was used. These devices with interchangeable heads
           have the ability to affect deep muscle groups, stimulate nerve endings and accelerate
           blood circulation thanks to mechanical vibration. During application, the device must be
           in full contact with the skin (Thomas, Qureshi & Sharma, 2018). Local vibration
           application reduces perceived pain by stimulating nerve fibers according to Melzack and
           Wall's Gate Control Theory.

        2. Application:

           Before the drug is prepared, the physician's request will be checked by the researcher.
           Hands will be washed, the drug (amoxicillin / cefuroxime sodium) will be prepared by
           diluting with 4 ml of water for injection, the needle tip will be changed to 21G
           (0.8x40mm - green). The patient will be verbally informed, and the drug allergy status
           will be questioned. The patient will be asked to lie down in the prone position. The
           skin surface in the area where the IM injection will be applied will be observed by the
           researching specialist nurse for ecchymosis, scar, inflammation or edema. The presence
           of tenderness or stiffness will be evaluated by palpation, paying attention to muscle
           integrity. To the patient group who was applied local vibration; Before injection, local
           vibration will be applied to the region with a vibrator for five minutes, guided by a
           previous study on this subject (Thomas, Qureshi & Sharma, 2018). Afterwards, the skin
           will be cleaned using 70% alcohol and the injection will be applied with the appropriate
           technique, and then a light pressure will be applied to the area with a cotton pad for
           15-20 seconds. For the patient group treated with ShotBlocker; After skin cleaning, the
           protruding surface of the vehicle will be placed facing the skin surface and the
           injection will be applied with the appropriate technique, then ShotBlocker will be
           removed and a light pressure will be applied to the area with a cotton pad for 15-20
           seconds. In the control group; IM injection into the ventrogluteal area will be
           performed with the appropriate technique without using any tools.

        3. Final Assessment:

      The change from baseline in pain and satisfaction scores on the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS)
      will be measured immediately after intramuscular injection using VAS.

      Ethical Considerations: The ethical compliance of the study was approved by the Istanbul
      Medeniyet University Goztepe Training and Research Hospital clinical research ethics
      committee (date and number: 10.02.2021/0067). Written institutional permission was obtained.
      After the purpose and duration of the study is explained, written informed consent is
      obtained from the patients on a voluntary basis.

      Statistical Analyses: Data will be analyzed using SPSS (Statistical Package for Social
      Sciences, Chicago, Illinois) version 16.0.

      Note: The research is not supported by any institution or organization.
    
  