
    
      The primary objective of this study is to compare the virological efficacy, as measured by
      the time-weighted mean change from baseline plasma HIV-RNA, and safety, of three strategic
      regimens of initial antiretroviral therapy (ART) containing a fixed dose formulation of
      tenofovir and emtricitabine, with either efavirenz or ritonavir boosted atazanavir or
      zidovudine plus abacavir. (Primary comparisons are regimen I versus II and I versus III as
      described below).

      I. tenofovir (TDF) + emtricitabine (FTC) + efavirenz (EFV) II. tenofovir (TDF) +
      emtricitabine (FTC) + ritonavir/atazanavir (r/ATV) III. tenofovir (TDF) + emtricitabine (FTC)
      + zidovudine (ZDV) + abacavir (ABC)

      Secondary objectives of this study will be to undertake a range of analyses including but not
      limited to the following,

        1. Percentage of patients < 50 copies HIV RNA/mL (and < 400 copies/mL) at week 48 and week
           96 between treatment arms.

        2. Time to confirmed (first of two consecutive) plasma HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/mL (and < 400
           copies/mL) between treatment arms.

        3. Time to virologic failure defined as confirmed plasma HIV-1 RNA > 50 copies/mL (and 400
           copies/mL) after confirmed < 50 copies/mL (where time = 0 if patient never achieves
           plasma virus load < 50 or <400 copies/mL).

        4. Mean change from baseline of absolute CD4+ T cell count at weeks 48 and 96 between
           treatment arms.

        5. Time to change in randomly assigned therapy (all reasons individually and on aggregate)
           between treatment arms.

        6. Time to first virologic failure (defined as #3 above) or cessation of randomly assigned
           antiretroviral therapy.

        7. Mean change from baseline Lipodystrophy Case Definition score at weeks 48 and 96 between
           treatment arms.

        8. Mean change from baseline in peripheral and central adipose tissue, as measured by CT
           and DEXA at weeks 48 and 96 between treatment arms.

        9. Mean change from baseline in fasting lipid and glycemic parameters at weeks 48 and 96
           between treatment arms.

       10. Comparison of total number of patients with any serious adverse events (SAEs), and the
           cumulative incidence of SAEs, between treatment arms.

       11. Comparison of total number of patients with any adverse events (AEs), and the cumulative
           incidence of AEs, associated with cessation of randomly assigned therapy between
           treatment arms.

       12. Patterns of genotypic HIV resistance associated with virological treatment failure
           across treatment arms.

       13. Describe aspects of immune reconstitution disease.

       14. Adherence to therapy and associations with virologic outcomes between treatment arms.

       15. Comparison of quality of life between treatment arms.

      Following the result of the scheduled week 48 data analysis, the protocol steering committee
      amended the study protocol as follows:

        -  Patients on Arms I and II will remain on the current study drugs

        -  Patients on Arm III may be switched at the physician's discretion to either Arm I or II

        -  There will be a protocol amendment to include one extra follow up visit at week 144 for
           all patients, regardless of treatment arm or current treatment

        -  All patients are to be encouraged to stay on the study up to week 144, to maximize
           follow up on study.
    
  