
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea is characterized with chronic intermittent hypoxia and sleep
      fragmentations. The sequels of OSA included excessive daytime sleepiness, cardiovascular
      disease, and neurocognitive dysfunction which could be reversed with continuous positive
      airway pressure (CPAP). A couple of biologic pathways have been associated with the
      phenotyping of OSA which included craniofacial morphology, ventilator control, body fat
      distribution/metabolism, and sleepiness vulnerability. Metabolomics, a recently developed
      technique to detect metabolomic profiles, could help to understand the disease
      pathophysiology and explore biomarkers. So far, only one paper studied the metabolomic
      profile in patients with OSA where putative identifications of 14 statistically significant
      features were profiled. Our pilot study comparing the metabolic profiling in OSA patients
      randomly assigned to therapeutic and subtherapeutic CPAP showed CPAP treatment did alter the
      metabolomic profile. Seventeen metabolites in three biologic pathways and 13 metabolites in
      the six biologic pathways were identified in therapeutic and subtherapeutic CPAP,
      respectively. Sixteen metabolites in three biologic pathways were identified by comparing two
      groups. However, there were a couple of weakness in studies in the literature and ours.
      Furthermore, the direct causal relationship of the profiled metabolites and OSA needs to be
      clarified. Therefore, we plan to compare the metabolic profiling in control subjects and
      healthy OSA patients, before and after six-month CPAP treatment, to identify candidate
      metabolites involved in biologic pathways attributing to phenotyping and response to CPAP
      treatment. Furthermore, candidate metabolites involved in biologic pathways, especially
      pathways of ROS, inflammation, and metabolism, will be validated in the intermittent hypoxia
      model of peripheral monocytes.
    
  