
    
      This is an open-label, single-center study to examine distinguishing features of the
      structure and function of the oral and gut microbiome in volunteers with PH in the breakdown
      of oral nitrate and effect on hemodynamics.

      The investigators will enroll 40 PH patients over three years. 5 healthy participants will be
      enrolled as controls. Participants will receive a single dose of the study drug,:14N Sodium
      Nitrate(1000mg): standard sodium nitrate, and all will receive one dose of CLA 3g. CLA will
      be obtained from GNC (General Nutrition Corporation) and given once. Participants will be
      randomized to receive chlorhexidine gluconate 0.12% (15mL) or placebo to rinse their mouth
      with for 1 minute.

      Oral samples will be collected pre- and post-chlorhexidine treatments and stool samples will
      be collected post-chlorhexidine treatment.

      Right heart catheterization will be performed for clinical or research purposes.

      The RHC done (in the last 5 years) that establishes inclusion is not the same RHC done as
      part of the study in most cases. If there is a strong suspicion of PH based on
      echocardiography in a patient who has not had a clinical RHC, the first hemodynamic
      measurements obtained in the clinical RHC will establish inclusion and the RHC study
      procedures will be performed following confirmation of inclusion.

      Participants for whom the RHC done in the study is considered a clinical RHC will be
      participants who do have an additional follow up RHC scheduled.

      Participants for whom the RHC done in the study is considered a research RHC will be those
      who do not have an additional follow RHC scheduled or who are considered healthy and have not
      had an RHC before.

      Catheterization will generally be performed via the right internal jugular vein access with
      the assistance of fluoroscopy, if needed. Once the pulmonary arterial (PA) catheter has been
      placed in proper position, measured values will be obtained. The investigators often perform
      simultaneous measurement of right atrial pressure and distal pressure (PAP/PAWP) using two
      transducers in order to assess both pressures during vasodilator challenge, or other
      confrontational testing. An initial hemodynamic profile will be obtained.

      With the right heart catheter still in place, participants will be randomized to either
      chlorhexidine mouthwash or placebo, then after 30 minutes, all will receive 14N oral nitrate
      and CLA. A repeat hemodynamic profile will be performed after two hours. Nitrate metabolites
      in plasma will be measured at time 0, 2, and 6 hrs after 14N nitrate dose. Urine nitrite and
      nitrate will be measured at 0 and 6 hours. Participants will be monitored with continuous
      pulse oximetry and EKG monitoring. Blood pressure measurements will be performed every 15
      minutes during the catheterization. Pressure-volume loop and impedance analysis will be
      performed at the time of the right heart catheterization (RHC) using the micromanometer
      catheter technique to simultaneously measure RV pressure and pulmonary blood flow.
    
  