
    
      Nitric Oxide (NO) plays a plethora of functions in the kidney including vascular and
      hemodynamic regulation, fluid and electrolyte transport, and is an important component of
      pressure natriuresis and tubule-glomerular feedback.

      Deficient NO levels have been associated with oxidative stress in conditions like
      hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and cardiovascular disease. NO deficiency has been
      identified in states of chronic progressive renal disease and altered NO production and/or
      decreased bioavailability is believed to characterize the endothelial dysfunction and
      resistant hypertension of renal failure.

      It has been shown that kidney transplantation improves endothelium-dependent vasodilation in
      patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and the NO activity significantly increases
      after transplantation. However, calcineurin inhibitor drugs used in the anti-rejection
      regimen can reduce endothelial NO production and aggravate hypertension through vascular and
      renal mechanisms. In turn, uncontrolled elevation in blood pressure has been associated with
      increased renal allograft failure and post-transplant mortality.

      In the absence of randomized clinical trials of antihypertensive drugs and optimal blood
      pressure goals in kidney transplant recipients. There is no scientifically-robust consensus
      on the specific drugs to use among transplant patients. Nebivolol, is a third generation
      B1-selective B-blocker shown to have similar BP-lowering effect as other B-blockers,
      angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB)
      drugs, and calcium channel blockers. Nebivolol ameliorates hypertension by increasing NO
      release, promoting arterial and venous vasodilatation and beta-blockade. Nebivolol has
      beneficial effect on the kidney allograft. Studies in animal transplants have shown that
      nebivolol could reduce ischemia-induced reperfusion injury, alleviate renal perfusion
      pressure and increase NO release with associated vasodilation of the renal vasculature. These
      effects have not been seen with older generation B-blockers like propranolol or bisoprolol.
      Finally, in surgically reduced renal mass, nebivolol has been demonstrated to attenuate
      collagen type 1 expression with lessening of glomerular and interstitial fibrosis.

      In this study, the effect of nebivolol and metoprolol on the change in NO level at baseline
      and at the 12th month of treatment will be compared. Similarly,the effects of the two drugs
      on the change in renal function, blood pressure, and blood pressure regimen from baseline to
      month-12 of treatment will also be compared.
    
  