
    
      Single center randomized clinical trial investigating the efficacy of helmet NIV used for
      early liberation from mechanical ventilation in patients with acute hypoxemic respiratory
      failure.

      Intervention: Helmet group Patients randomized to the intervention group will be extubated to
      helmet NIV without a spontaneous breathing trial. The helmet will be connected to oxygen and
      room air flow meter to deliver a minimum of 60L of fresh gas flow and a PEEP valve. The PEEP
      will be increased using a PEEP valve in increments of 2-3 cmH20 to improve peripheral oxygen
      saturation of at least 90% at an inspired oxygen requirement (FiO2) of ≤ 60%.14 After
      application of the helmet, arterial blood gas sampling will be utilized to follow
      gas-exchange; this is a part of usual care for the management of patients with acute
      hypoxemic respiratory failure. Noninvasive support will be reduced progressively in
      accordance to clinical improvement and will be discontinued if patient maintains respiratory
      rate <30breaths/min and PaO2 >75mm Hg with FiO2 0.5 without ventilatory support. If
      endotracheal intubation is required, the helmet will be removed and the patient will be
      intubated without delay.

      Control: Usual Care Patient randomized to the control group will continue invasive mechanical
      ventilation until the following weaning criteria are met:15 Resolution or improvement of the
      condition leading to intubation Hemodynamic stability, defined as systolic blood pressure
      between 90 and 160 mm Hg and heart rate less than 140/min without vasopressors or with low
      doses of vasopressors Glasgow Coma Scale score of 13 or greater Respiratory stability (oxygen
      saturation >90% with fraction of inspired oxygen [Fio2] ≤0.4, respiratory rate <35/min,
      Noncopious secretions (<3 aspirations in the last 8 hours).

      Once weaning criteria are met, patients will undergo a spontaneous breathing trial for 30
      minutes on pressure support mode. Criteria for failure to tolerate the SBT were agitation,
      anxiety, low level of consciousness (Glasgow Coma Scale score <13), respiratory rate higher
      than 35/min and/or use of accessory muscles, oxygen saturation by pulse oximetry less than
      90% with Fio2 higher than 0.5, heart rate higher than 140/min or greater than a 20% increase
      from baseline, systolic blood pressure lower than 90 mm Hg, or development of arrhythmia. If
      the spontaneous breathing trial is successful, then the patient will be extubated.

      Subjects will be followed for long term followup at 90 day and 1year mortality
    
  