
    
      This is an open label Phase I safety study of a single intradermal injection of 5 x 107pfu
      MVA85A, when administered to healthy subjects with no evidence of infection with M.tb

      Sample size:

      This is an observational and descriptive safety study, 12 subjects with evidence of prior BCG
      vaccination and 12 adults with no evidence of prior BCG vaccination will be recruited and
      vaccinated with MVA85A. This sample size should allow determination of the magnitude of the
      outcome measures, especially of serious and severe adverse events rather than aiming to
      obtain statistical significance. Once three month follow-up of these two arms of the study is
      complete, we will recruit 12 adolescent school children (aged 12-14) and assess the safety
      and immunogenicity of a single immunisation with MVA85A in this group.

      Rules for progression from adult studies to adolescents:

        1. No increased incidence in local and systemic side-effects compared with trials with
           MVA85A in Oxford and The Gambia.

           In the trials in the UK and The Gambia, all volunteers experience some mild local
           side-effects for 1-4 days after vaccination.

           Approximately two- thirds of volunteers experience some mild systemic side-effects in
           the first 24 hours after vaccination. These are self-limiting and all spontaneously
           resolve.

           These side-effects are consistent with data from use with other recombinant MVAs
           expressing other antigens (Moorthy VS et al, 2003).

        2. Immune responses measured 1 week after vaccination. We see strong immune responses 1
           week after vaccination in the Oxford and Gambian volunteers (McShane et al, 2004). We do
           not know how long the responses in the South African volunteers will last for, but we
           would expect to see the induction of significant (compared with baseline) immune
           responses as measured by the ex-vivo Elispot assay, 1 week after vaccination
    
  