
    
      Obesity is associated with sub-clinical chronic oxidative and inflammatory stress, both of
      which are major contributors to obesity-associated co-morbidities. Calcitriol (1,
      25-(OH)2-D3) regulates adipocyte lipid metabolism, while dietary calcium inhibits obesity by
      suppression of calcitriol. We have recently shown calcitriol to increase oxidative stress and
      to stimulate the expression and release of inflammatory cytokines, while inhibiting the
      expression and release of anti-inflammatory cytokines. We have also shown that inhibition of
      calcitriol with high calcium diets decreases both adipose tissue and systemic oxidative and
      inflammatory stress in a mouse model of obesity. Moreover, dairy exerted a greater effect on
      both oxidative and inflammatory stress. These mice also exhibited significant reductions in
      adiposity, which could lead to confounding, as this reduction will independently reduce
      oxidative and inflammatory stress. However, the supporting cellular/mechanistic data indicate
      an effect which is independent of adiposity reduction. Consequently, we propose that low
      calcium diets exacerbate oxidative and inflammatory stress and that high dairy diets can
      attenuate both independently of changes in adiposity, thereby significantly reducing the risk
      of obesity-associated co-morbidities. Accordingly, the objective of this study is to
      determine the acute effects of a dairy-rich diet on oxidative and inflammatory stress in
      overweight and obese subjects in the absence of any changes in adiposity.

      Twenty subjects (10 obese and 10 overweight) will undergo a randomized crossover study of low
      dairy and high dairy eucaloric diets. Each dietary period will be four weeks, and the two
      dietary periods will be separated by a four-week washout period. Primary outcomes will be
      circulating indices of oxidative stress and of inflammation. Secondary outcomes include blood
      pressure, circulating glucose, insulin, lipids, calcium-regulatory hormones and body
      composition.
    
  