
    
      Chronic low back pain (CLBP) is the most common disabling chronic noncancer pain condition
      treated with opioids. Many opioid-treated patients experience inadequate pain relief and
      disability as well as dose-dependent adverse effects of opioids, such as worse mental health,
      opioid misuse, overdose and death. They frequently have co-occurring depression, anxiety, and
      opioid use disorders, which worsen outcomes. Poor outcomes and opioid-related harms
      underscore the need for safe and effective strategies for chronic pain care and opioid dose
      reduction, especially in high-impact, opioid-treated pain, as noted by the Institute of
      Medicine, the National Institutes of Health, and the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research
      Institute.

      The investigators pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) of mindfulness meditation (MM), a
      popular mind-body modality, demonstrated its potential to safely improve the health of
      patients and reduce opioid dosage in opioid-treated CLBP. To expand the evidence for MM for
      use in opioid-treated chronic pain, the investigators propose a 5-year multi-site,
      mixed-methods pragmatic RCT comparing the effectiveness of MM to standard-of-care cognitive
      behavioral therapy (CBT) for improving outcomes in opioid-treated CLBP. The study team will
      follow 766 participants over 12 months and compare outcomes that matter to patients and their
      families in 383 adults randomized to the MM group to 383 adults randomized to the CBT group,
      controlling for relevant factors.

      The specific aims of this study are:

        1. To compare the effectiveness of MM to CBT for reducing pain and increasing function.
           Current study is based on hypothesis that adults with opioid-treated CLBP in the MM
           group will report a greater reduction in pain severity and a greater increase in
           function at 6 and 12 months compared to those in the CBT group.

        2. To compare the effectiveness of MM to CBT for improving quality of life (QoL) and
           reducing daily opioid dose. Study team hypothesize that adults with opioid-treated CLBP
           in the MM group will report a greater improvement in QoL and a greater decrease in daily
           opioid dose at 6 and 12 months compared to those in the CBT group.

        3. To examine if participant baseline characteristics impact treatment response to MM or
           CBT. Study team hypothesize that among those with increased baseline symptom severity of
           anxiety, depression and opioid misuse behaviors, MM will be more beneficial than CBT for
           improving Aim 1 and Aim 2 outcomes.

      Both MM and CBT interventions are patterned after established programs, adapted to meet the
      needs of patients with opioid-treated CLBP, with input from content experts and patient
      partners. The manualized interventions are delivered by trained therapists over 8 weeks in
      weekly two-hour group sessions in addition to care the participants are already receiving
      from their regular clinicians; during the COVID-19 pandemic, the interventions are delivered
      virtually. Participants are also be asked to practice MM or CBT strategies at home during the
      entire study (at least 30 minutes/day, 6 days/week).

      Eligibility criteria will focus on English-speaking adults ≥21 years old, with
      moderate-to-severe CLBP treated with ≥15 mg/day of morphine-equivalent opioid dose for ≥3
      months. The study will implement a limited set of exclusionary criteria to ensure a diverse
      sample, from which findings can be generalized.

      Outcome measures were selected and prioritized based on guidelines and stakeholder input.
      They are collected at baseline, at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months. Only baseline and 12 months
      post-entry data collection is conducted in person; the 3, 6, and 9-month data collection
      occurs online or by phone to minimize burden. Due the COVID-19 pandemic, the study protocol
      was modified to allow for the completion of all assessments and data collection virtually.

      Pain severity and function, as assessed by standard, validated survey measures, will serve as
      primary (Aim 1), and quality of life and opioid dose (morphine-equivalent mg/day) as
      secondary (Aim 2) outcomes. Severity of negative affect (depression, anxiety) and opioid
      misuse behaviors, also measured by validated surveys, are the main hypothesized predictors of
      treatment success (Aim 3). The repeated measures intention-to-treat outcome analysis will
      compare the change in primary and secondary outcomes over the 12 month period and across the
      two groups. To determine prognostic factors of treatment effect, a linear mixed model
      analysis will be performed for Aim 1 and Aim 2 outcomes, adjusting for potential confounders,
      study site and a random intercept for subject.

      A team of experienced investigators and engaged stakeholders will carry out this multi-health
      system, multi-site study led by the faculty from the University of Wisconsin (Madison, WI),
      Harvard Medical School (Boston, MA) and the University of Utah (Salt Lake City, UT).
      Stakeholders helped develop this proposal and will be integrally involved as partners in all
      aspects of the study, from finalizing the methods, trouble-shooting implementation of the
      research plan, and dissemination of results.

      Positive findings of this study could help improve health outcomes and reduce daily opioid
      dose in patients with opioid-treated CLBP, and inform clinical decisions of patients and
      clinicians about the choice between MM and CBT for opioid-treated CLBP.
    
  