
    
      Introduction: In the aging, some disturbance in the health state, as poor sleep quality or a
      sleep disorder, are likely to appear. The disturbances in sleep stages can influence
      cognitive state, quality of life, and daily functioning. The progressive aging of the
      population has led to an increase in resources for the direct care of older people, with a
      60.9% of increase in recent years in Spain. Yet, the sleep role in the health state and the
      activities of daily life from older adults in nursing-home and daily centers hasn't been
      thoroughly researched. On this issue, wearable devices, which were developed in the last
      years, monitor the sleep stages and the activity that people perform.

      Objective: The main objective of this study will be to analyze the sleep quality and its
      influence on the daily life of nursing-home residents through the use of assessment tools and
      Xiaomi MiBand 2. Secondary objectives are 1) To know the situation of older people in a
      nursing-home, recording general data, results of assessment instruments and data obtained
      from Xiaomi MiBand 2; 2) To explore and determine the quality of life and daily functioning
      of the participating older people; 3) To determine the level of the cognitive state of the
      participating older people; 4) To analyze the level of physical activity and the quality of
      sleep, as well as the factors linked to both constructs, in the older adults who are in a
      residence; 5) to promote the use of technological devices in the daily life of older adults,
      especially for the empowerment and management of their health.

      Methods and Analysis: It is proposed to carry out an observational and analytical study,
      whose objective is the observation and registration of variables of a determined population
      without the intervention of the researcher and establishing relations between association
      variables and causality. Likewise, this study is considered as longitudinal since the
      follow-up of the characteristics of this population will be carried out during a period of
      time (variables will be followed for 1 year). Specifically, the physical activity and the
      sleep of the participating population will be continuously registered and monitored
      throughout the entire study. The study will be developed with the resident population in a
      nursing-home in A Coruña (Spain). To measure biomedical parameters from users, it will be
      used the Xiaomi MiBand 2. Besides, different assessment tools will be administered to the
      participants related to self-perception of sleep quality, cognitive state, and daily
      functioning.

      For the statistical analysis, quantitative variables will be expressed as mean and standard
      deviation, while qualitative variables will be expressed as absolute value and percentage.

      To compare means between them, the Student t-test will be used, and for the multiple
      comparisons of means, the analysis of variance will be used. This design is applied when the
      data are paired, that is when they come from subjects with variables measured before and
      after treatment. This test makes it possible to determine whether the differences between the
      values of both variables are statistically significant or whether they are differences due to
      chance. To study the association of the qualitative variables, the Chi-square test will be
      used.

      On the other hand, to determine the variables that are associated or not with the presence of
      the dichotomous variable of interest, a multivariate analysis of logistic regression will be
      performed, using as a dependent variable the presence or not of the event of interest, and as
      covariates, the variables that in the bivariate analysis are associated with the presence of
      said event or are clinically relevant.
    
  