
    
      The investigators aim to explore how lung cancer patients and their family carers are
      affected by different types of cancer treatment.The information collected will help patients
      and their carers in the future to make decisions about the best treatment option for them.
      The investigators are focusing on a particular type of lung cancer called Stage III N2. N2
      means the cancer has spread just outside the lung to the lymph nodes. Around 2500 patients a
      year in the UK are diagnosed with this type of lung cancer. There are two main treatments
      available in the UK:

        1. surgery PLUS chemo radiotherapy or chemotherapy

        2. radiotherapy PLUS chemotherapy Patients live for a similar length of time with either
           treatment option so it is difficult for patients and health professionals to know which
           treatment to choose. Research has not explored how the two different treatments offered
           affect individual patients and their carer. It is important to understand the impact of
           the treatment on:

             -  Symptoms

             -  Side effects

             -  Emotional well-being

             -  Day to day activities

      Other research studies including N2 lung cancer patients have struggled with patient
      recruitment. This study design will show us if it is possible to run this type of research
      with this group of patients. Patients will be allocated at random to receive one of the two
      treatments options: 1) surgery PLUS chemo radiotherapy or chemotherapy 2) radiotherapy PLUS
      chemotherapy Patients and carers will complete questionnaires and take part in interviews.
      Health professionals will also be asked to take part in interviews. These interviews will
      help the investigators to understand their experience of recruiting patients to this study.
      The results of this study will help the investigators decide if a larger study should be
      conducted in the future.
    
  