
    
      Introduction:

      Patients who have undergone oesophageal resections for cancer have shown reduced quality of
      life (QOL) during substantial time after surgery. Postoperatively, patients are faced with
      extensive changes in their daily life including reduced physical and sometimes psychological
      capacities, problems that may be underestimated by the health care providers.

      Worldwide oesophageal cancer is the 8th and gastric cancer the 4th most common cancer
      diagnoses (National Board of Health and Welfare, 2009). In 2009 in Sweden there were 443 new
      cases of oesophageal cancer and 882 of gastric cancer (total number of inhabitants in 2009,
      9.4 million). Surgery, alone or in combination with chemotherapy or radiotherapy, is the only
      established treatment and thus offers the only possibility of a cure. After oesophagectomy or
      gastrectomy the planned hospital stay is approximately two to three weeks, and the expected
      recovery period is at least one year. The prolonged recovery period is pointed out as an
      energy-requiring process including physiological, psychological, social and habitual
      recovery, which increases the challenges for this group of patients after surgery. Even
      though survival after surgery, for both oesophageal and gastric cancer, has gradually
      improved, the 5-year survival rate remains at only 28% respectively 27%.

      Aim:

      The aim of this project is to assess quality of life of patients 0-5 years after oesophageal
      or gastric cancer surgery and to develop and test an information and support program aiming
      to enhance the patients QOL after surgery.

      The project contains 3 part-studies that focus on the patients life after surgery.

      Method:

      In both studies patients that when through oesophagectomy or gastrectomy due to cancer is
      included. Patients that has suffered a relapse of their cancer disease, are unable to
      communicate in Swedish or has went through a acute surgery is not included.

      Study I and II:

      This studies is carried out in accordance with a descriptive explorative design focusing on
      I: The patients subjective experience of their QOL and II: The patients´ experience and need
      of supportive care, after surgery for oesophageal/gastric cancer. Data collection is carried
      out using semi-structured focus group interviews. A total of 17 participants divided into 4
      focus groups are included (2-5 years after elective surgery) in the study. Data are to be
      analysed with qualitative content analysis focusing on the patients experiences of their
      supportive care needs after surgery.

      Study III:

      This study is a randomized controlled trial that focus on testing a information and support
      programme to patients after oesophagectomy or gastrectomy due to cancer. The intervention
      group gets support from a specialized nurse after surgery which contacts the patients
      according to a given interval during the follow up period (6 months). The control group
      follows the regular follow up programme that are used at the hospital where the study is
      conducted.

      The information and support programme are evaluated through validated questionnaires that
      focus on quality of life (EORTC QLQ-C30 and OES-18), satisfaction whit care (EORTC
      INPATSAT32), sense of coherence (KASAM) and information needs (EORTC INFO 25). The patients
      also writes a diary regarding health care contacts after surgery.

      A total number of 80 are patients are planed to be included in the study.
    
  