
    
      About 30% of the world population suffers from pain. These data demonstrate the great need
      for research focusing on findings that contribute to the development of more
      effectivetreatments for patients with chronic pain syndromesThe chronic pain can occur by
      various means, either physical or psychological injuries. Above all, whatever its history,
      its installation is due to mechanisms of neuroplasticity, in this case non-functional, called
      maladaptive plasticity. This process and the symptoms associated with chronic pain cause the
      treatment to be a challenge for health professionals. To obtain a positive result, it is
      necessary to modulate all aspects involved in the processing of pain, including functional
      retraining.

      This study is a randomized, blinded, parallel medical trial, placebo-sham- controlled and
      will be carried out int the Clinical Research Outpatient Clinic of the Hospital de Clínicas
      de Porto Alegre (HCPA), with females, aged 19 to 65 years, who are limited in their ability
      to perform active and routine activities due to MPS in the previous 3 months. We will test
      the hypothesis that repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) would be more
      effective than a placebo-sham for the treatment of chronic MPS by pain score, cortical
      excitability parameters, function of cortical-spinal modulatory system (CSMS), sleep quality
      and serum BDNF.The participants will be randomized into the placebo-sham or rTMS treatment
      groups for 10 consecutive sessions, at 10 Hz frequency. To assessment will be used the visual
      analogue scale (VAS), Brazilian Profile of Chronic Pain: Screen (B-PCP:S), quantitative
      sensory testing (QST), TMS parameters, (motor-evoked potential (MEP), intracortical
      facilitation (ICF) ) and serum BDNF.

      Through, these data will prompt us to investigate whether rTMS can be used as a therapeutic
      option in short and long term in MPS. In this context, we will test the hypothesis that rTMS
      would be more effective than a placebo-sham for the treatment of chronic MPS that determined
      some disability. We also will teste whether rTMS would change induced changes in both
      electrophysiological markers of LTP-like phenomena and in the levels of BDNF. Additionally,
      we will assess whether the treatment induce changes on the cortical-spinal modulatory system,
      as well if this effect would be associated with the inhibition or facilitation. Finally, we
      will test whether rTMS would be more effective than a placebo-sham in improving sleep
      quality.
    
  