
    
      Abdominal emergencies are common, involving perforation, obstruction or ischaemia of the
      bowel, often needing life-saving emergency surgery, with a large incision to access the
      abdominal cavity called "laparotomy". This procedure is high risk with 10% mortality rate.
      30,000 emergency laparotomies are performed each year in England and Wales. Since 2013, the
      National Emergency Laparotomy Audit (NELA) has set standards of care and monitored outcomes
      for emergency laparotomy, which has reduced mortality from 11.8 to 9.5%. However, patients
      who do NOT have a laparotomy are not well characterised and do not receive the prioritised
      care patients having surgery do, even though their condition is no less severe. Initial
      research has shown a surprisingly large group of patients (32%) with an intestinal emergency
      do not have surgery and have 30-day mortality of 63%. There are three additional groups of
      patients admitted with abdominal emergencies: patients having keyhole surgery or
      interventional radiological procedures, and patients for whom any treatment would be futile
      and would benefit most from an end of life care pathway. Clearly further work is needed to
      investigate the management of ALL patients with intestinal emergency, to optimise care for
      each group of patients.The aim of this study is to improve care for all patients with an
      intestinal emergency, irrespective of whether they have surgery or not.

      AIM:

      This is a single-centre retrospective cohort study utilising electronic hospital records.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      Data will be derived from electronic patient records collected as part of routine clinical
      patient care on all general adult wards (excluding maternity) between 2013 and 2020.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Must have an acute intestinal condition, based on their ICD-10 codes and OPSC-4 codes

        -  Must be >= 16 years of age at the time of admission

        -  Have at least one full set of vital signs recorded on the day of admission

        -  Have at least one full set of routine blood tests recorded on the day of admission

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Maternity admissions during/after pregnancy

        -  Patients admitted or undergoing abdominal surgery for a second time or more Using OPCS-4
           codes from PAS and TheatreManTM and NELA data, we will then identify patients who had an
           emergency laparotomy, and those who had a laparoscopic procedure. We aim to identify a
           further group where treatment is futile, suggesting that an early focus on end of life
           care might be appropriate.

      We have estimated that we will have about 2,500 patients who fulfil the inclusion criteria in
      this period. Patient outcomes will be analysed from up to one year following their admission
      for acute abdomen.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      To provide mortality rates for different treatment options, and analysis of short- and
      long-term outcomes.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      To define patient sub-groups with similar health characteristics based on clinical data and
      an established risk index, and to use statistical analysis to predict the risk of death for
      each patient group and treatment option, which will allow us to identify the best care
      pathways for each cluster.

      PRIMARY ENDPOINT:

      The mortality risk for each treatment group

      SECONDARY ENDPOINT:

      The risk of other outcomes and long-term complications and association between patient
      factors and these outcomes
    
  