
    
      The investigators will perform a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial at
      University of California Los Angeles Ronald Reagan Medical Center for patients undergoing
      primary and secondary breast augmentation between 2021-2025. The study will be added to a
      research registry before patient enrollment begins (i.e. www.clinicaltrials.gov) with study
      methods and results presented in the manner recommended by the CONSORT statement (available
      at www.consort-statement.org). The study will be designed as a non-inferiority trial with two
      parallel groups: the experimental group will receive an intraoperative dose of antibiotics
      followed by oral antibiotics for 5 days postoperatively (Cephalexin 500 mg four times per day
      or Clindamycin 300 mg four times per day, if Penicillin allergic) while the control group
      will receive an intraoperative dose of antibiotics (Cefazolin 1 g or 2 g, or Clindamycin 600
      mg or 900 mg, if Penicillin allergic, higher doses provided if BMI > 30 kg/m2) followed by a
      placebo for 5 days postoperatively. Inclusion criteria will include: females and transgender
      females 18 years or older, patients undergoing primary breast augmentation, breast
      augmentation-mastopexy, and secondary breast augmentation with subglandular or submuscular
      implants. Secondary breast augmentation will include patients undergoing implant exchange
      secondary to capsular contracture and implant rupture. Exclusion criteria will include
      refusal or inability to consent, patients with biopsy-proven breast cancer, patients
      undergoing expander-based and autologous flap breast reconstruction following mastectomies,
      history of chest radiation, and the presence of active infection at the time of surgery.
      Patients who fail to take the placebos or antibiotics provided in the study for any reason,
      miss postoperative visits, and/or withdraw consent at any stage of the study will also be
      excluded.

      For the analysis, the investigators plan to obtain hospital records with intraoperative
      procedural and postoperative clinic notes. Demographic information including gender, body
      mass index, comorbidities, smoking use, and prior breast surgeries will be collected and used
      for analysis. Power analysis for statistical equivalency using 8% infection rate yields a
      required sample size of 164 total patients, with planned 82 patients per group (i.e.
      experimental and control). This would provide 80 percent power at a significance level of 5
      percent. The experimental group will consist of patients who receive an intraoperative dose
      of antibiotics followed by oral antibiotics for 5 days postoperatively. The control group
      includes patients who receive an intraoperative dose of antibiotics followed by a placebo for
      5 days postoperatively. All medications and placebos will be formulated, compounded and
      dispensed by the University of California Los Angeles Investigational Research Pharmacy. An
      appointed Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will monitor data and safety as recommended
      by the Investigational Review Board (IRB).

      Antibiotics of choice include intravenous Cefazolin and oral Cephalexin. Intravenous and oral
      Clindamycin will be made available for subjects who are allergic to Penicillin. Subject
      allocation will be based on a 1:1 ratio for each group. Surgeons, nursing, and administrative
      staff will be responsible for recruitment. Prior to surgery, patients will be given a consent
      form to explain their involvement in the randomized trial. The consent process will inform
      the participant about details of the study and indicate participation is voluntary. They will
      also be given the risks, benefits, alternatives, and confidentiality of their information
      with proceeding with the study. Risks discussed with participants will include those
      associated with antibiotic use, including gastrointestinal symptoms, yeast infections,
      allergic reactions, development of resistant bacterial strains, and clostridium-related
      infections. Potential risks associated with no antibiotic use (i.e. placebo group), include
      infection. The interventions to protect those affected by these risks include hospital
      admission as detailed in the informed consent under the section "Office of the Human Research
      Protection Program (OHRPP)," and the option to opt out of the study. There are no medical
      benefits with participating in the study. However, participants will be informed that the
      results may contribute to the body of knowledge around postoperative antibiotics, and improve
      surgical protocols and postoperative care.

      Randomization will be performed prior to surgery, and an assigned study coordinator will
      generate group assignments. Patients and surgeons will be blinded to the study before
      randomization takes place. However, surgeons will have access to information following
      medication dispensation in case any complications arise so that the provider can carry out
      appropriate interventions. Review of the rate of subject accrual and compliance will occur
      monthly during the recruitment phase. An interim analysis will be performed on the primary
      endpoint when 50% of patients have been randomized and have complete their 6-month follow up
      period. An independent statistician blinded to treatment allocation will perform the
      analyses. The statistician will report to DSMB who will have unmasked access to all data.
      Interim analysis will be used to inform stopping guidelines and trial adaptations (e.g.
      sample size re-estimation, alteration to the proportion of participants allocated to each
      study group, and changes to eligibility criteria). The Principal Investigator (PI) will be
      responsible for ensuring participants' safety on a daily basis. The DSMB will act in an
      advisory capacity to monitor participant safety, evaluate the progress of the study, and
      review procedures for maintaining the confidentiality, quality, management, and analysis of
      the data.

      An adverse event will be any untoward medical occurrence in a subject without regard to the
      possibility of a causal relationship. Adverse events will be collected after the subject has
      provided consent and enrolled in the study. All adverse events occurring after entry into the
      study and up to their first postoperative visit will be recorded. A serious adverse event for
      this study is any untoward medical occurrence that is believed by the investigators to be
      causally related to study-drug and results in any of the following: life-threatening
      condition (i.e. immediate risk of death); severe or permanent disability, prolonged
      hospitalization, or a significant hazard as determined by the DSMB. Investigators will
      determine relatedness of an event to study based on a temporal relationship, as well as
      whether the event is unexpected or unexplained given the subject's clinical course, previous
      medical conditions, and concomitant medications. All adverse and severe events related to
      antibiotic use, including anaphylaxis requiring hospital admission and/or resulting in death,
      will be monitored through patient examination and chart review. Furthermore, events that meet
      criteria for an adverse and serious adverse will be reported to the IRB.

      Six plastic surgeons will be involved in the study and will utilize a standardized surgical
      protocol. Initial follow up visits will be arranged within 1-2 weeks following surgery. Data
      on adherence to the treatment protocol will be collected monthly by research staff and
      reviewed quarterly by the Principal Investigator and the study statistician. Adherence of
      participants will be evaluated by inquiring about completion of antibiotics or placebos at
      each postoperative visit. During follow-up visits, inquiry will be made to assure patients
      receive their antibiotics or placebos. This information along with any post-operative
      complications will be transferred onto the patient's electronic medical record accordingly.
      Primary outcomes including surgical site infection, secondary outcomes (e.g. hematoma,
      seroma, wound dehiscence, implant loss, and capsular contracture), and antibiotic-related
      complications (e.g. antibiotic resistance, diarrhea, clostridium infection, yeast infections,
      rash, urinary tract infections, and gastrointestinal upset) will be documented. Surgical site
      infections will be determined by the surgeon however will be defined by the presence of the
      following signs and symptoms: fevers, purulent drainage, pain, tenderness, localized edema,
      heat, erythema, positive wound cultures, and leukocytosis. Study endpoints will include
      diagnosis of surgical site infection, development of secondary outcomes, and subject death or
      loss to follow-up. Follow-up will be continued until all patients have reached one of the
      study endpoints. Statistical tests will be performed by a statistician using statistical
      software and determined after enough data has been generated to perform preliminary analysis.
      Threats to study validity include under recruitment of subjects, subjects lost to follow-up,
      subject non-compliance, and subject crossovers. This study will be stopped prior to its
      completion if: the intervention is associated with adverse effects that call into question
      the safety of the intervention; difficulty in study recruitment or retention will
      significantly impact the ability to evaluate the study endpoints; any new information becomes
      available during the trial that necessitates stopping the trial; or other situations occur
      that might warrant stopping the trial.
    
  