
    
      Growing evidence shows that low-grade chronic inflammation, characterized by elevations in
      plasma C-reactive protein, tumor necrosis factor alpha, and particularly Interleukin-6
      (IL-6), is an independent risk factor of disability, impaired mobility, and lower walking
      speed. Low-grade chronic inflammation is a modifiable risk factor. However, it is unknown
      whether interventions that reduce the levels of inflammatory markers per se improve mobility,
      or avert decline in mobility in older persons.

      To address this gap in evidence the investigators are conducting the randomized clinical
      trial ENRGISE (ENabling Reduction of low-Grade Inflammation in SEniors) Pilot Study to test
      the ability of anti-inflammatory interventions for preventing major mobility disability by
      improving or preserving walking ability. We have maximized the public health impact by
      selecting interventions that are safe, tolerable, acceptable, and affordable for vulnerable
      older persons. Specifically, in this trial the investigators test the efficacy verus placebo
      of the angiotensin receptor blocker losartan and omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids in the
      form of fish oil, alone and in combination. Both angiotensin receptor blockers and omega-3
      polyunsaturated fatty acids have shown to reduce IL-6 in clinical trials and preliminary data
      suggest that they may improve physical function.

      Recruitment will include the older persons who are at risk for, or with, mobility impairment,
      as measured by slow gait speed and self-reported mobility difficulty, and who have elevated
      levels of IL-6, the marker most consistently associated with mobility limitations.
      Preliminary data regarding feasibility need to be gathered before such a trial can be
      effectively designed and implemented. We conduct The ENRGISE Pilot Study to assess the
      effects of the interventions on several inflammatory markers, walking speed, physical
      function and strength. This allows us to refine the design, recruitment yields, target
      population, adherence, retention, tolerability, sample-size, and cost for the main ENRGISE
      trial.
    
  