
    
      Background Information and Scientific Rationale The AdventHealth Orlando NICU is the first
      U.S. hospital to utilize the Babyleo in a clinical setting. Personnel were trained by Dräger
      representatives and the units have been in use for over 2 years. During that time, personnel
      have not used the Audio Port, located on the back of the bed. The Audio Port allows sound to
      be played inside the incubator at no more than 55 dB, which is within the guidelines set
      forth by the American Academy of Pediatrics for the target population of this project.

      The early birth of a premature baby can be a devastating and unplanned situation for parents.
      Often, their baby cannot be readily held; they can be very sick and fragile. Parents can feel
      helpless; bonding may be more difficult, parental control is superseded by medical necessity
      and parents can feel tremendous guilt whenever they are unable to be present at their baby's
      bedside.

      The investigators will attempt to provide some comfort and control to the parents of
      premature infants by implementing this project. Research has shown that when used
      appropriately in the premature to term infant population, specific sounds can result in "a
      shorter hospital stay, improved feeding skills, improved behavior state and improved
      physiological status".

      The investigators believe that giving parents an opportunity to provide comfort in the form
      of the mother's voice, pre-recorded and played to her baby, will improve her feeling about
      her baby in the NICU. As the process of recording the mother's voice will be aided by trained
      Music Therapists, parents will also gain knowledge about developmentally appropriate methods
      of interacting with their infant.

      Consideration also needs to be given to staff education. It has long been ingrained in staff
      that "noise" for the premature infant is undesirable and upsetting to their immature nervous
      system. While this can be true, studies have shown that appropriate sounds, introduced at the
      right time, can aid in brain development and the later acquisition of language. Babies do not
      necessarily need to live in a sound-free environment; in the womb, they are continually
      exposed to sound. However, staff are very protective of keeping premature infants from
      becoming stressed, and so the mention of introducing sound into their quiet incubator causes
      a great deal of consternation. Detailed explanation and staff buy-in will be very important
      for this study.

      Multiple studies have shown that providing a recorded maternal voice in the form of
      conversation, singing, or book reading to her preterm infant can have significant beneficial
      effects. It has been shown that maternal voice exposure results in improved infants'
      cardio-respiratory functions, (1-3), relieving pain during noxious procedures (4), improved
      circadian rhythms (5), reduced incidence of apnea and bradycardia (6) and overall improvement
      of developmental outcomes (7-9). The mother providing her voice to her fetus during the third
      trimester of pregnancy also has beneficial effects on her own anxiety and depression (10,11).
      Several studies have shown the safety and feasibility of introducing sound into an incubator
      (14,15,16). However, other studies have introduced music into the incubator via speakers,
      headphones or an audio player with loudspeakers (21).

      The investigators propose to use the Babyleo's built-in audio port. The mother will record an
      audio CD with the guidance of Music Therapy. This will be played on a CD player for no more
      than 30 minutes at a time, 4 times a day. The recorder is plugged in to the audio port by a
      standard cable from the headset port of the CD player.

      Study Objectives

      Primary Objective/Aim/Goal/Hypothesis Preterm birth is associated with a higher rate of
      postpartum depression disorders (17,18,19,20). This is in part due to feeling of "let down"
      because the mothers are unable to care for her baby and has to leave the baby in the NICU for
      care. The "let down" feeling may be lessened if mothers are given the opportunity to express
      their concern by producing a recording for their babies. The investigators hypothesize that
      playing the mother's recorded voice to her extremely preterm infant while in the incubator
      when she cannot be present will improve the depression, anxiety and stress as well as overall
      feeling about her baby. The study team will assess the change in depression, anxiety and
      stress with the use of a validated tool (the DASS21), as a result of the intervention. The
      investigators will also assess the improvement of her feelings with a questionnaire () to be
      administered before and after the intervention. The investigators predict that her
      depression, anxiety and stress as well as positive feeling will increase after the
      intervention.

      Secondary Objective/Aim/Goal/Hypothesis

        1. The infant's vital signs will remain stable and/or improve when the recording is played.
           Vital signs for the purpose of this study will be defined as; heart rate and respiratory
           rate. Blood pressure and temperature will be recorded if available. Vital signs will be
           assessed both before the recording and during the recording. Over time, the study team
           predicts vital signs will remain within acceptable parameters.

        2. Playing mother's voice will reduce the incidence of apnea, bradycardia and desaturation
           of the study infants.

      Study Design Research Design This is a randomized, prospective clinical study.

      Research Intervention Description As shown in the diagram below, maternal consent will be
      obtained during the first week of life and the baby will be randomized as shown in the
      diagram below. Group 1 mothers' voice will be played between week 2 and 3 while group 2
      mothers' voice will be played after week 3 but no research data will be collected. Group 2
      will therefore serve as control.

      Between consent and the infant reaching two weeks of life, the mother will be given time to
      acclimate to having a child in the NICU, and to adjust to the fact that she has delivered
      early and not at term. After seven days and prior to meeting with the music therapist, she
      will be asked to complete the DASS21 and the questionnaire that expresses her feelings about
      her baby in the NICU. Surveys will be completed in Survey Monkey on a research department
      tablet or via the mother's own electronic device. She will then work closely with Music
      Therapy staff, receiving education about appropriate developmental sound for her baby and to
      record her voice on a CD.

      For those who have been randomized to receive the intervention, the mother's recorded voice
      will be played via the incubator's audio port. At week three (+2 days), the DASS21 and
      feeling questionnaire will be repeated for both groups. Both groups will then be allowed to
      play the recording within guidelines, but no further research data will be collected. Staff
      education will be conducted by research personnel and selected staff members (Ambassadors).
      Ambassadors will also facilitate playing of the recording, particularly on night shift, to
      assist with parent education and to support staff efforts.

      Research staff will approach the parents of babies born at 260/7 to 306/7 weeks gestation and
      explain the project, asking for permission to participate and obtaining consent. A Parent
      Education Sheet, prepared by the Developmental Committee, will be given to each participating
      family.

      Demographic and clinical data, including mother's age, race, level of education, and infant's
      gestation, gender, birth weight, Apgar score, ventilatory support, and IVH, will be collected
      from the medical records.

      Under the guidance of the Music Therapy Department, the mother will create a sound recording,
      which could include any and all of the following: the mother's heartbeat, the mother speaking
      to her child (i.e., reading a book, expressing her love and hopes for the future), the mother
      singing to her child, etc. Mother can choose the subject matter. She can also choose from a
      list of available books/songs. The recordings will be played for the infant for 1 week as
      intervention, when visitors are not present. The recording will be 30 minutes long, and will
      be played four times a day, at a time the clinical team determines is appropriate for that
      baby. There will be a 30-minute period of silence after the recording. A cord is inserted
      into the headphone port of the CD player and then into the Babyleo Audio Port, which is the
      same type of port as the headphone port (male/male connector). The set-up will be done by a
      member of the research team, the bedside RN simply has to push play. Data will be collected
      regarding the infant's tolerance for the recording. Vital signs will be recorded during the
      study intervention 30 minutes before the recording is played and then once during the
      intervention. The incidence of daily ABDs (apnea, bradycardia, desaturations) are routinely
      documented in the EMR and will be obtained from the medical record: A. Apnea for > 20
      seconds, B. Heart rate < 80 beats per minute C. Oxygen saturations <80 The study team expect
      that the incidence of ABDs will decrease by the end of the intervention, although changes in
      ABDs may be multifactorial and influenced by increased maturity, level of illness or
      respiratory status.The infant's nurse may, at his/her discretion, discontinue playing the
      recording for any reason. While multiple studies have shown the safety of introducing voice
      to the premature baby, if the infant has 3 ABDs during 3 consecutive interventions, the
      infant will be taken off the study. When the infant comes out of the incubator and into a
      crib, the study team can give the parent the recording via CD or audio file (mp3 or mp4).

      Study Site(s)/Location(s) and Number of Subjects This study will take place at the
      AdventHealth Orlando NICU. Sample size will be calculated using the DASS21 (our primary
      outcome) of the first ten mothers enrolled in the study. The investigators will aim for a 30%
      relative increase in Feeling score with 80% power Plan.
    
  