
    
      Acne vulgaris is one of the most common chronic skin diseases worldwide. The condition
      usually starts in adolescence, peaks at the ages of 14 to 19 years and frequently resolves by
      mid-twenties.

      Acne is characterized by seborrhea, formation of open and closed comedones, erythematous
      papules and pustules and in more severe cases present with nodules, deep pustules and pseudo
      cysts, in many cases a degree of scarring will ensue.

      Its pathophysiology includes hyperseborrhoea, abnormal follicular keratinization and
      Propionibacterium acnes proliferation in the pilosebaceous unit.

      Acne is a significant clinical problem with sever social, psychological, and emotional
      implications. A mainly genetically determined host response pattern combined with bacterial
      ''triggering'' is generally accepted as being important for the apparently unbalanced
      inflammatory activity.

      Acne is not an infectious disease, but three major organisms were isolated from the surface
      of the skin and the pilosebaceous duct of patients with acne including Propionibacterium
      acne, Staphylococcus epidermidis and Malassezia furfur.

      Platelet rich plasma is a good choice for the treatment of acne and atrophic scars
      reminiscent of the course of the disease. In addition, for being autologous, it reduces the
      possibility of side effects, such as skin dryness and rejection.

      It was demonstrated that PRP accelerates the healing process, regulates inflammation and
      promotes healing by inhibiting the P. acnes bacteria, additionally restoring collagen). The
      PRP's mechanism of action also involves the release of powerful antimicrobial peptides from
      the platelets' alpha granules.

      Although there are few studies on the PRP's effectiveness in acne, it emerges as a potential
      therapeutic option in Dermatology and Aesthetic Medicine.

      Due to development of resistance in microorganisms causing acne to common antibiotics and
      differences in species and strains of the microorganisms in different regions, this study
      will be undertaken to determine bacteria involve in acne vulgaris and the effect of PRP on
      it.
    
  