
    
      Inappropriate energy supply, may cause important complications that affect the progression of
      the disease, especially in critically ill patients receiving mechanical ventilation.
      Mechanically ventilated patients make a considerable respiratory muscle effort that is not
      always decreased by intermittent positive pressure ventilation.

      No work of breathing is observed in patients under controlled mechanical ventilation who are
      receiving drugs for sedation and muscle paralysis. In this situation, the work of breathing
      is carried out by the ventilator which initiates the ventilation cycle, and patients are
      spared the inspiratory efforts. Conversely, in assisted ventilation modes, the patient has to
      make a considerable inspiratory effort before a ventilation cycle initiates, and there is no
      airflow up to the moment when the effective sensitivity threshold is reached by the
      ventilator. Therefore, the choice of ventilation mode may determine differences in energy
      expenditure.

      Some studies found that in patients on mechanical ventilation, weight, height, body
      temperature, type of mechanical ventilation, and type of medication received influenced the
      REE Acute hypoxemic respiratory failure is a common reason for patients to be admitted to the
      intensive care unit (ICU). An international study showed an incidence of acute respiratory
      distress syndrome (ARDS) of 10.4% in ICU critically ill trauma patients with an hospital
      mortality reaching 46.1% for most severe cases. A protective ventilation strategy using low
      tidal vol-ume (LTV) and a plateau pressure lower than 30 cmH2O is widely accepted to limit
      ventilator-induced lung injury, and it currently represents the intervention able to reduce
      mortality supported by the strongest evidences. Airway pressure release ventilation (APRV)
      was described for the first time by Stock and Downs and consists in a time-triggered,
      pressure-limited and time-cycled ventilation mode in which the pressure was alternated from a
      high level (Phigh) applied for a prolonged time (Thigh) to maintain adequate lung volume and
      alveo-lar recruitment, to a low level (Plow) for a short period of time (Tlow) where most of
      ventilation and CO2 removal occurs. In contrast to pressure-controlled inverse-ratio
      ventilation, APRV uses a release valve that allows spontaneous breathing during any phase of
      respiratory cycle. The rationale behind this approach is to maintain a pressure above the
      closing pressure of recruitable alveoli for a sustained time, limiting the release time to
      allow CO2 removal but avoiding de-recruitment. Another conceptual advantage to APRV over
      controlled modes is the preservation of spontaneous breathing, which may pro-mote a
      redistribution of aeration to the dependent lung regions, less need for neuromuscular
      blockade and sedation, improved venous return and a better ventilation/perfusion (V/Q)
      matching. For this reason, APRV has been considered a tempting mode of ventilation during
      acute respiratory failure within the concept of open lung ventilation.
    
  