
    
      Primary end point The pharmacodynamics of LH and the comparison of response to LH and hCG
      will be assessed by measuring serum steroid levels by liquid-chromatography, tandem mass
      spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). The primary end point is serum testosterone levels in response to
      increasing doses of LH (pharmacodynamics) and the comparison of the response to a fix dose of
      hCG. The statistical hypothesis is non-inferiority of the highest LH dose compared to the fix
      hCG dose employed.

      Secondary end points

        1. Full Safety profile (see below, the appropriate paragraph).

        2. Identification of the LH dosages needed to restore normal testosterone production in men
           with acquired HH and of the relationship between LH administered and testosterone
           increase, e.g. in terms of % serum testosterone increase per IU of r-hLH. This parameter
           will be useful for future clinical studies based on LH.

        3. Comparison of steroid profiles, hormone related profiles and serum levels of testicular
           steroids upon stimulation by LH or hCG by immunoassay and by LC-MS/MS technique when
           available as validated method. The LC-MS/MS technique allows simultaneous detection and
           quantification of several steroids. The investigators have previously studied serum
           testicular steroid profiles in men with Klinefelter syndrome after acute hCG stimulation
           and in diabetic men chronically treated by a phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitor (Santi,
           Granata et al. 2017). In in vitro systems, the investigators showed that LH and hCG
           display biased signalling in Leydig cells, where LH is a partial agonist of the LHCGR on
           progesterone production, while hCG is a full agonist. However, both hormones were
           equivalent on testosterone production (Riccetti, Yvinec et al. 2017). This point is
           clinically relevant because progesterone is a pro-inflammatory hormone (Zitzmann, Erren
           et al. 2005). Should similarity of the two gonadotropins on testosterone production come
           together with higher progesterone secretion in the case of hCG, this finding might
           deserve further studies.

        4. Testicular size

      Study design This is a multicentre, longitudinal, interventional, randomized, open-label,
      phase I/II, clinical trial. According to the study questions, the study is designed to
      characterise the LH pharmacodynamics in men, compared to the standard approach, represented
      by hCG administration and to evaluate rLH safety profile.

      The centre at the PI site (Unit 1 - Modena) will coordinate the study and will prepare the
      randomization list by permuted blocks, which will be sent to each enrolling centre. Moreover,
      Unit 1 will perform centralized hormone measurements at the end of the study, will coordinate
      monitoring of centres, will maintain the study database and will analyse the data collected.
      Finally, pharmacy at Unit 1 will receive IMP and will buy the drug comparator, will package
      and distribute drugs needed for the study.

      Patients will be screened according to inclusion and exclusion criteria at each Centre.
      During the screening visit, the following evaluations will be performed:

      Evaluations at the participating centre:

      Total testosterone serum levels; Basal hormonal and biochemical assays needed to fulfil
      inclusion and exclusion criteria;

      Scrotal ultrasound for the evaluation of:

      varicocele presence and degree; testicular volume and structure; epididymis. All other
      imaging analyses needed to fulfil inclusion and exclusion criteria, as well as suggested by
      the guidelines for pituitary diseases (Raverot, Burman et al. 2018).

      Central evaluations at Unit 1:

      Total testosterone serum levels, using LC-MS/MS; Progesterone,17-hydroxyprogesterone,
      androstenedione, didehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), DHEA sulphate (DHEAS), corticosterone,
      11-deoxycortisol and cortisol using LC-MS/MS by a validated method (Fanelli, Belluomo et al.
      2011); Other hormonal analyses.

      Eligible patients will be enrolled in the study after signing the informed consent. Eligible
      patients that are under androgen replacement therapy at the time of screening visit will be
      enrolled after three months of testosterone withdrawal. On the contrary, eligible patients
      who are not treated at the time of screening visit will be immediately enrolled.

      At Visit 1 (V1), patients will be randomized according to the randomization list centrally
      provided and will be allocated to the two following groups:

      Study group; Control group.

      Each group will undergo two consecutive phases:

        1. Treatment phase;

        2. Follow-up phase. The first phase will last two months and follow-up two months,
           characterized by treatment withdrawal. Total study duration is three months. Patients
           will be evaluated two times weekly, during the treatment phase and one time every two
           weeks during the follow-up phase. The patient will be monitored for the safety at each
           visit by the medical staff at PI and participating centres. The patient will remain
           under supervision for four hours at each visit.

      At each visit two blood samples will be collected (Total of 18ml) in the morning after an
      overnight fast. The first serum sample will be stored at -20°C and sent at the end of the
      study to Unit 1 for central measurements. The second blood sample will be used locally to
      monitor the treatment efficacy and safety. Overall, the study protocol includes a screening
      visit followed by 18 visits. During the study protocol, pharmacovigilance will be performed
      according to Italian rules.

      At each visit the following evaluations will be performed:

      Evaluations at participating centre:

      Total testosterone serum levels Safety profile (as elaborated below) Basal hormonal and
      biochemical assays Central evaluations at Unit 1:Total testosterone serum levels, using
      LC-MS/MS Other sex steroids using LC-MS/MS Other hormonal analyses Biochemical evaluations
      performed at each centre will be useful to monitor the treatment efficacy and safety, whereas
      centrally performed analyses will be used for the final statistical analysis. Moreover, at
      the end of treatment phase (V16) and at the end of follow-up phase, scrotal ultrasound will
      be repeated to address possible morphological changes related to endogenous testosterone
      increase. Finally, at each visit, the occurrence of AESI will be properly registered and
      reported. Pharmacovigilance will be carefully considered and evaluated by CRO. During each
      visit, testosterone levels were performed locally and evaluated by clinicians. Whether
      testosterone serum levels will reach levels higher than 12 nmol/L, the drug dosage will be
      not increased in both groups. The hormonal results will be available in about 8 hours.

      Intervention The IMP is Luveris. The comparator is Gonasi HP. Luveris will be provided by
      Merck. Gonasi HP, will be purchased (packages with vials of 250, 1000 and 2000 IU each) by
      the coordinating centre. The entire amount of the IMP and comparator will be delivered to the
      pharmacy of the coordinating centre (according to existing regulations) and distributed in
      batches to the centres. At the coordinating centre, packages containing the number of
      ampoules sufficient for the patients to be allocated to the study within the next 6 months
      will be prepared and shipped to each centre. The pharmacy of the coordinating centre will be
      responsible for IMP and comparator reception, labelling, packaging and sending to the centres
      according to existing regulations. All medications to be used in this study will have been
      manufactured, tested, and released according to current GMP guidelines.

      The investigator or authorized staff will have to document the receipt, dispensation, and
      return of all IMPs received during this study. Records on receipt, use, return, loss, or
      other disposition of IMPs will be maintained. This process will be monitored by a CRO
      (Clinical Research Organization) during the study. The IMP shipment will be provided in two
      times during the study duration.

      All remaining IMPs, used and unused, shall be collected and returned for destruction at the
      end of the study.

      Luveris will be self-administered once daily by the patient sc in the abdominal skin.
      Patients will be properly trained on how to perform injection and reconstitute the product.
      Since the sc route is generally preferred by patients, this route is selected for this trial
      in order to increase treatment compliance. Luveris will be package in vial of 75IU and it
      will be dissolved in a vial of solvent. When higher dosages of Luveris will be needed for the
      protocol (150, 300 and 600), 2, 4 and 8 vials of Luveris will be respectively dissolved in a
      single vial of solvent. In particular, when 300 IU should be used, 4 Luveris vials will be
      dissolved in 2 vials of solvents. When 600 IU should be used, 8 Luveris vials will be
      dissolved in 3 vials of solvents.

      Gonasi HP will be injected im.

      At V1 patients will be randomized into two different groups:

      Study group Control group

      The study group will receive the daily administration sc of Luveris with increasing dosages
      every two weeks (Treatment phase) as follows:

        1. Rec-LH 75 IU daily for 2 weeks;

        2. Rec-LH 150 IU daily for 2 weeks;

        3. Rec-LH 300 IU daily for 2 weeks;

        4. Rec-LH 600 IU daily for 2 weeks. The decision to proceed to the next dose level of LH
           will be made by the Study Team [and the investigator] based on safety, tolerability, and
           preliminary data obtained in at least 5 participants at the prior dose level. If
           moderate or severe AE are consistently observed across participants in a cohort or if
           unacceptable pharmacological effects, reasonably attributable to LH in the opinion of
           the investigator are observed in more than 15% of the participants in a cohort, then
           dose escalation will be temporarily halted and no further participants will be dosed
           until a full safety review of the study has taken place. Relevant reporting and
           discussion with the Medical Monitor, PI, and the IRB/IEC will take place before
           resumption of dosing.

      The two months of treatment will be followed by one month of treatment wash-out (follow-up
      phase).

      The control group will receive the administration im of Gonasi HP as follows:

      hCG 500 IU two times weekly, for 2 weeks; hCG 1000 IU two times weekly, for 2 weeks; hCG 1500
      IU two times weekly, for 2 weeks; hCG 2000 IU two times weekly, for 2 weeks. Hypopituitary
      patients participating to the study will continue to receive their standard substitution
      therapy inasmuch needed (thyroxine, hydrocortisone). During the study duration, androgen
      replacement therapies will be not permitted.

      Luveris is provided in vials containing 75 IU of lyophilized material + ampoules of solvent.
      Patients in the study group will be instructed to use one vial/d during the first two weeks
      of treatment, then two in the second two weeks, four in the third two weeks and eight in the
      last two weeks of the treatment phase. Up to 3 vials of lyophilized Luveris can be dissolved
      using only one vial of solvent, whereas 4 Luveris vials will be dissolved in 2 solvents.
      Eight Luveris vials will be dissolved in 3 solvents. This will reduce discomfort for the
      patient. Both IMP and comparator can be either self-administered by the patient or by a third
      person, as described in the drug instructions. At each visit empty vials will be collected by
      each centre, to ensure patients' compliance.

      All patients will be followed up for further 8 weeks after drug withdrawal according to the
      study design.

      Both LH and hCG are not known to interfere with other medications, so that no specific drug,
      including rescue medications, is not allowed during the trial.

      Compliance will be monitored by asking the patients to return the empty Luveris and Gonasi HP
      ampoules and packages at the next visit. In addition, LH/hCG and total testosterone serum
      levels will be measured at each visit before the next LH/hCG injection at each participating
      centre.

      The study has a prospective, interventional design. Thus, consecutive patients attending the
      participating Units will be enrolled according to inclusion and exclusion criteria. The aim
      of the study is the evaluation of LH pharmacodynamics in HH men, in terms of testosterone
      serum levels increase and to evaluate rLH safety profile. Considering the only one case
      available in the literature, in which LH and hCG were compared in a HH man, the hypothesis is
      a non-inferiority between IMP (at least at the highest dose) and comparator. Thus, the study
      design includes the randomization of eligible patients in study and control groups, treated
      with Luveris and Gonasi HP, respectively. Patients' allocation will follow the random
      sequence generated at Unit 1 before the start of the study. The list will be generated using
      permuted blocks, considering at maximum 10 patients for each Unit. The randomization list
      will be sent to each Unit before study start. Moreover, being a pharmacodynamics, phase II
      clinical trial, a placebo-group is not foreseen. The study, however includes a group
      receiving the "standard" comparator, in order to reveal possible qualitative differences
      (e.g. serum steroid profile) in the biological response in the male. Considering the
      different frequency and route of drug administration in the two groups, a double-blind design
      is not possible. Indeed, the study is open-label, since each patient is aware of the LH or
      hCG dosage to be used. Similarly, clinicians involved in the study will be not blinded to
      allocation. The following study personnel will be kept blinded to the treatment:

      The central lab in which LC-MS/MS assays will be performed; The clinician involved in scrotal
      ultrasound evaluations; The statistician who finally will perform the statistical analysis.

      There are practical and scientific reason for the choice of the drug and the methodology
      proposed. Concerning r-hLH, Luveris is the only LH approved for human use. The dosage was
      chosen according to the literature evidences of the different actions of LH and hCG at
      molecular level and in vivo in women (Santi, Casarini et al. 2017). The dosage and the
      frequency of administration were chosen according to the only previous experience existing
      and considering the half-life of LH. Daily injections are appropriate because clinical
      practice in women undergoing ART or with HH demonstrates the efficacy of LH daily protocols.
      In The investigators previous experience, LH was administered as single daily bolus, reaching
      a significant testosterone increase. The investigators considered that physiological LH
      secretion is pulsatile. Veldhuis et al., compared constant to pulsatile infusion of r-hLH in
      19 healthy men previously treated with GnRH antagonist. These two LH administration patterns
      reached a similar testosterone increase, suggesting that pulsatile LH administration is not
      necessary to stimulate Leydig cells activity. Moreover, in this clinical trial, a daily LH
      dosage of 112.5 IU resulted in maximum testosterone levels of 485+114 ng/dl, in the
      physiological range. Similarly, in the investigators case report, the HH man was treated with
      75 IU of daily LH, restoring eugonadism. Thus, much lower LH dosages than expected seem to be
      sufficient to increase testosterone serum levels into the normal range. Therefore, the
      investigators will test different LH dosages, starting from the expected minimum efficient
      dosage (75 IU), to the maximum dosage (600 IU) expected to obtain testosterone serum levels
      in the upper half of normal ranges.

      The comparator (Gonasi HP) type and dosage was chosen according to the literature, the
      rationale provided above, according to the current standard of treatment, and the fact that
      it is the only hCG preparation approved for use in male HH available in Italy at the moment.

      Data will be gathered with the following modalities.

        1. At the participating Units:

             1. patient's clinical information including safety and tolerability as determined by
                AE, SAE reporting, vital signs, ECG, Concomitant medication, laboratory parameters
                should be included in each panel (e.g., for haematology, chemistry, urinalysis) and
                evaluation of anti-Human-LH Antibodies formation in the serum,

             2. basal hormonal assessment,

             3. collection and storage of 2 serum samples (18 ml) at -20°,

             4. packaging and shipment of the samples to the centralized laboratory site. Each Unit
                will receive from the Unit 1 a detailed investigator manual and a study kit
                containing tubes, labels and boxes for sample storage and shipment. All modalities
                of data collection will be explained in an investigator meeting before starting the
                study.

           Each participating Unit will follow and treat patients during the entire duration of the
           trial according to the study design and patients' allocation. All Units possess an
           institutional accreditation and have a quality management in place.

        2. At Unit 1 (Coordinating centre):

             1. patient's clinical information including safety and tolerability as determined by
                AE, SAE reporting, vital signs, ECG, Concomitant medication, laboratory parameters
                should be included in each panel (e.g., for haematology, chemistry, urinalysis) and
                evaluation of anti-Human-LH Antibodies formation in the serum,

             2. basal hormonal assessment,

             3. collection and storage of 2 serum samples (18 ml) at -20°,

             4. At the end of the study the centre will receive all stored serum samples from the
                Units and provide centralized hormone analysis through LC-MS/MS. In addition, all
                other parameters indicated in the section "outcomes" will be measured in the
                hormone laboratory using validated techniques.

             5. keep the overall database;

             6. perform data analysis. All clinical and hormonal data will be recorded in
                appropriate electronic case report forms (eCRFs) provided by an experienced CRO.
                These data, together with hormonal parameters assessed centrally and eCRFs data
                will represent the dataset for the final analysis. The quality of the data will be
                checked by monitoring (site visits) by an independent party, the selected CRO.

      Follow up of the patients will last 2 months after drug withdrawal to check for return of the
      values to baseline. The investigators planned a possible loss-to-follow-up of 10%.
    
  