
    
      BACKGROUND:

      This study was funded in response to a Request for Application issued in 1975 on High Blood
      Pressure in the Young. The program on High Blood Pressure in the Young grew out of an
      awareness that adult hypertension might have its origins in adolescence or even in childhood
      or infancy. In 1975 NHLBI was supporting little research, except for the Specialized Centers
      of Research, in identifying the precursors of high blood pressure operating at an early age.
      Sixteen grants were funded through the program. The program was concluded in 1978 but Dr.
      Kotchen's grant was renewed as a regular research grant. A second population group was
      followed in the grant period. From an original population of 409 pregnant, nulliparous
      adolescents aged 12-18 who had enrolled in the University of Kentucky Young Mothers Program
      between 1971-1974, 70 were diagnosed as having hypertension during the third trimester of
      pregnancy. These 70 women plus a control group of 54 normotensive women from the same
      population were studied as were their children. Blood pressures were measured in young
      mothers at 3-6 years and at 6-9 years after their first pregnancy. Women with a history of
      hypertension during pregnancy were heavier, maintained higher blood pressure and had a
      greater incidence of hypertension in subsequent pregnancies. At the second follow-up,
      systolic blood pressure and body weight of male children born to hypertensive women were
      greater than those in males born to normotensive women. Blood pressures of female children of
      the two groups of mothers did not differ.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      In 1973 standardized blood pressure, height, and weight were measured in all 14-19 year old
      students of Bourbon County High School in Kentucky. Additional information collected included
      age, date of birth, sex, and race. In 1978 a five year follow-up study was undertaken of all
      adolescents 14-15 years old at the time of the initial survey and of selected 16-19 year olds
      who were in the high, intermediate, and low ranges of the blood pressure distributions.
      Follow-up measurements included weight, height, and blood pressure in all subjects, and
      sodium excretion, serum cholesterol, glucose, triglycerides, exercise, and uric acid
      concentrations, electrocardiograms, and echocardiograms in the older group. In 1984 the
      follow-up also included information on socioeconomic variables, medical and family histories,
      smoking, exercise, life events, coronary-prone behavior, and anxiety. Plasma renin activity
      and plasma aldosterone were measured before and after treadmill exercise in those young
      adults with relatively high and relatively low blood pressures to determine if the
      renin-aldosterone axis is suppressed before the appearance of hypertension. Studies were
      continued on physiologic, psychosocial, and behavioral risk factors for hypertension,
      age-related trends in cardiovascular risk factors over time, correlates of elevated blood
      pressure, and the early cardiac consequences of high blood pressure.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  