
    
      Renal fibrosis is a final pathway and important biomarker of injury common to most forms of
      kidney disease. For example, in renal vascular disease (RVD) progressive renal fibrosis may
      induce kidney injury and hypertension. Early identification of fibrosis and adequate
      intervention may slow down renal disease progression, but adequate noninvasive strategies to
      detect and quantify renal fibrosis are yet to be identified.

      Magnetization transfer imaging (MTI) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a novel noninvasive
      method to evaluate the tissue macromolecular composition. The investigators have demonstrated
      that MTI can assess stenotic kidney fibrosis in murine and swine models of unilateral RVD.
      However, the clinical utility of MT-MRI to assess renal fibrosis is currently limited,
      because it is inherently semi-quantitative. In contrast, quantitative MT (qMT), based on
      biophysical compartment models, provides more objective measurement of tissue MT properties.
      A model fitting of MR signal acquired with various MT pulse amplitudes and offset
      frequencies, combined with scan-specific B0/B1/T1 maps, give rise to a more complete
      definition of tissue parameters, including a "bound pool fraction", a direct measure of the
      macromolecular content in tissue.

      The hypothesis underlying this proposal is that qMT would reliably detect development of
      renal fibrosis at both 1.5 T and 3.0 T in subjects with RVD. To test this hypothesis, which
      is supported by strong preliminary data, the investigators will initially develop, optimize,
      and validate qMT for evaluation of fibrosis in the post-stenotic swine kidney. The
      investigators will correlate qMT-derived renal fibrosis with reference standards, as well as
      with single-kidney hemodynamics, function, and oxygenation, quantified using cutting-edge
      multi-detector CT (MDCT) and MRI techniques. The investigators will then determine the
      ability of qMT to predict renal recovery in pigs with RVD undergoing revascularization.
      Further, they will perform a pilot study to test the ability of qMT to quantify fibrosis in
      the post-stenotic human kidney, in comparison to innovative biomarkers of renal dysfunction
      and tissue damage.

      Three specific aims will test the hypotheses: Specific Aim 1: qMT in stenotic swine kidneys
      is feasible, reliable, and reproducible at 1.5 and 3.0 T. Specific Aim 2: qMT predicts renal
      recovery potential in response to percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty (PTRA).
      Specific Aim 3: qMT in stenotic human kidneys is feasible, reproducible, and predicts
      recovery.

      The proposed studies may therefore establish a reliable, noninvasive, and clinically feasible
      strategy to quantify kidney fibrosis, a key biomarker for renal outcomes and therapeutic
      success.
    
  