
    
      If participant agrees to take part, they will complete 1 questionnaire over the phone, in
      person, or via e-mail about their first consultation experience, within 1 month after their
      visit. It should take about 15 minutes to complete. Health information about participant
      (such as their name, medical record number, telephone number, e-mail address, IP address,
      age, gender, race/ethnicity and cancer type) will also be collected but will not be shared
      with anyone outside of MD Anderson, except when required for regulatory purposes, or when
      required to be shared with study sponsors or study monitors. Participant's survey answers
      will not be shared with the Supportive Care staff.

      Distress Plan:

      Telephone - If participant experiences any distress while answering the survey questions, the
      research assistant will immediately contact our nurse in the Supportive Care Center.
      Participant will be contacted immediately to provide telephone counseling or address any
      other issue that may be causing distress. Our phone care nurse will offer participant to
      schedule a face-to-face visit with one of the Supportive Care physicians or to see a nurse in
      the Supportive Care Center.

      In-person - If participant experiences significant and high levels of distress while
      participating in the study, we will refer participant to their primary care physician,
      physician in the Supportive Care Center or one of the supportive care counselors.

      Online - If participant experiences significant and high levels of distress while completing
      the online survey, they may stop the survey and call the Supportive Care Center (during
      office hours) or the Supportive Care Mobile Team (after office hours or weekends). The
      contact information will be displayed on each page of the online survey.

      Patient's participation on the study will be over after they have completed the
      questionnaire. Participant's de-identified study information will be kept by the Principal
      Investigator in a locked file cabinet and password protected electronic study database for 5
      years after publication of the research and then destroyed. Online survey responses,
      demographics, e-mail address, and IP address will be stored indefinitely in a secured
      database by the Qualtrics team.
    
  