
    
      The concept of fluid responsiveness has been suggested to guide fluid administration in
      critically ill patients to avoid either over or under-transfusion.

      Several methods have been suggested to detect fluid responsiveness. Mini fluid challenge with
      concomitant monitoring of stroke volume is one of the most robust methods for pre-load
      challenge.

      The main foreshortening of mini fluid challenge method is the need for a real-time cardiac
      output monitor, to track the instantaneous change of stroke vole with changing body position.
      Finding a surrogate to cardiac output to trace the effect of mini fluid challenge would make
      the test more applicable without the need for advanced hemodynamic monitors.

      There is a growing interest in the use of perfusion indices in assessment of fluid
      responsiveness. Perfusion indices are measures for adequacy of oxygen delivery in peripheral
      tissues; thus, they were hypothesized to be possible surrogates of cardiac output. Peripheral
      perfusion index represents "the ratio between the pulsatile and non-pulsatile component of
      the light reaching the pulse oximeter" . Peripheral perfusion index has been considered as a
      numerical non-invasive measure for peripheral perfusion. PPI has the advantage over other
      perfusion indices that it a non-invasive, user-friendly monitor.

      The aim of this work is to investigate the ability of peripheral perfusion index to predict
      the hemodynamic response to mini-fluid challenge in patients with septic shock.

      Mini-fluid challenge test will be performed by infusion of 200 mL Lactated Ringer's solution
      over 1 minute. Velocity time integral will be monitored using Transthoracic echocardiography
      at the left ventricular outflow tract at the apical five-chamber view. Cardiac output will be
      calculated, and the patient will be considered fluid-responder if cardiac output increased by
      10% after fluid challenge.
    
  