
    
      Background:

      Many patients with diabetes are under sub-optimal glycemic control. Central to the
      clinician's task in improving glycemic control is the management of hypoglycemic medication
      therapy, including the use of drugs such as insulin and sulfonylureas. Clinical trials have
      demonstrated that more intensive hypoglycemic medication therapy results in improved glycemic
      control. Yet quality measures for this critical process of care have not been developed and
      we know little about how physicians actually manage hypoglycemic medications.

      Objectives:

      We propose to develop a quality measure that describes the intensity of physicians'
      hypoglycemic medication therapy. We will then provide feedback to VA physicians regarding
      their practices and access to experts in diabetes care to determine whether this intervention
      leads to improvements in glycemic control.

      Methods:

      The study was divided into two phases. During the first phase we used existing data to model
      the decision to increase hypoglycemic medications. At each medical visit, we determined
      whether an increase in medication therapy occurred. We then used recursive partitioning to
      develop a model that identified patient characteristics at the visit, such as recent
      laboratory results and diagnoses, associated with the decision to increase therapy. This
      model assigns a predicted probability of an increase in therapy to each visit. We used these
      predictions to define an intensity of hypoglycemic medication therapy for each physician that
      compared the actual to predicted number of increases over all patient-visits. The second
      phase was a randomized trial in which clinicians at experimental sites receive feedback on
      performance and access to expert opinion while usual care is provided at control sites.
      Feedback on performance was provided twice over 6 months. The change in intensity of
      treatment scores and glycosylated hemoglobin levels pre- and post-intervention at these sites
      were compared to performance of primary care physicians at control sites not receiving the
      intervention.

      Status:

      Completed.
    
  