
    
      Peripheral neuropathy (PN) is an adverse event of numerous chemotherapy agents commonly used,
      including taxanes (paclitaxel, docetaxel) and platinum-based treatments (oxaliplatine,
      cisplatine, carboplatine).

      Taxanes are widely used in breast cancer. Docetaxel and paclitaxel became indispensable
      during the last decade in metastatic and early stage breast cancer treatment. For
      platinum-based chemotherapies, oxaliplatine is one of the main molecules used in digestive
      oncology, particularly in colorectal cancer.

      The limiting toxicities of taxanes and platinum-based treatments which can lead to the
      therapeutic scheme modification (therefore to a potential diminution of efficacy and
      eventually to treatment stop) are mainly hematologic (neutropenia) and neurological, the most
      frequent neuro-toxicity event being a PN associated or not to neuropathic pains. The PN
      induced by chemotherapy can occur prematurely during the treatment course, persist between
      the treatments' cycles and last a long time after the end of cycles, with an impact on
      patients' quality of life. Symptoms are mainly sensitive, including pain, paresthesia and
      hands / foot numbness. These symptoms, as the hematologic toxicity, represent a major
      limiting factor for the treatment.

      According to the ASCO recommendations, there is no effective prophylactic method against the
      chemo-induced PN. In a retrospective study, the chilled gloves used for preventing the nail
      lesions during chemotherapy may reduce the incidence of docetaxel-induced PN. Recently, the
      surgical gloves efficacy against paclitaxel-induced PN has been evaluated prospectively in
      women presenting a metastatic or early stage breast cancer, with a percentage of grade >=2 NP
      significantly lower for the hand protected by surgical gloves than the control hand without
      glove (compression-induced vasoconstriction responsible for a blood flow reduction in the
      hands and therefore for the local exposure to chemotherapy agents) and a good tolerance.

      Chilled gloves, which use the same principle of vasoconstriction through cold, are also used
      in the current practice for preventing the PN occurrence. However, contrary to surgical
      gloves, they can be not well tolerated since the very first cycles (intolerance to cold
      sensation).

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the medium and long term efficacy of compression
      induced by surgical gloves against the PN development in two frequent indications in
      oncology, patients treated with paclitaxel (breast cancer) or oxaliplatine (colorectal
      cancer) and patients' satisfaction.
    
  