
    
      Acute complications of coronary and cerebrovascular atherosclerosis -i.e., acute coronary
      syndromes (ACS) and strokes - remain the principal cause of death worldwide. Identification
      of patients at high risk of developing such complications is therefore of utmost importance.
      Post-MORTEM studies suggest that vulnerable coronary atherosclerotic plaques are
      characterized by a large, metabolically active, necrotic core, covered by a thin fibrous cap,
      which may rupture, leading to acute thrombosis, myocardial infarction and, potentially,
      sudden death. These anatomic features of plaque vulnerability are not visible on standard
      coronary imaging, such as coronary angiography, but might be recognized using more recent
      imaging modalities. In addition, new circulating biomarkers of atherosclerosis, particularly
      biomarkers involved in plaque destabilization, can be measured in peripheral blood and may be
      used to appreciate overall patient vulnerability.

      Design and Methods- In the present study, 2 groups of 44 patients with moderate-to-high risk
      non-ST elevation ACS or stable coronary artery disease (CAD) will be compared. All the
      patients will undergo percutaneous coronary intervention of culprit vessels after imaging of
      the entire coronary tree (culprit and non-culprit lesions) using intravascular ultrasound
      with radiofrequency data analysis (IVUS-VH). Before discharge, fluorodeoxyglucose positron
      emission tomography combined with multidetector computed tomography (FDG PET-MDCT) of the
      carotid arteries and the thoracic aorta, along with MDCT coronary angiography, will be
      performed and a blood sample will be obtained for subsequent measurements of emerging or new
      biomarkers.

      Objectives -

        1. The primary objective is to compare plaque phenotypes between patients with ACS vs
           stable CAD. For each imaging modality (coronary IVUS-VH, MDCT coronary angiography,
           AORTO-carotid FDG PET-CT) comparisons will be performed on a per-lesion and per-patient
           basis.

        2. Secondary objectives include: i) An evaluation of the accuracy of each plaque imaging
           modality and biomarkers for diagnosis of unstable CAD; ii) A comparison of the
           diagnostic performance of each plaque imaging modality and biomarkers for diagnosis of
           unstable CAD; iii) A comparison of coronary plaque phenotype between culprit and
           non-culprit lesions (using IVUS-VH and MDCT coronary angiography); and iv) An
           exploratory feasibility study of PET-CT imaging of coronary artery atherosclerotic
           plaques.

      It's important to underline that this study must be considered as an interventional study.
      Indeed, in this study patients have many imaging modality : coronary IVUS-VH, MDCT coronary
      angiography and AORTO-carotid FDG PET-CT while in common practice patients have only FDG
      PET-CT which is the routinely technique used.
    
  