
    
      Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is a chronic devastating skin disorder affecting areas rich in
      apocrine glands. Nodules appear in the affected areas; they progressively become swollen and
      rupture with the release of pus. This process occurs repeatedly leading to sinus tract
      formation and scars. This disease course creates a frustrating situation not only for the
      patients but also for physicians. Traditional treatments comprise short-courses of
      antibiotics and surgical excision. However, relapse is the rule so that HS leads to severe
      impairment of the quality of life. The Dermatology Quality Life Index (DQLI) for HS is 8.9,
      being higher than any other skin disorder.

      This devastating disorder has often been neglected and considered a rare situation. However,
      HS seems to indiscriminately affect the global population. A large epidemiological survey in
      France reports 0.97% disease prevalence.

      The exact pathophysiology of HS is unknown. Both familial and non-familial cases of HS exist.
      Familial HS is less than 5% of cases and it is usually inherited through the dominant
      autosomal mode. Mutations in genes encoding for the gene complex of nicastrin-γ-secretase are
      predominant in hereditary HS. However, little is known on the genetic predisposition of
      non-familial HS that comprises the great majority of cases. Two studies by the investigators
      have been conducted to explore the predisposition of HS among patients who carry single
      nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of gene encoding for pro-inflammatory cytokines namely TNF
      and IL-12RB1. Results have shown that carriage of haplotypes comprising minor frequency SNP
      alleles at the promoter region of TNF increases the likelihood for HS; furthermore these
      patients are less likely to respond to treatment with anti-TNF agents. In parallel,
      haplotyping for gene SNPs of exon 7 and exon 10 of IL-12RB1 comprising seven constitutive
      SNPs has shown that carriage of the h2 haplotype composed by four minor frequency SNP alleles
      is associated with more severe disease phenotypes. These results indicate a strong component
      of the implication of the innate immune responses in the pathogenesis of HS. In conjunction
      with this and following a successful phase II trial, the two phase III PIONEER studies ended
      up with significant improvement of patients after 12 weeks of treatment with adalimumab. A
      novel score, HS clinical response (HiSCR) score, was introduced in these trials and it is now
      suggested for the evaluation of the efficacy of any new formulation in HS. Using this score,
      it was found that the success rate of adalimumab to achieve a positive HiSCR after 12 weeks
      of treatment ranged between 40 and 60%. This means that several patients do not respond to
      adalimumab treatment whereas others may relapse after some initial response.

      The investigators have recently concluded a phase 2, double-blind, randomized study of the
      efficacy of anakinra treatment administered 100mg subcutaneously daily for 12 consecutive
      weeks compared to placebo in 19 patients; 10 were allocated to the placebo arm and nine to
      the anakinra arm (EudraCT2011-005145-12, www.clinicaltrials.gov NCT01558375). Results were
      favorable for the clinical efficacy of anakinra. The primary endpoint defined to be disease
      activity was marginally achieved in the modified intent-to-treat population. Regarding the
      secondary endpoints, treatment with anakinra was very effective in: a) prolonging the time to
      new exacerbation compared to the placebo arm; and b) modulating cytokine stimulation from
      peripheral blood mononuclear cells. More precisely, the production of interferon-γ was
      significantly decreased and the production of IL-22 was increased compared to the placebo
      arm. HiSCR score was not initially included as a study endpoint because this score has not
      been developed when the trial was submitted to the authorities. Retrospective validation of
      the HiSCR score showed significant reduction at week 12 in 7 patients (77.8%) treated with
      anakinra compared to three patients (30%) treated with placebo (p: 0.039).

      The considerable efficacy of anakinra that blocks interleukin (IL)-1alpha (IL-1α) leads to
      consider a significant role of IL-1α in the pathogenesis of HS. MABp1 is a first-in-class
      true human monoclonal antibody cloned directly from a human B lymphocyte and specifically
      targets IL-1α. Results from a first-in-man trial were recently published, in which fifty-two
      patients with metastatic cancer were enrolled in an open-label phase 1 study. The drug was
      well-tolerated, tumor responses were observed, and interestingly, treatment was accompanied
      by an increase of lean body weight.

      The purpose of this clinical study is to evaluate the safety and the efficacy of MABp1
      compared to placebo in patients with moderate to severe HS who either failed previous
      treatment with antiTNF regimens or who relapsed under antiTNF regimens or who are treatment
      naïve and they are unwilling to receive subcutaneous adalimumab treatment. The rationale
      behind the promising success of MABp1 relies on recent findings showing heterogeneity of
      cytokines in skin lesions with several patients expressing huge concentrations of TNFα the
      lesions and other who express low concentrations of TNFα but huge concentrations of IL-1α.
    
  