
    
      Antithrombotic therapy is essential to prevent adverse ischemic events, especially stent
      thrombosis and reinfarction during and after primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI)
      in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Bivalirudin is emerging as an alternative
      for heparin during PCI procedure1.

      Bivalirudin (BIV) a synthetic, bivalent, 20-amino acid direct thrombin inhibitor, was found
      to have the advantages of inhibiting fibrin-bound thrombin, a predictable effect of
      anticoagulation, and a short half-life of approximately 30 minutes in humans with normal
      renal function. BIV has been introduced in percutaneous coronary interventions (PCIs)
      especially for patients with ACS. Compared with heparin, series clinical trials indicated
      that BIV was not inferior to UFH as a procedural anticoagulant and there was no increased
      bleeding.

      In the real world, there are as many as 47.1% patients with STEMI can not get early
      reperfusion therapy. Huge number of patients missed the best time window for PCI. For these
      patients, the usual PCI procedure are usually performed 1-2 weeks after attack, which is
      called late PCI.

      For patients with STEMI, Bivalirudin is recomended by guidelines in ESC during PCI procedure.
      However, the evidences (ACUITY，HORIZONS-AMI，EUROMAX, EAT-PPCI，BRIGHT, VALIDATE-SWEDEHEART)
      supporting the guideline nearly all comes from primary PCI for STEMI, which means there has
      no clinical trials focus on late PCI for patients with STEMI yet.

      Clinically, late PCI, defined as the time to open an infarct-related artery (IRA) from
      symptoms onset > 7 days (when the myocardial condition is considered stable), is practiced
      commonly for these late presenters. Whether late PCI is adequately beneficial is
      controversial. Currently, heparin is applied during late PCI as the anticoagulation therapy,
      it is still unknown of the efficiency and safety for bivalirudin as the anticoagulation
      therapy during late PCI.

      So in this RCTs, the investigators aim to study the efficiency and safety of bivalirudin as
      the anticoagulation therapy during late PCI.
    
  