
    
      Study Design: A. Cross-sectional study: Sixty patients with morbid obesity undergoing
      bariatric surgery diagnosed with NAFLD on liver biopsy (30 SS, 30 NASH). Main hypothesis: The
      ratio of Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes is higher in stool samples from morbidly obese subjects
      with NASH compared to SS. Other differences in IM composition exist. Objective: to compare
      bacterial dynamics using Illumina technology to assess the IM. The relative abundance of the
      dominant fecal microorganisms (including Firmicutes, Archaea, Bacteroides, Bifidobacteria,
      Mollicutes, Enterobacteriaceae, Clostridia clusters, F. prausnitzii, Roseburia, and
      Lactobacilli) will also be assessed by real-time PCR. Sub-hypotheses: In NASH compared to SS,
      there will be: a) lower fecal butyrate concentration; b) higher endotoxin and other
      inflammatory markers (TNF-α, IL-6) in plasma. Potential covariates assessed: small intestinal
      bacterial overgrowth (SIBO), measured by glucose hydrogen breath test (GHBT), which can
      contribute to endotoxemia and inflammation; IR, diabetes status, lipid profile, plasma
      vitamin E, liver enzymes, anthropometry, food intake, physical activity and environmental
      factors.

      B. Prospective cohort study: Patients undergoing bariatric surgery with either SS or NASH (up
      to 60 of them recruited from Part A) will be followed prospectively over 12 months to assess
      changes in the IM and liver histology. Goal is to have 60 subjects who complete the study
      with a 2nd liver biopsy. Main Hypothesis: In morbidly obese patients with NAFLD (SS or NASH),
      changes in IM post bariatric surgery will be associated with changes in liver histology.
      Specifically, an increased number of F. prausnitzii in feces with be associated with
      improvement in liver histology while a reduction will be associated with deterioration of
      liver histology. Objective: To correlate changes in liver histology (NAFLD activity score
      [NAS], inflammation, fibrosis, steatosis) between 0 and 12 months with changes in F.
      prausnitzii. Other changes of the fecal IM community structure, fecal short chain fatty acids
      (including butyrate), plasma endotoxin, inflammatory markers (TNF-α, IL-6) and SIBO will also
      be assessed, in addition to diet, activity, weight change, improvement of diabetes and plasma
      vitamin E. Secondary hypotheses: Increased number of F. prausnitzii in feces will be
      associated with increased fecal butyrate, lower serum endotoxin and lower inflammatory
      markers (TNF-α, IL-6) in plasma.

      Significance: In humans with morbid obesity and NAFLD undergoing bariatric surgery, very
      little data are available on IM and its metabolic effect and contribution to NAFLD. These
      studies will add more information regarding the role of IM and its effect on potential
      mechanisms contributing to NAFLD. It will also provide us with pilot data for future
      intervention studies assessing the potential use of pre- or probiotics for NAFLD in morbidly
      obese subjects in the setting of bariatric surgery.
    
  