
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the
      combination of lenalidomide and ibrutinib in patients with relapsed and refractory B-cell
      non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL).

      II. To define the qualitative and quantitative toxicities of the combination of lenalidomide
      and ibrutinib.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the overall objective response rate to the combination of lenalidomide and
      ibrutinib in patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell NHL.

      II. To describe the response duration and two-year progression free survival (PFS) in
      patients with B-cell NHL receiving lenalidomide and ibrutinib.

      III. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of the combination of lenalidomide and ibrutinib in
      patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell NHL.

      IV. To identify associations of genetic polymorphisms in drug metabolizing enzymes,
      transporters or target genes with pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and clinical outcomes.

      V. To monitor the effects of combined therapy with ibrutinib and lenalidomide on B- T-, and
      natural killer (NK)-cell subsets by flow cytometry and quantitative immunoglobulin levels.

      VI. To explore the effects of the combination of ibrutinib and lenalidomide on
      pharmacodynamic markers including T helper cell, type 1 (TH1) and T helper cell, type 2 (TH2)
      cytokines, ex vivo NK cell cytotoxicity, serum micro ribonucleic acids (RNAs), plasma
      metabolites, and levels of Bruton's tyrosine kinase occupancy and other selected kinases.

      VII. To explore the relationship between pretreatment pathologic prognostic features and
      overall objective response.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) on days 1-21 and ibrutinib PO on days 1-28 (days
      2-28 of cycle 1). Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks and then every 6
      months thereafter.
    
  