
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) Research Group has explored and studied the epidemiology of
      DVT and pulmonary embolism (PE) for more than 2 decades. The earliest analyses were done with
      the database from the Framingham Heart Study. Subsequent analyses were undertaken using the
      Nurses' Health Study.

      More than 5 years ago the DVT FREE Registry was conceived. The concept was to accrue broad
      representation of patients with ultrasound-confirmed DVT throughout the US.

      The Principal Investigator began initial work on this project by developing the case report
      form (CRF) with Co-Investigators. After the CRF was piloted and finalized, centers were
      recruited for participation. The enthusiasm in response to DVT FREE was overwhelming. The
      initial investigators meetings were conducted by videoconference shortly after September 11,
      2001. Accrual of patients occurred much more rapidly than projected. Within 6 months, 5,451
      patients were enrolled with ultrasound-confirmed DVT at 183 participating institutions.

      Dr. Samuel Z. Goldhaber chaired the Publications Committee. The Master Paper was published in
      January 2004. 3 manuscripts on subgroups and 3 manuscripts on special populations were
      subsequently published under Dr. Goldhaber's supervision. The subgroup papers studied upper
      extremity DVT, the relationship between DVT and symptomatic DVT and PE, and predictors of
      massive DVT. The special populations papers studied gender differences in receiving
      prophylaxis, utilization of vena cava filters, and pregnancy.

      Though the publication record is impressive in scope, much work remains to be done. The
      database is rich in information of critical importance to health care providers. The
      information contained within the database should be analyzed to provide more detailed
      analyses which will be used for risk factor assessment and for decision-making regarding the
      implementation of VTE prophylaxis.

      For the current DVT FREE publication project, we will use the database to analyze findings
      that will yield 8 publications in special populations: 1) medically ill hospitalized
      patients, 2) cancer patients, 3) nonorthopedic general surgery patients, 4) orthopedic
      surgery patients, 5) long-haul travel patients, 6) COPD Patients, 7) Renal Patients, and 8)
      Elderly Patients.

      PROJECT DESCRIPTION:

        1. Medically Ill Hospitalized Patients:

           Medically ill hospitalized patients are the most important subgroup to study. These
           patients often do not receive guideline-recommended prophylaxis. We believe that
           medically ill hospitalized patients are underserved.

           For this DVT FREE publication, we will exclude all patients who had surgery within the
           past 3 months. We will also exclude women who were pregnant or postpartum. All other
           patients will be included in these analyses. They will be stratified according to age,
           height, weight, body mass index (BMI), gender, and whether they received prophylaxis.

        2. Cancer Patients:

           Cancer patients have received increasing attention because of the relationship between
           cancer and DVT. For example, the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) organized
           a special committee to write consensus guidelines for prevention and treatment of DVT in
           this patient population.

           For this DVT FREE publication, we will include all patients with cancer. We will also
           include whether the cancer was active and whether the patient is receiving ongoing
           radiation therapy or chemotherapy. These cancer patients will be stratified according to
           age, height, weight, BMI, gender, and whether they received prophylaxis.

        3. Nonorthopedic General Surgery Patients:

           For this DVT FREE publication, we will include all nonorthopedic general surgery
           patients. These patients will have undergone surgery within the 3 months prior to DVT.
           We will also explore the type of surgery (excluding orthopedic surgery) and type of
           anesthetic that was used. These patients will be stratified according to age, height,
           weight, BMI, gender, and whether they received prophylaxis.

        4. Orthopedic Surgery Patients:

           For this DVT FREE publication, we will include all orthopedic surgery patients. We will
           also include patients who suffered hip fracture, pelvic fracture, upper extremity
           fracture, lower extremity fracture, or other fracture within 30 days prior to
           enrollment. We will also include patients with major trauma to the spine, pelvis, or
           upper or lower extremities. These patients will be stratified according to age, height,
           weight, BMI, gender, and whether they received prophylaxis.

        5. Congestive Heart Failure (CHF)

        6. COPD Patients:

           For this DVT FREE publication, we will include all patients with COPD. These patients
           will be stratified according to age, height, weight, BMI, gender, and whether they
           received prophylaxis.

        7. Renal Patients:

           For this DVT FREE publication, we will include all renal patients. These patients will
           be stratified according to age, height, weight, BMI, gender, and whether they received
           prophylaxis.

        8. Elderly Patients:

      For this DVT FREE publication, we will include all elderly patients. For this study we will
      define elderly as 70 years of age or older. These patients will be stratified according to
      age, height, weight, BMI, gender, and whether they received prophylaxis.
    
  