
    
      Background:

        -  Patients with Neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1) have an increased risk of developing tumors of
           the central and peripheral nervous system, including plexiform neurofibromas (PN), which
           are benign nerve sheath tumors that are among the most debilitating complications of
           NF1. Plexiform neurofibromas may be congenital and appear to have the fastest growth
           rate in young children. There are no standard treatment options for PN other than
           surgery, which is often difficult due to the extensive growth and invasion of
           surrounding tissues.

        -  Plexiform neurofibromas are composed of neoplastic Schwann cells that lack NF1 gene
           expression resulting in upregulation of Ras, which initiates several signaling cascades
           regulating cell proliferation. In addition, PN over express epidermal and platelet
           derived growth factor receptor and vascular endothelial growth factors, which may
           promote angiogenesis.

        -  Sorafenib, a novel orally bioavailable, bi-aryl urea, is a potent inhibitor of raf
           kinase and a number of receptor tyrosine kinases, which is currently undergoing
           evaluation in adult cancers, and may mediate anti-tumor effects in PN by several
           mechanisms.

      Objectives:

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of oral sorafenib administered daily to
           pediatric patients with NF1 and inoperable PN.

        -  To define the acute and chronic toxicities, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of
           sorafenib.

        -  To evaluate for potential bone toxicities of sorafenib such as growth plate expansion
           and growth retardation using automated volumetric MRI analysis of growth plates,
           multiple measures for height and growth, dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry to evaluate
           bone mineral density, and laboratory measurements for evaluation of bone turnover and
           metabolism.

        -  To determine the effect of sorafenib on the growth rate of PN, quality of life, and
           cognitive function while on treatment with sorafenib.

      Eligibility:

      - Pediatric Patients (3-18 years) with NF1 and inoperable measurable PN that have the
      potential to cause significant morbidity.

      Design:

        -  Sorafenib will be administered orally BID on a continuous dosing schedule (28 days = 1
           treatment cycle). Limited dose escalations will be performed to define the MTD based on
           tolerability of sorafenib during the first three treatment cycles.

        -  Disease status will be evaluated using volumetric MRI analysis at regular intervals.

        -  The plasma pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of sorafenib will be evaluated.

        -  Cognitive function and quality of life outcomes will also be assessed in a pilot fashion
           to define measures to be used in subsequent phase II trials.
    
  