
    
      The anesthesia provided during shoulder surgery commonly uses a combination of regional and
      intravenous (IV) anesthetic medications. The current drug of choice for IV sedation is
      Propofol. Although. it is a good anesthetic, incidence of intermittent apnea makes the use of
      it problematic in cases where the head of the patient is less accessible to the
      anesthesiologist, as is in sitting beach char position. Dexmedetomidine is a FDA approved
      drug, which has a very stable cardiovascular and respiratory profile. It has been
      successfully used for Neurological and Vascular cases and in Intensive care units. The
      primary objective of the present study is to use Dexmedetomidine for sedation, and compare
      the outcomes with Propofol sedation. The investigators' will enroll 50 patients for this
      study. Using a computer program the participants will be randomized into two equal groups to
      receive either Dexmedetomidine or Propofol.

      The standard hospital procedure calls for the patient to undergo Interscalene block under
      ultrasound with or without nerve stimulation guidance prior to going to operating room (OR).
      The block utilizes a 40 ml mixture of 0.5% Ropivacaine and Lidocaine 1.5%. At this time the
      patient receives preliminary sedation with Midazolam 1mg IV and Fentanyl 50 mcg IV. The
      participant is then brought to the OR and prolonged sedation is initiated, randomly using
      either Dexmedetomidine or Propofol.

      Dexmedetomidine infusion is initiated with a bolus of 1 mcg/kg is given over 10 min as
      patient is being positioned, and the sedation is maintained with Dexmedetomidine at 0.7- 1.0
      mcg/kg/hr during the surgery. Propofol infusion is started at 100mcg/kg/min, and maintained
      with Propofol at 50-120mcg/kg/min, during the surgery.

      In each group the investigators will record the incidence of respiratory depression/hypoxia,
      hemodynamic stability, frequency of airway manipulation, cardiovascular effects, need for
      anesthetic supplementation of Dexmedetomidine, post anesthesia care unit (PACU) discharge
      time, the need for postoperative pain medication, post operative complications, like
      nausea/vomiting.

      Significant differences between the two groups will be evaluated using unpaired t-test for
      numerical variables, and Chi-square test or Z test for categorical variables.

      The investigators hypothesis is that Dexmedetomidine will cause fewer episodes of
      intermittent apnea, and reduced need for supplemental medication for sedation, compared to
      Propofol
    
  