
    
      200 subjects will be selected out of a pool of MSM patients in Dr. Stephen Goldstone's
      private medical practice, Laser Surgery Care, who have in the past and/or are currently being
      screened for anal dysplasia.

      Subjects who come into the office for a follow-up appointment for anal condyloma and/or anal
      dysplasia treatment will be asked to participate in the study. If written consent is
      provided, subjects will be asked to complete a written questionnaire.

      Subjects will also be selected out of a pool of patients who have been lost to follow-up,
      defined as having failed to come in for a follow-up visit > 12 months after their last
      appointment for treatment or screening for anal condyloma and/or anal dysplasia. These
      subjects will be contacted via telephone and asked to participate in a brief telephone
      interview (approximately 14 minutes in duration). The interview is identical to the written
      questionnaire. At the conclusion of the interview, subjects will be given the opportunity to
      schedule a follow-up appointment.

      Medical records for all subjects who agree to participate in the study will be used to
      confirm screening visit history as well as history and severity of dysplasia. In addition,
      HIV status will also be confirmed by review of the medical chart. Data will be entered into
      an anonymous medical record summary sheet. Information will then be entered into an
      electronic database identified only by subject number.

      Subjects will be divided into cohorts based on follow-up care seeking behavior: 1) those who
      come in for regular screening defined as at least once per year, 2) those who came in once
      and were lost to follow-up, 3) those who came in for more than one screening visit and were
      then lost to follow-up, and 4) those who were previously lost to follow-up and then began
      coming in for screening again. Questionnaire responses will be compared across cohorts to
      determine which variables differ significantly. t-Tests, one way, and multivariate analysis
      of variance, and correlation analysis will be used as indicated by variable type.

      Patients will not receive any compensation for their participation in the study.
    
  