
    
      Patients scheduled to undergo surgery with femoral (n = 50) and supraclavicular (n=50)
      anaesthesia (100 blocks total) gets included in this study. These 50 patients will be
      randomized equally using sealed opaque envelopes to two parallel groups: standard treatment
      UGRA (n=25) and SonoSites ANV® (n= 25) UGRA.

      An experienced anaesthesiologist from department of anaesthesiology, general intensive care
      and pain medicine will perform UGRA. Because of safety reasons and best assessment of needle
      visibility all UGRA in this study are going to performed with in-plane ultrasound technique.
      Needle length and gauge are standardized.

      The ultrasound imaging of each nerve block gets recorded onto a DVD for analysis. Recording
      of performed UGRA will start with placement of ultrasound probe and will finish with needle
      leaving the skin (procedure time), get stored, checked to exclude technical failures and
      analysed with a one second discrimination by two blinded observers for needle visibility. All
      information indicating ANV®-status on ultrasound image will be deleted. Hence for procedure
      and following analysis we will ensure that patient and the objective observer are blinded.

      Images with full needle visibility will be related to images without needle visibility. Time
      of needle visibility will be described in percent of procedure time.

      Enduring visualization of complete needle in ultrasound beam won't be given during the whole
      procedure. For differentiation of complete needle visibility, partial or no visibility in
      in-plane UGRA, we will use needles with ultrasound visible marks (echogenic needles). If the
      objective observers will visualize all 3 marks and pole of the needle in ultrasound-image,
      needle is completely in-plane and visible for analysis. For partial visibility of marks we
      will use a needle visibility grading dependent to number of visible marks (One mark = poor
      visibility, two marks = middle visibility, three marks=good visibility). If there won't be
      visible marks in ultrasound image, needle is in absence and gets evaluated as "not visible".

      Dependent to position of anatomic target structure each nerve block will need a different
      angle of needle insertion. This measured angle will be used to compare times of needle
      visibility dependent to insertion angle of the needle. Significant differences may appear
      especially in steep angles of needle.

      In this study we will use Naropin® (Ropivaciane, 7.5mg/ml) as local anaesthetic for all UGRA.
    
  