
    
      This mixed-method observational study will compare the short- and long-term effectiveness of
      two different delivery approaches of an exercise referral scheme (Exercise for Health, EFH).
      As the intervention is already in widespread use randomisation is not feasible, therefore a
      case control design is adopted to compare the effectiveness of an adapted EFH scheme
      (delivered at centre A) with the standard EFH scheme (delivered at centre B). Centre B is
      selected as the comparison centre due to its similarity to centre A on socio-demographic
      markers (e.g. number of EFH referrals, socioeconomic make-up of local population).

      Although the adapted scheme has not drawn overtly from Self-determination Theory (SDT), it is
      hypothesised that the adapted scheme promotes greater environmental support of SDT-based
      psychological needs for participants than the standard EFH scheme. Autonomy is promoted
      through the increased choice offered through daily sessions and the involvement of the
      patient in their decision whether to take up the scheme, competence is encouraged through the
      tailoring of classes to the ability of EFH participants and the opportunity to observe
      similar others, and relatedness is supported through the social assimilation of participants
      through regular group activities.

      It is hypothesised that:

        1. Both EFH delivery approaches will have beneficial effects on participants' self-reported
           PA, self-efficacy and psychological well-being post-intervention.

        2. Participants attending the adapted scheme will perceive greater needs support, greater
           psychological needs satisfaction and more autonomous motivation during and
           post-intervention; will have higher adherence to EFH; will have higher leisure centre
           attendance from post-intervention to 12 months and report higher PA levels at 12 months.

        3. Perceived needs support will predict psychological needs satisfaction during the
           intervention; psychological needs satisfaction during the intervention will predict
           autonomous motivation and psychological well-being post-intervention; post-intervention
           autonomous motivation will predict PA at 12 months and leisure centre attendance from
           post-intervention to 12 months.
    
  