
    
      Background and Overview

      This study will evaluate the efficacy of a newly developed self-management program, Health
      Mechanics, to develop and improve bladder and bowel management skills among persons with new
      and chronic SCI. Program participation is expected to prevent bladder and bowel related
      medical complications (e.g., constipation, leakage), leading to enhanced social participation
      and QOL. Health Mechanics was designed by the study PI, Dr. Meade, between 2007 and 2009 with
      funding from the Paralyzed Veteran's of America Education Foundation to assist persons with
      SCI develop and transfer the necessary skills to keep their bodies healthy while managing the
      many aspects of SCI care.

      This study will investigate the effectiveness of a telehealth version of Health Mechanics to
      enhance self-management skills related to neurogenic bladder and bowel management in an
      attempt to prevent associated complications and improve QOL. The study makes a unique
      contribution to rehabilitation by emphasizing the concepts of personal responsibility and
      control over one's health and life as a whole. By selecting a telehealth approach (here
      defined as telephone-based) for program implementation, the investigators also attempt to
      address the high cost of care delivery and lack of health care access to underserved
      populations with SCI living in remote areas of the State of Michigan.

      The Health Mechanics program is designed based on the needs and strengths of individuals with
      SCI while being responsive to identified gaps and challenges of health care provision in this
      population. The program focuses on enhancing skills, encouraging positive health behaviors
      and empowering people within their own environments, recognizing that people have different
      resources and abilities. For this study, the Health Mechanics program has been adapted to
      specifically focus on bladder and bowel management related concerns and to be administered
      via telephone, thus better addressing the needs of the rural population and
      transportation-related challenges.

      By teaching skills to better manage bladder and bowel health, this self-management program
      should not only reduce the occurrence of complications but it should also result in higher
      levels of social integration and QOL. Since the skills taught - attitude, self-monitoring,
      problem-solving, communication, organization and stress management - will be addressed in the
      context of performing the behaviors necessary to enhance bladder and bowel health, we expect
      them to generalize into other areas such that improvements in these skills result in better
      overall health and participation.

      Purpose and Objectives

      The proposed study's overall purpose is to evaluate the effects of Health Mechanics in
      preventing bladder and bowel complications and to improve QOL. The program specifically
      targets newly injured individuals for early prevention of complications, as well individuals
      with chronic injuries for later treatment and prevention of complications. Objectives are: 1)
      to improve self-management skills, including problem-solving, knowledge of health behaviors,
      and attitude about disability; 2) to increase adherence to recommended bladder and bowel
      management behaviors; 3) to improve bladder and bowel health and related QOL; and 4) to
      determine the extent that program improvements in terms of skills acquired are sustained over
      time. Short-term refers to 3 and 6 months assessments while long-term refers to the 12 month
      assessment. All hypotheses posit that, following the intervention, differences will exist
      such that participants in the Health Mechanics program will perform better than the control
      group (an assessment of between group differences) and that these differences will be
      sustained over time (an assessment of within and between group differences). It is expected
      that individuals with new injuries will improve over time regardless of group assignment,
      while individuals with chronic injuries are stabilized prior to admission to the study.
      Because of these naturally occurring differences in trajectory, we will be examining within
      and between group differences.

      Research Hypotheses

      H1: Program participants will show greater improvements in problem solving skills, healthy
      attitudes about disability and knowledge of SCI management skills than will the control
      group; these improvements will be sustained over time within and between groups.

      H2: Program participants will have greater adherence to recommended bladder and bowel
      management behaviors than the control group; these improvements will be sustained over time
      within and between groups.

      H3: Program participants will have fewer bladder and bowel complications than the members of
      the control group; these differences will be maintained over time within and between groups.

      H4: Program participants will have higher levels of QOL than the control group; these
      differences will be sustained over time within and between groups.
    
  