
    
      This phase II clinical trial is designed assess clinical outcomes following ablation by
      Single Dose Image Guided Radiotherapy (SDRT) in patients with oligometastatic (OM)
      presentation (1-5 clinically detectable lesions). For local tumor ablation the investigators
      will use the novel non-invasive and highly effective technique of SDRT which is capable of
      conferring long-term local relapse-free rates in approximately 90% of metastatic lesions
      independently of tumour histology. Historical series with various tumor histologies have
      shown subgroups of patients with an initial oligometastatic presentation respond to complete
      surgical removal of detectable deposits, yielding up to 20% disease-free survival at 10
      years. The study will determine response rates by metabolic criteria (i.e. PERCIST). Pre- and
      post-treatment assessment are performed by FDG (or other appropriate PET tracer) PET/CT scans
      with acquisition of information on lesion(s) location, volume and metabolic parameters.
      Changes in metabolic avidity post treatment can be used to evaluate the rates of complete
      metabolic response, stable disease and progression at the site(s) of SDRT to measure local
      relapse-free survival intervals (LRFS and the kinetics of tracer uptake may serve as a
      potential predictive tool of treatment response). Additionally, whole-body PET/CT scans can
      be used to assess distant metastasis-free progression, polymetatstasis-free survival (PMFS).
      Lesions which are not amenable to the SDRT approach due to the inability to safely fulfill
      dose/volume constraints, are consistently treated with a hypofractionated approach of three
      sessions of 9Gy, an established and safe treatment regimen. Comparisons in LRFS, persistence
      of the oligometastatic status, distant metastasis free-survival, poly-metastasis-free
      survival, interval between repeat treatments and overall survival will be evaluated
      evaluated. The impact of systemic treatment, as per current established clinical practices,
      will also be assessed.
    
  