
    
      In the US, 23% of pregnant women undergo labor induction. A recent randomized controlled
      trial showed that elective labor induction at term in low-risk nulliparous women is
      associated with a lower risk of cesarean delivery and preeclampsia, with no increase in
      adverse perinatal morbidities. Hence, one can assume that labor induction rates will
      increase. The majority of women undergoing induction have unfavorable cervixes and require
      cervical ripening agents. Dilapan-S®, a hygroscopic cervical dilator made from a patented
      hydrogel (AQUACRYL), has been used in the past for cervical ripening for early gestation
      uterine evacuation. Dilapan-S® was approved by the FDA for cervical ripening in the third
      trimester in 2015.

      The Dilapan-S® rods are inserted into the cervical canal, are contained within the vagina,
      and do not require tension. Dilapan-S® works by absorbing fluid from cervical canal cells,
      resulting in reversible cell membrane dehydration and softening. In addition, the increase in
      the rod's volume creates a mechanical stretch and leads to the release of endogenous
      prostaglandins, causing cervical ripening. Recently, a multicenter prospective cohort study
      showed that Dilapan-S® is a safe and effective method for cervical ripening in term
      gestations. Lastly, our group performed non-inferiority randomized clinical trial comparing
      Dilapan-S® to Foley balloon for cervical ripening in term pregnancies and found that
      Dilapan-S® is non-inferior to Foley balloon for pre-induction cervical ripening at term.

      The Dilapan-S® rods are inserted into the cervical canal, are contained within the vagina,
      and do not require tension. Dilapan-S® works by absorbing fluid from cervical canal cells,
      resulting in reversible cell membrane dehydration and softening. In addition, the increase in
      the rod's volume creates a mechanical stretch and leads to the release of endogenous
      prostaglandins, causing cervical ripening. Advantages of Dilapan-S® over Foley include FDA
      approval, safe profile, no protrusion from the introitus, no need to keep under tension and
      better patient satisfaction.
    
  