
    
      This is a phase IV, single-arm, open-label clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety
      of PLACENTEX 速 Polydeoxyribonucleotide 5.625 mg/3 ml for parenteral use i.m. in patients with
      fibrotic and atrophic cutaneous lesions in scleroderma diseases during the inactive stage of
      the disease (experiencing dystrophic outcomes of the disease with no inflammatory component
      at the time of enrolment). A total of n. 45 patients (including drop-outs, who will not be
      replaced) will be enrolled in this study.

      The patients enrolled will be evaluated at study site at screening (V1), then after 3 months
      of treatment with PLACENTEX 速 Polydeoxyribonucleotide 5.625 mg/3 ml for parenteral use (one
      vial per day for intra-muscular administration) (V2). After completion of the study treatment
      period, the patients will be followed for an additional period of 3 months without study
      medication, in which the patient will visit the site for the last visit (V3).

      The IMP units will be dispensed to the patient at the study site at visit 1 (Screening
      Visit). Patients will be instructed to store IMP at room temperature and to return all used
      empty secondary packages and unused IMP units at visit 2 (End of Treatment Visit), at this
      time the Investigator/site coordinator will assess the patient's compliance with the
      prescribed regimen for the study medication. Compliance with the dosing regimen will be
      determined by performing IMP accountability of returned boxes of the IMP used and IMP unused
      units at visit 2 (End of Treatment Visit). Accountability records will be maintained during
      the study.

      In order to prevent any interference in the evaluation of PLACENTEX 速 Polydeoxyribonucleotide
      5.625 mg/3 ml by prior therapies (corticosteroids, immune-suppressive agents) a wash-out
      period of 1 month has been planned before starting the investigational treatment. Such period
      will allow also to be definitely sure of the stability of inactive stage of the disease.

      Treatment with steroid therapy and/or systemic immunosuppressive therapy within 1 month prior
      to screening visit are therefore not allowed. Additionally, the patient will be requested not
      to take local/systemic corticosteroids or local/systemic immunosuppressive therapy during the
      study period.

      In case of non-response to the treatment with PLACENTEX 速 or in case of worsening of the
      disease, the patient will be withdrawn from the study and an alternative treatment will be
      considered by Investigator on a case-by-case basis.

      During the study period the following assessments will be performed:

        -  Photography of target cutaneous lesion, to record size and location.

        -  Tele-thermography of target cutaneous lesion, to record the characteristics of heat loss
           and store TT images of the lesion.

        -  Ultrasound evaluation of target cutaneous lesion, to record the subcutaneous measuring
           parameters indicative of the disease (thickness of subcutaneous adipose layer, etc.)

        -  Clinical evaluation of patient's cutaneous lesions. A score (LOSCAT Score) from 0 (none)
           to 3 (high) will be calculated with regard to the presence of atrophy and sclerosis.

        -  A biopsy sample will be collected from target cutaneous lesion for subsequent
           histological analysis. A score from 0 (none) to 3 (high) will be calculated with regard
           to the presence of epidermal, dermal, hypodermic and skin appendages atrophy as well as
           dermal and hypodermic sclerosis.

        -  A self-administered Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) from patient, to collect
           information with particular regard to quality of life, difficulty in walking, loss of
           function.

        -  Evaluation of the target cutaneous lesion through a SkinFibrometer, to measure the
           degree of induration of skin.

        -  Vital signs will be measured.

        -  Concomitant medications and medical history will be recorded.

      Local laboratory assessments will be performed in order to confirm the safety of the drug
      treatment, as absence of inflammation or clinical worsening following treatment with drug,
      according to Investigator's judgment. When abnormal laboratory values or test results
      constitute an adverse event (i.e., induces clinical signs/symptoms or requires therapy) they
      must be recorded on the Adverse Events e-CRF page.

      Vital signs (heart rate and blood pressure) will be completed at screening visit. Blood
      pressure and heart rate will be recorded in a sitting position after resting for 5 minutes,
      instead Physical examination will be performed at all scheduled visits. Significant findings
      present prior to the start of the study medication treatment must be included in the relevant
      medical history or current medical history condition in the e-CRF.

      Significant findings after the start of the study which meet the definition of an adverse
      event must be recorded in appropriate place in the e-CRF and evaluated by the Investigators.

      In the study, any event occurring after that patient has signed the Informed Consent, should
      be considered and recorded as an AE. Adverse events, especially those for which the
      relationship to the study drug is possible, probable or remote, should be followed up until
      they have stabilized.The Sponsor, via PhV responsabile is responsible for reporting all
      applicable SAEs and SUSARs to Regulatory authorities, Investigators, and IECs, as applicable,
      in accordance with national regulations in the countries where the study is conducted.

      All analyses will be performed using SAS v. 9.2 (Statistical Analysis System - New Cary USA)
      or later in Microsoft Windows 7 Professional environment.

      For patients with missing values will be applied the Last Observation Carried Forward (LOCF)
      approach. All variables will be summarized using appropriate descriptive statistics (mean,
      standard deviation, median and range for continuous variables, and frequencies and
      percentages for categorical variables) followed by the calculation of 95% Confidence
      interval, if pertinent and applicable. A two-tailed alpha level of 0.05 will be used for each
      statistical test. All treated patients will be included in the Intention-To-Treat population
      (ITT).
    
  