
    
      Purpose: To determine the safety, feasibility and effectiveness (clinical and radiological)
      of intra-articular administration of autologous mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) with platelet
      richa plasma (PRGF®) in patients with knee osteoarthritis.

      Patients and methods

      Clinical trial phase I- II, randomized , multicenter , with two treatment arms and 19
      patients for each group. The investigators compare the intraarticular injection of against
      the administration of two different doses of mesenchymal stem cells with hialuronic acid
      according to the following scheme:

        1. Group A: 3 intra-articular injections of platelet richa plasma (PRGF®) separated by 7
           days.

        2. Group B: 3 intra-articular injections of platelet richa plasma (PRGF®) separated by 7
           days and one with Mesenchimal stem cell. Intra-articular injection of 100 million
           autologous mesenchymal progenitor stem cells cultured ex - vivo (cell suspension sterile
           small volume (5-10 ml ) in a vehicle suitable for intraarticular injection ) followed by
           an intraarticular injection of platelet richa plasma (PRGF®). The treatment is completed
           with 2 more injection of platelet richa plasma (PRGF®) separeted by one week.

      The autologous mesenchymal stem cells are obtained from the iliac crest under local
      anesthesia and sedation. They are cultured ex vivo The primary endpoint is safety and
      feasibility. The investigators registered the occurrence of complications and / or adverse
      effects during the study.

      In addition the investigators assess the response to intra-articular infusion of CMM
      analyzing the following parameters:

        -  Clinical assessment of pain and function (Baseline, 1, 3, 6 and 12 months since
           treatment): VAS , WOMAC , KOOS , EuroQol, SF-16, Lequesne , WOMAC , KOOS.

        -  Radiographic (baseline, 6 and 12 months since treatment): Femorotibial space.

        -  Radiographic using MRI (baseline, 6 and 12 months since treatment): by assessing the
           number location of the lesions , cartilage thickness , signal intensity , subchondral
           bone alteration , volume and WORMS and dGEMRIC protocols.

      All patients met the following inclusion and exclusion criteria:
    
  