
    
      Rationale: The focus of this project is to develop a strategy to combat medication associated
      weight gain, the most problematic side effect of the newer antipsychotic medications.
      Improvements in long-term health outcomes might then be expected to change quality of life,
      promote treatment adherence, rehabilitative potential, and decrease resource utilization.

      Procedures:

      Half of the patients will randomized to the behavioral weight loss program (Lifestyle Balance
      Program) and do the following: Meet with their psychiatrist and a nutritionist who will go
      over diet recommendations with the patient Given a 7% weight loss goal Assisted in obtaining
      a 500 calorie reduction per day Asked to exercise for at least 30 min/day, at least 5 days a
      week Maintain weekly food and exercise diaries Be quizzed on their knowledge of healthy
      eating habits and nutrition

      The other half of the patients will be randomized to "Usual Care" and will:

      Receive pamphlets about Lifestyle Balance, starting exercise, and general nutritional
      information regarding food pyramids and the amount of calories in fast foods.

      Be encouraged to exercise and eat a healthy diet Not receive classes on nutrition or exercise
      Be seen on the same schedule as the experimental group, in order to equalize contact time.

      After six months, if patients in the "usual care group" wish to participate in the more
      rigorous behavioral weight loss program they will be given that opportunity.

      Visits:

      Time Line:

      Each subject will be followed for one year. Healthy Lifestyles courses will take eight weeks
      to complete. Visits will be monthly for the remaining 12 months Enrollment: 120 patients
      Course of study: October 2005-October 2008

      At Beginning and Termination:

      Informed Consent (at start of study only) Psychiatric interviews and assessments Physical
      Examination Framingham risk assessment for cardiovascular disease Electrocardiogram Lipid
      Profile, fasting glucose, Hemoglobin A1C

      At Each Visit:

      Vitals, weight, waist circumference, BMI, and % Fat Food and exercise diaries will be
      reviewed

      At Month One and Month Six:

      Lipid Profile, fasting glucose, Hemoglobin A1C Electrocardiogram Psychiatric assessments

      At Month Nine:

      Lipid Profile, fasting glucose, Hemoglobin A1C Electrocardiogram

      Clinical Care:

      All patients will continue their clinical care with their current psychiatrist and general
      physician. Medications will not be manipulated for the purpose of this study.

      Incentives:

      The group participating in the behavioral intervention program will receive rewards for
      achieving weight loss goals and be given incentives such as a pedometer and Slimfast meal
      replacements.
    
  