
    
      STUDY DESIGN This study is a multicenter registry held in China main land. A total of 1,000
      diabetic patients with coronary artery disease and receive RESOLUTE zotarolimus eluting
      stents implantation from 20 study centers will be enrolled. The estimated follow-up duration
      is 12-month. Clinical events, laboratory examination results and related data will be
      recorded in the time point of 30 days, 6-month and 12-month. Patients who quit half-way
      cannot be replaced and the reasons should be reported.

      All data collection and management, analysis and supervision will be accomplished by
      independent study institution.

      STUDY POPULATION All 1,000 patients enrolled in this registry and receive RESOLUTE
      zotarolimus eluting stents implantation should be diagnosed as type 2 diabetes previously or
      during hospital before PCI procedure. Glucose level (fast and 2h post-meal), HbA1c and all
      medications should be recorded before enrollment and all through follow-up period.

      STUDY DURATION The estimated follow-up duration is 12-month. Clinical events, laboratory
      examination results and related data will be recorded in the time point of 30 days, 6-month
      and 12-month.

      STUDY PROCESS Patients sign the informed consent and should be provided with a signed and
      dated copy.

      Interventional process (from PCI to discharge): The stent implantation process should be
      consistent with the international standard procedure guideline. Other PCI techniques,
      including atherectomy, intravascular ultrasound, optical interference laminagraphy, pressure
      guide wire technology, intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation and so on can be used according
      to the opinion of the operators.

      Antiplatelet drugs and anticoagulant therapy is determined by each study center. The use of
      glucoprotein Ⅱb/Ⅲa inhibitor and other antiplatelet drugs such as ciloprost is determined by
      the operators.

      The standard of instrument success and procedure success:

      Standard of instrument success: After successful convery of RESOLUTE stent system and
      successful implantation, the remaining stenosis rate in diameter less than 50% with TIMI
      grade 3, without using other interventional techniques.

      Standard of procedure success: With all kinds of interventional therapy, the remaining
      stenosis rate in diameter is less than 20% (ocular estimation), without occurrence of death,
      myocardial infarction and target lesion revascularization during hospitalization.

      Post-procedural follow-up After stent implantation, each patient will be followed up at time
      point of 30-day, 6-month and 12-month. The follow-up includes angina evaluation (according to
      Canadian Cardiovascular Society Classification and Braunwald Classification of unstable
      angina). Glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c), fast glucose level, Total Cholesterol, LDL level.
      Clinical events including death, myocardial infarction, ST, stroke, bleeding and any
      revascularization.

      Quantification of angiography (QCA) All angiographic results of baseline and immediately
      post-procedure will be sent to the laboratory of SNOC medical technology to do an independent
      QCA analysis with MEDCON TCS QCA software. Reference vessel diameter (RVD), minimal lumen
      diameter (MLD), stent length, stenosis percent (in diameter) and other related data will be
      reevaluated.

      ADVERSE EVENT REPORT PROCESS Adverse events supervision committee The Clinical Events
      Committee (CEC) is composed of interventional experts who have no relationship with Medtronic
      and all study centers, and they will not directly attend the current study. CEC will
      supervise and determine the events according to the current guidelines as well as the
      regulations that immobilized to the current study. CEC will also do the inspection and
      determination according to the study endpoints that are based on the systemic analysis of the
      raw data collection, electrocardiogram, angiography and so on to ensure a central, systemic,
      standardized, independent and impartial evaluate process.

      Definition of adverse events and coping management The adverse events refers to any
      unacceptable clinical events which may resulted from the instruments, Zotarolimus, operative
      procedure or drugs that are necessary for the study (for example, aspirin or Plavix).

      Self-consciously reported adverse events are encouraged in the current study. Any time during
      the follow-up, patients can inquire the information about likely adverse events directly to
      the main center. If an adverse event is determined, all the related information should be
      collected and related tables should be fulfilled immediately by the researchers.

      Severe adverse event (SAE) Severe adverse events refer to death, life-threatening disease or
      injury, permanent impairment to body structure or function, prolonged hospital stay or
      hospitalization, congenital anomaly is induced and events likely judged by CEC. All the
      severe adverse events should be reported as SAE.

      Any time SAE occurs, regardless of the relationship with the study product, proper
      therapeutic measure should be loading on immediately. At the meantime, a case report
      including SAE specific report table should be sent to the main researcher, register and
      supervisor by telephone or email within 24 hours. The report to related administration within
      prescriptive time window should be also carried out in order to assist the inquiry held by
      the competent department and take proper strategy to redress the protocol and ensure
      prevention measure.

      Follow-up duration after adverse events All adverse events should be followed-up and treated
      until resolved or acquire a stable endpoint

      Premature termination of the study case may resulted by the following reasons:

        1. Patent's decision to quit.

        2. Fail to follow-up: a written form mail of verification should be sent to the patient who
           can't be contacted by telephone. If all the communication fails, the case should be
           marked as fail to follow-up.

      Reasons of quit

      It should be encouraged to provide information during follow-up. If the patient decide to
      quit, the reason should be recorded immediately. Possible reasons may include:

        1. . Patient's decision and informed consent retracted.

        2. . Adverse events: patients should be followed up until fully recovered or acquire
           clinically stable.

      3）Fail to follow-up: a written form mail of verification should be sent to the patient who
      can't be contacted by telephone. If all the communication fails, the case should be marked as
      fail to follow-up. Once there is a chance to confirm patient's condition, it should also be
      recorded.

      Interrupted cases should be included for research analysis.
    
  