
    
      1. Children who require immediate full mouth rehabilitation under general anaesthesia will
           be recruited from the General Anesthesia (GA) unit in the Department of Pediatric
           Dentistry, Faculty of Oral and Dental Medicine, Cairo University.

        2. Two postgraduate students will be filling the patient's assessment chart as shown in
           appendices prior to treatment. They will measure the canine overlap. The measurements
           will be made in the maximum intercuspation position (MIP) in the centric occlusion (CO)
           guided by the operators' hand.

        3. Before general anesthesia, an anesthesiologist and an internal medicine specialist will
           examine participating children, and the necessary preclinical tests will be requested.

        4. On the day of the procedure, parents of the participants will fill a questionnaire
           asking for previous dental treatments of the child and his/her medical history and
           acceptance to join the study (written consent).

        5. The vertical overlap of both upper and lower primary canines shall be determined by
           locating the meeting tip of the cusp of the upper primary canine over the lower primary
           canine at the right and left sides using a sharp pencil.

        6. The distance from this point to the tip of the lower primary canine shall be determined
           using a digital caliper (Shenzhen Jiabaili Electronic Commerce Co., Ltd), and the
           reading will be photographed by a digital camera (iPhone 11 dual 12 MP Ultra-Wide and
           wide camera, Apple Inc.).

        7. The highest part of the drawn line will be considered as the reference line. For further
           accuracy, this will be repeated twice, and in case of the presence of a difference, the
           measurement will be repeated for the third time, and the mean of the values will be
           calculated.

        8. The treatment will be performed under general anesthesia, tooth preparation will be
           done, and the eight Stainless-steel Crowns (3M™ ESPE™ Stainless Steel Primary Molar
           Crowns) will be seated.

        9. The measured values will be recorded preoperatively and immediately after the treatment
           while the patient is unconscious.

       10. Pre-operative determination of the vertical overlap of the upper and lower primary
           canines will be done; after placement during the operation and after 2, 4 months follow
           up period.

       11. If the pre-operative overlap is not restored after four months, investigators will
           continue to follow up for six months.
    
  