
    
      The incidence of bladder tumors is increasing and is more than 2,000 in Denmark. The bladder
      tumor is initially treated by transurethral resection (TURB) classifying the tumor by debt of
      invasion. The bladder wall is composed of urothelium, lamina propria and muscularis propria
      also known as the detrusor muscle. Bladder cancer (BC), defined as detrusor-muscle invasive
      tumors, are found in approximately 50% of bladder tumors. BC is the seventh most common
      cancer disease among men worldwide, and the fourth most common cancer in men in Denmark.
      Superficial bladder tumors can be treated with TURB whereas BC is treated with radical
      cystectomy. Thus, it is of utmost importance that TURB is done with sufficient resection of
      the detrusor muscle to ensure that the patient is staged correctly to optimise treatment.

      TURB was first described and performed by Desormeaux in 1867 and the obstacles for the
      surgeon remain the same more the 150 years after. TUR-B demands haptic skills, the ability to
      identify the layers of the bladder wall, the ability to perceive the stiffness of the tissue
      through radial and tangential movements and the ability to translate two-dimensional pictures
      to a three-dimensional understanding and at the same time move surgical instruments around an
      axis.

      As TUR-B is performed through the urethra with one scope only, the learner is left with
      observation of the master until the day occurs where the learner is trusted the scope. Thus,
      the gap between seeing and doing TURB remains significant.

      The outcome of TURB have been shown to be dependent on surgeon-experience, with a higher risk
      for insufficient resections with lower surgeon experience. A recent Canadian study from a
      single centre showed that resident involvement in TUR-B had fewer complete resections
      including the detrusor muscle layer in the pathological specimen and patients had delayed
      time to cystectomy when compared to patients who had the TUR-B performed by attending
      urologists. Thus, both patient safety and quality of care are compromised when residents are
      involved in the treatment and staging of patients with bladder tumors.

      The current education in TURB in Denmark is based on classical apprenticeship as it has been
      for the last 150 years, with the resident learning from a supervisor while performing TURB on
      patients.

      Needs assessment analyses among specialists in urology and medical education in Denmark in
      2017 identified TURB as a procedure in which simulation based skill acquisition are desired.

      Simulation-based training is increasingly used in medical education. The opportunity to train
      a procedure repeatedly in a secure, stress-free environment with several different scenarios
      is appealing. Even though simulation-based training carries these promising opportunities,
      the challenge, when introducing simulation-based training, is to identify if the training
      transfer to actually improved performance on patients. Thus, we need to test if the simulator
      training leads to a level of minimum competency before progressing to performance on
      patients. A minimum passing standard should not be defined by amount of training, but by
      simulator performance outcomes.

      Thus, we need to define test outcomes that identify competency before introducing a
      simulation-based test. Mastery learning (ML) is an educational theory in which the learner is
      to train until reaching a minimum acquisition level. The endpoint of the training is hereby a
      predefined competency level, and not an arbitrary amount of training hours. In the light of
      the ML framework the principle of directed self-regulated learning (DSRL) has evoked. DSRL is
      a learning-approach where the student regulates his/her own progress through a defined
      training protocol without guidance from an instructor. The theory is that this approach
      provides the student the opportunity to develop own strategies and to learn from mistakes,
      while also increasing the availability of training independent of supervision from a busy
      faculty.(20) DSRL can be modified to ensure that the learner do not learn unappropriated
      methods by either written theoretical material, video instructions, a non-expert assistant or
      all of them. Thus, the purpose of this trial is to develop and gather validity evidence for a
      simulator-based test in TURB based on the principles of ML and DSRL.

      Hypothesis Overall: A simulator-based test can identify competency-levels with regard to a
      score based simulator metrics.

      Aim of project To develop and gather validity evidence for a simulator-based test in TURB.

      Research Question

        -  Can the test discriminate between varying competency levels?

        -  Can we establish a level of competency by a test in simulator-based TURB training?
    
  