
    
      Background: Eradication of Helicobacter pylori (Hp) infection is well recognized as the
      initial therapy for early-stage low-grade gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue-type
      lymphoma (lg-MALT lymphoma). On the other hand, high-grade transformed MALT lymphoma (hg-MALT
      lymphoma) is generally considered to arise from Hp-independent clones and thus to be unlikely
      to respond to antibiotic therapy. Our previous prospective studies have firstly demonstrated
      that 1st-line antibiotic therapy could achieve durable complete histological remission in
      two-third of Hp-positive stage IE hg-MALT lymphoma (Chen et al., J. Clin. Oncol., 2001), in
      which the long-term clinical outcomes were equivalent to those achievable in lg-MALT lymphoma
      (Chen et al. J Natl Cancer Inst, accepted). In addition, our laboratory studies have
      confirmed that t(11;18) translocation is associated with loss of Hp-dependence in lg-MALT
      lymphoma but infrequently found in high-grade tumors. We also found that nuclear
      translocation of NF-kB or BCL-10 (by immunohistochemical, IHC, staining) were useful markers
      to predict the Hp-dependence of both early-stage gastric hg- and lg-MALT lymphoma to
      antibiotic therapy (Kuo et al. JCO 2004 & Yeh et al. Blood 2005). In addition, recent data
      suggested cytochrome CYP2C18/19 genetic polymorphisms are associated with the metabolism of
      omeprazole, and thus the genotype of such enzymes might affect the efficacy of antibiotics
      for eradication of Hp infection.

      Aims: A nationwide study to prospectively validate

        1. The complete histological and molecular remission rate for antibiotics as 1st-line
           therapy for Hp-positive early-stage gastric lg- and hg-MALT lymphoma

        2. The durability of complete histological remission after antibiotics

        3. The usefulness of pattern of NF-kB and BCL-10 by IHC staining in prospectively
           predicting the Hp-dependence of gastric lg- and hg-MALT lymphoma

        4. The frequency of t(11;18) translocation in gastric lg- and hg-MALT lymphoma in Taiwan.

        5. The association between the CYP2C18/19 genetic polymorphisms and eradication of Hp
           infection after antibiotics.

      Materials and Methods: Patients with newly, histologically proven stage IE / IIE-1 gastric
      lg- and hg-MALT lymphoma are eligible. Pre-treatment Hp infection status will be determined
      by histology, rapid urease test and serology. At time of registration, patients should agree
      to provide endoscopic biopsy specimen, including eight 4-mm histologic section for
      immunohistochemical study of NF-kB and BCL-10 and three 10-mm of section in eppendorf tube
      for RNA extraction and subsequent RT-PCR for t(11;18) translocation determination, which will
      be performed at the central laboratory. In addition, serum (from 5 mL of coagulated blood) as
      well as peripheral blood mononuclear cells (from 3 mL of heparized blood) will also collected
      before treatment for Hp-serology and CYP 2C18/19 genetic polymorphism detection,
      respectively. Hp-positive patients will receive 2-week of triple therapy, consisting of
      omeprazole, amoxicillin and clarithromycin (OAC regimen), and have first follow-up endoscopy
      4 weeks later to determine the status of Hp infection and tumor response. Patients will then
      have sequential follow-up endoscopic examinations every 3 months until complete histological
      remission (CR) or disease progression; then every 6 months for complete responders. Patients
      with hg-MALT lymphoma who have stable or progressive disease after Hp eradication will
      immediately refer for systemic chemotherapy. CR was defined as regression of lymphoid
      infiltration to Wotherspoon's score <2 on all pathological sections of endoscopic biopsy
      specimens. The predictive value of NF-kB, BCL-10 and t(11;18) for complete histological
      remission after Hp eradication will be determined.

      Expected Results: 1st-line antibiotic therapy will achieve complete histologic remission in
      70-80% of Hp-positive stage IE gastric lg-MALT lymphoma and in 50-60% of stage IE hg-MALT
      lymphoma. The objective histologic CR rate in stage IIE-1 disease may be 30-40% for low-grade
      tumor and 20-30% for high-grade ones. The sensitivity and specificity of NF-kB and BCL-10
      positive nuclear staining by IHC and of t(11;18) in predicting the Hp-independence will be
      both 80 - 90%. Ten - twenty per cent of enrolled patients will have CYP2C19 m1/m1, m1/m2 or
      m2/m2 genotypes (considered as omeprazole poor metabolizer), and they might have higher Hp
      eradication rate than those extensive metabolizers .
    
  