
    
      Background for Study:

      Testosterone is the main sex hormone for males. Cancer, cancer treatments and cancer symptoms
      can cause its levels in the body to drop below normal. When testosterone is taken as a drug
      (called "testosterone replacement therapy"), this therapy is designed to return the
      testosterone levels to normal. This may help to control symptoms of low testosterone levels,
      which may include fatigue.

      In addition to fatigue, low testosterone levels may also cause depression, loss of sexual
      desire, loss of appetite, and/or physical changes such as effects on strength, stamina
      (long-lasting strength and energy), energy level, and body composition. In this study,
      researchers also want to learn how testosterone therapy may affect these other symptoms that
      may occur. To measure these effects, questionnaires and other tests will be used.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 groups. One group will receive testosterone, and the other
      group will receive a placebo. A placebo is a substance that looks like the study drug but has
      no active ingredients. There is an equal chance that you will be assigned to either group.

      Neither you, the study doctor, nor the study staff will know whether you are receiving
      testosterone or placebo until Day 72. However, if needed for your safety, the study doctor
      and staff will be able to find out which one you are receiving.

      You will receive testosterone or placebo by injection into your buttock muscle, about every
      15 days until Day 72 (+/- 3 days). This is at baseline (+/- 3 days), Day 15 (+/- 3 days), Day
      29 (+/- 3 days), Day 43 (+/- 3 days), and Day 57 (+/- 3 days).

      As part of the routine blood tests performed at your study visits, your testosterone levels
      will be measured. If your testosterone level is too high, your testosterone/placebo dose will
      be lowered. If your testosterone level is too low, your testosterone/placebo dose will be
      raised.

      Baseline Visit:

      On Day 1, you will have a series of tests performed.

      Your strength and stamina will be measured by hand-grip strength tests, a Get-Up-and-Go test
      and a 6-minute walk test.

        -  For the hand-grip strength tests, you will grip a device with your hand as hard as you
           can. You will repeat both of these tests 3 times for each hand.

        -  For the Get-Up-and-Go test, you will be timed to see how long it takes you to get up
           from sitting in a chair, walk 10 feet, turn around and walk back to the chair, and sit
           down.

        -  For the 6-minute walk test, you will be timed while you walk on a 100-foot loop. You
           will walk 50 feet and then turn and walk back to the beginning. You will do this at a
           walking speed that feels comfortable and for as many times as you can in 6 minutes.

      A muscle on your upper arm will be measured. This will be the arm you do not normally use for
      writing.

      You will be weighed on a scale that measures your body composition. Body composition includes
      measurements of your body fat, "lean" (non-fat) body weight, and how much water is in your
      body.

      Blood (about 1-2 tablespoons) will be drawn for research on inflammation, other proteins and
      hormones. These tests are designed to help researchers learn if testosterone affects
      inflammation and/or fatigue, and if increased levels of certain hormones may help increase
      muscle and appetite.

      You will be given a device called an Actiwatch, which is worn like a wristwatch. It will
      measure your physical activity. The research staff will show you how to use it. You should
      wear it through Day 29 of the study. You will return it at your Day 15 and Day 29 study
      visit.

      Other Study Visits:

      On Days 15, 29, 43, 57 and 72 (all +/- 3 days), the following tests and procedures will be
      performed:

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will complete questionnaires.

        -  Your strength and stamina, arm muscle, and body composition will be measured.

        -  A medical history and physical exam will be performed on Day 29 (+/-3 days) and Day 72
           (+/3 days)

      If your questionnaire responses show that you may be having emotional difficulties or
      depression, you will be provided with names of mental health providers in case you would like
      to receive mental health screening.

      Length of Study:

      You may remain on study until Day 72. You will be taken off study early if intolerable side
      effects occur, the cancer gets worse, or the fatigue gets worse.

      Optional Open-Label Testosterone Dosing:

      At your Day 72 visit, you will find out if you were receiving testosterone or placebo. Those
      participants who were receiving testosterone will be given the option to keep receiving
      testosterone (off-study). Those participants who were receiving the placebo will also be
      given the option to receive testosterone (off-study). This is called "Open-Label Testosterone
      Dosing."

      If you choose to receive testosterone off-study after Day 72, you will receive testosterone
      by injection into your buttock muscle.

      This is an investigational study. Testosterone replacement therapy is commercially available
      and FDA approved for use in men with HIV, for treating low testosterone levels and fatigue.
      (HIV is a virus that affects the immune system.) At this time, it is investigational to use
      testosterone replacement therapy to treat low testosterone levels and fatigue in patients
      with cancer.

      Up to 126 patients will take part in this multicenter study. Up to 80 patients will be
      enrolled at M. D. Anderson Cancer Center.
    
  