
    
      All subjects will take lorcaserin and phentermine-HCl/placebo once in the morning and again
      in the mid-afternoon. The dosing is timed to help reduce potential insomnia due to
      phentermine. Subjects in Arm A will take one tablet twice daily of lorcaserin 10 mg in
      combination with one capsule twice daily of phentermine placebo. Subjects in Arm B will take
      one tablet twice daily of lorcaserin 10 mg, one capsule of phentermine-HCl 15 mg once daily
      in the morning, and one capsule of phentermine placebo once daily in the mid-afternoon.
      Subjects in Arm C will take one tablet twice daily of lorcaserin 10 mg in combination with
      one capsule twice daily of phentermine-HCl 15 mg. Subjects will be instructed to take
      lorcaserin tablets and phentermine/placebo capsules concurrently and attempt to remain on a
      consistent daily schedule. The study will recruit obese (body mass index [BMI] greater than
      or equal to 30 kg/m2) subjects with or without a weight-related comorbid condition (e.g.,
      hypertension, dyslipidemia, or sleep apnea) or overweight (BMI greater than or equal to 27 to
      29.9 kg/m2) subjects with at least one weight-related co-morbid condition. At least one third
      of the subjects will have a BMI of 40 kg/m2 or greater, because there is a high likelihood
      that this combination therapy will be used by these subjects in medical practice.

      A lifestyle intervention program, using a 12-week adaptation of the Arena Healthy Lifestyles
      Program, including diet and exercise counseling, will be implemented for obesity/overweight.

      Blood sampling will be performed to evaluate the pharmacokinetics (PK) of lorcaserin and
      phentermine using population PK modeling as well as the potential relationships between
      exposure to the lorcaserin/phentermine and measures of safety and change from baseline in
      body weight, using population PK/PD (pharmacodynamics) modeling.
    
  