
    
      BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE In preterm infants receiving supplemental oxygen, routine manual
      control (RMC) of the fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) is often difficult and time
      consuming. The investigators developed a system for closed-loop automatic control (SPOC) of
      the FiO2. The objective of this study is to test a revised, "new" algorithm with 3 adaptions
      against the former "old" algorithm and against RMC. The 3 adaptions are:

        1. Faster re-adjustment to baseline-FiO2 (baseline FiO2: mean FiO2 during the previous
           5min)

        2. Delayed reduction of FiO2 below baseline FiO2

        3. Maximum FiO2 adjustable by user

      The first primary hypothesis is, that the application of SPOCnew in addition to RMC results
      in more time within arterial oxygen saturation (SpO2) target range compared to RMC only. The
      a-priori subordinate hypothesis is, that the revised algorithm is more effective as the old
      algorithm to maintain the SpO2 in the target range.

      The second primary hypothesis is, that the shortening of averaging time used for the SpO2
      Signal from 8 seconds to 2 seconds results in more time within SpO2 target range for both,
      SPOCnew and SPOCold.

      Further hypotheses for exploratory testing are, that the SPOC new algorithm will achieve a
      lower proportion of time with SpO2 above and below the target range, hyper- and hypoxia and
      an improved stability of cerebral oxygenation (measured as rcStO2 and rcFtO2E determined by
      Near-infrared spectroscopy) compared with SPOCold and RMC. Reduction of staff workload
      (estimated by number of manual adjustments per hour) by SPOC. Validation of a clinical
      scoring tool to monitor severity of apnea of prematurity.

      STUDY DESIGN The Study is designed as a single-center, randomized controlled, cross-over
      clinical trial in preterm infants receiving mechanical ventilation or nasal continuous
      positive airway pressure or non-invasive ventilation and supplemental oxygen (FiO2 above
      0.21). Within a 30-hour period the investigators will compare 6 hours of RMC with 12-hour
      periods of RMC supported by SPOCnew algorithm or SPOCold algorithm, respectively. During
      intervals with SPOC control the SpO2 Signal averaging time will be 2 second or 8seconds ,
      respectively, for 6 hours each.
    
  