
    
      This phase 1, open-label, multicenter, 2-arm study of SYNB1891 in subjects diagnosed with
      advanced/metastatic solid tumors and lymphoma will evaluate safety and tolerability of
      escalating doses of intratumoral injections of SYNB1891 to determine single-agent maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) as monotherapy and the recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) in combination
      with atezolizumab. The incidence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), kinetics and
      pharmacodynamics will be evaluated in 2 arms:

      Arm 1 comprises escalating doses of intratumoral injections of SYNB1891 monotherapy for up to
      four 21-day cycles with up to 24 months following initial treatment for those determined not
      to have progressive disease at the end of Cycle 4. Up to 7 dose cohorts will be evaluated to
      identify MTD within the dose range studied. Up to 35 patients may be enrolled in this arm of
      the study. Following attainment of MTD, Arm 2 will be initiated.

      Arm 2 comprises escalating doses of intratumoral injections of SYNB1891 for up to four 21-day
      cycles with up to 24 months following initial treatment for those determined not to have
      progressive disease at the end of Cycle 4. In addition, atezolizumab will be administered as
      an intravenous (IV) infusion in accordance with its recommended dose and schedule during each
      of the planned 4 cycles with up to 24 months following initial treatment for those determined
      not to have progressive disease at the end of Cycle 4. Up to 3 dose cohorts will be evaluated
      to identify RP2D in combination with atezolizumab. Up to 12 patients may be enrolled in Arm
      2. An additional 20 subjects may be enrolled in an extension combination.

      Safety will be monitored continuously by documentation of adverse events (AEs), serious
      adverse events (SAEs), clinical laboratory measurements, vital signs and physical
      examinations. DLTs will be evaluated at the end of Cycle 1 in both Arms 1 and 2.
    
  