
    
      Method: This study wants to apply the dataset of health records, physical examination
      indicators, blood biomarker, urine biomarker, biochemical biomarker, gene sequence, and
      metabolome from Taiwan Biobank Database to explore the difference among dry eye syndrome
      (DES) and healthy control (HC). And the investigators want to investigate the difference
      among the demographics, personal health behavior, living environment, dietary status, family
      history, Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) body constitution, hematology test, serum
      biochemical test, virus test, and urine test. the investigators also want to use the
      whole-genome genotyping, whole-genome sequencing, DNA methylation, HLA typing, and metabolome
      to investigate the difference among the genetic variant, gene copy number, single nucleotide
      variation, chromosomal recombination, and very low-level gene expression differences; which
      it could find the pathogenesis-associated candidate genes and sites, and these findings also
      could be applied to clinical diagnosis and drug development after verification and
      confirmation of efficacy. Integrated the Sjögren's syndrome (SJS) database, the investigators
      could explore the comprehensive analysis among DES, HC, and SJS. It would provide the
      evidence-base medicine in TCM in the future.

      Expected Results:

      To evaluate the difference among questionnaire, physical examination indicators, blood
      biomarker, urine biomarker and biochemical biomarker for the DES and HC.

      To evaluate the difference among gene copy number, single nucleotide variation, chromosomal
      recombination, and very low-level gene expression differences for the DES and HC.

      To evaluate the difference among gene variation and TCM body constitution for the DES and HC.

      To evaluate the difference among gene variation for the DES, HC, and SJS. To establish
      predicting modal and biomarker among DES. Keywords: Dry eye syndrome, Xerophthalmia, Gene
      modulation, TCM pattern, Sjögren's syndrome
    
  