
    
      The study will be carried out from August 2021 to August 2024 in Zanskar Valley (Ladakh).

      Participants, interventions and outcomes Setting The study will be conducted in the Zanskar
      Valley (Ladakh). The subjects (5 to 14 years old) will be randomly selected from a list of
      school class in the selected schools.

      Interventions

      After obtaining actual caries data, schools with similar numbers of schoolchildren (at least
      300 subjects per school) will be selected for the preventive project. The participants will
      be randomly taking as cluster the school-class allocated into two groups (Figure 1).
      Randomization will be performed by one author (G. Campus) using Microsoft Excel for Mac
      (version 16.37) in permuted blocks of 2 or 4 with a random variation of the blocking number,
      and 2 groups will be created:

        1. the first group (Xyl) will receive sugar-free gums containing 100% Xylitol as sweetener;

        2. the second group (Pol) will receive sugar-free gums containing a polyols mixture plus a
           low amount of Xylitol (22%).

           All chewing gums will be produced and supplied by Perfetti Van Melle SpA (Lainate,
           Italy). The xylitol chewing gum is with xylitol (64% w/v) as the only sweetener. The
           polyols chewing gum is a sugar-free gum with 22% of Xylitol, 30% Sorbitol, 6% Maltitol
           syrup and 4% Mannitol. All types of chewing gums weigh 1.4 g each and will be identical
           in colour, shape and taste. The treatment will follow the school year calendar for a
           total of nine months of administration.

           Clinical examination

           Clinical examination will comprise an oral examination (caries index, bleeding on
           probing recording) and evaluation of plaque pH fluctuation after sucrose challenge.
           Bleeding on probing will be used as a proxy of plaque presence, since there is a causal
           relationship between bleeding on probing and amount of plaque.

           The subjects will be examined using a mouth mirror, a ball ended probe and artificial
           light in a dental chair. Caries registration will be performed with regard to the first
           and second primary, and first and second permanent, molars. The International Caries
           Detection and Assessment System (ICDAS) will be use to record caries at tooth level as
           initial or moderate or severe lesions, the number of filled teeth and the missing teeth
           for caries. Initial caries lesion can be defined as a primary lesion, which has not
           reached the stage of an established lesion with cavitation (ICDAS score 1 and 2).
           Moderate caries lesions are defined as white or brown spot lesion with localized enamel
           breakdown or an underlying dentine shadow without visible dentine exposure (ICDAS score
           3 and 4). Severe caries lesions are defined as distinct cavity in opaque or discoloured
           enamel with visible dentine (ICDAS score 5 and 6). The bleeding on probing score will be
           registered in all subjects.

           Plaque-pH measurements

           Interproximal-plaque pH will be evaluated using pH indicator strips , which measure a pH
           value in the range of 4.0-7.0 (Spezialindikator, pH range 4.0-7.0; Merck, Darmstadt,
           Germany). The strips determine changes in plaque pH, discriminating differences at the
           level of 0.2-0.5 pH units and they are easy to use. The strips are cut into 4 pieces
           (approx. 2 mm in width) in order to get a strip that could be easily inserted into the
           interproximal space and held in situ for 10 s, and its colour compared to the colour
           index scheme supplied by the manufacturer.

           For each subject, 3 measurements will be carried out in 2 sites, between the 2nd
           premolar or the 2nd primary molar, if present, and the 1st molar right and left of the
           upper jaw. Measurements will be performed before and at 2, 5, 10, 15, 20 and 30 min
           after a mouth rinse with 10% sucrose.

           Calibration of the examiners

           Prior the start of the examiners that performed all the dental screenings was trained
           and calibrated by a benchmark examiner. Baseline training consists in one-day
           theoretical course, followed by examination on extracted teeth plus a session of
           photographs of extracted teeth. After two days of the theoretical course a clinical
           training will be performed. The children were re-examined after 72 h. Inter-examiner
           reliability with the benchmark examiner will be evaluated using fixed-effects analysis
           of variance and intra-examiner reproducibility assessed as the percentage of agreement
           using Cohen's kappa statistic.

           Treatment

           The subjects will be instructed to chew a total of 6 pellets for 5 min divided into 3
           intakes a day (2 in the morning, 2 after the midday meal and 2 in the afternoon). Thus,
           the total daily intake of xylitol in the Xyl group is fixed in 5.4 g and 1.8 g in the
           Pol group. Subjects will be instructed to use the chewing gum immediately after main
           meals and snacks. To the parents/guardians will be not requested to make changes in
           dietary and oral hygiene habits of their children. Tooth brushing will be not allowed
           for at least 1 h after the chewing gum use. All subjects will receive a fluoridated
           toothpaste containing 1,450 mg/g NaF and a manual toothbrush to be used during the
           experimental period, that will be supplied during the entire experimental period (2
           years). All children will be instructed to brush teeth twice a day (after breakfast and
           supper) for 2 minutes using vertical movements.

           In order to evaluate the success of the administration of chewing gum at school,
           teachers will receive chewing gums necessary for a single month at a time. Children will
           have to return the empty blister packs when receiving those for the following month.
           This procedure will be repeated for all experimental (chewing) period (1-year school
           calendar/9 months).

           Outcomes

           The primary outcome will be the caries increment measured both at enamel and dentinal
           level. The secondary outcomes will be the differences obtained comparing caries
           increment and the variation of plaque pH in relation to the treatment decision.
           Furthermore, a cost- effectiveness analysis will be performed using as outcome measure
           the quality-adjusted life years (QALY).

           Participant timeline

           The study will be recruiting patients from August 2021 to September 2022. Each subject
           will be enrolled for 36 months, estimating 9 months (one school year) of treatment and
           27 months of follow-up.

           Recruitment

           The recruitment will occur in Zanskar Valley (Ladakh): in Padum city.

           Assignment of interventions

           Allocation: sequence generation and concealment mechanism The random list will be
           generated using a computer program (Microsoft Excel for Mac); the randomization will be
           carried out on a school-class based by G.C. in permuted blocks of 2 or 4 with a random
           variation of the blocking number, and 2 groups will be created.

           Chewing gums will be supplied in plain white containers coded as 'green' or 'blue'
           according to the group. The code is sealed by an independent monitor and not broken
           until the statistical analysis will be finalized.

           Implementation

           All examinations of the children enrolled will be done by calibrated examiners. The
           clinical examination of the enrolled sample will be performed at baseline (t0) and
           repeated 12 months at the end of the chewing-gum administration period (t1) as interim
           examination, after 12 months (t2) and 24 months (t3) after the end of the experimental
           period (chewing gum use).

           Blinding

           All personnel involved into the study will be blinded to the participant assignment.

           Children, parents/caregivers and teachers responsible for the treatment, examiners who
           will evaluate the outcomes and statistician who will analyse data will be blind to the
           allocation group of the participants.

           Data collection, management, and analysis

           The follow-up assessments will be performed by a pre-calibrated blind examiner. The
           clinical data will be recorded on electronic sheets organized on PageMaker and then
           transferred to Microsoft Excel Software. The data will be cleaned, deleting those
           revealing the participants' identities, will be share in a public repository at the
           moment of the submission of the manuscripts.

           Data on caries will be based considering the tooth as the unit of analysis; the net
           caries increment for initial, moderate and severe caries level, using ICDAS (Δ-initial,
           Δ-moderate and Δ-severe), will be calculated in primary and permanent molars.
           Differences between groups in terms of the caries increment will be evaluated using the
           nonparametric Mann-Whitney U test. Kaplan-Meyer graphs will be constructed to evaluate
           caries increment as primary outcome, and the methods will be compared to each other with
           Cox regression with shared frailty. The calculation of sensitivity, specificity and
           accuracy will consider the results obtained with the indices and the classification of
           the presence or not of caries lesion by the proposed reference standard. The
           cost-effectiveness ratio will also be verified, considering as effect, the prevention of
           the primary outcome. For all tests, two-tailed analyses will be used, considering a
           level of significance of 5%. The quality-adjusted life-year index (QALY) will be
           calculated to assess the value of the preventive interventions.To determine QALYs, the
           utility value associated with a given state of health by the years lived in that state
           will be calculated. A year of life lived with no caries increment will be worth 1 QALY
           (1 year of life × 1 Utility value].

           Analyses will be performed using the statistical package Stata 16.0 (Stata Corp, College
           Station, USA).

           Monitoring

           Data monitoring An independent regulation of data collection, management and analysis
           will be assumed independently by the authors.

           Harms

           The procedures performed offer minimal risk to oral health of patients. Side effects of
           the administration of both chewing gums will be assessed by means of a questionnaire
           administered to the participants' parents after 3 months from the beginning of the
           experimental period and a second time at the end of the administration (1 year after the
           baseline).

           Auditing

           The data entered will be conducted by one of the authors of the study. The data will be
           weekly inspected. The inconsistencies will be verified, corrected and registered.

           Ethics and dissemination

           Research ethics approval, Consent and Assent

           No official Ethical committee is present in the area of the survey. The study proposal
           was submitted to the authorities of the Zanskar Tibetan Hospital Health Care & Sowa
           Rigpa Research Institute and its coordinator the Lama Zopta gave the approval for the
           study. Each school involved in the survey gave also the approval. Due to language
           problems and the low literacy rate of the population, verbal approval will be obtained
           for children's participation by parents or guardians.

           Confidentiality

           Participants will be coded with identification numbers to guarantee confidentiality
           during data analysis. Participants files will be stored in a secure room in the
           Department of Restorative, Preventive and Pediatric Dentistry, University of Bern.

           Access to data

           Clinical trial data will be granted full access via public repository after acceptance
           of the manuscripts.

           Ancillary and post-trial care

           Parents/caregivers of the children participating the trial will receive information
           about the children oral health.

           Dissemination policy

           A full report of the findings will be prepared and submit in full through national and
           international journals, newsletters and via website.
    
  