
    
      Title: Does Laryngeal Reinnervation or Type I Thyroplasty give better voice results for
      patients with Unilateral Vocal Fold Paralysis (VOCALIST): a feasibility study

      Short title: VOCALIST

      Trial medication: Not Applicable

      Phase of trial: Phase IIb

      Objectives: The aim of the study is to establish the feasibility of a multicentre, randomised
      phase III clinical trial of surgical treatment for Unilateral Vocal Fold Paralysis (UVFP).

      Main objectives are to test the feasibility of:

        1. the multicentre recruitment process, including continuous improvement to the process
           based on qualitative analysis;

        2. recruiters being able to present true equipoise with the treatment arms;

        3. the randomisation process and investigate reasons for any difficulties that affect
           recruitment

        4. the utility of the following characteristics of the proposed primary (voice handicap
           index) and secondary outcomes: variability across patients, variability over time,
           differences in outcome between randomised groups over time;

        5. process of follow up visits and diary completion;

        6. means of gathering health economics and health-related quality of life data suitable for
           measuring cost effectiveness.

      Type of trial: Quantitative and Qualitative Feasibility Study; multi-centre randomised
      controlled trial

      Trial design and methods: 30 patients will be randomised to receive the Laryngeal
      Reinnervation or Type I Thyroplasty surgery.

      Trial duration per participant: 12 months

      Estimated total trial duration: 24 months

      Planned trial sites: Multi-site; London, Poole and Manchester (3 sites).

      Total number of participants planned: 30

      Statistical methodology and analysis: The trial analysis will be descriptive and will be
      performed on an intention to treat basis. Primary and secondary outcomes will be described
      using proportions and means as appropriate, with confidence intervals. No formal comparisons
      will be made. The correlations between the voice outcome measures will be calculated. There
      is no planned interim analysis.
    
  