
    
      This study is part of a joint project being conducted in the University of Sheffield by
      another Trainee Clinical Psychologist. The studies use the same baseline, but only this study
      includes a clinical trial.

      Parents of children with long-term health conditions (LTCs) can experience shame related to
      parenting. Whilst self-compassion interventions (SCIs) have been shown to reduce parental
      shame, this has not been studied with parents of children with LTCs. Evidence also suggests
      that perfectionistic cognitions may moderate the effects of SCIs. This study will test an
      online SCI with parents of children with type 1 diabetes, epilepsy or asthma.

      This design of the study is experimental and prospective. The methodology is made up of two
      parts:

        1. Baseline data collection period:

           Baseline measures of perfectionistic cognitions, state and trait self-compassion, state
           shame and parental stress relating to their child's LTC will be taken, alongside
           demographic information regarding the participant's age, gender, their child's type of
           LTC and duration of illness (which research indicates affects levels of self-compassion
           or perfectionistic cognitions).

           At baseline, all participants will also be asked to give their email contact details.
           Qualtrics will be set up to randomise participants' emails into one of two groups at
           baseline so that participants can be allocated to one of the follow-up studies.

        2. Follow-up experimental study:

      Eligible participants will be randomised (as described above) into this experimental
      follow-up study or that of the other Trainee Clinical Psychologist. On entry to this study
      they will be further randomised via Qualtrics into an experimental (self-compassion
      intervention) or control group.

      Both groups will be asked to recall and write (in an online text-box) about a parenting event
      during which they felt shame. Those in the experimental group will receive the online
      self-compassion intervention as detailed in Sirois, Bögels and Emerson (in revision). This
      involves parents in the experimental condition being given a validated set of instructions
      asking them to reflect on the event and write self-compassionate responses. Participants in
      the control condition will be asked to re-read the account of the event and make notes about
      factual information (e.g. time of day, who was there, etc.).

      Measures of state and trait self-compassion, shame and parental stress related to their
      child's LTC will be repeated immediately after the intervention. The parent will then
      complete a mood neutralisation task (requiring them to write about a time that they felt
      proud of their parenting). Parents randomised to the control condition will receive the
      self-compassion intervention retrospectively, if results indicate it was effective.

      Hypotheses:

        1. Parents of children with a chronic health condition will report reduced state shame
           associated with parenting after the self-compassion intervention, compared with those in
           the control condition.

        2. Parents of children with a chronic health condition will report an increase in state
           self-compassion after the self-compassion intervention, compared with those in the
           control condition.

        3. High levels of shame will relate to lower self-esteem and higher perfectionistic
           cognitions, with a relationship present over time.

        4. The intervention will be less effective for those high in perfectionistic cognitions
           (i.e. will be moderated by parents' levels of PCs).
    
  