
    
      1. Background & Rationale:

           Background: Transmission from individuals with pre-symptomatic and asymptomatic
           (hereafter abbreviated as pre/asymptomatic) SARS-CoV-2 infections is the Achilles' heel
           of COVID-19 pandemic control1. While pediatric SARS-CoV-2 infection is yet to be fully
           characterized, and generally children are more likely to experience asymptomatic
           infection or mild disease compared with adults, severe outcomes are possible. Although
           person-to-person spread is well described in children, as schools have been closed, the
           transmission risk in that environment remains unknown. More importantly, the
           contribution of pre/asymptomatic children to overall transmission of SARS-CoV-2 is
           unclear with most pediatric cases linked to a symptomatic household member. According to
           China's National Health Commission, 130 (78%) of 166 new infections identified on April
           1, 2020 were asymptomatic. In addition, data from an adult long-term care facility in
           Washington indicates that symptom-based screening failed to identify a significant
           proportion of COVID-19 cases. Furthermore, based on RT-PCR cycle threshold values, large
           quantities of viral RNA were detected in pre/asymptomatic residents, suggesting the
           potential for transmission regardless of symptoms. Asymptomatic pediatric colonization,
           while reported, is poorly described.

           Rationale: SARS-CoV-2 shedding has been noted to occur in minimally symptomatic and
           asymptomatic infected persons. Children therefore, who appear to more commonly
           experience mild and asymptomatic infection, may represent a significant risk of
           household and community transmission. Recommendations for school closures are currently
           based on assumptions as well as evidence gathered from influenza outbreaks where these
           measures are known to reduce social contacts and interrupt transmission. School
           closures, however, disrupt the lives of students and their families and may have
           negative consequences on child health16. Moreover, COVID-19 transmission modelling
           studies predict that school closures alone prevent only 2 - 4% of COVID-19-related
           deaths in the general population, much less than other physical distancing
           interventions. It should be noted that as school closures were in place before
           observational studies could begin, the secondary clinical attack rate of
           pre/asymptomatic children is unknown.

        2. Research Questions & Objectives:

           The primary objective of this study is quantify the transmission risk posted by
           SARS-CoV-2 in pre/asymptomatic infected children in order to inform the public health
           response to the COVID-19 pandemic by determining the following:

           If the proportion of household members who develop symptomatic illness over the
           subsequent 12 days is greater among households of pre/asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 positive
           children relative to negative children. Mathematical models will be developed to
           understand the risks associated with other community transmission settings.

           In SARS-CoV-2 positive children, if quantitative viral loads differ between those who
           become symptomatic relative to those who remain asymptomatic and have secondary
           household cases.

           Secondary aims of this study include the following:

           Determining risk factors for SARS-CoV-2 pre/asymptomatic infection in children.

        3. Study Design and Methods:

      A prospective cohort study, taking place at multiple institutions throughout the United
      States and Canada, of children brought to the Emergency Department for care due to a
      condition or illness unrelated to SARS-CoV-2 infection who are tested as part of ongoing
      local asymptomatic surveillance programs.

      For every SARS-CoV-2-positive asymptomatic child enrolled, three asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2-test
      negative children will also be recruited.

      Any child that is tested for the presence of SARS-CoV-2 who is asymptomatic as part of
      clinical care, will be potentially eligible for the study. Locally, any child who is tested
      for the presence of SARS-CoV-2 and who is not displaying any known COVID-19 symptoms will be
      asked by an Alberta Health Services ED staff member for consent to provide their information
      to the research team to be contacted about potential participation in the study (consent to
      contact). Due to testing result timelines and to minimize possible exposure, informed
      consent/assent will be obtained via telephone and a copy of the consent documentation will be
      sent via email to the consenting individual, if required. Eligibility for the study based on
      inclusion and exclusion criteria will be determined over the telephone. Data will be obtained
      from the participant, their caregiver, and their medical chart, as appropriate. To obtain
      data related to symptomology, additional medical care, additional testing, and household
      transmission, a follow up questionnaire will be performed 14 days after the baseline ED
      visit. If a member of the household is waiting on SARS-CoV-2 testing results at the 14 day
      follow up time point, an additional call will be made 21 days after the baseline ED visit to
      obtain SARS-CoV-2 test results. A follow-up call will be performed at 90 days to identify any
      chronic symptoms that may have developed.
    
  