
    
      In this study, the researchers evaluate an intervention aiming to increase participation and
      communication of older adults during primary care consultations with their General
      Practitioner (GP). The researchers are particularly interested in a Photo novel tool with
      this aim. Photo novels are picture stories, which have the advantage of using a familiar
      narrative format, thereby possibly increasing comprehension, personal involvement and
      motivation and self-efficacy to perform the relevant behaviors by offering role models (story
      characters that are similar to older adults themselves). The patient perspective on
      doctor-patient communication is underrepresented in most research. This study aims to
      incorporate the patient perspective in different ways: in addressing their needs and barriers
      during focus group discussions, in collecting their communication strategies and solutions to
      these barriers in the role play exercise, in involving them in developing the photo novel,
      and in studying their responses to the photo novel in the evaluation study the researchers
      describe in this research protocol.

      Aim of the intervention (the Photo novel) is to:

        1. increase older adults' awareness of their needs and barriers in conversations with their
           GP;

        2. improve older adults' access to information by enabling them to ask different and more
           questions to their GP;

        3. increase older adults' problem solving abilities during conversations with their GP to
           ensure better self-management of health issues.

        4. find out which format is most efficacious

      This could include being honest about limited understanding, asking for more information to
      enable or improve shared decision making during consultation or to enable or improve
      self-management after consultation. This could also include filtering information and
      enabling patients to determine relevance of information. Furthermore, this could include
      strategies to translate advice into concrete actions, e.g. transforming 'knowing that' into
      'knowing how' (I know / understand that I have to use less salt but… How to… decrease
      salt-intake in daily life?) In our photo novel, the researchers will provide older adults
      with 'template communicative behaviors' embedded in a picture story they can use before and
      during primary care consultations with their GP. Relevant communicative behaviors will
      include 'asking questions', 'expressing lack of or misunderstanding', 'expressing
      uncertainty', 'expressing preferences and needs' and other relevant communicative behaviors
      that will be identified during the focus group discussions with older adults and their
      informal care givers. These relevant communicative behaviors are embedded within different
      relevant domains, based on communication theory / literature and on the output of the focus
      group discussions. The seven scenarios are linked to the endpoints of medical communication
      framework developed by Haes and Bensing.

      The researchers propose to evaluate the effectiveness of the photo novel using an
      Experimental Design, including both quantitative and qualitative measurements. This
      combination of measurements will provide us with insight with regard to three important
      Research Questions:

        1. To what extent is a photo novel an effective tool / intervention to empower older adults
           in their conversations with their GP compared to a traditional brochure containing tips
           on GP-patient communication?

        2. Which elements or domains included in the photo novel are effective and why?

        3. Which narrative / theoretical mechanisms account for the effectiveness of the photo
           novel ?

      The researchers will recruit older adult participants (>50 years), who live in areas
      indicative of limited or marginal health literacy. The researchers perform the following
      procedure for recruitment. The researchers recommend to build relationships with GP
      practices, healthcare organizations and community organizations and ask them for their
      cooperation during a pre-established period of time. The researchers pay careful attention to
      this part of our study, e.g. carefully design recruitment wording: 'We are conducting a study
      to improve the relationship/ conversations with your GP, as a way to make sure the health
      care you receive is improved. We invite you to participate in this study. Would you like to
      participate?' Participants will be asked to come to a neutral setting, for example within the
      University, or will be visited in a community building, to take part in our study. Based on
      their consent to participate, a schedule is developed with eligible patients. Participants
      will be randomized to one of the two conditions and will be presented with the photo novel or
      traditional brochure either presented as a hard copy brochure or as pdf on a tablet computer
      (2x2 factorial design) and the accompanying questionnaire. The researchers aim for
      participants of different ages.
    
  