
    
      Problem/Necessity: Throughout the world, each year, hundreds of thousands of patients undergo
      an unnecessary diagnostic surgery of the thyroid. This occurs in patients that have a FNA
      informed as indeterminate (which correspond to 15-20% of all FNA), due to have a risk of
      malignancy ranging from 15 to 25%. So, 75% of the indeterminate nodules are unnecessarily
      operated, which makes it essential to have a diagnostic tool that allows us to identify those
      patients with benign thyroid nodules and thus, avoid surgery.

      Solution: We have developed a test that, through the analysis of the expression of 10 genes
      by PCR on real time in FNA samples, integrated by an algorithm, rules out the presence of
      cancer with a Negative Predictive Value (NPV) of 96% and Specificity of 81%.

      Benefit/Justification: The high NPV will allow the clinician to recommend observation as an
      alternative to surgery. The 6% of false negatives is clinically accepted due to, cytology on
      its own, has 5% of false negatives. On the other hand, the 75% of specificity will allow to
      avoid surgery on 75% of the benign cases, which makes the test cost-effective.

      State of Progress: The test has completed the phase of prototype development and analytical
      validation. The next stage is the clinical validation and it corresponds to the study
      proposed on this protocol.

      Hypothesis: Our genetic test rules out the presence of cancer with a NPV higher that 94% and
      Specificity higher than 75% on indeterminate nodule samples.

      Proposed study: A multi-centric (9 sites) clinical trial will be developed in Chile, with
      statistical power to determine the sensitivity and clinical specificity, negative and
      positive predictive values, likelihood ratios and confidence intervals.

      Method: Patients that have a FNA indicated by their treating physician, due to they have an
      indeterminate nodule that requires to be determined if it is benign or malignant, will be
      invited to participate on this trial. After the informed consent is signed, a FNA sample will
      be obtained for cytology and for molecular study. Obtaining the sample for the molecular
      study will be part of the same procedure. A maximum of 4000 samples must be enrolled.
      Approximately 300 will fulfill all of the requirements to complete the study, which include:
      having a confirmed indeterminate cytology, be sent to surgery (gold standard), and have a
      proper mRNA sample. Throughout the study, the treating physician will not modify his conduct
      at any time and the decisions will be based on the clinical information that is regularly
      used.

      Timeline/Monitoring: The study recruitment phase is expected to last an approximate of 28
      months (24 months of enrollment, and 4 months of follow up as a minimum time to obtain the
      result for the surgical biopsy). However, this timeline might be extended while waiting for
      the 300 indeterminate samples to end study. There will be a principal investigator on each
      site, guided by a hired CRO, will guard the correct execution of the trial.
    
  