
    
      Background

      Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is a well-known complication of antipsychotic drug (APD) therapy in
      individuals treated for mental disorders such as schizophrenia. It typically consists of
      purposeless, involuntary movements involving the oro-facial area, trunk, and/or limb muscles,
      occurring within months or years of APD use. Twisting and protruding movements of the tongue,
      lip smacking and puckering, and chewing movements, are often observed. Oral dyskinesia may
      cause pain, traumatic lesions, tooth wear, impaired retention of prosthetic devices, chewing
      difficulty, dysphagia, speech impairment, as well as social embarrassment. The annual
      incidence of TD in the population treated with these drugs is between 1-5%, but the risk in
      older individuals is 5-fold greater. The second-generation ("atypical") APDs have
      substantially reduced the short-term risk of TD, but the annual incidence of TD in older
      individuals taking these drugs remains comparable to that of younger adults treated with
      first-generation APDs. The cause of TD is unknown. Since all APDs are blockers of dopamine D2
      receptors in the brain, researchers hypothesized that these receptors (or their signaling
      pathways) become supersensitive in such a way to promote TD. APDs also modulate the
      expression of a number of brain factors belonging to the nuclear receptor family, including
      Retinoid X Receptors (RXR) and Nur77, which are overexpressed following chronic APD
      treatment. These factors, seemingly mounting an adaptive response to fend off adverse drug
      reactions such as TD, may become incompetent or insufficient over time in those individuals
      developing TD. One way to activate this response is to supplement the diet with high doses of
      essential fatty acids of the omega-3 class, which constitute a critical component of nerve
      cell membranes and modulate a variety of brain receptors. Once triggered, TD is often
      irreversible and untreatable. However, one team recently showed a 50% reduction in the
      severity of TD-like movements in mice treated with docosahexaenoic acid (DHA).

      Hypothesis

      Since there is an apparent close relationship between retinoid receptors and dopamine systems
      in the human brain and DHA is a RXR agonist, our working hypothesis is that DHA will reduce
      TD intensity in patients living with schizophrenia by increasing the transcriptional activity
      along these pathways.

      Objective

      To evaluate the clinical impact of DHA on the intensity of TD in humans.

      Study design

      Forty (40) subjects between 30-75 years of age will be recruited. The participants will be
      randomized and equally distributed in parallel groups to take either DHA (3 grams a day) or
      matching placebo capsules for 12 weeks, after providing informed consent. The study will use
      questionnaires, venous blood sampling, as well as clinical scales, to monitor the psychiatric
      condition, the lipid profile, and TD intensity at the beginning and end of the study. Brief
      and simple tasks will also be completed with a motion analysis system using magnetic sensors
      in order to measure body movements and TD with accuracy.

      Outcome

      The finding of a beneficial effect with DHA against TD would improve the quality of life for
      thousands of patients under long-term APD treatment.
    
  