
    
      The implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) for patients at high risk of sudden cardiac
      death (primary prevention) has become an accepted therapy after multiple randomized trials
      demonstrated the benefit consistently. After years of extensive evaluation of the trial data,
      Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services(CMS) has approved the national registry that is
      endorsed by the American College of Cardiology and Heart Rhythm Society. Thus, ICD
      implantation for primary prevention of sudden cardiac death is one of the most intensively
      evaluated, strictly regulated and closely monitored therapies.

      Since the approval of expanded coverage for primary prevention by CMS along with the
      requirement for registry participation in early 2005, the ICD implant volume did not show an
      apparent increase as expected by many. Instead, a flat growth of ICD sales has been observed
      over the last 2 years. Several explanations have been offered by various sources. Some
      attribute the slow growth to the loss of confidence among the referring physicians, patients,
      and family members as the result of the multiple industry recalls. Others claim that only a
      small portion of the eligible candidates receive ICD therapy because of poor awareness of the
      ICD benefit among the referring physicians and the public (the Cambridge Heart Commercial).
      However, the Medtronic campaign to promote public awareness has had little impact on the
      volume of ICD implants. Another group of people suspect that the cardiologists have not paid
      enough attention to the patients' candidacy for ICD therapy because they tend to focus on the
      patients' ongoing symptoms not proactive prevention. Thus,an active screening program may
      identify a significant number of patients who will benefit from ICD therapy. However, there
      has been no comprehensive study that has evaluated the impact of active screening on the ICD
      implant volume, the percentage of eligible ICD patients without ICDs and the reasons for not
      receiving ICDs.

      Majority of ICD implants in the United States are currently performed in the community-based
      cardiology programs. Thus a proactive program to identify ICD candidates in a community-based
      program may provide a good assessment on the unrealized potential benefit of ICDs for primary
      prevention of sudden cardiac death.
    
  