
    
      Context: Listeriosis is a foodborne infection responsible for severe disease. Surveillance of
      human listeriosis in France is based on both mandatory reporting of cases and voluntary
      submission of L. monocytogenes strains to the National Reference Center for Listeria (NRC)
      since 1999. The exhaustiveness of this reporting estimated by capture-recapture is of at
      least 87%. A recent and consistent increase of sporadic and cluster-associated systemic
      listeriosis cases has been reported in Europe since several years (since 2006 in France), but
      remains poorly understood in the absence of any new environmental risk factor(s). A total of
      322 cases have been reported in 2009 in France. Three main clinical forms are identified:
      septicemia, central nervous system and maternal-fetal infection. They have been characterized
      only through retrospective studies and pooling of heterogeneous patients. Such studies do not
      provide an accurate picture of the disease and fail to identify precise biological / genetic
      risk factors for the disease. Prognostic factors associated with higher risk of death, of
      severe neurological impairment or of fetal loss also remain to be determined.

      Main purpose:

      - to study clinical, biological and genetic risk factors for systemic listeriosis and
      identify determinants of listeriosis-associated mortality in the setting of a large
      prospective nation-wide study

      Secondary purposes:

        -  to determine the clinical/biological and radiological presentation of listeriosis

        -  to describe and further study current therapeutic practices in the 3 forms of the
           disease (namely, septicaemic, neurologic and maternal-fetal)

        -  to identify inherited risk factors for listeriosis

      Ancillary studies:

      - to evaluate serologic/PCR diagnostic tools

      Study design:

      National prospective multicenter study with nested case control study. Clinical, biological
      and radiological data are collected. Additionally a questionnaire focusing on dietary habits
      is proposed. A bank of biological samples is performed. For each patient, 25ml of heparinized
      blood / and 2ml of serum are collected per patient
    
  