
    
      Study objectives:

      The overall study aim is to advance the knowledge about the etiology and prognosis of common
      mental health problems (depression, anxiety and stress) and musculoskeletal pain experienced
      by undergraduate university students in Sweden.

      Specific research questions:

      Are modifiable factors as bad sleep quality, meal patterns, low physical activity/sedentary
      lifestyle, pain conditions and bad study environment independent risk factors of incident
      episodes of troublesome depressive and anxiety symptomatology and musculoskeletal pain and of
      unfavorable trajectories of depressive, anxiety, stress and pain symptoms? Are modifiable
      factors as bad sleep quality, meal patterns, low physical activity/sedentary lifestyle, pain
      conditions and bad study environment independent prognostic factors for recovery from
      troublesome depressive and anxiety symptomatology and musculoskeletal pain? Do such potential
      risk factors and trajectories vary between men and women? What are the trajectories of sleep
      quality, meal patterns, physical activity/sedentary lifestyle, pain and substance use during
      one academic year (describe the fluctuations of risk factors)?

      Study design:

      Cohort study of undergraduate full time program students followed-up four times during an
      academic year.

      Source populations:

      The source populations for this project are undergraduate full-time program students at
      universities in the Stockholm area.

      Data collection:

      Data collection will be performed with questionnaires through a link sent to students e-mail
      address, provided by the participating universities. The students will be able to access the
      questionnaire for a four-week period at baseline and each follow-up.

      Exposures:

      Sleep quality, physical activity and sedentary behavior, substance use in the past three
      months (non-medical use), study environment, body image, perfectionism, gambling, compulsive
      exercise, social media use, cyberbullying, procrastination and loneliness.

      Outcomes:

      Outcomes will be measured with the Depression Anxiety Stress Scales-21 (DASS-21). The DASS-21
      includes three subscales designed to measure depression, anxiety and stress symptoms in
      non-clinical populations with response alternatives on a Likert scale ranging from 0-3.
      Higher scores indicate more severe symptoms. Musculoskeletal pain will be measured with the
      The Nordic Musculoskeletal pain Questionnaire (NMQ) that cover most potential musculoskeletal
      pain sights. The questionnaire measure musculoskeletal symptoms, and pain intensity in nine
      body areas: the neck, shoulder, elbow, wrists/hands, upper back, lower back,
      hips/thighs/buttocks, knees and ankle/feet. The questions were modified to ask about the
      previous month rather than the previous 12 months as per the original NMQ. Those reporting no
      symptoms were assigned a pain score of zero, while those who reported having musculoskeletal
      symptoms were also asked to report how intense pain was on average over the last month, on a
      scale from zero, which refers to no complaints, to nine, which refers to the pain 'as bad as
      it can be'.

      Potential confounders:

      The investigators will collect the following variables as potential confounders of the
      association between the exposures and the outcomes. These confounders were selected based on
      our review of the literature.

      Sociodemographic variables: age, gender, citizenship, marital status, number of dependents,
      parents' marital status, parents' employment status, annual personal and household income,
      hours of work per week, living arrangement, and commute time.

      Academic variables: Overall average in the past year (first year students will provide the
      average for the final year of high school), program of study, year of study.

      General health and medically diagnosed comorbidities: The investigators will ask participants
      to rate their general health and comorbidities diagnosed by a health care provider in the
      past year. We will selected comorbidities that are reported by > 5% of the sample in our
      pilot study. In the Canadian pilot study, these include: allergies, arthritis, asthma,
      attention disorder/learning disability, eating disorder, hypertension, intestinal or stomach
      ulcers, migraine headaches, mood disorder, scoliosis, and sexually transmitted infections.

      Data analysis and statistics:

      Definition of trajectories: Trajectories of the outcomes depression, anxiety, stress symptoms
      and pain will emerge by latent class growth mixture models (LCGMM) that allows for the
      identification of multiple underlying trajectories within a defined population. In LCGMM,
      each trajectory is defined by its own growth parameters (intercept, linear slope), which are
      assumed to be latent. We will use the Baysian Information Criteria (BIC), Bootstrap
      Likelihood Ratio Test (BLRT) and entropy (measure of uncertainty) to determine whether our
      4-trajactory hypothesis offers the best fitting solution for the data. Also trajectories of
      sleep quality, food insecurity, physical activity/sedentary lifestyle, and substance use will
      be identified with this method.

      Associations between exposures and trajectories: The investigators will use multinomial
      logistic regression analyses to determine the associations between each of the exposures and
      trajectories of outcomes. The investigators will report the associations as odds ratios (OR)
      and 95% confidence intervals (95% CI). The investigators will first build bivariate models to
      measure the crude associations between the exposures and trajectories. To identify
      confounders, the investigators will build models to test whether the inclusion of each
      potential confounder produced a ≥ 10% change in any of the associations.

      Associations between exposures and incident cases of depression, anxiety, stress symptoms and
      pain: At baseline, the investigators will identify a sub-cohort of students at risk of
      developing troublesome depressive and anxiety symptoms and pain respectively. The
      investigators will use Kaplan-Meier estimates to describe the incidence and discrete time
      survival analysis to measure the associations between the exposures and the outcome. In all
      models, the reference category will be the level of exposure hypothesized to be associated
      with the lowest risk of the outcome. ORs and 95% CIs will be used to describe the strength
      and direction of association. The same approach as described above will be used to identify
      prognostic factors (starting with a sub-cohort under "risk" of recovery) and for control for
      confounding.

      Sample size: The investigators estimated the number of parameters that could be included in
      the multinomial logistic regression models based on distributions of participants across the
      four hypothesized trajectories (no symptoms; improvement; worsening; and persistent) using
      two diverse distribution scenarios. In scenario 1, we hypothesized that 70% have no symptoms,
      13% experience worsening, 10% improve and 7% have persistent symptoms. In scenario 2, the
      investigator hypothesized equal distribution (25%) across trajectories. Based on these
      assumptions, the investigators estimated that the models could accommodate between 32
      parameters if the investigators recruit 1000 students (scenario 1) to as many as 234
      parameters if the investigators recruit 5000 participants (scenario 2).

      Covid-19 sub-study:

      The recruitment and data collection for the cohort study took place before and during the
      Covid-19 pandemic.Therefore, the investigators started a more fequent recording of levels of
      pain, axiety and depression from May 2020 with weekly text messages. The data Collection
      before and during the pandemic provide a chance to investigate the change in symptoms of
      depression, anxiety and stress and lifestyle behaviors in relation to the pandemic. The
      specific research questions with regards to this Covid-19-related sub-study are: 1) Are there
      any changes regarding symptoms of mental health problems during the first month of the
      pandemic? 2) Will students display changes in healthy lifestyle behaviors such as sleep
      patterns and quality, meal pattern, exercise and substance use during the first month of the
      pandemic and 3) Different trajectories of symptoms of low mood, worry and pain during the
      course of the pandemic will be measured weekly with the aim of identifying factors related to
      unfavorable trajectories.
    
  