
    
      Subject recruitment

      Patients admitted with AECOPD will be recruited for this study. AECOPD is defined a patient
      with background COPD with at least two of the major symptoms (increased dyspnoea, increased
      sputum purulence, increased sputum amount) or one major and one minor symptom (nasal
      discharge/congestion, wheeze, sore throat, cough) for at least two consecutive days. Informed
      written consent will be obtained. Exclusion criteria included patients with myocardial
      infarction within the preceding 6 months, unstable angina, congestive heart failure (with New
      York Heart Association class III or IV) and those who cannot give consent for the study.

      Demographic data and management in hospital Detailed information on the COPD exacerbations
      including demographic data (age, sex, height and weight, background illness and functional
      status), symptoms, blood test results and length of hospital stay will be recorded. In
      addition, chest radiographs will be assessed by the investigators (respiratory physicians)
      and abnormalities like pneumonic changes will be noted. The type and duration of antibiotics
      used will be recorded. Any non-invasive ventilation used or intensive care unit admissions
      will be assessed.

      Microbiological test Routine and mycobacterial sputum culture, nasopharyngeal aspirate for
      viruses, blood for atypical pneumonia serology and urine for pneumococcal and legionella
      species will be collected and processed by standard microbiological techniques in the
      microbiology laboratory of the Prince of Wales Hospital for each patient upon admission to
      medical wards. Convalescent atypical pneumonia serology will be collected 14 days later. The
      sensitivity of the cultured organisms to antibiotics will also be assessed.

      Follow up of progress of patients post discharge During follow up, lung function (including
      spirmotery pre and post bronchodilator and 6 minutes walk test) of the patient will be
      monitored at 1 month post discharge and subsequently at 6 months interval. The degree of
      dyspnoea will be assessed by modified Medical Research Council dyspnoea scale (MMRC) and
      quality of life will be assessed by St George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) at 1 month
      and 12 months post discharge. Patients will be followed up in the lung function laboratory
      for 2 year (at 1 month, 6 months, 12 months, 18 months and 24 months). The patient and the
      family will be contacted if the patient failed to return for appointments. Death from any
      cause and from special respiratory causes will be recorded. Cause of death will be reviewed
      by the investigators by reviewing the medical record and death certificate.
    
  