
    
      Exercise groups are a form of rehabilitation sport that is offered to cardiac patients (e.g.
      after a heart attack) in long-term rehabilitation. In Germany it is paid for by the health
      insurance, when certain quality criteria are fulfilled. Among others, the constant presence
      of a physician is mandatory. In order to meet the increasing demand for heart groups, the
      National Paralympic Committee Germany (NPCG) received a special permit to try other forms of
      medical care during a pilot project. In this so-called "supervisor conception" the physician
      focuses on higher-level supervision for several exercise groups. Emergency care during the
      heart group sessions is ensured with three alternatives: by paramedics, by a
      physician-on-call or by specially trained instructors.

      In the present study the investigators compare these alternatives (three experimental
      conditions) with the conventional way (control condition). Before the start of the research
      project, the different versions were defined and approved by the NPCG and other responsible
      actors in German rehabilitation sport. The project is implemented for 12 months.

      The objectives of the evaluation are:

        -  Safety and acceptance of the participants, instructors and supervisors with regard to
           medical care, consultation and cooperation, feasibility and communication between the
           interfaces.

        -  Learning effects and implementation of the training measures for emergency management
           and health education measures

        -  Implementability of the supervisor conception in the clubs and regional associations of
           the three model regions and transferability on the clubs and state associations of the
           NPCG.

      The methods used are questionnaires to the participants, instructors, organizers and, if
      applicable, paramedics, in which the assessment of the respondents is measured for perceived
      safety, acceptance and feasibility. The questionnaires to the participants and instructors
      are carried out during a session by employees of the participating sports clubs. The
      organizers fill out their questionnaires at a self-chosen time point. The questionnaires were
      developed by the university and were sent out after the client has given his/her informed
      consent.

      Additionally, partially structured interviews with attending physicians are conducted
      according to an interview guide. The questions address the physicians' assessment of safety,
      acceptance and feasibility of the supervisor conception.The guidelines are developed by us
      and are used by us after approval by the client. We conduct the interviews ourselves by
      telephone and evaluate them.
    
  