
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if the addition of CC-486 (oral azacitidine) to R-miniCHOP results in excess
      toxicity compared to R-miniCHOP alone that would preclude the combination from being studied
      further. (Safety run-in) II. To determine if the CC-486 + R-miniCHOP regimen should be tested
      further (Phase III) against the control R-miniCHOP alone based on progression-free survival
      (PFS). (Phase II component) III. To compare the overall survival (OS) between CC-486 +
      R-miniCHOP and R-miniCHOP alone. (Phase III component)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the feasibility of delivering at least 4 cycles of CC-486 with R-miniCHOP in
      this population.

      II. To assess toxicity for CC-486 + R-miniCHOP and for R-miniCHOP. III. To compare complete
      response rates, as defined by Lugano 2014 classification, between CC-486 + R-miniCHOP and
      R-miniCHOP alone.

      INTEGRATED CORRELATIVE GERIATRIC ASSESSMENTS:

      I. To compare functioning as assessed by the S1918 Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment (S1918
      CGA) between participants treated with CC-486 + R-miniCHOP versus R-miniCHOP alone.

      II. To evaluate if frailty status (fit/unfit versus [vs] frail/superfrail) as assessed by the
      FIL tool is associated with OS.

      III. To evaluate if frailty as measured by the FIL tool correlates with the summary frailty
      index as measured using components of the S1918 CGA.

      BANKING OBJECTIVE:

      I. To bank specimens for future correlative studies.

      OUTLINE:

      Beginning 7 days prior to starting [protocol treatment, all patients receive vincristine
      sulfate intravenously (IV) on day 1, and prednisone orally (PO) daily on days 1-7.

      Patients are then randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive CC-486 PO for 7 days prior to cycle 1. Patients then receive CC-486
      PO on days 8-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for cycles 1-5 in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive rituximab IV (or subcutaneously
      [SC] for cycles 2-6), cyclophosphamide IV, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV, and vincristine
      sulfate IV on day 1, and prednisone PO on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for
      cycles 1-6 (6 cycles total) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive rituximab IV (or SC for cycles 2-6), cyclophosphamide IV,
      doxorubicin hydrochloride IV, and vincristine sulfate IV on day 1, and prednisone PO on days
      1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically until 5 years from
      the date of registration.
    
  