
    
      Subjects Nulliparous women with GDM and healthy women, who intended to exclusively breastfeed
      their singletons, were recruited consecutively from the obstetric wards at the Peking Union
      Medical College Hospital and the Beijing Obstetrics and Gynecology Hospital during the 37th
      gestational week. The exclusion criteria were: pre-pregnancy diabetes, fetal anomaly,
      gestational hypertension, preeclampsia, fetal growth restriction, ruptured membranes,
      postpartum glucose abnormalities (see below), and introduction of formula feeding during the
      follow-ups. Women with plasma glucose>7.8mmol/L in the 1-hour 50g glucose load test (GLT)
      during the 24th-28th gestational weeks underwent a 3-hour 100g diagnostic oral glucose
      tolerance test (OGTT) following a 12-hour overnight fast. GDM was diagnosed if two or more
      plasma glucose reads in the OGTT equaled or exceeded the threshold according to Carpenter and
      Coustan. All subjects diagnosed with GDM initially received dietary therapy to attain
      glycemic targets: 3.3-5.6 mmol/L at fasting, 3.3-5.8 mmol/L pre-prandially, 4.4-6.7 mmol/L
      2-hours post-prandially, and 4.4-6.7 mmol/L at night. The participants were followed by
      dietitians to ensure euglycemia, appropriate weight gain, and adequate nutritional intake.
      The participants who did not attain glycemic targets in 2 weeks after starting the dietary
      therapy were given insulin via injection. As macronutrients in BM were mainly determined by
      the maternal glucose metabolic status, the investigators excluded women with postpartum
      glucose abnormalities, i.e., impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) with the 2-hour plasma glucose
      between 7.8 and 11.0 mmol/l and type 2 diabetes with the 2-hour plasma glucose ≥11.1 mmol/l
      in the 75g OGTT on postpartum day 42.

      Anthropometric measurements Data was recorded using customized case report forms. Obstetric
      data, such as glycemic tests, gestational age, and mode of delivery, were retrieved from the
      medical records. Pre-pregnancy weight was self-reported. Mothers' height was measured twice
      to the nearest 0.1 cm with a wall-mounted stadiometer. Mothers' weight was measured twice to
      the nearest 0.1 kg with a medical balance scale before delivery, on postpartum days 42 and
      90. The weight, length, and head circumference of the infants were measured at birth, on days
      42 and 90. The infants were weighed twice in nude using a precision scale (Seca, CA, USA).
      Body length and head circumference were measured twice to the nearest 0.1 cm with a length
      board and non-stretchable measuring tapes (Seca, CA, USA). The mean values of the two
      readings were used for data analysis.

      Milk sample collection, processing, and laboratory tests Colostrum samples were collected
      between 8 a.m. and 9 a.m. before infant feeding on the third day after delivery. Mature milk,
      including both foremilk and hindmilk, was delivered and collected from one breast before
      infant feeding using an electric pump (Medela, Baar, Switzerland) between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m.
      on days 42 and 90 in the clinics. The milk samples were frozen immediately in sterilized
      plastic tubes at -80°C. Before quantifying the hormones in BM, the samples were thawed at
      4°C, sonicated, and centrifuged. The samples were sonicated using a sonicator (Braun-sonic
      sonicator, B. Braun, Melsungen, Germany) at 50 watts for 3 bursts with 10-second intervals,
      and centrifuged at 100,000g for 1 hour at 4°C. The supernatant fat was discarded and the skim
      milk was used for quantifying adiponectin, leptin, insulin, and ghrelin by ELISA at the Key
      Laboratory of Endocrinology in the Peking Union Medical College Hospital. The assay had an
      intra- and inter-assay CV of <5.4 and <8.5% for adiponectin, and <7.4% and <9.3% for leptin,
      respectively. The insulin assay had no cross-reactivity to proinsulin (<0.05%), and had
      sensitivity of 0.5 mU/L and an inter-assay CV of <9.0%. Total ghrelin was tested using the
      total human ghrelin ELISA kit (Millipore, USA). The intra- and inter-assay CVs for the
      ghrelin assay were <1.9% and <7.7%.
    
  