
    
      Mild endometriosis normally affects the peritoneum. More advanced form of endometriosis is
      termed deep infiltrating endometriosis (DIE). In women suffering from DIE, the endometriotic
      tissue invades the tissue >5mm below the peritoneal surface, affecting organs in the pelvis
      like the ovaries, uterus, vagina, bladder, ureters and/or bowel. In women with suspected
      endometriosis, the prevalence of DIE affecting the bowel is found to range from 24.0 to
      73.3%. The symptoms of DIE can be debilitating with dysmenorrhoea, dyspareunia, altered bowel
      motions, dyschezia and/or dysuria. Thus, it may have an immense impact on women's quality of
      life with societal consequences.

      The risk of complications with surgery for deep infiltrating endometriosis (DIE) of the bowel
      can be severe like anastomotic leak and rectovaginal fistula. Evidence show that there is an
      increased risk of anastomotic leaks bowel if the anastomosis <5-8cm from the anal verge. DIE
      of the rectosigmoid colon can be diagnosed by widely available and low-cost two-dimensional
      transvaginal sonograhpy (2D-TVS) with a high sensitivity and specificity. MRI is comparable
      to TVS in diagnosis of intestinal endometriosis but is costlier and less available than TVS.
      MRI has the advantage over 2D-TVS that it is reproducible, the area of interest can be viewed
      in many planes and the images can be reviewed and compared by same or different examiners
      over time.

      There are two surgical approaches used in women suffering from bowel endometriosis, namely
      segmental resection of rectosigmoid or nodule excision. Nodule excision may be performed by
      shaving (not opening the rectum) or disc excision (removing bowel nodule with surrounding
      rectal wall). The success of pelvic pain reduction following surgery in women suffering from
      DIE is related to the radicality of surgery. However, some argue a more symptom-guided
      approach to surgery.

      Endometriosis itself and surgical treatment may have immense impact endometriosis can have on
      a woman's life. Thus, it is essential to discuss the severity of symptoms, any implications
      of surgery as well as the risk of complications to enable women informed consent. The
      pre-operative information and decision making is based on symptoms, fertility wish, the
      clinical examination and diagnostic tests. Consequently, diagnostic tools such as TVS and MRI
      are important factors to plan and perform a safe procedure with the best possible outcomes
      for the women.

      There are, to the investigator's knowledge, no studies, which demonstrate if there is a
      correlation between measurement of the size of an endometriotic rectosigmoid lesion with
      2D-TVS compared to the actual lesion size in the resected bowel. Additionally, there are no
      studies that investigate the correlation between the distance between the rectosigmoid lesion
      and the anal verge, to plan appropriate surgery and estimate risk of serious complications.
      Furthermore, there are no known studies evaluating the correlation of measurements of bowel
      lesions when comparing transvaginal 2D-TVS, MRI and surgery. The aim of surgery is to improve
      women's quality of life and thus it is essential to evaluate results before and after surgery
      for bowel endometriosis.
    
  