
    
      Over the past five years, smartphone compatible detectors of cardiovascular disease
      parameters have been released on the consumers market. Examples of these include heart rate
      monitors, ECG monitors, blood pressure monitors, activity trackers and fat percentages
      monitors. These monitors have often been validated and are CE-marked for use in the European
      Union within their intended use.

      Recent publications implicate that home monitoring with such consumer devices might improve
      quality of care. A study by Bosworth et al. in patients with hypertension showed that
      increased monitoring and subsequent treatment led to a better controlled blood pressure in
      patients who were treated for hypertension. Another study, which is currently being carried
      out at the LUMC, is investigating whether patients benefit from a smart technology
      intervention after they had a myocardial infarction. Preliminary (unpublished) results show
      that clinical outcomes are similar, with higher patient satisfaction. Cost analyses show that
      there is a cost reduction per patient with smart technology follow-up. Therefore, smart
      technology could be a useful tool to improve patient monitoring and therefore patient safety.

      Patients who are discharged after they underwent cardiovascular surgery are at risk to
      develop one or more of three most seen late complications: sternal wound infection, cardiac
      decompensation or rhythm disturbances such as atrial fibrillation. This is not always
      detected before those patients are discharged.

      Currently, patients who underwent cardiovascular surgery return to the outpatient clinic 14
      days and three months after discharge. They are seen by a specialist nurse or cardiologist,
      who will perform a general check-up and inspect the sternal wound. An echocardiogram will be
      performed before the three-month visit. If there is suspicion for a rhythm disturbance on the
      outpatient clinic visit, the cardiologist might decide to perform Holter monitoring during 24
      hours. As this is a small window of time, not all rhythm disturbances will be diagnosed.
      Smart technology is hypothesized to increase the chances of diagnosing rhythm disturbances.
      In the case of sternal wound infection and cardiac decompensation, smart technology may show
      a declining trend before a patient visits the outpatient clinic, which can lead to early
      detection and treatment.

      A small pilot study by McElroy et all found that after cardiovascular surgery, both the
      patient as well as the health care team are highly satisfied with added smart technology, due
      to the ease of use of the technology and platform. There was a main focus on readmission
      rates, which did not differ between the groups. However the trend shows an increase in
      diagnosing atrial fibrillation (15,4 vs 29,6%), sternal wound infection or cardiac
      decompensation were not studied.

      To our knowledge, no other study has yet looked into diagnosing late complications after
      cardiovascular surgery with the help of smart technology. It is hypothesized that smart
      technology could help diagnose the main three diagnoses mentioned above early on and with
      that, improve quality of care in patients after cardiovascular surgery. Therefore, in this
      study, the clinical effectiveness of a smart technology intervention is investigated in
      patients who have underwent cardiovascular surgery at the department of Thoracic Surgery at
      Leiden University Medical Center.
    
  