
    
      Background

      Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death globally. Ischemic heart disease (IHD)
      contributes the most to this statistic and since 1990 the global burden of IHD has increased.
      It is estimated that 50 000 Swedish patients are hospitalized every year due to IHD. The risk
      of developing IHD is to a large extent determined by the existence and state of several
      modifiable risk factors including dietary habits, smoking, hypertension, diabetes mellitus,
      hyperlipidemia, high apolipoprotein B/ apolipoprotein A1-ratio, abdominal obesity, physical
      inactivity, alcohol consumption and psychosocial factors. High levels of oxidative stress,
      oxidized LDL cholesterol and the microbial metabolite trimethylamine N-oxide TMAO have been
      suggested to be associated with development of IHD.

      A plant-based (vegetarian) diet may provide cardiovascular health benefits through various
      mechanisms. Clinical studies suggest that a vegetarian diet has positive effects on
      low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, oxidized LDL cholesterol, total cholesterol,
      triglycerides, apolipoprotein B, body mass index (BMI), inflammatory markers, blood pressure,
      arterial intima-media thickness, insulin sensitivity, glycated hemoglobin, (HbA1c) and
      fasting glucose levels. Through positive impacts on risk factors that a vegetarian diet is
      associated with a lowered incidence and mortality of IHD and an overall reduced mortality.

      A weakness of several prior long-term controlled studies comparing vegetarian and
      meat-containing diets is the lack of well-defined control diets leading to study
      heterogeneity. For example, some of the subjects on meat-containing diets consume great
      quantities of red meat, others eat substantial amounts of processed meat products and some
      eat mostly white meat and fish complicating interpretation of outcome. In cross-sectional or
      observational cohort studies comparing long-term vegetarians to long-term omnivores, results
      may be influenced by other lifestyle choices besides the studied diet, such as smoking and
      exercise.Furthermore, the participants in many previous studies were often healthy volunteers
      and not patients with overt cardiovascular disease.

      Purpose

      The objective is to perform an open label, 4 week randomized, cross-over study to compare the
      effect of a vegetarian diet to a conventional (meat containing) diet based on the Swedish
      average meat consumption on a range of parameters with prognostic importance for
      cardiovascular disease: lipids, inflammation, oxidative stress, BMI, HbA1c, apolipoprotein
      B/apolipoprotein A1-ratio, gut microbiota, endothelial function and quality of life. The
      study will be conducted in patients diagnosed with STEMI (ST-segment elevation myocardial
      infarction), non-STEMI (non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction) or angina pectoris
      and treated by percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).

      Hypothesis

      The study hypothesis is that patients diagnosed with IHD can benefit from a vegetarian diet
      as assessed by multiple risk markers for this type of disease with a primary focus on changes
      in oxidized LDL cholesterol.

      Clinical relevance

      During the last decades the global mortality from IHD has remained unchanged regardless of
      development of new invasive and pharmacological treatments. Despite the fact that the
      prevalence and mortality from IHD have decreased in this country since 1990 and that the
      decrease most likely is due to lifestyle changes, IHD remains the leading cause of death in
      Sweden.
    
  