
    
      Cystinuria is a rare genetic cause of kidney stones that leads to significant morbidity due
      to the recurrent nature of the disease. As a result, a significant part of treatment is
      focused on prevention of stone formation. Current methods of prevention include increasing
      fluid intake, dietary modifications, alkali therapy, and cystine binding thiol drugs (CBTDs),
      which help increase the solubility of cystine in the urine. At present, the dosing of CBTDs
      is empiric, and not titrated to a specific measured effect. Our primary objective will be to
      measure the effect of increasing doses of CBTDs on cystine capacity. The investigators
      predict that higher dosages of these medications will lead to a more positive urinary cystine
      capacity, or the ability of urine to take up more cystine (and therefore decreased risk of
      stone formation). However, the dose at which increasing dosages of the medications cease to
      provide additional benefit is unknown. The investigators will directly measure the cystine
      capacity in the urine in response to increasing doses of medications to determine if there is
      a dose at which the maximum benefit of the drug exists.

      This is a cross-over trial of escalating doses. There will be four parts to the study. In the
      first part, subjects will stop taking CBTDs for 7 days, and perform a 24-hour urine
      collection on day 7. In part 2, they will take their usual CBTD (either tiopronin or
      d-penicillamine) 1 gram per day for 7 days. They will perform another 24-hour urine
      collection on day 7 of this study period. In part 3, they will take their usual CBTD at 2
      grams per day for 7 days and in part 4 they will take their CBTD at 3 grams per day for 7
      days. Again, they will perform 24-hour urine collections on day 7 of each period. The order
      in which the parts of the study are performed will be randomized for each subject. The mean
      cystine capacities in each part of the study will be compared to determine the effect of drug
      dosage on urinary cystine capacity.
    
  