
    
      Sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) was introduced in the late 1990´s and has become standard
      procedure for staging of the axilla in early stage breast cancer associated with
      significantly less arm morbidity than axillary lymph node dissection (ALND).

      Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) given before breast surgery is indicated for locally advanced
      breast cancer but is increasingly used for early stage breast cancer with the purpose of
      downstaging the tumor and thereby possibly enabling breast conserving surgery. Traditionally,
      the standard axillary staging tool has been ALND although up to 50 per cent of the patients
      at diagnosis do not have any metastases in their axillary lymph nodes. In addition, NAC can
      eradicate metastases in the axillary lymph nodes in up to 40 per cent of the patients.

      SLNB has therefore been evaluated in the neoadjuvant setting both before and after NAC but is
      still controversial and the timing debated.

      This is a Swedish prospective multi-institutional study without any comparison goup. The
      comparison is between the findings in the SLNB and the following ALND performed after NAC in
      all patients.

      If the patient is clinically node-negative at diagnosis a SLNB is performed before (without
      frozen section) and after NAC (substudy I). The reasons for repeating SLNB both before and
      after NAC are 1) to find out what happens during NAC 2) if it is possible to identify a
      repeat SLNB and 3) if it is reliable.

      If the patient is node-positive at diagnosis (cytologically verified lymph node metastasis)
      SLNB is performed after NAC together with the breast operation and ALND (substudy II). When
      SLNB is performed after NAC, the sentinel lymph nodes are also analysed with frozen section
      in order to validate the method after chemotherapy. Both blue dye and radiolabelled isotope
      for localisation of the sentinel lymph node is recommended but lymphoscintigraphy is
      optional.

      All consecutive clinically node-negative (or with unclear nodal status after ultrasound and
      cytology) patients planned for NAC will have oral and written information about the study by
      the responsible surgeon. After accepting to participate, the patient is asked to sign a
      written consent. Patients with a cytologically verified lymph node metastasis/es at diagnosis
      will be informed and asked to participate in substudy II after completion of NAC.

      According to the statistical analysis, and with an expected loss of 10 per cent, a sample
      size of 220 patients is needed in substudy I to show that the false negative rate is less
      than 10 per cent. If we include 200 patients and 50 per cent are lymph node positive at
      diagnosis then the estimation of false negative rate will be based on 100 individuals. If we
      estimate the true false negative rate to be 8 per cent, then the precision with 80 per cent
      power will be +/- 7 per cent units (2-sided test with 95 per cent confidence interval).

      The Central Contact (PI) is responsible for data collection, management and analysis. Each
      protocol will be sent together with a written consent and copies of all relevant
      histopathological reports to the PI, who will control for missing or incongruent data and if
      so, ask the responsible investigator on that institution/hospital to complement the missing
      data from the patients journal (copies of medical records or histopathological reports).
    
  