
    
      After obtaining written informed consent and Protected Health Information (PHI) consent,
      CAM-ICU (Confusion Assessment Method for the ICU) will be measured routinely by unit nurses
      each shift. Results will be available in the medical record. We will then measure physical
      activity and physiological measures (e.g. ECG, heart rate, respiration rate, and body
      temperature) using an unobtrusive body worn sensor. This sensor will be attached to the 5th
      intercostal space using a specifically designed patch (BioPatchTM) to allow quantification of
      physical activity such as walking, standing, sitting, lying, as well as measurement of other
      physiological parameters. These measurements will only be available to the research team and
      will not be available to the nurses on the inpatient study unit. Medical history (from clinic
      chart) and demographic information will be obtained, such as age, gender, weight, and height
      as well as details (e.g. injuries, fall score and number of falls) which happened during
      hospital stay. The research tests consist of one core measurements and one ancillary
      measurements (as required) as listed below (Note - ancillary measurement may not be required
      for everyone).

      Core measurements Assessment of physical activity and physiological measures: Patients will
      be asked to wear the Zephyr BioModule for a period of 24 hours to maximum stay in the
      hospital. The Zephyr BioModule will be attached to the patients to the 5th intercostal space
      using a specifically designed patch (BioPatchTM).

      Ancillary Measurements Upper Extremity Test: A validated body worn sensors (LEGSys™,
      Biosensics LLC) will be used to evaluate upper extremity kinematics (angular velocities).
      This is a simple test where the patient flexes and extends their arm for 20 seconds on each
      arm.

      Analysis plan:

      To predict the risk of delirium using physical activity and physiological data, each patient
      participating in the study will be categorized as to presence of delirium based on CAM-ICU
      questionnaire. Logistic regression analysis will be used to examine the relation between each
      physical activity variable (e.g. lying time) and physiological measures (e.g. heart rate)
      with delirium risk. Firstly, univariate logistic regression, using presence of delirium as
      the dependent variable, will be employed to investigate the relationship of the test
      variables. The Odd Ratios (OR) and coefficient of determination (R2) will be calculated for
      each explanatory variable. Then multivariate logistic regression using stepwise-automated
      methods will be performed to investigate the independent effects of the physical activity
      variables and physiological measures in predicting delirium. Sensitivities, specificities,
      positive and negative predictive values of different cut-off values will be calculated for
      any non-categorical variable shown to have an independent effect on predicting delirium. A
      two-sided P-value ≤0.05 will be considered to be statistically significant. Statistical
      analysis will be performed using SPSS (Statistical Package for the Social Sciences)
      statistics 22.0 (IBM, Armonk (name of town), NY (New York), USA).
    
  