
    
      With the aging of the population and the acceleration of urbanization process, the number of
      cardiovascular diseases in China continues to increase, with one in five adults suffering
      from cardiovascular disease. The mortality rate of cardiovascular disease in China is also on
      the rise, and cardiovascular disease deaths are now the leading cause of death among urban
      and rural residents, mainly due to ischemic heart disease (IHD). Ischemic heart disease is
      the damage to the heart muscle caused by changes in the coronary cycle that cause an
      imbalance between coronary blood flow and the needs of the heart muscle.

      The most common cause of which is coronary arterial stenosis and blocking caused by coronary
      atherosclerosis, accounting for about 90% of ischemic heart disease, referred to as coronary
      heart disease. Coronary artery microvascular lesions .coronary microvascular disease. CMVD)
      is a type of coronary atherosclerosis heart disease (coronary heart disease) that refers to
      the clinical syndrome of labor-induced angina or myocardial ischemia caused by abnormal
      structure and/or dysfunction of the small and small arteries before the coronary disease
      under the influence of a variety of pathogenic factors. The mechanisms of myocardial ischemia
      include coronary atherosclerosis disease, vascular spasm disease and coronary artery
      microvascular dysfunction, which may overlap between three causes.

      Future breakthroughs in the treatment of coronary heart disease depend on the understanding
      and intervention of CMVD. The incidence of CMVD is high, and studies show that more than 60%
      of patients with obstructive coronary heart disease co-exist CMVD coexist with CMVD, up to
      67. 4% of non-obstructive coronary patients have CMVD, and the proportion of non-obstructive
      coronary heart disease in stable angina patients increased year by year. Studies in 11,223
      patients with stable angina showed that, like obstructive coronary heart disease,
      non-obstructive coronary heart disease also increased the incidence of major cardiovascular
      adverse events in male and female patients.

      Therefore, the early detection, clear diagnosis and timely treatment of CMVD is essential. At
      present, there are limited methods for evaluating CMVD in clinical conventional applications,
      including PET, transthoracic Doppler echocardiography, SPECT, CMR Traumatic techniques
      include selective coronary artery imaging, coronary artery doppler blood flow conduction
      technology, temperature dilution to measure coronary artery blood flow and CFR, microvascular
      resistance index. PET's greatest advantage is that it can make a variety of precise physical
      corrections and measure the absolute value of myocardial blood flow in rest and congestion,
      completely evaluate the function of the whole heart and local heart muscle, and have a higher
      spatial resolution than traditional SPECT; Cannot be measured repeatedly and has shortcomings
      such as radiation. TTDE has the advantages of non-invasive, time-saving, bedside examination,
      low cost and repeatable measurement, but it has high reliability only when evaluating the
      microvascular function of the left front drop, and the ultrasound physician must have
      operational experience. SPECT has high diagnostic sensitivity and negative predictive value,
      but it is not possible to quantify CFR, and has low spatial resolution and radiation. CMR
      space resolution is high, no radiation, no signal attenuation, can simultaneously detect
      cardiomyopathy function, tissue morphology, cardiomyopathy, cardiomyocyte and fibrosis, has
      gradually become a noninvasive evaluation of cardiomyopathy "gold standard", but the contrast
      agent in patients with renal insufficiency is prone to adverse reactions, and there are many
      taboo evidence. Coronary artery angiography can only show blood vessels that account for 5%
      of the entire coronary artery tree, with a diameter greater than l00 m, and 95% of the small
      blood vessels that cannot be displayed. The Coronary artery doppler blood flow guide wire
      measurement CFR is considered to be the "gold standard" for invasive examinations, the
      disadvantage of being traumatic and having trouble with operation. The temperature dilution
      method has a good correlation with the CFR measured by Doppler in the coronary arteries, but
      its measurement value will be influenced by pressure, temperature, saline injection dose and
      speed, salt water and blood mixing unevenly, and so on. Microvascular resistance index can
      specifically evaluate the microvascular function at the far end of narrow lesions, but the
      relationship between the measured value and cardiovascular events is not yet clear. Coronary
      artery microvascular function is usually assessed by detecting coronary artery blood flow
      reserve (coronary flow reserve, CFR) function. PET is considered the "gold standard" for
      noninvasive evaluation of CFR and provides absolute quantification of myocardial blood flow
      (MBF) and CFR. Studies have shown that CFR 2 is an independent predictor of adverse
      cardiovascular events, and microvascular lesions increase the risk of cardiovascular adverse
      events in patients after myocardial infarction. There is currently a lack of prospective
      clinical studies to diagnose CMVD by using PET to evaluate CFR.

      This project obtains MBF and CFR through 13N-NH3PET cardiac blood flow perfusion rest and
      load imaging, and explores the diagnostic value of PET imaging to CMVD. In summary, this
      project will obtain myocardial blood flow (MBF) and myocardial blood flow reserve (CFR)
      through 13N-NH3 PET cardiac blood flow perfusion rest and load imaging, explore the
      diagnostic value of PET imaging for CMVD, and promote the widespread application of absolute
      quantification of myocardial blood flow in China.
    
  