
    
      The prevalence of smoking and smoking-related illness is disproportionately higher among
      people experiencing chronic homelessness than among people in the general population.
      Unfortunately, smoking cessation treatment does not reach or engage the overwhelming majority
      of smokers experiencing chronic homelessness, and smoking-related harm persists even after
      people are housed. There have therefore been calls for more flexible and client-centered
      approaches tailored to this population's needs. In response, we are proposing a randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) of Harm-Reduction for Tobacco Smoking with support of
      Tobacco-Replacing Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems (HaRTS-TRENDS) as an innovative,
      empirically informed, and client-driven alternative to traditional smoking cessation
      treatment. To maximize its efficacy, the 4-session, individual HaRTS-TRENDS was
      collaboratively designed with a community advisory board made up of researchers, people with
      lived experience of chronic homelessness and smoking, and staff and management at a
      nonprofit, community-based housing agency. HaRTS-TRENDS entails the provision of electronic
      nicotine delivery systems (ENDS) in conjunction with harm-reduction counseling.
      Interventionists embody a compassionate, advocacy-oriented "heart-set" or style and deliver
      manualized components that include a) participant-led tracking of preferred smoking outcomes,
      b) elicitation of participants' harm-reduction goals and their progress toward achieving
      them, c) discussion of the relative risks of various nicotine delivery systems, and d)
      instruction in using ENDS. The proposed study will feature a randomized controlled trial
      (N=94) of HaRTS-TRENDS among smokers with lived experience of chronic homelessness who have
      moved into permanent, supportive housing. Participants will be randomized to receive
      HaRTS-TRENDS or standard care. The standard care, which is what people most commonly receive
      from providers, is brief advice to quit plus referral to the Washington State quitline where
      participants have access to free NRT. All participants will be assessed at baseline and
      posttest as well as at 1-, 3-, 6-, and 12-month follow-ups. Analyses will be conducted to
      test the efficacy of HaRTS-TRENDS compared to SC in a) facilitating biochemically verified
      nonsmoking and b) reducing smoking-related harm as measured by concentration of urinary
      tobacco-specific nitrosamines (TSNAs). It is hypothesized that, compared to SC participants,
      HaRTS-TRENDS participants will show a significantly greater likelihood of nonsmoking and
      reduced concentration of TSNAs. Further, we will examine reductions in smoking craving as a
      mediator of the HaRTS-TRENDS effect on nonsmoking as well as nonsmoking as a mediator of the
      HaRTS-TRENDS effect on TSNA concentration. If its results are positive, this project will lay
      the groundwork for longer-term objectives including dissemination of HaRTS-TRENDS to
      researchers, clinicians, and community-based agencies to decrease smoking-related harm for a
      high-cost and severely affected population.
    
  