
    
      Registration:

      When you are willing to undergo stem cell transplantation for kidney cancer, have possible
      related donors, and the study doctor decides you are eligible to participate, you will be
      enrolled in this study.

      Before treatment begins, you will have a complete physical exam, including blood (about 1-2
      tablespoons) and urine tests. An electrocardiogram (ECG--a test to measure the electrical
      function of the heart) and a heart scan will be done. A test of lung function will be done.
      This will involve blowing into a machine that records your lung capacity. Tissue typing will
      also be done by blood test on you and your possible donors to find out if you have a donor or
      not. Women who are able to have children must have a negative blood test in order to
      participate.

      If you have a suitable related donor, have financial approval for the transplant procedure,
      and are still eligible in this study, you will go for the stem cell transplantation. A
      separate informed consent about the transplant procedure will be provided to you. You will
      need to sign and agree with the second informed consent before the start of treatment. This
      informed consent is only for you to be enrolled and registered in the study.

      If you have no suitable related donor, no financial approval for the transplant procedure,
      and/or you refuse to undergo transplant for non-medical reasons, you will not have a stem
      cell transplant but will still remain in our study. You can receive any form of
      non-transplant treatment from your physician. Study researchers will only follow your
      progress, so that in the future, they can compare your progress with those who had the stem
      cell transplant.

      This is an investigational study. About 480 patients will take part in this study. All
      patients will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson Cancer Center.

      Treatment:

      The two different chemotherapy regimens used in this study are fludarabine and melphalan, or
      fludarabine and cyclophosphamide. They act by suppressing our immune system and make space in
      our bone marrow so as to prepare for the new bone marrow to grow.

      Before treatment starts, you will have a complete physical exam, including blood (about 1-2
      tablespoons) and urine tests. An electrocardiogram (ECG-a test to measure the electrical
      activity of the heart) and a heart scan will be done. A test of lung function will be done.
      This will involve blowing into a machine that records your lung capacity. Tests will be
      performed to look at the status of your cancer, including chest x-ray, bone scan, CT scans,
      and MRI scan if needed. You will have a dental exam. Women who are able to bear children must
      have a negative blood pregnancy test in order to participate.

      In this study, you will receive high-dose chemotherapy to prepare for the blood stem cell
      transplant. Two different types of chemotherapy will be used. You will be assigned to receive
      one of the chemotherapy treatments. As the study moves forward, the group treatment that is
      shown to be more effective will receive more new participants than the other one. The first
      chemotherapy treatment is a combination of fludarabine and melphalan. The second chemotherapy
      treatment is a combination of fludarabine and cyclophosphamide. The drug fludarabine will be
      given through a needle in your vein on Days 1-5. Depending on which treatment group you are
      assigned to, the drugs melphalan or cyclophosphamide will be given through a needle in your
      vein on Days 4 and 5, along with your scheduled dose of fludarabine. Day 6 will be a rest
      day; no drugs will be given. The stem cell transplant will be performed on Day 7. Bone marrow
      from the donor may be used instead of blood stem cells, if the collection of blood stem cells
      is not enough. A catheter (a tube) will be placed in a large vein in your chest to decrease
      the number of times you are stuck with a needle.

      Blood stem cells will be collected from your family member, who has been using G-CSF to
      prepare for the transplant. They will need to have enough stem cells before transplantation.

      The drugs tacrolimus and methotrexate will be given to ease side effects after the
      transplant. Tacrolimus is given by vein or by mouth for 2 to 3 months after the transplant.
      During the last month it is given, the dose will be decreased gradually. Methotrexate is
      given by vein on Days 1, 3, and 6 after the transplant. An extra dose of methotrexate will be
      given on Day 11, if your donor is your parent or child. Blood transfusions may be needed
      also.

      Sometimes, the transplanted cells attack the normal cells in your body instead of the cancer
      cells. This is called graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). The drug methylprednisolone will be
      given by vein or by mouth to fight GVHD if it happens.

      You must stay in the hospital for about 3 to 4 weeks. You must stay in the Houston area for
      about 100 days after the transplant. Blood tests (about 1-2 tablespoons) will be done every
      day while you are in the hospital. Chest x-rays, CT scans, and bone scans will be done once a
      month during the 100 days, and then every 3 months for the first year after that, so that
      researchers can follow your disease response.

      If there are no signs of disease after 100 days, treatment will stop. You must return to the
      clinic for checkups every 3 months for the first year, then 3 times a year for the next 4
      years, and once a year after that. If the disease is still present after 2 months, but you do
      not have GVHD, the anti-rejection medicine tacrolimus will be stopped within 2 weeks. Then if
      the disease is still present after another 6 weeks, but you do not have GVHD, you may receive
      an injection of donor lymphocytes by vein. This treatment may be repeated up to 3 times, with
      6 weeks between each time.

      If no disease is found or if GVHD occurs, treatment will stop.

      This is an investigational study. About 80 participants enrolled in this study will take part
      in the stem cell transplant. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson Cancer Center.
    
  