
    
      Despite a large decline in new adult HIV infections in eastern and southern Africa from
      2005-2015, progress has slowed in recent years. In particular, HIV risk among adolescent
      girls and young women remains high. Transactional sex, or the exchange of material support in
      non-commercial sexual relationships, is widely believed to be among the main driving factors
      for the HIV risk in this population. There is a large gap when it comes to interventions
      targeting men who engage in transactional sex. The proposed pilot project seeks to fill this
      important gap by using behavioral economic principles to promote behavior change among men.

      The project will assess a novel prize-linked savings intervention designed to shift men's
      income away from alcohol and transactional sex and towards saving for the future.
      Prize-linked savings accounts offer savers a random, lottery-like payout proportional to the
      amount participants save, instead of traditional interest income. A number of banks,
      employers, and policymakers have promoted this low-cost, scalable approach to increasing
      savings among low-income individuals. However, there have been no assessments of whether
      prize-linked savings interventions can induce changes in key health-related behaviors as
      well. We will conduct a pilot randomized trial among men in Kenya to assess whether offering
      prize-linked savings opportunities leads to reduced spending on alcohol and transactional
      sex. The project will enroll men who in communities with high HIV risk, randomize them to the
      savings intervention, and assess changes in key economic and self-reported health outcomes
      over a 3-month period with baseline and follow-up surveys. We hypothesize that men randomized
      to the prize-linked savings intervention will have higher savings, lower expenditure on
      transactional sex, alcohol, and gambling, and lower rates of participation in risk behaviors
      such as transactional sex, relative to men randomized to the standard bank account control
      group.
    
  