
    
      Long-lasting post-operative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) is now a well-recognised
      complication of surgery, anaesthesia and critical care. It has been shown that cognitive
      impairment in critical care survivors can be worse than cohorts diagnosed with Mild Cognitive
      Impairment and approaching those suffered moderate Traumatic Brain Injury. POCD most
      significantly impacts upon the elderly, comorbid and those with pre-existing cognitive
      impairment, and has a socially and psychologically significant impact on quality of life.

      The current central dogma suggests an underlying neuroinflammatory dysregulation affecting
      neuronal function. However, the underlying pathological processes have not yet been fully
      elucidated. Although some risk factors have been recognised we cannot accurately predict
      outcome, suggesting other unidentified determinants. The discovery of further risk factors
      would allow new insights into the underlying mechanism, and open up future avenues of
      investigation and potential interventions.

      Thus far, little work has been performed looking into the impact of genomics on cognitive
      outcome after critical care. There are an estimated 20,000 protein coding genes in the human
      genome. Such large numbers of whole exome sequence variables necessitate using either an
      extremely large population or testing a small number of candidate genes. Critical Care
      research is hampered by small population sizes, ruling out whole genome analysis. The ideal
      candidate gene would be a known modulator of neuroinflammation, synthesised in the central
      nervous system (or able to traverse the blood-brain barrier) and have a known association
      with cognitive impairment. In terms of feasibility it should have relatively high incidence
      allele proportions, and be modifiable for in order to test any association for causality.

      The most common gene associated with cognitive impairment is APOE, which codes for
      apolipoprotein E (ApoE). There are three common alleles of the APOE gene: APOE-∈2, APOE-∈3
      and APOE-∈4. Possession of an APOE-∈4 allele increases the risk of developing late-onset
      Alzheimer's Disease. ApoE demonstrates immunomodulatory properties both systemically and in
      the central nervous system. It is secreted by astrocytes and oligodendrocytes after brain
      injury and is implicated in the cholesterol distribution necessary for membrane growth after
      axonal injury. ApoE-deficient murine glial cultures express more nitric oxide (NO) and Tissue
      Necrosis Factor α (TNFα) after simulated injury (LPS / closed head injury) than wild-type
      cells. Incubating the deficient glial cultures in recombinant apoE suppresses the TNF-α
      expression. This suppression occurred to a much greater extent with recombinant apoE-∈3 and
      apoE-∈2 than with apoE-∈4. Finally, microglia treated with secreted amyloid precursor protein
      α (sAPP-α, a secreted derivative of β amyloid precursor protein (β-APP)) will produce higher
      levels of activation markers and enhance the production of neurotoxins. This effect can be
      blocked by prior incubation apoE3, but not with apoE4. Administration of peripheral ApoE
      mimetic peptide (a truncated protein able to traverse the blood brain barrier) suppresses
      systemic and brain Il-6 and TNFα levels. Lastly, ApoE isoforms also have different affects on
      cholinergic neuron destruction, through increased synthesis and reduced elimination of
      amyloid beta.

      Critical care patients typically experience systemic inflammation secondary to sepsis,
      surgery or trauma, or a combination of the three. Central nervous system (CNS) ApoE mRNA
      expression is upregulated in wild-type mice exposed to repeated restraint stress. As such, it
      is possible that APOE genotype may influence cognitive outcome through mediation of the
      neuroinflammatory response. The APOE-∈4 allele is known to increase the risk of POD after
      surgery and to increase the duration of delirium in the intensive care unit (ITU). The
      presence and duration of post-operative delirium (POD) are recognised predictors of long-term
      cognitive impairment (LTCI). Neither the incidence of delirium nor LTCI according to APOE
      genotype have been investigated in critical care patients.

      More recently, burns intensive care (BICU) survivors have also been shown to develop LTCI
      following discharge with an associated reduction in quality of life.

      The incidence of cognitive impairment amongst severe burns patients is comparable to ARDS
      cohorts, but in a younger and less comorbid group. Patients with severe burns develop large
      magnitude systemic inflammatory reactions secondary to their injury. This is perpetuated by
      multiple surgeries and a high incidence of nosocomial infections. This cohort provides a
      unique group of relatively young individuals with comparable injuries and minimal pre-morbid
      comorbidity or cognitive impairment. As such, they represent a less varied population than
      general adult ITUs. It is also unusual to find evidence of AD, vascular dementia or
      Parkinson's dementia in younger age brackets. This reduces the confounding factors that
      typically impede critical care clinical research and any association between APOE-∈4 and ITU
      LTCI may therefore infer a common pathological process.

      We hypothesise that severe burn patients who possess an APOE ε4 allele are more susceptible
      to long term cognitive impairment following their injuries, and that this will impact
      significantly on their quality of life.

      With this study we aim to: assess neurocognitive function following a severe burn; more
      specifically processing speed, executive function, working memory, immediate recall and
      delayed recall; assess our sample population APOE genotype; and investigate the association
      between APOE genotype and cognitive function.
    
  