
    
      The obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) is defined as recurrent events of obstruction of
      the upper airway (with alteration of normal oxygenation, ventilation or sleep pattern). In
      children originates complications such as cognitive, cardiovascular and metabolic disorders
      and growth failure, which make its management imperative. It has a reported prevalence
      between 1 and 5%, highest between 2 and 8 years old, due to tonsil and adenoid hypertrophy,
      which causes obstruction of the upper airway, unlike the fat deposits of adults. This
      physiopathological cause of obstruction makes adenotonsillectomy the first line of
      management. This is a secure procedure, which still has an incidence of complications of 19%,
      (9.5% respiratory and 2.4% secondary bleeding). Those with OSAS present complications more
      frequently than those without7. Even though the surgery is considered succesful, up to 21.6%
      of those treated present persistence of the disease. Based on these results the American
      Academy of Pediatrics recommends considering polysomnography after surgery in those patients
      with high risk of persistence, such as obese children.

      The continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) device provides a continuous pressure through
      a mask, acting as a pneumatic ferule which keeps the upper airway permeable; with a lower
      possibility of obstruction. The adherence of pediatric patients to CPAP has been reported
      between 6 and 65% (which is one of the reasons it's not considered the first line treatment),
      with an use of 2.1 to 8.2 hours per night, and an AIH (apnea-hypopnea index) between 2 and 6
      per hour. In adult patients, a reduction in trans and post-surgical risk has been found, and
      therefore its pre-surgical use is recommended. In children it is one of the strategies used
      to reduce surgical risk in OSAS, even though its use is not recommended in any of the main
      clinical guides of management of children with OSAS. Its use has been described in children
      with severe illness, and in other studies it was used in 18% of patients, but its real effect
      in the probable complications has not been prospectively studied.

      In adult subjects, inflammation of upper airway has been reported, and it could play a role
      in the physiopathology of OSAS, with changes in the minimal sectional area and pharyngeal
      volume measured by MRI after use for 4 to 6 weeks of CPAP use. Albeit the physiopathology is
      not completely understood, it could be a consequence of the mechanical stress associated to
      obstruction of airflow, with the repeated trauma related with snore, jointly with the upper
      airway vibration and the suction from the collapse during the apneas the causes. CPAP
      eliminates respiratory events, which could cause a reduction in edema and inflammation.

      Acoustic pharyngometry is a non-invasive method which uses sound reflection to quickly
      measure the sectional area of the upper airway in function of the distance from the oral
      aperture. It can be adapted to its use in children, obtaining highly reproducible results,
      even though it is limited to those who can follow instructions. In adults a difference was
      found between the minimum oropharyngeal area and the mean area after 1 week of CPAP use, but
      not between 1 week and 6 months of use, with a return to basal after a 1 week of nonuse. In
      our center change in volume and transversal oropharyngeal area have been found with acoustic
      pharyngometry since the second week of use of CPAP, of 5% at 2 weeks and 6% at 4 weeks. In
      children changes after surgery have been found, with increase in the minimal sectional area
      and oropharyngeal volume, even though its correlation with persistent OSAS has not been
      studied.

      In order to study the changes in the upper airway after CPAP, acoustic pharyngometry will be
      performed before and after CPAP use, and 3 months after adenotonsillectomy to determinate the
      relation to persistent OSAS. The presurgical CPAP will be randomized in those children with
      diagnosis of mild to moderate OSAS.
    
  