
    
      Vitiligo is a chronic acquired disease characterized by well defined white macules and
      patches affecting the skin and mucous membranes. Mucocutaneous lesions develop secondary to
      selective destruction of melanocytes. It has a major psychosocial impact on affected
      patients. The etiology of vitiligo is largely unknown but more likely to be multifactorial.
      There are several theories on the pathogenesis of vitiligo including mainly the autoimmune,
      neurohormonal, and autocytotoxic theories. The autoimmune hypothesis has the strongest
      evidence with alteration mainly in the cellular immune response.

      Diagnosis of vitiligo is usually made clinically. A skin biopsy is rarely needed for
      diagnosis and typically shows absence of melanin in the epidermis with no or few melanocytes.
      Perivascular inflammation has been found in approximately 92% of cases. Spontaneous
      repigmentation is uncommon (seen in 10-20% of patients) in vitiliginous patches but can
      occur. Repigmentation occurs usually in a perifollicular pattern, suggesting that the hair
      follicle functions as a reservoir for melanocytes.

      There are many treatment modalities available for vitiligo, however, none of them cure the
      disease. These include different topical treatments, phototherapy, surgical therapy, and
      depigmentation therapy. Topical corticosteroids (CS) are commonly used as a first-line
      therapy for localized vitiligo. They are the most effective monotherapy for localized
      vitiligo. Studies have shown an increase in inflammatory cells in vitiliginous skin, mainly
      macrophages and T cells. Efficacy of CS in vitiligo is attributed to modulation of the immune
      response, reduction of destruction of melanocytes, and induction of melanocyte proliferation
      and melanin production. Treatment with intralesional corticosteroids (ILCS) is commonly used
      in many dermatologic conditions. There are only a few studies published on the use of ILCS in
      vitiligo. Triamcinolone acetonide (TA) is the most commonly used form of ILCSs. It is
      characterized by low solubility, being slowly absorbed from the injection site, prompting
      maximal local action, limiting diffusion and spread through tissue, and not giving rise to
      systemic side effects if used in therapeutic doses. The concentration that is most commonly
      used in dermatology is 2.5 mg/ml.

      Side effects of intralesional TA (IL TA) include pain at the injection site, mild bleeding,
      transient atrophy and telangiectasia, hypopigmentation, and hyperpigmentation. Infection is
      uncommon but caution over bony prominences is recommended. It has been shown that TA at a
      total dose of 20 mg does not result in adrenal suppression. Hypersensitivity reactions to TA
      or the vehicle carboxymethylcellulose are extremely rare.

      The investigators' hypothesis is that IL TA will induce significant skin pigmentation to
      improve vitiligo. This due to the anti-inflammatory effect of IL TA. IL TA has been
      successfully used in the treatment of many skin conditions with an autoimmune pathogenesis
      including alopecia areata. The investigators plan on conducting a prospective double-blind
      randomized clinical trial to assess efficacy and safety of IL TA in the treatment of
      vitiligo.

      Study Objectives

        1. To evaluate the potential for IL TA to induce repigmentation within vitiligo patches.

        2. To assess the side effect profile of IL TA when used in the treatment of vitiligo.
    
  