
    
      This aim of this research project is to determine if low to moderate level exercise can have
      an impact on stress, fatigue, and quality of life for individuals diagnosed with a primary
      immunodeficiency disease. Many individuals diagnosed with primary immunodeficiency disease
      report chronic fatigue and/or pain, which can potentially limit their participation in
      exercise and physical activities. Research shows that regular exercise can improve both
      physical and mental health for individuals diagnosed with a chronic medical condition.
      Exercise is a healthy and low-cost alternative to some medications, and may be an effective
      addition to the treatment plan for many patients with primary immunodeficiency disease.
      Research also suggests that low level exercise may be beneficial to immune function, while
      intense, or prolonged exercise can be harmful. This 8-week study will compare participants
      engaging in a semi-customized, home exercise program (exercise intervention group) to
      participants performing normal activities (non-exercise control group). This study will track
      stress, fatigue, and quality of life, using standardized questionnaires, journals, and
      interviews. Weekly contact will be made with all participants throughout the 8 weeks of the
      study. Individuals in the exercise group will be asked to complete up to 150 minutes of
      exercise, per week, at the 11-14 rating of perceived exertion. Participants who are
      randomized to the control group will continue their normal activities; they will also be
      given the opportunity to participate in the exercise program at the end of the 8 week study.
      To help assess the safety of a low to moderate level exercise program for individuals with
      primary immunodeficiency disease, this research will track the number of infections,
      non-planned medical visits, or increased medication usage during the study (compared to 8
      weeks prior to the intervention). This research will help provide valuable information about
      the safety and effectiveness of an exercise program for individuals with a primary
      immunodeficiency disease.
    
  