
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare 36-month progression-free survival in patients with Binet stage B or C B-cell
           chronic lymphocytic leukemia treated with first-line therapy comprising fludarabine
           phosphate and cyclophosphamide and either rituximab or alemtuzumab.

      Secondary

        -  To compare the disease-free survival, event-free survival, and overall survival of
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To compare time to next treatment in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To compare the overall response rate (complete response [CR] and partial response [PR])
           in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To compare the rate of phenotypic and molecular response in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  To compare the duration of phenotypic, molecular, complete and partial responses in
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To compare the response rates and survival times in biological subgroups.

        -  To compare the rates of treatment-related adverse effects in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  To compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Minimal residual disease study.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to Ig mutational
      status and cytogenetic abnormalities. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive rituximab IV on day 1 and fludarabine phosphate and
           cyclophosphamide IV or orally on days 2-4 of course 1. Beginning in course 2 and for all
           subsequent courses, patients receive rituximab IV on day 1 and fludarabine phosphate and
           cyclophosphamide IV or orally on days 1-3.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive alemtuzumab subcutaneously, oral fludarabine phosphate, and
           oral cyclophosphamide on days 1-3.

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 28 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months.
    
  