
    
      This study is a six week, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study, involving thirty
      participants, males and females, aged 45-75 years receiving physiotherapy treatment for OA of
      the lumbar spine at a specific and identified physiotherapist's private practice. A poster
      advert , placed in the physiotherapist's private practice, with permission , will be used to
      recruit participants. Individuals who respond to the poster advert will be provided with
      information pertaining to the study and will be requested to sign a consent form . A
      screening examination forming part of the inclusion criteria will be conducted by the
      researcher. Participants meeting the inclusion criteria will be randomly allocated to a
      treatment or control group; both groups will receive a standard physiotherapy treatment once
      every two weeks from the physiotherapist. Treatment will consist of lower back classic
      massage, lumbar joint manipulation, the application of a hot pack and each treatment session
      will last for 30 minutes. In addition to physiotherapy treatment, participants will be
      allocated, either a placebo or the homoeopathic complex, with instruction to take two
      tablets, dissolved under the tongue 20 minutes away from meals, twice daily, starting from
      day one. This will comprise of 168 tablets, 56 tablets will be issued forth nightly to assess
      participant's compliance in taking their medicine.

      Four consultations will take place at the physiotherapist's private practise. At the first
      consultation after having divided participants into the treatment and control group,
      participants will complete the Oswestry Low Back Pain Disability Questionnaire with the
      researcher's assistance. The researcher will assess the lumbar spine's ROM using the
      attraction tape measurement. Participants will be provided with 1 copy of the VAS pain scale
      with spaces to rate their pain every evening for 14 days and 56 tablets. During the second
      and third consultation, copies of the VAS pain scale will be collected as well as medication
      containers, to assess participant's compliance in taking their medication. A subjective and
      physical examination will be conducted, the Oswestry Low Back Pain Disability Questionnaire
      will be completed and ROM for the lumbar spine will be measured. Participants will receive
      tablets and copies of the VAS pain scale. On the forth consultation the researcher will
      conduct the last subjective and physical examination, complete the last Oswestry Low Back
      Pain Disability Questionnaire and conduct the last ROM measurement using the attraction tape
      measurement. The last copies of the VAS pain scale and medication containers will be
      collected.

      A subjective and physical examination, Oswestry Low Back Pain Disability Questionnaire, the
      retraction tape measurement for ROM and the VAS pain scale will be used to collect data and
      analysed statistically using the Wilcoxon signed test or t-test within groups and t-test
      (parametric) or Mann-Whitney U (non-parametric) on between groups
    
  