
    
      It is a clinical trial. STUDY SUBJECTS. By random sampling will distribute women diagnosed
      with fibromyalgia in three groups. 30 people are expected to include in each of the three
      groups. Group 1. Infiltration, GPST Group 2, Group 3 GPST+ Infiltration The sample size is
      approximately 30 so that alpha risk of 0.05, and a lower risk beta 0.2, 29 subjects needed to
      detect a difference equal to or greater than 0.25 units. It is assumed that the proportion in
      the control group is 0.8. has estimated a loss rate of 20% follow-up.

      Fibromyalgia patients attending the chronic pain unit referred by family doctors and other
      specialists. These are patients who have painful symptoms that could not be controlled in the
      first level of health care or health centers.Not form part of the study all patients with
      fibromyalgia but only those who have discomfort in the cervical area preferably.To include in
      the study the patient acceptance of its participation is required by informed
      consent.Anesthesiologists assigned patients into three different groups according to the
      intervention takes place; infiltration, TRP (Problem Solving Therapy) or both interventions.
      When patients have met 8-10 start TRP group. Each group will be directed by a trained
      professional nursing. If we if we haven't enough sample will search in Fibromyalgia
      Associations.

      The information of all variables are entered into a database (Excel) of which will be
      imported to a statistical program (SPSS) for analysis.

      Qualitative variables were expressed as frequencies and percentages and quantitative mediated
      by central tendency and (mean and standard deviation) dispersion.The relationship between
      variables was analyzed by the χ2, comparison of means (t-student), analysis of variance
      (ANOVA) and Spearman, depending on the type of variable.Multivariate analysis will be
      performed to try to determine factors that may promote improved quality of life / patients.

      It is considered that the difference between variables is significant when the significance
      level is less than or equal to 0.05 (p ≤ 0.05).
    
  