
    
      During this unprecedented time of COVID-19, many healthcare professionals are concerned that
      vulnerable seniors who are housebound and isolated will become deconditioned resulting in
      functional losses in mental status, continence and ability to complete activities of daily
      living. Total inactivity in seniors can result in a 10-20% decrease in muscle strength per
      week (1 -3% per day). Loss of muscle strength may quickly convert a vulnerable older adult
      who was ambulatory into a bedridden state. This will affect the health of seniors and
      increase demand on healthcare systems. An innovative model to deliver frailty rehabilitation
      services remotely is urgently needed to: 1) increase access to specialized services 2)
      provide added supports for seniors discharged from the hospital who are in need of
      rehabilitation and 3) build resilience in seniors to prevent re-hospitalization or
      institutionalization. Therefore, to address the immediate impact of COVID-19 policies (i.e.,
      physical distancing and reduced access to care), the GERAS Frailty Rehabilitation model will
      be adapted to be delivered remotely in the homes of vulnerable seniors. This
      proof-of-concept, randomized control trial aims to understand how to best build resilience
      among vulnerable seniors through at-home rehabilitation services using socialization,
      exercise, nutrition, and medication support.

      The short-term immediate goals for this RCT are to help vulnerable seniors who are isolated
      because of physical distancing measures to build strength and resilience throughout the
      COVID-19 pandemic. The major deliverables are 1) the adaptation of an in-person program to
      virtual delivery 2) the piloting of a care pathway with inter-disciplinary professionals that
      can be expanded to reach a larger number of individuals.

      The long-term goal of the study is the seamless implementation of a new model for multimodal
      Frailty Rehabilitation that closes the care gap in rehabilitation for frail seniors in the
      immediate and foreseeable future.
    
  