
    
      Medications for Alcohol use disorder (MAUD) (acamprosate, naltrexone, and disulfiram) remain
      underutilized despite guideline recommendations and rising alcohol-related morbidity and
      mortality. Alcohol use disorder (AUD)-related hospitalizations are opportunities to initiate
      MAUD, but optimal implementation strategies are unclear. We will complete a 6 month pilot
      implementation intervention involving audit and feedback, educational meetings, and academic
      detailing for health professionals at Yale New Haven Hospital (YNHH) to determine the impact
      on: 1) health professional satisfaction with intervention components, 2) health professional
      knowledge and attitudes about medications for alcohol use disorder, 3) receipt of medication
      among hospitalized patients diagnosed with an alcohol use disorder and 4) 30 day readmission
      among hospitalized patients with alcohol use disorder. Health professional satisfaction and
      knowledge with be assessed using a pre-post design and receipt of medications and 30 day
      readmission will be assessed using a interrupted time series design. We hypothesize health
      professional knowledge and attitudes of MAUD will be greater after the pilot intervention
      compared to before. We hypothesize receipt of MAUD will be greater after the pilot
      intervention compared to before. We hypothesize 30 day readmission will be less after the
      pilot intervention compared to before.

      Population and setting for implementation intervention:

      Health professionals (physicians, advanced practice providers, pharmacists, social workers,
      and nurses) who work on the designated general medicine services (9-5, 4-6 and 4-7) at Yale
      New Haven Hospital.

      Implementation intervention:

      Our implementation intervention will incorporate the following strategies: 1) Formation of an
      alcohol-related care working group. This voluntary working group will consist of members of
      the research team and volunteer health professionals from YNHH. The group with supervise and
      support the other intervention components. 2) We will develop medication for alcohol use
      disorder marketing (posters and buttons) materials and educational (pamphlet) materials and
      distribute these materials to health professionals. 3) Building on the existing
      infrastructure and collaboration, the research team will assist in revising existing
      alcohol-related care daily monitoring systems to support auditing and feedback on the
      adoption of medications for alcohol use disorder at YNHH. 4) The research team will hold
      educational meetings and educational outreach visits (academic detailing) when invited during
      regular noon conferences and team meetings.

      Health professional outcomes: health professional satisfaction and knowledge Using the
      pre-post design, data collection will consist of two surveys. One survey will assess health
      professional knowledge and attitudes about MAUD at baseline and then again at 6 months post
      intervention. A follow up survey will assess health professional satisfaction with the
      intervention components collected following educational events and at 6 months post
      intervention.

      Patients with AUD outcomes: receipt of medication among hospitalized patients diagnosed with
      an alcohol use disorder (primary outcome) and 30 day readmission among patient with alcohol
      use disorder. Using an interrupted time series design, data will be obtained from Epic
      electronic medical record at Yale New Haven Hospital in partnership with the Joint Data
      Analytics Team (JDAT) to whom we will submit our formal data request. Patients discharged
      from the general medicine service at Yale New Haven Hospital York street campus following
      hospitalization for an alcohol related diagnosis 18 months before and 12 months after the
      start (January 1st 2020) of the implementation intervention.
    
  