
    
      OSA and heart failure (HF) are states of increased afterload, metabolic demand and
      sympathetic nervous system(SNS) activation. In patients with OSA and HF, CPAP initially may
      reduce LV stroke volume(SV) but subsequently improves LV function. This may relate to an
      early beneficial effect on myocardial energetics through early reduction in metabolic demand
      that subsequently leads to improved efficiency of LV contraction. However, it is not clear
      whether CPAP favourably affects cardiac energetics. Any such benefit may also relate to
      reduced SNS activation with CPAP therapy. However its effect on myocardial SN function is
      also not well studied. We propose to evaluate the temporal effect of CPAP on daytime 1)
      oxidative metabolism; 2) the WMI as an estimate of mechanical efficiency; 3) myocardial SN
      pre-synaptic function; and 4) HR variability in patients with OSA and HF. We will also
      determine whether these parameters are altered compared to a group of patients with HF
      without OSA. In conjunction with echocardiographic measures of LV stroke work, PET derived
      [11C]acetate kinetics will be used as a measure of oxidative metabolism, to determine the
      work metabolic index (WMI). [11C]HED retention will be used to measure cardiac SN
      pre-synaptic function.

      HYPOTHESES

      Primary Hypotheses:

      In patients with chronic stable HF and OSA, 6-8 weeks' of CPAP demonstrates:

        1. beneficial effects on daytime myocardial metabolism leading to a reduction in the rate
           of oxidative metabolism as measured by [11C]acetate kinetics using PET imaging;

        2. improvement in energy transduction from oxidative metabolism to stroke work as measured
           by an increase in the daytime work-metabolic index.

      Secondary Hypotheses:

      In patients with chronic stable heart failure and OSA,

        1. CPAP leads to an early (1 week'') reduction in daytime oxidative metabolism that
           precedes the improvement in work-metabolic index, indicating an early energy sparing
           effect;

        2. CPAP leads to i) an increase in daytime myocardial SN pre-synaptic function as measured
           by increased [11C]HED retention on PET imaging, and ii) a parallel decrease in
           sympathetic and increase in vagal modulation of sino-atrial discharge (i.e. heart rate
           (HR) variability)

        3. there is impaired daytime myocardial oxidative metabolism, work-metabolic index, and
           myocardial sympathetic nerve function compared to patients with heart failure without
           OSA.

      'original protocol indicated 1 month follow up but was changed to 6-8 weeks in order to
      accommodate patient logistics and imaging centre scheduling.

      ''Logistics did not permit all patients to complete 1 week scan.
    
  