
    
      Schizophrenia affects approximately 1.1% of U.S adults per year and is among the most
      disabling psychiatric illnesses, due primarily to poor functioning related to cognitive
      dysfunction. Negative (e.g. flattened affect, limited speech output, lack of motivation) and
      cognitive symptoms (e.g. poor executive functioning, attention and working memory) are by far
      the leading cause of social, occupational and educational disability and functional
      impairment in patients with schizophrenia. Since the advent of antipsychotic medications,
      Schizophrenia treatment has improved significantly with respect to positive symptom control.
      However, there are limited resources for improving cognitive symptoms in Schizophrenia, which
      remain disabling for most with the diagnosis. Cognitive remediation and cognitive training
      programs have shown promise in improving these symptoms. Specifically, adults with
      Schizophrenia show significant improvements in cognition after participating in 2 weeks of
      computer based cognitive training. Functional capacity has also been shown to improve with
      longer periods of computer-based cognitive training. However, the effects of cognitive
      training alone may be most effective in the short-term. Longer term effectiveness of
      cognitive training has yet to be shown.

      There has been emergent interest in using neuromodulation for treatment of cognitive decline
      in people with various illnesses including children with ADHD, adults with schizophrenia and
      older adults with late life depression. Specifically, high frequency (20Hz) rTMS applied to
      the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) bilaterally has been shown to improve working
      memory in patients with schizophrenia. By improving neuroplasticity and working memory, rTMS
      could significantly improve effects of cognitive training in patients with schizophrenia.
      Combination cognitive training and rTMS treatment has been used in patients with depression
      with promising results. Previously, the implementation of cognitive training programs in
      clinical settings was challenged by the intensity of required patient engagement. However,
      our group and others have applied computerized training programming that is accessible
      remotely, improving accessibility and engagement. Thus, computerized training offers a
      feasible and scalable combination with neuromodulation treatment. Here, we propose to test
      rTMS, in combination with a computerized cognitive training program, to remediate cognitive
      dysfunction in Schizophrenia and Schizoaffective Disorder in a pilot randomized clinical
      trial.

      Aim: Conduct a randomized pilot and feasibility study of active versus sham rTMS combined
      with computerized cognitive training program in adults with Schizophrenia or Schizophreniform
      Disorders, comparing neurocognitive and functional outcomes between groups.

      1a) the investigators hypothesize favorable differences between groups in acute improvement
      on neuropsychological executive functioning, as measured by the Screen for Cognitive
      Impairment in Psychiatry (SCIP).

      1b) The investigators hypothesize favorable differences between groups in daily functioning
      as measured by the Canadian Objective Assessment of Life Skills (COALS) and the WHO
      Disability Assessment Schedule (WHODAS) in participants receiving CrTMS compared to controls.
    
  