
    
      Patients will be enrolled following inclusion-exclusion criteria

        -  Base line clinical and laboratory data will be recorded in a pre designed proforma.

        -  Endotracheal aspirate will be taken at the time of enrollment and day3, day5, day7 and
           then weekly till patient is on mechanical ventilation.

      Data collection

      For each patient following data will be recorded as per the proforma.

      During Hospitalization

      All eligible patients will be carefully followed up for signs of VAP during hospitalization.

      Apart from clinical examination, regular recording of body temperature, observance of
      tracheal aspirate appearance, leukocyte counts and chest radiograph will be done.

      VAP Diagnosis: Based on American College of Chest Physicians (ACCP) criteria:

      An association of a new or progressive consolidation on chest radiograph Plus at least two of
      the following variables

        -  fever > 38 degree

        -  leucocytosis ( > 12000) or leucopenia ( <4000)

        -  purulent secretions

      At VAP Diagnosis

      Patients who diagnosed as cases VAP, based on the above criteria.

      Non-bronchoscopic bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) will be done for microbiological sampling. In
      patients where clinically indicated, Flexible bronchoscopy and Bronchoalveolar lavage,
      sampling will be done. At the time of VAP diagnosis blood culture and urine culture, will
      also be sent.

      Sample Collection

      Endotracheal aspiration

      A sterile 22 inch, 12 French suction catheter with a mucus extractor will be introduced at
      least 30 cm and minimum of 5ml sample will be collected. Endotracheal aspirate cultures will
      be examined semi quantitatively. Bacterial and antibiotic susceptibility tests will be
      performed.

      Non bronchoscopic protected BAL

      Specimen will be collected by sputum suction trap. A 47-48 cm sterile suction catheter of
      16fr will be inserted through endotracheal tube till it meets resistance and will be wedged
      there.Then a 50cm long 8fr sterile suction catheter will be passed through it till it meets
      resistance and specimen will be taken. 20ml of NS instilled, minimum of 5ml aspirate will be
      collected. If aspirate is less than 5 ml it will be repeated.

      Bronchoscopic BAL

      Consent will be taken from the legal guardian. The patient will receive adequate sedation;
      short-acting paralytic agent to prevent coughing during the procedure Will be considered if
      necessary. The endotracheal tube will be ≥ 1.5 mm larger than the external diameter of the
      flexible bronchoscope. The patients will receive a fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) of
      100%, and positive-end expiratory pressure will be reduced as much as tolerated. To maximize
      ventilation and minimize air trapping, the peak inspiratory flow will be decreased to ≤60
      liters/min, the respiratory rate set between 10 and 20 breaths/ min, and the peak inspiratory
      pressure alarm increased. The patient will be carefully monitored throughout the procedure.
      The sampling area will be chosen based on the location of the infiltrate on chest X-ray.

      Microbiological analysis

      All the samples were subjected to Gram staining and microscopic examination and were cultured
      on sheep blood agar, chocolate agar and MacConkey agar semi quantitatively and 104/ml CFU was
      considered significant. Isolated strains were identified by standard microbiological
      techniques and the antimicrobial susceptibility testing were performed by disc diffusion
      method as per CLSI guidelines. The Gram negative bacilli were tested against the following
      antibiotics:amikacin, amoxicillin-clavulanate, cefotaxime, ceftazidime, ciprofloxacin,
      cefaperazone-sulbactam, meropenem ,imipenem, netilimicin, Piperacillin-tazobactum.
      Additionally colistin and ertapenem will be tested when appropriate. Gram positive organisms
      will be tested for amikacin, netilmicin, cotrimoxazole, ceftazidime,
      ciprofloxacin,cefoperazone-sulbactam, penicillin, linezolid, erythromycin, vancomycin and
      teicoplanin
    
  