
    
      At least two metabolic defects contribute to the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus:
      relative insulin insufficiency and insulin resistance. The majority of patients with type 2
      diabetes mellitus demonstrate some degree of insulin resistance. Even in the absence of
      hyperglycemia (high blood sugar), insulin resistance is associated with a cluster of
      metabolic abnormalities that increase the risk for cardiovascular disease, including
      dyslipidemia (unhealthy blood fat), increased expression of inflammatory markers, activation
      of pro-coagulants (pro-clotting), hemodynamic changes, and endothelial dysfunction.

      The dyslipidemia associated with insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes mellitus is
      characterized by elevated triglyceride levels and decreased high-density lipoprotein (good)
      cholesterol levels. Although low-density lipoprotein (bad) cholesterol levels may not be
      significantly elevated in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, an increase in the
      proportion of small, dense low-density lipoprotein cholesterol particles of increased
      atherogenicity (increased formation of lipid deposits in the arteries) is observed. When
      compared with individuals without type 2 diabetes mellitus, the risk of cardiovascular
      disease is 2- to 4-fold greater in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, and the
      dyslipidemia of diabetes is an important contributor to the increased risk in this
      population.

      By targeting the insulin resistance underlying type 2 diabetes mellitus, the
      thiazolidinedione class of oral antihyperglycemic medications possesses both a
      glucose-lowering effect and the potential to alter lipid/lipoprotein metabolism. Two
      thiazolidinediones are currently available for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus:
      pioglitazone hydrochloride (ACTOS, Takeda Pharmaceuticals North America, Inc, Lincolnshire,
      IL) and rosiglitazone maleate (Avandia, GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC).

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the triglyceride-lowering effects of pioglitazone to
      rosiglitazone in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and dyslipidemia who are not
      receiving any other glucose- or lipid-lowering therapies at the same time as the study
      medications.

      Individuals who participate in this study will provide written informed consent and will be
      required to commit to a screening visit and approximately 7 additional visits at the study
      center. Study participation is anticipated to be about 39 weeks (or approximately 8 months).
      Multiple procedures will occur at each visit which may include fasting, blood collection,
      physical examinations and electrocardiograms. Participants will be required to follow a
      diabetic diet, self-monitor their blood glucose and maintain a study diary for the duration
      of the study.
    
  