
    
      Background:

      The concept of fetal programming suggests that adverse intrauterine growth environment
      influences development of fetal organ structure and function, hence laying the basis for risk
      for chronic disease in later life with its consequent effects on human capital. One of the
      important factors determining intrauterine growth is maternal and fetal nutritional status.
      Micronutrients vitamin B12 and folic acid are essential determinants of one carbon metabolism
      and play an important role in DNA synthesis, methylation and epigenetic regulation of gene
      expression. The ongoing Pune Maternal Nutritional Study (PMNS) has demonstrated an
      association between low maternal vitamin B12 levels during pregnancy and impaired cognitive
      functioning in offspring at 9 and 12 years of age. This observation suggests that maternal
      micronutrient status during pregnancy can influence neurocognitive development and
      functioning in later life. Various other intervention studies conducted in Delhi and
      Bangladesh support that vitamin B12 and folic acid supplementation in children between 6-30
      months of age can improve their motor and neurocognitive development. On this background the
      Diabetes unit of KEMHRC, Pune has been conducting the Pune Rural Intervention in Young
      Adolescents since last 3 years. Subjects of the PMNS cohort have been randomized as part of a
      controlled trial of nutritional intervention with vitamin B12 vs multiple micronutrient and
      milk protein vs placebo. This study aims to understand the intergenerational effects of
      vitamin B12 supplementation. 74 infants have been born in this trial since 2013. This
      presents a unique opportunity to study the effects of parental periconceptional vitamin B12
      supplementation on infant neurocognitive development.

      Objective and Hypothesis:

      To compare group differences, in infant neurocognitive development scores assessed at 24
      months of age between mothers who received either vitamin B12 alone, or MMN with milk protein
      or placebo.

      Hypothesis: Infants born to mothers who received vitamin B12 would have favorable infant
      neurocognitive development scores as compared to placebo. And this effect would be enhanced
      in the group whose mothers received MMN with milk protein.

      Methods:

      Study subjects:

      The study subjects will include infants born to parents who are enrolled in the PRIYA trial.
      As of August 2016, 74 infants have been born in the trial the oldest being born in June 2013.
      The subject recruitment will be ongoing and any infants born subsequently will also be
      included.

      Procedure:

      After institutional and ethical clearance, parents of infants approaching 24 months of age
      would be approached for study and informed consent obtained from the parents. The infant with
      parent would be brought to KEM hospital after scheduling an appointment. Assessment Bayley
      scales of infant and toddler development - III would be performed at the TDH center of KEM
      hospital by a trained assessor. All assessments would be performed at age of 24±2 months. For
      infants who are already older than 24 months assessment would be performed at their current
      age after obtaining approval for the study from the institutional ethics committee.

      Tool:

      The Bayley scales of infant and toddler development - III is a standardized instrument for
      assessing motor and neurocognitive development in infants. The scale assess development on
      the domains of cognitive, receptive communication, expressive communication, fine motor,
      gross motor, socio-emotional. The scale provides a general adaptive composite score along
      with scores on the individual domains.
    
  