
    
      Lack of adequate nutrition remains the world's most prevalent health problem and the single
      biggest contributor to child mortality. It is a direct or indirect cause of 43% deaths
      worldwide among children under 5 years of age. The two separate forms of malnutrition -
      wasting (a deficit in weight relative to length) and stunting (a deficit in length relative
      to age) are closely related and often occur together in the same children, leading to an
      increased risk of mortality. Although the prevalence of stunting is decreasing worldwide,
      Africa faces a rise in the absolute number of stunted children. Malawi is amongst the
      countries most affected in sub-Saharan Africa with 42% of the children being stunted and 4%
      wasted.

      Maize is the principal food crop and dietary staple in many parts of the developing world
      including Malawi. This reliance on maize and the lack of dietary diversity is a significant
      contributing factor to micronutrient deficiencies (present in over 30 percent of the
      population).

      Supplementary feeding by provision of extra nutrient-dense food beyond the home diet is an
      intervention aimed at improving the nutritional status or preventing the nutritional
      deterioration of the target population. Multiple socioeconomic and cultural factors play a
      role in determining the type and content of supplementary foods provided in different
      countries. The acceptability and efficacy of the nutrition support is variable (depending on
      sensory perception of the food, price, convenience of preparation, etc.) and can be a
      limiting factor for success in preventing and treating moderate and severe acute
      malnutrition. In this context there is an increasing demand for innovative strategies
      offering alternative solutions for year-round access to commonly consumed home-grown products
      with good nutritional value in countries with widespread hunger.

      Moringa Oleifera - widely regarded as the 'miracle tree' has been described as 'a nutritional
      and medicinal cornucopia'. The Moringa plant is native to Northern India but has become
      naturalized in Malawi where it is common throughout. All parts of the plant are usable for
      different purposes, but for human and animal nutrition the leaves are the most widely
      utilised. Moringa leaves can be repeatedly and sustainably cropped and are rich in macro- and
      micronutrients, as well as bioactive compounds. These nutritional characteristics give
      Moringa the potential to significantly contribute in Malawi's battle against protein-energy
      malnutrition and mineral element deficiencies, providing home-grown feed and food products to
      replace/partly replace, with economic advantage, imported nutrient premixes.

      Research devoted to nutritional characterisation of Moringa oleifera shows that it is a rich
      source of affordable, readily available, essential nutrients and phytoconstituents. The
      Moringa foliage is a good source of minerals, carotenoids and tocopherols, polyunsaturated
      fatty acids, ascorbic acid, folate and phenolics. Studies in animal models report
      significantly higher bioavailability for iron from Moringa foliage when compared to ferric
      citrate. Additionally, some major forms of folates were found to be highly bioavailable
      compared to other folate-rich foods, such as green leafy vegetables. However, different
      factors such as environmental, genetic, postharvest handling, stage of leaf development -
      significantly influence nutrient contents of Moringa leaves.

      In human studies conducted with Moringa Oleifera to date, no adverse effects are reported and
      in many parts of the world its use as a food fortificant is on the increase. However,
      although many studies report improvement in the nutritional value of foods fortified with
      Moringa Oleifera, none of them show the digestibility (in-vivo or in-vitro) and nutrient
      bioavailability and high-quality research on its proposed nutritional and health benefits is
      currently scarce.

      There are several variations (continuously refined to better meet the nutritional needs of
      beneficiaries) of currently endorsed fortified blended foods (FBF) used in global feeding
      programmes and imported into the country of need. Corn Soya Blend (CSB) fortified with a
      vitamin and mineral premix (SUPER CEREAL) is one such combination provided by the World Food
      Programme (WFP). The premix formula used may meet the minimum international standards, but is
      manufactured using inorganic compounds, which may not be fully bioavailable.

      To the investigators' knowledge no human intervention trials have attempted to compare
      Moringa as modification substitute in specially formulated supplementary foods in order to
      evaluate in vivo bioavailability of key nutrients and bioactives and biological activities of
      the plant. This would give the potential for development for alternative formulations for
      locally produced supplementary foods.

      Therefore, in this study the investigators aim to assess the nutritional composition of
      Moringa leaves (grown in three different sites in Malawi) in terms of macro-, micro- and
      non-nutrient composition. The sample with the most favourable profile will be used in a
      subsequent human intervention study. With this randomised, controlled, crossover-design study
      the investigators aim to evaluate the bioavailability potential of Moringa oleifera in terms
      of key nutrients and bioactives when compared with the current nutrient supplement SUPER
      CEREAL.

      This human study is part of a wider collaborative study "MORINGA; delivering nutrition and
      economic value to the people of Malawi", investigating the possibility of establishing
      Moringa oleifera as an economically viable crop which will contribute towards launching a
      resilient food supply chain in Malawi that will deliver essential nutrients across the
      population.

      Scientifically proven nutritive benefits of locally grown in Malawi Moringa oleifera could
      help to replace currently imported nutrients and products and develop sustainable production
      of a high-protein, micronutrient rich crop.

      Two types of diets will be prepared:

      Control meal: Corn Soya Blend Test meal: Corn Moringa Blend

      In an acute intervention, these two test meals will allow us to evaluate the bioavailability
      of key nutrients and bioactives provided by Corn Moringa Blend when compared with Corn Soya
      Blend fortified with by an addition of a Micronutrient Premix.

      In a cross-over fashion subjects will be randomly allocated to consume the Corn Moringa Blend
      or the Corn Soya/Micronutrient Premix Blend test meal. The volunteers will be invited to
      return to the Human Nutrition Unit (HNU) of the Rowett Institute for two intervention
      sessions. Both intervention sessions will be identical in all aspects except for the
      composition of the experimental meals.

      For the duration of the intervention session (over 24 hour period), the volunteers will be
      asked to continue the low phytochemical diet and only consume water for the first five hours
      following consumption of the test meal. Each treatment session will be followed by at least
      one week wash-out period before crossing over to the second treatment.
    
  