
    
      The incidence of opportunistic infections such as Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PCP) and
      Toxoplasma gondii have substantially declined in patients with HIV infection due to potent
      combination antiretroviral (ARV) therapy and effective prophylaxis. The drug of choice for
      prophylaxis and treatment of PCP and toxoplasmosis is trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX)
      and sulfadiazine, respectively. In patients who cannot tolerate these first line therapies,
      atovaquone is a common alternative. While generally considered safe and effective, a recent
      drug interaction study involving a single dose of combination tablet of atovaquone/proguanil
      (Malarone ) in HIV-infected patients showed that atovaquone plasma concentrations were
      significantly lowered (compared to healthy volunteers) by 75%, 74%, and 46% in patients
      taking the ARV medications efavirenz (EFV), lopinavir-ritonavir (LPV/r), and
      atazanavir-ritonavir (ATV/r), respectively. The mechanism of this drug interaction is unknown
      but is presumably due to induction of uridine diphosphate glucuronsosyltransferase (UGT)
      enzymes responsible for the metabolism of atovaquone. The magnitude of this interaction is
      such that it strongly suggests a clinically relevant drug interaction between atovaquone and
      the aforementioned ARVs. The purpose of this study is to determine whether HIV-infected
      subjects receiving ATV/r or EFV-containing ARV regimens, experience reductions in atovaquone
      exposure under steady state conditions compared to HIV-infected patients not receiving ARV
      therapy.

      In this open-label study, 30 HIV-infected subjects will participate in 1 of 3 groups of 10
      (Groups A, B, and C). Group A will consist of 10 subjects who are already receiving
      combination ARV therapy containing ATV/r; Group B will consist of 10 subjects already
      receiving combination ARV therapy containing EFV; and Group C will consist of 10 subjects who
      are not currently receiving ARV therapy. All subjects in Groups A, B, and C will be randomly
      assigned to either receive atovaquone 750 mg twice daily for 14 days (Phase 1) followed by a
      2-6 week washout period, followed by atovaquone 1500 mg twice daily for 14 days (Phase 2), or
      vice versa. Pharmacokinetic (PK) sampling for atovaquone will occur on Day 14 of Phase 1 and
      2.

      Atovaquone PK parameters will be determined using non-compartmental methods with the
      WinNonlin professional computer program (version 5.2; Pharsight Corporation, Mountain View,
      CA). The following PK parameters will be compared among the groups: area under the
      concentration vs. time curve (AUC ?), maximum concentration (Cmax), apparent oral clearance
      (Cl/F), time to reach maximum concentration (Tmax), and half-life (T (Omega)). Data from this
      investigation will determine whether ATV/r and/or EFV alter the steady state PK of atovaquone
      in HIV-infected subjects. This information will assist clinicians in choosing appropriate
      alternative therapies for the treatment of PCP and toxoplasmosis in patients who are not
      candidates for first line therapies.
    
  