
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The strong association between mental stress and morbid cardiovascular events in coronary
      artery disease (CAD) patients may derive from stress-induced cardiac ischemia due to
      exaggerated increases in vascular resistance and arterial pressure. In fact, this may explain
      part of the prognostic relationship of baroreflex cardiac vagal control to cardiovascular
      outcome among CAD patients. The hemodynamic responses to psychological stress are buffered by
      the arterial baroreflex; thus, exaggerated pressor responses to mental stress may result from
      impaired baroreflex regulation in CAD patients.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study has three components. The first component characterizes the relationships between
      vascular stiffness and baroreflex regulation among CAD patients, also contrasting healthy
      control subjects with CAD patients. The second component examines, in relation to individual
      differences in pharmacologically derived estimates of baroreflex function, changes in
      autonomic and baroreflex control during laboratory psychological stress among CAD patients
      and among healthy control subjects. The third component tests the hypothesis that impaired
      baroreflex regulation in CAD patients, due to increased vascular stiffness and/or attenuated
      autonomic control, is associated with exacerbated hemodynamic reactions to psychological
      stress. Bolus vasoactive drug infusions in combination with Finapres beat-by-beat arterial
      pressures and carotid B-mode ultrasonography are used to evaluate baroreflex sensitivity and
      arterial stiffness. Baroreflex adjustments to psychological stress are assessed by power
      spectral-derived relations between arterial pressure and cardiac chronotropy during a mental
      arithmetic task and a speech task. The degree to which indices of baroreflex function are
      associated with hemodynamic responses to psychological stress among CAD patients is assessed.
    
  