
    
      Chronic pain is one of the most prevalent, disabling, and persistent comorbid conditions
      associated with physical disabilities, including limb loss, spinal cord injury, traumatic
      brain injury, and chronic neurodegenerative conditions such as multiple sclerosis. One half
      to two-thirds of adults with these conditions experience chronic pain. In addition to being
      associated with disability, depression, sleep disruption, and physical inactivity, chronic
      pain has deleterious social and societal costs, including job loss and reliance on long-term
      disability programs.

      The E-TIPS intervention aims to address common barriers encountered by employed individuals
      with chronic pain. People with physical disabilities may be offered face-to-face delivery of
      pain self-management interventions, in clinical settings during business hours, which limits
      access to people with physical disabilities who are employed. These individuals must take
      time off work to attend multiple treatment sessions, overcome transportation difficulties,
      and contend with the stigma of seeking behavioral healthcare. Telehealth interventions, such
      as E-TIPS, have considerable potential for expanding the reach of pain self-management
      interventions for employed people with physical disabilities.

      The proposed randomized (1:1), single-blind parallel-group trial will compare the E-TIPS
      telehealth pain self-management intervention to a waitlist control in adults with physical
      disabilities and chronic pain who are employed. Outcomes will be assessed before
      randomization, mid-treatment (6 weeks post-randomization), post-treatment (12 weeks
      post-randomization; primary endpoint), and 6-month follow up (38 weeks post-randomization).
      Participants will be recruited from across the US, including at University of Washington (UW)
      and Shirley Ryan AbilityLab (SRALab).
    
  