
    
      Two cohorts of patients with a phenotype of HIV resistance exist in France. The ANRS CO15 ALT
      cohort was set up in 1994. 71 patients were enrolled defined on immunological criteria: CD4 T
      cell count above 600/mm3 with a stable or increasing count (positive or zero slopes) on at
      least three consecutive exams performed during the last 5 years whatever the viral load was,
      with a known HIV infection for at least 8 years. A consortium of research teams has studied
      the immunovirological characteristics of these patients. After 16 years of follow-up, 6
      patients are still actively followed. The main results have shown the lack of deletion in
      viral genes nor any functional viral defects, a small size for the viral reservoir, and
      distinctive genetic characteristics of the host (HLA, chemokines) which lead to potent immune
      cell responses associated with virus control.

      The ANRS CO18 HIV Controller cohort set up in 2009 is stemming from the French National
      Observatory of HIV Controllers which was active between 2006 and 2008 (Study ANRS EP36). 152
      patients are enrolled who are defined on virological criteria: the last 5 plasmatic viral
      loads should be below 400 copies/mL without any antiretroviral treatment, in HIV-infected
      patients for more than 5 years. A consortium of research teams has studied these patients and
      has shown that Controllers are infected with replication-competent HIV, that HIV infects CD4
      T cells but that the viral replication in CD4 T cells is fully controlled by CD8 T cells.

      In addition, the ANRS EP47 VISCONTI study identified 14 patients who had been able to
      maintain plasmatic viral loads below 400 copies/ml for more than 7 years in the absence of
      antiretroviral treatment. Differently from HIV controllers, naïve of antiretroviral
      treatment, the patients from the VISCONTI study started therapy within ten weeks of primary
      infection and kept it for a median of three years before treatment discontinuation
      (Post-Treatment Controllers or PTC). The initial analyses revealed important clinical and
      immunogenetic differences between post-treatment and natural controllers, suggesting that PTC
      were not naturally predispose to control infection and that they succeeded thanks to initial
      therapeutic intervention. The mechanisms associated with long-term control in post-treatment
      controllers also appear different from the main mechanisms identified in HIV controllers. The
      main objective now is to gather in a common cohort patients with a particular resistance to
      HIV infection, either with an immunological control (ALT) or a natural (HIV Controllers) or
      induced virological control (PTC). The enrolled patients will be the patients already
      enrolled in the cohorts CO15 and CO18, the ANRSEP47 VISCONTI study, and new patients. This
      will allow common physiopathological studies to precise the mechanisms leading to the virus
      control and CD4 homeostasy. A better knowledge of the mechanisms of viral control and immune
      response preservation is very important in the setting of vaccine perspectives and in the
      perspective of implementing new therapeutic interventions to induce remission of HIV
      infection. This cohort will allow common research projects with common funding, a better
      visibility both for clinicians who see patients with unusual phenotypes and for international
      research. Such a cohort will be unique in the world by its size and the presence of these
      three complementary groups of patients. The two main objectives for the " Extreme " cohort
      (ANRS CO21 CODEX) are clinical and immunovirological. We wish to precise the impact of a
      prolonged untreated HIV infection, to describe the frequency of the "immunological escapes"
      (CD4 T cell decrease) or "virological escapes" (permanent or transient viral load increase),
      and to identify predictive markers of HIV control. We wish to study the genetic
      characteristics of the patients and those of their viruses, the innate and adaptative immune
      responses directed against HIV and other viruses, the consequences of inflammation, and the
      characteristics of the loss of control.
    
  