
    
      Genetic screening and molecular dermatology allow physicians and scientists to screen
      populations who manifest a specific genetic disorder of skin, hair or nails and to study
      animal models for experiment-induced dermatopathology, diseases, and treatments. The purpose
      of such screening is to identify the gene(s) involved in eliciting the phenotypic
      characteristics that we as clinicians identify for diagnosis and treatment of said
      disease(s).

      The field of genetics in dermatology has progressed immensely in the last 20 years and has
      strongly influenced the practice of dermatology. Most known single gene disorders, such as
      epidermoloysis bullosa, have been mapped to a particular chromosomal region and in many
      cases, the causative genes have been identified. However, more common diseases that are
      polygenic in origin such as atopic dermatitis remain a challenge to decipher. In addition,
      there still remain several monogenic disorders in which the underlying genetic basis is
      unclear.

      In some cases, genetic analysis can be performed by sequencing entire genes or gene regions,
      or screening for specific common mutations. In the Japanese and some of the European
      populations, several researchers have been able to find an association between people with
      atopic dermatitis and ichythosis vulgaris and the filaggrin gene. Atopic dermatitis, or
      ezcema, is a common, chronic, relapsing and remitting problem in many children and affects
      10-20% of the pediatric population. Atopic dermatitis is often called the itch that rashes,
      since itch is a predominant feature of this disease and is quite disruptive to daily
      activities of life. In addition to itch, it is characterized by markedly dry skin, small red
      bumps that may have fluid. Though treatments are available to help the rash resolve and to
      help with itch, this disease will continue to appear when treatments are stopped and often
      become infected.

      Ichythosis vulgaris is quite prevalent, an estimated 1 in 250 persons are affected. It is
      characterized by extremely dry, scaly skin with a fine white scale and increased amounts of
      lines noted on the palms. Ichythosis vulgaris is thought to happen due to a combination of
      excess production of one of the layers of the skin and abnormal skin shedding.

      Filaggrin is a protein that is essential for the skin to function properly as a barrier. It
      was initially thought to be one of the genes responsible for causing atopic dermatitis in
      2006 after it was identified as the causal mutation in ichthyosis vulgaris. This association
      has been extensively studied in the European population and to a lesser extent in the
      Japanese population; however, has not been looked at in the African American population These
      new insights may help lead to future targeted therapy for these two extraordinarily common
      skin disorders.

      General clinical applications of methods for diagnosis may include histological tissue
      examination, laboratory-based specimen analysis, and physical examination. However, although
      useful, all of these methods are limited to the identification of the phenotypic expression
      of the genetic abnormality. Conversely, genetic screening of tissue (collected via buccal
      swabs) enables the clinician and scientist to have access to a more finite method of
      diagnosis, treatment, and prevention options. Such methods of testing are particularly
      appealing for use in disorders in which the exact basis of the disease is unknown, as is the
      case of atopic dermatitis and ichythosis vulgaris in the African American population. Thus,
      genetic screening in the field of dermatology remains an important research agenda and is the
      focus of this proposal. This study allows for the collection of genetic material from
      patients seen in the dermatology clinic at Ann & Robert H Lurie Children's Hospital of
      Chicago.
    
  