
    
      In this study the investigators propose to recruit 30 outpatients with TBI of varying degrees
      of severity who also meet DSM 5 criteria for major depression. The investigators will screen
      as many potential subjects as possible to get a total of 30 participants who meet the study
      criteria and complete the study ( Total 30 study completers). Written informed consent will
      be obtained from all participants prior to collection of any data. Participants will be
      evaluated using well validated psychiatric instruments Participants will be recruited from
      several sources: (1) Brain Injury Clinic at Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center; (2)
      referral from other Hopkins outpatient clinics; (3) Brain injury support groups organized by
      the Brain Injury Association of Maryland, and (4) Advertisements placed in local newspapers
      and (5) Trial Facts - an online recruiting source. The study sites will be at the Geriatric &
      Neuropsychiatry clinics at Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center.

      Overarching Goal: The overarching goal of the proposed pilot study is to determine the
      effectiveness and safety of vortioxetine for the treatment of post-TBI depression and
      co-morbid neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS).

      Study Design: The study design will include a Double Blinded Placebo Controlled Trial (DBPCT)
      of 30 TBI patients of all severities who meet the DSM 5 criteria for major depression. A
      total of 150 will be consented to allow for screen failures. Written informed consent will be
      obtained from these patients. Subjects will be followed for a total of 12 weeks. Subjects
      will be randomized to either the vortioxetine arm (N=15) or placebo arm (N=15). The treatment
      group will receive vortioxetine 10mg per day, which will be increased to 20 mg or decreased
      to 5 mg, if deemed clinically necessary, at week 4 or 8. Subjects will have a total of 4-5
      visits: Baseline evaluation (1 or 2 visits) and follow-up visits at weeks 4, 8 and 12.

      Well-validated psychiatric instruments will be used to compare the effectiveness of
      vortioxetine versus placebo treatment at week 12 compared to baseline for the treatment of
      major depression and its neuropsychiatric co-morbidities.

      Relevance: This study has the potential to provide strong preliminary evidence for the use of
      vortioxetine as a safe and novel agent for treatment of TBI depression and its psychiatric
      co-morbidities. If found to be effective, results from this study can be used to design
      larger studies and also determine brain changes associated with its use via neuroimaging.
      Depression is common in other neurological disorders such as stroke, multiple sclerosis,
      Parkinson's disease, and dementia syndromes. Results from this study can shed light in the
      management of depression in other neurological disorders.
    
  