
    
      Background and Rationale

      Posterior cervical fusion surgeries are performed for degenerative cervical conditions,
      cervical deformity, cervical tumors, and cervical trauma. They are preferred over an anterior
      approach when the pathology is located posterior to the spinal cord or when multiple levels
      must be addressed. Degenerative cervical spondylosis contributes to loss of disc height,
      facet arthropathy and hypertrophy, and retrolisthesis of the vertebral bodies, all of which
      can lead to foraminal stenosis, or narrowing around the exiting nerve roots. This is often
      accompanied by loss of cervical lordosis. During a posterior fusion operation, the
      restoration of cervical lordosis can worsen this foraminal stenosis and lead to iatrogenic
      radiculopathy with and estimated incidence between 2.4-50%. Cadaveric studies have shown the
      insertion of interfacet spacers in the cervical spine increase foraminal height, and serve to
      indirectly decompress the exiting nerve roots. Another common complication of cervical spine
      surgery is C5 palsy, which has been reported in 4.6% of patient undergoing posterior cervical
      spine decompressive procedures, including decompression and fusion. Patients suffering from
      iatrogenic C5 palsy have significantly increased recovery times, and often require additional
      services such as imaging studies (CT, MRI) and increased need for physical and occupational
      therapy, thus increasing costs. Given the ability to decompress the neuroforamen with
      interfacet spacers, they could potentially be an effective technique for reducing the
      incidence of C5 palsy.

      The use of cervical interfacet spacers (CIS; CORNERSTONE Facet MicroGrafts, Medtronic,
      Minneapolis, MN) is a relatively novel technique shown to be useful for posterior fusion to
      address symptomatic pseudoarthrosis (fusion failure) after anterior cervical arthrodesis. CIS
      have a relatively large osteoconductive surface area and are placed under tension in the
      interfacet space, which together favorably influence bony fusion. Current techniques for
      posterior cervical fusion rely on graft placement using bone extenders placed in the
      posterolateral space, which is not under a compressive load. Wolfe's law dictates that
      certain amounts of loading of bone grafts is required to achieve bony fusion. Therefore, the
      use of CIS could potentially increase fusion rates after posterior cervical arthrodesis
      procedures and reduce or eliminate the need for use of bone graft extenders. Reassuringly,
      radiologic studies have shown that despite the increase in foraminal height, the use of CIS
      does not lead to loss of cervical lordosis.

      Study Objective

      To date, there have been no prospective studies examining the use of cervical interfacet
      spacers. The investigators propose to undertake a prospective study to assess fusion rates
      and cervical sagittal parameters following posterior cervical arthrodesis procedures
      supplemented with CIS.

      Primary Outcome Measures The primary outcome measures will include (i) the rate of cervical
      fusion measured on post-operative radiographs and CT scans performed at 2-years and (ii)
      cervical sagittal alignment parameters as measured on post-operative radiographs.

      Secondary Outcome Measures The secondary outcome measures will include post-operative patient
      reported outcomes including NRS, NDI, and SF-36 RAND. As well, all neurological adverse
      events will be prospectively collected.
    
  