
    
      Colonic adenomas are considered pre-cancerous, but they may change into colorectal cancer.
      Patients have a higher risk of developing additional adenomas if adenomas are found at the
      time of their follow-up colonoscopy.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 groups. You will have an equal chance of being assigned to
      either group.

      If you are in Group 1, you will receive metformin ER

      If you are in Group 2, you will receive a placebo.

      Neither you nor the study staff will know if you are receiving the study drug or the placebo.
      However, if needed for your safety, the study staff will be able to find out what you are
      receiving.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You will take metformin ER/placebo tablets by mouth 1 time a day with food for 12-18 months
      (usually 12 months but sometimes up to 18 if the doctor thinks it is needed). This will allow
      time for at least 1 repeat follow-up colonoscopy.

      The dose of metformin ER will be increased at Week 2 and again at Week 3. If you have side
      effects, the dose may be lowered if the doctor thinks it is needed.

      Study Visit:

      At 3-12 months or 3-18 months after you start taking metformin ER/placebo, you will have
      another colonoscopy and standard tissue collection for colonic adenoma(s). This tissue will
      be used for biomarker testing. Blood (about 3 tablespoons) will be drawn for testing on your
      blood sugar and for biomarker testing. You will need to fast for 8 hours before this test.

      Your blood and tissue will also be used for research on the cause of colorectal cancer and
      biomarker testing.

      Length of Treatment:

      You may continue taking the study drug for 12 months. However, if your doctor thinks it is
      needed, a follow-up colonoscopy may be scheduled for you at either 15 or 18 months after
      enrollment. If this is the case, you will continue taking the drug for up to 18 months. You
      will no longer be able to take the study drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side
      effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over once you have completed the study visit.

      This is an investigational study. Metformin ER is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Its use to prevent colonic adenomas is investigational.

      Up to 128 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  