
    
      Gastric cancer is an important health problem, being the fifth most common cancer and the
      third leading cause of cancer related death worldwide.Incidence shows clear regional and sex
      variations-rates are highest in Eastern Asia, Eastern Europe, and South America and lowest in
      Northern and Southern Africa. In China, gastric cancer accounts for nearly 16% of all
      malignant tumors and more than 80% of gastric cancer are in advanced stage.

      Minimal residual disease (MRD) was proposed to describe the remaining tumor cells after
      treatment with curative intent. For curable gastric cancer, MRD means residential cancer
      cells after radical gastrectomy which share phenotypic similarity and genetic heritage with
      the original tumor. Treating MRD can increase the rates of cure had been supported by the
      experience of using adjuvant therapy for some type of solid tumor (for example, colorectal
      cancer, breast cancer). The challenge in monitoring the MRD in gastric cancer patients is
      that there is no very sensitive method. Computed tomography(CT) and blood tumor markers are
      either difficult to detect peritonial dissemination, the most frequent recurrent pattern in
      gastric caner or with limited sensitivity and specificity.

      Tumor-specific DNA mutations detected in the cell-free component of peripheral blood, which
      is known as circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA), in most patients, allow for the noninvasive
      molecular characterization detection of tumors, including genetic changes that are revealed
      by the selective pressure of adjuvant therapies. Considering the origin of ctDNA, it can be
      from different subclones of primary tumor or both primary and metastatic tumors, the ctDNA
      may overcome the problems caused by tumor heterogeneity. Additionally, the short half-life of
      ctDNA, about 2 hours, makes ctDNA an ideal dynamic marker of tumor bulk.

      In summary, the ctDNA is a good candidate to be a new kind of blood tumor marker. The
      preliminary studies had shown very good prospects in some tumors, including breast caner and
      colon cancer.But little was known in gastric cancer, so we designed this study to demonstrate
      the potential clinical utility of ctDNA in the field of gastric cancer treatment, especially
      the usage of an indicator of MRD in post radical gastrectomy patients.
    
  