
    
      This will be a prospective, non-randomized, uncontrolled study examining the effects of
      oncology treatments in women at risk for treatment induced ovarian failure. The investigators
      will also assess and describe the emotional, reproductive and quality of life concerns of
      newly diagnosed cancer patients referred for fertility preservation and determine the
      physical, psychosocial and quality of life differences of cancer survivors who undergo
      fertility preservation in comparison to those who choose not to or are unsuccessful in their
      attempts to cryopreserve.

      Protocol Methodology:

      Women who are scheduled to undergo chemotherapy and/or radiation and present for fertility
      preservation consultation at The Ronald O. Perelman and Claudia Cohen Center for Reproductive
      Medicine will be recruited for this study. All recruited patients (including those who
      undergo cryopreservation of embryos, eggs or ovarian tissue, those who do not undergo
      cryopreservation of embryos, eggs or ovarian tissue, and those who are unable to undergo
      cryopreservation) will be evaluated at the following time points: T1: Before starting
      chemotherapy initial consultation for fertility preservation; T2: Pre oncology treatment (eg
      chemotherapy and/or radiation; T3: At six months to 1 year post chemotherapy; Patients will
      subsequently have annual follow up visit for 3 years. The study involves two components: 1)
      Assessment of biochemical and biophysical parameters of ovarian reserve. 2) Assessment of
      psychosocial, reproductive and quality of life concerns of these patients

      The investigators will evaluate biochemical and biophysical parameters of ovarian reserve in
      these patients. Anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), estradiol
      (E2) levels will be drawn. In addition, the ovaries will be examined and antral follicle
      counts and ovarian volume will be measured on the same days that the hormone levels are drawn
      (if appropriate). Subjects will be asked to keep a menstrual calendar diary from baseline
      (pre-chemotherapy) and for 1 year post chemotherapy.

      In order to assess and describe the psychosocial, reproductive and quality of life concerns
      of these patients, a Quality of Life (QOL) survey will be completed pre and post chemotherapy
      at time points:

      T1: At the time of pre-chemotherapy (initial consultation for fertility preservation).

      T2: Pre chemotherapy/radiation treatment. Patients who have successful cryopreservation of
      embryos or eggs will be asked to complete the survey on the day of embryo or egg
      cryopreservation or before the start date of their initial chemotherapy treatment. Patients
      who do not have successful cryopreservation of embryos or eggs will be asked to complete the
      survey after receiving notification that the fertility preservation treatment is cancelled.
      Patients who do not choose to cryopreserve embryos or eggs will be asked to fill out the
      survey before the start date of their initial chemotherapy treatment. Participants will be
      mailed or given a survey instrument and the data collected either in person, by mail, or by
      telephone.

      T3: At six months to 1 year post chemotherapy, patients will be asked to complete the final
      survey by phone or by mail. Systematic reminders (mail and phone) will be used to ensure
      return of the surveys. Each study survey should take approximately 40-55 minutes to complete.
      The domains assessed will include psychological functioning, reproductive and fertility
      preservation concerns, relationship satisfaction, and quality of life prior to and following
      potential fertility preservation and initial chemotherapy treatment for breast cancer.
      Participants do not have to respond to any question that they choose not to answer.

      Study Instruments: Quality of Life (QOL) survey-

        1. Psychosocial History and Background Information Form

        2. Symptom Checklist (SCL)

        3. Center for Epidemiologic Studies-Depression (CES-D)

        4. Dyadic Adjustment Scale (DAS)

        5. The Reproductive Concerns Scale (RCS)

        6. Impact of Events Scale (IES)

        7. The Life Orientation Test (LOT-R)

        8. The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General

      Data will be collected and analyzed. This new data will help us establish a better
      understanding of the effects of chemotherapy on total ovarian reserve and assist clinicians
      caring for patients of reproductive age in counseling these patients. The findings of study
      will also bring attention to the understudied area of fertility preservation and cancer
      survivorship. The investigators propose that by studying the short and long-term psychosocial
      impact of fertility preservation with comparison between those who undergo cryopreservation
      with those who do not, the investigators will be able to assess if psychosocial changes occur
      over time and identify points for future intervention.
    
  