
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine whether reinfused activated cells alone or in conjunction with high or
           subcutaneous dose interleukin-2 may result in clinical tumor regression in patients with
           metastatic melanoma who had previously failed therapy on protocols involving
           immunization against the gp100 molecule.

        -  Determine the survival of infused cells with antitumor activity in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a salvage regimen.

      Patients undergo leukopheresis to obtain peripheral blood mononuclear cells or tumor biopsy
      to obtain tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL). Cells are incubated in the presence of
      gp209-2M peptide and then harvested and cloned. Patients receive 30-minute IV infusions of
      these in vitro sensitized cells. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 2 courses. An additional
      cohort of 8 patients receives gp209-2M peptide in Montanide ISA-51 subcutaneously in 2
      different sites followed 2 days later by the adoptive transfer of cloned lymphocytes. At 4 to
      6 weeks after the treatment courses, patients with stable or regressing disease may be
      retreated.

      Patients with disease progression after 2 courses may receive 2 additional courses of cell
      infusion followed by interleukin-2 (IL-2) on one of two schedules. One cohort of patients
      receives IL-2 by intravenous bolus over 15 minutes every 8 hours beginning on the day after
      cell infusion and continuing for up to 5 days of each treatment course. Another cohort
      receives IL-2 by daily subcutaneous injections on days 1-12 of each course of therapy. If
      after 12-16 patients have been treated with cloned cells alone initially and responses are
      inadequate, subsequent patients entered into this study are randomized to receive the cell
      infusion followed by IL-2 on one of the two described schedules.

      Patients are followed at 4-6 weeks.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 91 patients will be accrued for this study over 2 years.
    
  