
    
      Smoking and obesity are the two biggest contributors to preventable morbidity and mortality.
      They are usually thought of independently, but for many people are inter-related.
      Cessation-related weight gain and concerns about weight gain are common and negatively impact
      cessation efforts.

      Between March 2008 and November 2008 smokers who called the OKHL were screened for the
      presence of weight concerns and asked if they would be interested in a study offering the
      chance to speak with a weight coach (WC). Interested individuals were transferred to a
      specially trained Quit Coach (QC) who provided informed verbal consent, collected additional
      baseline data, obtained a second verbal consent to be randomized and were then randomized
      using a pre-programmed automated randomization procedure. Groups were randomly assigned in
      blocks of 20 so that after every 20th person randomized, the cells would be balanced.
      Individuals were randomized into either the control group to receive the standard quitline
      only (the OKHL 5-call program), or into the intervention group to receive standard care with
      integrated weight content plus three calls with a weight coach. All participants were offered
      a total of five tobacco cessations calls, access to Web Coach, tailored emails with quitting
      tips, access to the inbound support line, mailed quit guides, and nicotine replacement
      therapy (NRT) for cessation as appropriate. For the intervention group, QCs and WCs
      integrated weight concerns topics and components of the tobacco treatments into their calls
      with the primary goal of smoking cessation. A 6-month follow-up survey was conducted by the
      Oklahoma Tobacco Research Center, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center to compare
      outcomes between intervention and control conditions. The primary outcome was the 30-day quit
      rate. Secondary outcomes were:

      90 day abstinence, adherence to tobacco treatment, confidence in quitting or staying quit,
      confidence in controlling weight gain after quitting, change in physical activity,
      participant satisfaction, change in weight concerns, change in weight by quit outcomes

      We hypothesized that relative to controls, the 'Weight2Quit' intervention would:

        1. increase cessation without excessive weight gain

        2. increase satisfaction with the OKHL

        3. increase call completion rate

        4. reduce weight concerns, and

        5. increase confidence in quitting without weight gain THE STANDARD QUITLINE CESSATION
           PROGRAM The 5 proactive calls provided to participants in the multiple call programs are
           scheduled by mutual agreement between each participant and his or her Quit Coach. The
           aim is to set a quit date within 15 days, schedule calls around that quit date, and
           complete all calls within three months of enrollment.

      THE WEIGH2QUIT INTERVENTION The intervention was modeled on evidence-based methods to address
      maladaptive weight gain concerns that negatively impact quitting (Perkins, 2001). In this
      study, we adapted the original intensive, in-person group intervention described by Perkins
      for delivery via a telephone-based quitline. Participants randomized to the Weigh2Quit
      intervention were offered the standard OKHL cessation program (with integrated weight
      concerns content) plus 3 additional calls with a weight coach and specialized support
      materials. The mailed materials included a description of the rationale of the new program,
      educational information and worksheets (e.g. self-monitoring forms for tracking maladaptive
      thoughts about weight and body image and tracking alternative thoughts). Intervention
      counseling calls were designed to increase smoking cessation and
    
  