
    
      Participants will be enrolled sequentially, and no two participants will undergo drug
      administration, mobilization or apheresis at the same time. A subsequent participant can only
      receive the study drug when the previous participant has been safely apheresed and discharged
      from the hospital. In the first stratum of the study only adult participants (18-25 years of
      age) will be enrolled. Once plerixafor and apheresis has been shown to be safe and acceptable
      in at least 5 adult participants, the study will enroll participants in the pediatric
      stratum. Pediatric stratum will not be activated until all the patients in the adult stratum
      have been evaluated and completed participation with acceptable results. In the pediatric
      stratum, older children (14 years old and above) will be enrolled before younger children
      (10-14 years old). After 10 participants, 14 years and older, have safely completed the study
      participation, younger children 10-14 years old will be allowed to participate.

      Prophylactic red blood cell exchange or simple red cell transfusions will be given within 7
      days prior to plerixafor administration to participants targeting HbS <30% to reduce the
      incidence of vaso-occlusive crisis and other events that may be associated with high
      hemoglobin S levels.Hydroxyurea treatment should be stopped 4 weeks before mobilization.
      Plerixafor administration and apheresis will be timed for participants already receiving
      chronic transfusion therapy such that the plerixafor administration and apheresis coincides
      with regularly timed transfusion.

      Participants undergoing hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) mobilization will receive a daily-dose
      subcutaneous administration of plerixafor (Mozobil®) at 0.24 mg/kg on up to 2 consecutive
      days. Leukapheresis will start approximately 4 hours after each dose of plerixafor is given.
      This process lasts 4-10 hours.

      Participants will be followed for 30 days after the last dose of plerixafor and then taken
      off study.
    
  