
    
      Recessive Dystrophic Epidermolysis Bullosa (RDEB) is a severe orphan genetic disease
      responsible for skin and mucosal detachments due to a loss of adhesion of the epidermis to
      the underlying dermis. The disease is caused by loss of function mutations of the COL7A1
      encoding type VII collagen (C7) which forms anchoring fibers, which are essential structures
      for dermal-epidermal adherence. Current treatments are only symptomatic and do not
      effectively treat or prevent the occurrence of cutaneous and mucosal detachments responsible
      for local and systemic complications that threaten the vital prognosis.

      EBGRAFT is a prospective open-label international monocentric phase I/II clinical trial. It
      aims to treat 3 adult subjects with RDEB, expressing residual C7 levels, by genetically
      corrected autologous skin equivalent grafts.

      The skin equivalent consists of keratinocytes and fibroblasts from the patient, genetically
      corrected ex vivo with a secure Self INactivating (SIN) retroviral vector expressing the
      COL7A1 cDNA under the control of the ubiquitous human promoter EF1a.

      Each patient will be grafted sequentially at Necker Hospital in Paris using autologous
      genetically corrected skin equivalents of approximately 300 cm2 (up to 6 grafts of 50 cm2
      each).

      The main objective is to evaluate the safety of autologous skin equivalent grafts genetically
      corrected with a SIN COL7A1 retroviral vector (RV) in adults with RDEB.

      The secondary objectives are:

        1. To evaluate the efficacy of transplanting autologous skin equivalent genetically
           corrected with RV SIN COL7A1 in adults with RDEB.

        2. To evaluate the immune response against recombinant type VII collagen (C7).

      This clinical trial should evaluate whether the grafting of these genetically corrected
      autologous skin equivalents is well tolerated and whether they restore normal
      dermal-epidermal adherence of the grafted areas. The proposed treatment aims to obtain a
      permanent correction of the grafted areas, allowing skin healing and reducing pain. It has
      the potential to reduce itching, to prevent the occurrence of blisters and skin detachments,
      reduce the risk of infections, the duration and cost of care and also the risk of development
      of squamous cell carcinomas in the grafted areas.
    
  