
    
      BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE

      Medical and Biological:

      LUTD is a common problem in children that can result in wetting during the day and night,
      frequent and urgent urination and urinary tract infections. In a subset of children, LUTD is
      the result of dis-coordination between pelvic floor and abdominal muscles. These children
      tend to contract their pelvic muscles rather than relax them during voiding. This abnormal
      contraction results in bladder changes that can result in incontinence. In most cases,
      understanding how to contract and relax the pelvic floor and abdominal muscles can help
      reduce LUTD symptoms. Identifying and learning how to utilize the pelvic floor without
      abdominal muscle activation is one of the most powerful effectors of bladder function.

      The current LUTD Program at the investigator's institution includes a full history and
      physical exam followed by extensive education. If the patients do not improve they undergo
      additional evaluation with a renal pelvic ultrasound and simultaneous uroflowmetry and
      electromyography (EMG) study. Based on that evaluation a percentage of patients go on to
      receive biofeedback treatment. Biofeedback is typically recommended to patients who do not
      use the pelvic floor and abdominal muscles appropriately while voiding. The biofeedback
      treatment involves further education, standard biofeedback, and biofeedback computer games.
      In standard biofeedback, patients are made aware of their abdominal and pelvic floor muscle
      activity by a display that shows the abdominal and pelvic floor muscles' EMG activity. In the
      biofeedback computer games, patients control a variety of games with their pelvic floor and
      abdominal muscles. Both methods teach the patient how to locate the pelvic floor muscles and
      to isolate them while voiding. Biofeedback represents only one possible treatment plan for
      children with LUTD. Patients are analyzed prior to entering the biofeedback portion of the
      LUTD Program for compatibility with this treatment.

      Several studies were conducted by McKenna and colleagues to assess the effectiveness of the
      biofeedback games on treating LUTD symptoms.The trials involved 41 and 160 children of
      varying ages that averaged out to be 7.2 and 8.5 years respectively. The games worked by
      acquiring feedback that represented a flexion of the pelvic floor and relaxation of the
      abdominal muscle. All of the children in the trials participated in approximately an hour of
      treatment per session that involved around 20 minutes of supervised gaming time. The 84% and
      87% success rate in each trial showed that the method of using biofeedback paired with the
      video games is a viable option for the treatment of LUTD in children.

      Motivation:

      The investigator's institution has found success with using biofeedback games to train
      patients how to properly use their pelvic floor and abdominal muscles. Biofeedback is less
      invasive than traditional treatment methods and creates no potential harm to the patients.
      The DOS based biofeedback game system currently utilized at our institution is unique in that
      it involves the interaction of pelvic floor AND abdominal muscle to control video games
      through EMG signals. The system was created specifically for our LUTD Program and is not
      available on the market. The current biofeedback game system, however, has not been updated
      for almost 20 years and has become outdated. It requires a controller that is no longer
      available on the market, does not start reliably and overheats easily. Updated software and
      hardware are essential in order to keep this method of treatment available to the children at
      our institution.

      Students from the UW Biomedical Engineering program created an updated biofeedback system to
      replace the current system. The system utilizes EMG hardware that has already been FDA
      approved paired with updated software created by the students. The device is still in the
      testing phase, but early consultation with the user population is necessary for assessing
      needs and developing requirements. Users also are critical for analytical work and testing
      throughout product development. The investigators plan to eventually market the software and
      field testing and feedback to manufacturers are highly desirable.

      SPECIFIC AIMS/STUDY OBJECTIVES

      Aims:

        1. Evaluate physician's ability to read EMG values recorded throughout patient interaction
           with the software.

        2. Evaluate the nurse reception of the new software, including usability of operation and
           setup.

        3. Evaluate the patient's reception/satisfaction of the new video games that are part of
           the software package.

      Outcomes:

      Three metrics will be used to determine the usability of the video game software: 1) medical
      value to physician, 2) nurse ease of use, and 3) patient reception/satisfaction. Each of
      these metrics will be measured using evaluation forms specific to the role.

      The goal is for the physicians and patients to rate usability at 50% or higher and for nurses
      to rate usability at 85 or higher (System Usability Score).

      Because biofeedback uses well understood EMG technology, much of the system's success is
      related to patient satisfaction. Therefore, the first two aims seek to show usability in
      system setup and data presentation and our final aim will show usability according to patient
      engagement.

      RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS

      Study Population: A Focus Group session will involve the physician involved in this study, an
      advisor on the project and staff involved in the project as well as three random individuals
      outside of the project (7 total). These individuals will provide feedback on the software
      that will be used to improve the software. This study will also involve patients who are
      currently being treated in the UW LUTD Program under the supervision of Dr. Patrick McKenna.
      The investigators aim to recruit 30 of these patients who will complete the Patient Feedback
      Form. Additionally, the nurses (3 total) involved with biofeedback will provide qualitative
      and quantitative data in addition to completing the Nurse Feedback Form and the physician (1
      total) involved with biofeedback will fill out the Physician Feedback Form.

      Focus Group (Cognitive-Walk Through): To aid in the development of the final software to be
      used in the formal training below a set of informal peer focus group sessions will be held.
      These sessions will consist of Dr. Patrick McKenna, Christian Sauder, Joyce Jackson, Amit J.
      Nimunkar and three random individuals exterior to the project. During the session each
      participant will be asked to freely navigate through the training suite and game environment.
      During this activity they will be allowed to comment on the software and respond to follow up
      questions by the investigator. These questions and/or comments will be recorded by one of the
      investigators and used to guide the development process.

      Nurse Training Session: After the Focus Group session, nurses will undergo a training session
      where qualitative and quantitative data on the software will be collected. The nurse will be
      asked to "think aloud" while completing an outlined scenario. Evaluators will be encouraged
      to vocalize their difficulties with the system and recommend changes to the interface design
      and functionalities. At the end of the think aloud session, an unstructured interview will be
      conducted during which user will be asked about their overall impression of the software and
      their suggestions for improving it. The think aloud session and unstructured interview will
      be recorded and transcribed by members of the study team. Each nurse will also be asked to
      complete the System Usability Scale (SUS).

      Biofeedback: Upon delivering appropriate consent/assent forms, patients may begin biofeedback
      sessions with the new system. The patients will undergo 3 weekly sessions each lasting 1
      hour. At each session, patients will have EMG-surface electrode patches (Kendall, 1050NPSM
      Neonatal Electrodes-Prewired, Small Cloth) placed at the 3 and 9 o'clock positions on the
      perineum to measure electrical activity of the pelvic floor muscle group. An additional
      surface electrode patch will be placed on the rectus abdominus to measure abdominal muscle
      activity. All interactive biofeedback testing will be conducted by American Family Children's
      Hospital nurses that are experienced in standard biofeedback techniques.

      End User Assessment Forms: After the patient has completed all of the biofeedback sessions,
      he/she will complete a feedback form about their satisfaction with the games. The physician
      will complete a feedback form that assesses the medical value of the device and the nurses
      will complete a feedback form that assesses the ease of use of the device.
    
  