
    
      This is a prospective multi-centre phase III, two-group, randomized and controlled trial
      designed to prove superiority of the experimental treatment arm (neo-adjuvant chemotherapy
      and super-extended lymphadenectomy).

      The trial population consists of patients who have histologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of
      the stomach with locally advanced primary tumour and no evidence of distant metastases (stage
      IIA-IIIC gastric cancer). The lymph node clinical metastases, before neo-adjuvant
      chemotherapy, must be limited to the first and second compartments (stations 1-12).

      STANDARD GROUP: Neoadjuvant chemotherapy + surgical gastrectomy with D2 lymphadenectomy.

      Patients who are assigned to neoadjuvant chemotherapy+ surgical D2 treatment group will
      undergo either subtotal or total gastrectomy, depending on the location of the primary
      tumour. Standardized D2-lymph node dissection is required with specific information about
      lymph node stations.

      EXPERIMENTAL GROUP: Neoadjuvant chemotherapy + surgical gastrectomy with D2plus
      lymphadenectomy.

      Patients who are assigned to neoadjuvant chemotherapy + surgical D2plus extended
      lymphadenectomy treatment group will undergo either subtotal or total gastrectomy, depending
      on the location of the primary tumour. Standardized D2 lymph node dissection plus resection
      of stations 8p, 12b/p, 13, 14v, 16a2/b1 is required with specific information about lymph
      node stations.

      In both groups, surgical treatment should be performed within 4-6 weeks after the end of the
      last cycle of NAC.

      The primary objective of this study is to compare overall and cancer-related survival between
      D2 and D2+ lymphadenectomy following neo-adjuvant chemotherapy for resectable gastric cancer.

      In addition, response to chemotherapy, resection rate, quality of life, complications
      attributable to surgical intervention / side effects of chemotherapy and the duration of
      hospitalization will be evaluated.

      Sample size estimation was performed, to detect the minimum number of patients to be
      recruited in each arm. A two-sided log rank test with an overall sample size of 539 subjects,
      of which 270 are in group 1 and 269 are in group 2.

      Data will be analyzed using SPSS software. Level of significance will be defined as 5%.

      The trial will be open for recruitment from October 2018 to September 2023.
    
  