
    
      This study is designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of mirvetuximab soravtansine
      (MIRV) in patients with platinum-resistant high-grade serous epithelial ovarian cancer,
      primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer, whose tumors express a high-level of Folate
      Receptor Alpha (FRα). Patients will be, in the opinion of the Investigator, appropriate for
      single-agent therapy for their next line of therapy. FRα positivity will be defined by the
      Ventana FOLR1 (Folate Receptor 1/Folate Receptor Alpha) Assay.

      Approximately 110 eligible patients will be enrolled to achieve a total of 105 efficacy
      evaluable patients. Efficacy evaluable patients include those who have measurable lesions per
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) at baseline and
      received at least 1 dose of MIRV.

      All patients will receive single-agent MIRV at 6 mg/kg adjusted ideal body weight (AIBW)
      administered on Day 1 of every 3-week cycle (Q3W).

      Tumor response will be evaluated by the Investigator using RECIST v1.1. Computerized
      tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans will be collected for sensitivity
      analysis by blinded independent central review (BICR).

      Patients will continue to receive MIRV until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity,
      withdrawal of consent, death, or until the Sponsor terminates the study (whichever comes
      first).

      Tumor assessments, including radiological assessments by CT/MRI scans will be performed at
      Screening and subsequently every 6 weeks (± 1 week) from Cycle 1 Day 1 (C1D1) for the first
      36 weeks then every 12 weeks (± 3 weeks) until disease progression, death, the start of new
      anticancer therapy, or patient's withdrawal of consent (whichever occurs first).

      Patients who discontinue MIRV for reasons other than progressive disease (PD) will continue
      with tumor assessments until documentation of PD or the start of a new anticancer therapy,
      whichever comes first. Prior to Week 36 (from Cycle 1, Day 1), assessments should occur every
      6 weeks (± 1 week) as allowed by local requirements but must occur at an interval of no more
      than 12 weeks. After Week 36, assessment will occur every 12 weeks (± 3 weeks) until
      documentation of PD or the start of new anticancer therapy.

      All patients who discontinue MIRV will be followed for survival every 3 months (± 1 month)
      until death, lost to follow-up, withdrawal of consent for survival follow-up, or end of study
      (EOS) (whichever comes first). Additional survival follow-up calls may occur periodically, if
      needed.
    
  