
    
      The purpose of this clinical trial is to create a bank of fecal and blood samples and
      associated coded demographic information for future investigation of the microbial etiology
      and pathophysiology of neurodegenerative diseases including but not limited to Amyotrophic
      Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), Parkinson's disease and multiple sclerosis.

      Approximately 300 adult participants (open to all races and both sexes) subjects will be
      recruited (i.e. 100 healthy controls, 100 subjects with other neurodegenerative diseases (not
      ALS) and 100 subjects with ALS).

      Inclusion criteria permit all adults aged >18 years of age with the diagnosis of ALS who are
      willing to provide informed consent and patients who do not have a diagnosis of ALS and are
      willing to provide informed consent. Subjects who do not provide informed consent, have acute
      bacterial infection of the GI tract, and/or are being treated with antibiotics or probiotics
      within 28 days prior to sampling are excluded. A separate blood sample will not be taken from
      a subject if the maximum amount of samples allowed have been collected for standard care.

      Upon arrival to the clinic, staff will provide the stool tissue bank protocol informed
      consent / HIPAA authorization document to eligible subjects for review. If subjects indicate
      a willingness to participate, the research coordinator or one of the participating
      investigators will review the informed consent form / HIPAA authorization with the subjects
      and answer any questions. If subjects agree to participate, they will sign the informed
      consent form / HIPAA authorization. Copies of the document will be made for subjects;
      originals will be filed in a locked cabinet.

      Biological materials will be collected from the patient using either one or both of the
      following methods: as biological samples obtained specifically for the study (e.g. stool
      samples from all participating patients) or as extra material obtained specifically for
      research in addition to material collected as part of routine care (e.g., blood samples).

      Subjects will be asked to consider participating in the stool tissue bank protocol. If
      subjects consent to donate extra samples for the bank, the samples will be obtained by the
      physicians or the clinic staff.

      Two 10 ml venous blood samples for the ALS tissue bank will be collected 1) in a serum
      separator, and 2) in a tube containing the anticoagulant, EDTA (lavender top). Stool samples
      will be collected in sterile plastic cups. The blood and stool samples will be put on ice or
      refrigerated as promptly as possible until delivered to the ALS Research Laboratory at Cannon
      Research Center.

      Samples will be de-identified by labeling with a research code prior to entering the
      laboratory. All information pertaining to the sample including a copy of the consent form and
      the master list of the research coding will be secured in a locked file cabinet. Personal
      health information (PHI) obtained will be entered into a separate security-protected database
      utilizing encryption technology and accessible only to authorized personnel. The samples,
      once coded, will be given to the appropriate laboratory technician for processing and
      analysis.

      Blood samples will be centrifuged, the plasma and serum samples will be aliquoted in 1 ml
      tubes and stored at -80 C. The blood cells, separated from plasma, will be processed for DNA
      isolation immediately or stored at -80 C for later DNA extraction. Four ~25 mg aliquots of
      stool samples will be stored in sterile tubes at -80 C for future analysis. Storage freezers
      are locked, connected to emergency power and monitored by an alarm system that notifies
      laboratory personnel of malfunctions, etc.

      In addition, a data collection form will be completed by the research staff to collect
      demographic, medical history, etc. as shown in Appendix C. The form will be linked to the
      tissue samples by an individual research code. This information is necessary for defining the
      tissue samples collected.

      No formal sample size determination will be performed for this tissue bank protocol.
    
  