
    
      Nearly half of all pregnancies in the general population in 2006-2010 were unintended. In
      addition, data from the National Survey of Family Growth shows that in 2006-2010, only 62.2%
      of women aged 15-44 in the United States are using some form of contraception. These
      statistics inherently suggest a need for additional education in the general population
      regarding contraceptive options. It is unknown how these statistics for the general
      population apply to women with psychiatric conditions. In addition, reproductive age women
      with psychiatric diagnoses have several unique family planning considerations, some of which
      are outlined below:

      TERATOGENICITY OF PSYCHIATRIC MEDICATIONS:

      Some women with psychiatric conditions may be on medications that are not safe for use in
      pregnancy and therefore may require counseling on their highly effective contraceptive
      options. These women may also have other environmental exposures to alcohol, tobacco and
      illicit drugs, so this may be an additional need for counseling about risk to a potential
      pregnancy. Other women in this population may become pregnant and stop using their
      psychiatric medications because they are unaware that their medications are safe to use in
      pregnancy. The United States Food and Drug Administration uses the following categories to
      rate the safety of using various pharmaceutical agents in pregnancy: A, controlled studies in
      humans fail to demonstrate a risk to the fetus in pregnancy; B, no evidence of risk to fetus
      in animal studies but no controlled studies for use in pregnant women; C, animal studies
      demonstrate an adverse effect on the fetus, but no controlled studies in humans; D, positive
      evidence of risk to fetus in human studies; and X, agent contraindicated in pregnancy because
      risks to fetus clearly outweigh potential benefits. Most psychotropic drugs used to treat
      bipolar disorder are category C or D. For example, lithium, a commonly prescribed mood
      stabilizer used as a first-line treatment for bipolar disorder, is associated with an
      increased risk of congenital cardiac abnormalities and is FDA category D for use in
      pregnancy. Also, valproate and carbamazapine, which are commonly used as mood stabilizers,
      have been associated with neural tube defects in the fetus and thus are also FDA category D
      for use in pregnancy.

      CONTRACEPTION:

      Women in this population may also wish to delay or avoid pregnancy due to the current state
      of their psychiatric condition and thus should be encouraged to use effective contraception.
      It has been shown that women with psychiatric diagnoses may interrupt their use of
      contraception due a variety of factors including: drug-drug interactions with their
      psychiatric medication, psychiatric hospitalization, loss of personal control over their
      medication administration, and preconceived notions of how contraception may impact their
      psychiatric condition or vice versa. Long-acting reversible contraceptive options, such as
      intrauterine devices (IUDs), requiring no patient compliance to achieve maximal efficacy may
      therefore be particularly well-suited options for these women. For these reasons, there may
      be a role for focused counseling in this population regarding options for safe, effective and
      reversible forms of contraception.

      DRUG-DRUG INTERACTIONS:

      Some women with psychiatric conditions are on medications that interact with combined
      hormonal contraceptives and may benefit from specialized counseling regarding which
      contraceptive options are safe for them to use. In 2010, the Centers for Disease Control and
      Prevention (CDC) published the United States Medical Eligibility Criteria (USMEC) in an
      effort to improve contraceptive safety guidance. The USMEC includes guidance on contraceptive
      safety for specific medications, including those commonly used to treat psychiatric illness.
      For example, carbamazapine, oxcarbazapine, lamictal, and topiramate, which are commonly
      prescribed for mood stabilization, increase the clearance rate of oral contraceptives; thus
      patients receiving one of these treatments should consider switching to an alternative form
      of contraception. The USMEC continues to be updated and will likely prove to be a valuable
      resource to optimize contraceptive counseling for these women.

      This multidisciplinary research project involves a unique collaboration between the
      MotherToBaby Project, Reproductive Medicine at UCSD and Psychiatry at UCSD to deliver
      individualized contraceptive and teratogen counseling to women with psychiatric conditions.
      MotherToBaby California, formerly known as the CTIS Pregnancy Health Information Line, in the
      Department of Pediatrics at UCSD is a community-based organization founded 27 years ago which
      has been continuously funded at UCSD to provide direct-to-consumer and direct-to-health care
      provider counseling free of charge on the risks or safety of medications, chemicals,
      recreational drugs and alcohol, infectious or chronic disease, and medical conditions in
      pregnancy. The goal of MotherToBaby is to provide individualized risk assessments and
      referrals for further assistance or diagnostic testing to pregnant or breastfeeding women in
      order to prevent birth defects that are related to prenatal or breastfeeding exposures.

      The proposed study will serve to investigate the feasibility of a novel type of counseling
      service that may uncover and address unmet family planning needs of reproductive age women
      with psychiatric diagnoses. The proposed project also promotes the utilization of the
      relatively new evidence-based USMEC contraceptive guidance from the CDC which has been
      endorsed by the American Congress of Obstetricians & Gynecologists and American Academy of
      Family Physicians.
    
  