
    
      Membranous nephropathy is a rare auto-immune disease, yet a major cause of nephrotic syndrome
      in adults. It is characterised by the deposition of antigen-antibody complexes on the
      glomerular basement membrane, leading to a decreased filtration rate and eventually kidney
      failure. About one third of cases have a favourable outcome without any treatment, another
      third requires a long term symptomatic treatment to manage their symptoms, and the last third
      of patients advances to end stage renal failure, requiring dialysis and kidney graft. MN can
      be associated with cancer, infections, other auto-immune diseases and with certain drugs
      (secondary MN), but most often it is idiopathic. In the latter form two antigens have been
      identified, PLA2R1 and THSD7A, with corresponding auto-antibodies in 70% and 2% of MN
      patients, respectively. GWAS studies identified several alleles associated with a higher risk
      of developing MN, however, since these are common variants they cannot explain the onset of
      MN in the vast majority of cases. Since MN is a rare disease, the number of new cases per
      each center is low, and nation-wide studies are needed to correctly evaluate its incidence
      and risk factors for the onset of MN, as well as validate previously published findings in
      monocentric studies on the prognostic value of PLA2R1 epitope spreading (immunisation against
      multiple domains of PLA2R1).

      This study aims to establish a French national cohort of all cases of MN in a one year period
      in France. The inclusion will last one year with one additional year of follow-up, for a
      total of 2 years. In the first year, nephrologists of each associate centers in France will
      propose the study to each of their patients diagnosed with MN. In addition, clinical
      information will be collected, as well as a survey on patients' lifestyle habits. Serum
      samples will be sent for centralised analyses in Nice.

      This study will help to clarify the results from single center studies, such as the
      prognostic value of epitope spreading. The information acquired on environmental risk factors
      will help us understand the pathophysiological mechanisms leading to the onset of MN et, by
      association, to other auto-immune diseases. With this knowledge, measures could be put in
      place to protect the population at risk.
    
  