
    
      Sixty patients with acromegaly, (30 in Spain and 30 in Italy) and 60 patients with Cushing
      syndrome (30 in Spain and 30 in Italy), who are visited in the Endocrinology services of the
      Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Barcelona and Papa Giovanni XXIII in Bergamo will
      participate in the study.

      In each center there will be 30 patients for each pathology (15 will participate in the
      Mindfulness intervention group and 15 will receive the usual treatment).

      Inclusion criteria: 1) age between 18 and 70 years, 2) diagnosis of acromegaly, 3) diagnosis
      of Cushing's syndrome, 4) patients with controlled disease, 5) not currently participating in
      any other clinical study.

      Exclusion criteria: 1) physical illnesses or comorbidity of serious mental illness that
      impede the practice of Mindfulness, 2) Patients who for cognitive, neurological or
      psychiatric reasons could not follow the sessions 3) Patients who do not accept signing the
      informed consent 4) Patients with Cushing's syndrome or active acromegaly, 5) Simultaneous
      participation in another clinical study.

      Patients who meet the inclusion / exclusion criteria will be invited to participate in the
      study. The Patient Information Sheet (HIP) and Informed Consent (CI) will be provided. There
      will be three evaluation visits (pre and post intervention, and 6 months after the
      intervention) in which the participants must complete different questionnaires and scales.
      Participants will be invited to keep a daily practice log, and will be required to complete
      the assigned daily meditation practices for the 8-week program.

      Demographic and clinical variables (collected from the medical history) will be included.
      Patients will also have their blood pressure taken before and after each session.

      Questionnaires:

        -  Quality of Life: AcroQoL (patients with acromegaly), CushingQoL (patients with Cushing
           syndrome)

        -  Mood: Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS)

        -  Sleep: Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index

        -  Pain: McGill Pain Questionnaire

        -  Self Compassion Scale (SCS)

        -  Life satisfaction scale (SWLS)
    
  