
    
      Non-exercise activity thermogenesis (NEAT) is the energy expended engaging in daily
      activities such as maintenance of posture, fidgeting, and other activities not specifically
      designated as "exercise." A growing body of evidence indicates that NEAT plays an important
      role in overall energy balance; for example, differences in NEAT account for the ease with
      which adults gain or lose weight during over- or under feeding. An intriguing and possibly
      modifiable component of NEAT is fidgeting-like activity. In lean and overweight adults,
      modulation of NEAT by augmenting fidgeting can increase short-term energy expenditure. It is
      unknown whether NEAT can be altered in children, or whether augmenting NEAT in children can
      change daily energy expenditure or body composition long-term. Children exhibit higher levels
      of daily activity than adults, suggesting potentially profound differences in energy balance.
      We propose to study the role of NEAT in children to determine if: a) the fidgeting component
      of NEAT can be measured accurately and reproducibly in children; b) NEAT can be increased by
      devices that remind children to engage in fidgeting-like activities; and c) manipulation of
      fidgeting-NEAT can significantly change energy expenditure and body composition. Thirty lean
      and thirty overweight children will be enrolled and treated in a pilot feasibility study. By
      adapting technologies developed to measure activity in adults, children's behavior and
      thermogenesis will be recorded and analyzed to study question (a). To address study questions
      (b) and (c), we will ask children to wear a timer that vibrate on a fixed interval schedule
      and be randomly assigned to two conditions: the intervention or active condition, during
      which children will be cued by the timer to engage in a fidgeting behavior (rapidly moving
      their heel up and down), and the control condition, during which children will be asked to
      perform a less thermogenic activity (noting the cue). Children will then cross over so that
      each child will complete both conditions. Primary outcome measures for question (a) will be
      changes in energy expenditure when subjects are asked to fidget in a laboratory environment.
      The correlation of these energy expenditure measurements with new activity monitoring
      technologies will also be obtained, so that such equipment can be used for measurements under
      free-living conditions. For study questions (b) and (c), compliance with prescribed fidgeting
      regimens in a free living environment and the changes in energy expenditure and body
      composition will be determined over a 2 week interval. This pilot study will enable the
      determination of the sample size needed to assess the efficacy of a longer term NEAT
      intervention in children.
    
  