
    
      Management of post-operative pain remains a major challenge and an area of continued
      research. Effective pain control, apart from providing general patient comfort, is critical
      for a variety of clinical reasons. It leads to early ambulation and improved respiratory
      function, which significantly reduces the risk of post-operative complications such as
      pulmonary embolus or pneumonia, as well as early discharge.

      Post-operative pain management was typically opioid-based; however, post-operative opioid use
      may be associated with increased risk of respiratory depression and sedation. It is therefore
      desirable to implement opioid sparing multimodal analgesia to achieve satisfactory pain
      control while reducing post-operative opioid requirements and their side-effects.

      Rational pain management is a particularly pertinent issue in the patients with morbid
      obesity (MO). The pathophysiology of obesity, the high prevalence of obstructive sleep apnea,
      and high susceptibility to respiratory depression amongst patients with MO make safe
      analgesic (pain) management especially difficult. These individuals are at high risk of
      post-operative adverse respiratory events, nosocomial infections, cardiovascular
      complications, and pulmonary emboli (the second leading cause of death in the bariatric
      surgery population).

      Given the increasing number of patients with MO presenting for elective weight loss surgery,
      it is important to understand and optimize the analgesic requirements of this patient
      population. However, there are limited evidence-based recommendations and no ideal analgesic
      regimen exists for patients with MO. Current recommendations include use of step-wise
      severity-based opioid- sparing multimodal analgesia. It is possible that including local
      anesthetic blocks will further reduce pain, opioid analgesic consumption and side-effects
      from pain management (sedation, confusion, nausea & vomiting etc.) at-risk patient
      population.
    
  