
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare neoadjuvant prostatic diindolylmethane (DIM^) concentrations in patients with
      stage I or II adenocarcinoma of the prostate treated with DIM vs placebo prior to radical
      prostatectomy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare the ratio of urinary 2-hydroxyestrone:16-hydroxyestrone in patients treated with
      these regimens.

      II. Compare plasma levels of total prostate-specific antigen (PSA) in patients treated with
      these regimens.

      III. Compare serum testosterone levels in patients treated with these regimens. IV. Compare
      the ratio of plasma insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1:IGF binding protein-3 in patients
      treated with these regimens.

      V. Compare cytochrome p450 mRNA expression of CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2B1, and CYP3A enzymes in
      circulating polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs) and in fresh frozen tissue in patients
      treated with these regimens.

      VI. Compare DIM blood steady-state concentrations in patients treated with these regimens.

      VII. Identify polymorphisms of CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2B1, and CYP3A in circulating PMNs in
      patients treated with these regimens.

      VIII. Compare tissue levels of PSA, androgen receptor, Ki-67, and caspase 3 in patients
      treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE:

      This is a randomized, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of
      3 treatment arms.

      Arm I: Patients receive low-dose, nutritional-grade oral diindolylmethane (DIM) twice daily
      for 21-28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Treatment may
      continue for up to 60 days, if surgery is delayed.

      Arm II: Patients receive high-dose, nutritional-grade oral DIM twice daily as in arm I.

      Arm III: Patients receive oral placebo twice daily for 21-28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Treatment may continue for up to 60 days, if surgery is
      delayed.

      Patients in all arms undergo surgical resection of their tumor within 1 day after completion
      of DIM or placebo.

      Patients undergo blood, tissue, and urine sample collection periodically during study for
      immunohistochemical (IHC)/molecular analyses and pharmacokinetic and pharmacogenomic
      correlative studies. Patient specimens are assessed for DIM levels in plasma and tissue (by
      liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry [LC/MS]) and for biologic response to DIM (by TUNEL
      assay). Intermediate biomarkers of DIM activity are also assessed, including urinary
      2-hydroxyestrone:16-hydroxyestrone ratio (by LC/MS assay), plasma total prostate-specific
      antigen (PSA), plasma insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1:IGF binding protein-3 ratio (by
      ELISA), and tissue androgen receptor, PSA, Ki-67, and caspase 3 (by immunohistochemistry).
      Cytochrome p450 induction and gene expression (CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2B1, CYP3A) are also
      assessed in tissue and plasma by semiquantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction.
    
  