
    
      One of the most common postural deformities in the neck region is forward head posture seen
      in 66% of the population according to the American Physical Therapy Association
      (Griegel-Morris et al., 1992). The use of computers and smartphones and long readings, which
      are the result of today's technological lifestyle, is one of the most common causes of FHP,
      causing the body to lean forward for hours. Maintaining the reverse neck posture also forces
      the body into many bad postures that damage the spine (Szeto, Straker, & O'Sullivan, 2005).
      Although forward head posture is experienced unconsciously at first, this unbalanced posture
      will accompany various degrees of advanced head posture, which turns into deformity, symptoms
      and complications (Weber, Corrêa, Milanesi, Soares, & Trevisan, 2012).

      FHP is an anterior translation of the head characterized by the extension of the upper
      cervical vertebra C1 and 2 and the bending of the lower cervical vertebra (Sun, Yeo, Kim,
      Hyun, & Kim, 2014; Weber et al., 2012). According to Kapandji, each inch (2.54 cm) of the
      head forward equals the extra 4.5 kg on the neck extensor muscle, which leads to muscle
      fatigue and weakness, resulting in an unbalanced head posture with an abnormal bow in the
      neck. (Kapandji, 1987). Immunohistochemical studies conducted by Satoshi Inami and colleagues
      showed that there is damage to the synovial folds containing nociceptive nerve endings as a
      result of compression of the facet joints in the forward head posture (Inami et al., 2001).

      Aim of the work The aim of this study is to present a neck orthosis to correct neck posture
      and to see how posture correction will reflect on balance and plantar pressure distribution
      in individuals with forward head posture. This study can help answer questions about changes
      in gait level and mechanics between the spine and peripheral levels.
    
  