
    
      Treatment: Imatinib mesylate is a new oral medication that blocks a protein that is
      responsible for CML

      Patients on this study will take 400 mg of imatinib twice daily (morning and evening). If you
      have side effects, the dose may be lowered. If you are taking less than 800 mg of imatinib,
      you can take your dose once per day or divided in two doses. Imatinib mesylate should be
      taken with a large glass of water.

      After completing 3 to 12 months of therapy, response to imatinib mesylate will be evaluated.
      Treatment may be continued for up to 20 years, or as long as it is judged best to control the
      leukemia.

      Update June 2010:

      Blood tests are recommended 2 times per year. Your doctor will discuss with you how often you
      should have blood tests. Bone marrow will be done if your doctor thinks it is necessary to
      check your disease. You must return to M. D. Anderson at least once every year. You may not
      need a bone marrow test every visit, but you will have blood drawn to measure the amount of
      disease you have. If the leukemia cannot be found for 2 years or longer on the blood test
      called PCR which is done to measure the amount of disease you have, your doctor may talk to
      you about stopping treatment with imatinib. If you and your doctor decide to stop your
      therapy, you will have a blood test for PCR done every 3 to 6 months. You do not need to
      return to M. D. Anderson to have this blood test done. You may have the blood taken by your
      local doctor and mailed to M. D. Anderson. If the leukemia is found again by the PCR blood
      test, your doctor may recommend that you restart treatment with imatinib. You may decide to
      stay on treatment with imatinib even if your PCR blood test does not show any sign of
      leukemia for 2 years or longer.

      This is an investigational study. The FDA has authorized the use of imatinib mesylate for
      patients with CML. It is the dose of imatinib mesylate being used that is investigational. A
      total of 50 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M.D. Anderson.
    
  