
    
      Background: Physical activity is known to reduce cardiovascular risk as far as even minor
      change in lifestyle could occur. In obesity, physical activity programs remain challenging
      due to multifactorial causes related to body mass such as shortness of breath,
      traumatological pain or psychosocial causes. Although neuromuscular electrical stimulation
      training is presently ignored in the management of obesity, this technique may be appropriate
      and useful for muscle deconditioning in these patients. Furthermore, direct effects of
      electrostimulation training program on vascular function have been previously reported in
      spinal cord injury and chronic heart disease, suggesting that improvement in cardiovascular
      function may be expected. While a promising new technique of multisite electrical stimulation
      (the Kneehab® system) has been recently commercialized, few study have investigated the acute
      effects of electrostimulation on vascular function and not any study report the effects of
      electrical stimulation in obese patients.

      MAIN OUTCOME OF THE ACUTE PHASE STUDY (1st part):To study the effect of multisite electrical
      stimulation session (m-NMES) on arterial stiffness as compared to conventional unidirectional
      electrical stimulation session (c-NMES) in patients with severe obesity. Secondary outcomes
      of the observational study: 1/ To study the effect of m-NMES on endothelial function, blood
      pressure, systemic inflammation and metabolic status (fasting glucose and insulin) as well as
      electrically-induced muscle fatigue as compared with c-NMES in patients with morbid obesity.
      2/ To study the profile of responders to electrical stimulation according to body
      composition, 6-minute walking distance, spontaneous physical activity or susceptibility to
      tolerate electrical stimulation. Response to electrical stimulation will be assessed by an
      improvement in arterial stiffness after stimulation, if so.

      MAIN OUTCOME OF THE INTERVENTIONAL STUDY (2nd part):To study the effect of a multisite
      electrical stimulation training program (m-NMES) (6 weeks, 30 sessions) on arterial stiffness
      in patients with severe obesity. Secondary outcomes of the interventional study: To study the
      effect of m-NMES on endothelial function, blood pressure, systemic inflammation and metabolic
      status (fasting glucose and insulin) as well as muscle strength, body composition, functional
      capacity (6-minute walking distance) and spontaneous physical activity, after 15 sessions (3
      weeks) and after 30 sessions (6 weeks) of training program. Evaluation of the dose-response
      to m-NMES training in terms of arterial stiffness and functional capacity.

      Expected outcomes: Acute change in arterial stiffness and/or endothelial function is expected
      after one m-NMES session and/or after c-NMES session. M-NMES session is expected to induce
      higher changes than c-NMES stimulation session on cardiovascular and muscle parameters.
      Chronic changes in arterial stiffness and/or endothelial function is expected after 6 weeks
      of m-NMES training.
    
  