
    
      The VTI-212 study (VTI-212) is an open-label, multicenter, historically-controlled study of
      subjects with acute liver failure (ALF). Approximately 40 subjects who meet the eligibility
      requirements of the study will receive ELAD treatment in addition to standard of care
      treatment for ALF. The outcomes of these subjects will be compared with matched historical
      controls drawn from existing databases.

      Subjects will undergo ELAD treatment for a minimum of 3 days (72 hours). It is recommended
      ELAD treatment be continued up to 10 days (240 hours).

      Following ELAD treatment, subjects will continue standard medical therapy as defined by the
      institution and be followed through Study Day 28.

      Subjects' diagnosis of ALF will be attributed to one of the following:

        1. Fulminant Hepatic Failure (FHF) (acute liver failure with no preexisting liver disease);

        2. Primary Graft Non-Function (PNF);

        3. Surgically-Induced Liver Failure (including subjects with small for size liver
           transplants, living donor liver transplants, and subjects with risk of ALF following
           liver cancer surgery.

      Screening evaluations and assessments will be completed for subjects and reviewed against
      inclusion/exclusion criteria.

      Enrollment will define the time of study entry (Hour 0, Study Day 1, study baseline) and
      inclusion in the Intent-to-treat (ITT) population. Subjects will be evaluated throughout the
      28-day study period.

      If standard medical therapy, as defined by the institution and this protocol is consistent
      with discharging the subject home, then the subject should be discharged. Prior to discharge,
      the subject will be advised to attend all follow-up visits.

      An extension of this study, the VTI-212E study (VTI-212E), will provide additional ELAD
      survival data, as available, through VTI-212 study termination (after the last surviving
      enrolled ELAD subject completes Study Day 28). This registry protocol segment of VTI-212
      extends the safety monitoring period to 5 years to assess survival, incidence and
      characterization of tumor (in particular hepatocellular tumor), incidence of liver
      transplant, and assess quality of life using a standard, validated questionnaire.

      The ITT population includes all randomized subjects assigned to the group to which they were
      randomized, irrespective of actual treatment administered. Participant, Baseline
      Characteristics, and Outcome Measures used the ITT population. The safety population is
      defined as all subjects who are randomized based on actual treatment received. All serious
      adverse events and all non-serious adverse events analyses used the safety population.
    
  