
    
      Major depressive disorder has an estimated annual prevalence of 4% in Spain and the risk of a
      major depressive episode is 10.6%. Although there are few studies available, there is growing
      evidence regarding the fact that patients with affective disorders have a higher morbidity
      and mortality in relation to general population. This mortality would be duplicated mainly
      due to suicides but also by other factors such as increased metabolic risk and cardiovascular
      diseases. In Europe, depression is one of the leading causes of lost productivity, early
      retirement and absence from work due to illness and it will be the first cause of disease
      burden worldwide in 2030 according to World Health Organization. Several reasons could
      explain it: from the adverse effects of medication, less access to health services, until
      unhealthy lifestyle options associated with a loss of quality of life related to health.

      Bipolar disorder is a serious mental illness that can affect between 2 and 5% of the
      population. This disease has a major impact on patient functioning and it is in sixth place
      among all diseases as a global cause of disability. Depending on the studies, metabolic
      syndrome is present between 8 and 56% of patients with bipolar disorder what this leads to
      increased morbidity and mortality affecting of their quality of life.

      Annual incidence rates of psychosis are from 0.2 to 0.4 per 1000 population and prevalence
      throughout life is about 1%, being similar between men and women although the start in women
      is later. The age of onset is between 15 and 30 years and it has a significant economic
      impact on patient, on his family and society in general. Schizophrenia is a psychotic
      disorder in which the person suffers from delusions or hallucinations with a disorganized
      thought or speech and negative symptoms that are not accompanied by insight. Historically it
      has been associated with greater vulnerability and higher rates of physical comorbidity and
      excess mortality. In physical comorbidity highlights cardiovascular diseases and they are
      attributed a 60% mortality together with metabolic syndrome, which is 2-3 times more frequent
      than in the general population. This increase in morbidity and mortality is related to a
      style of unhealthy life (bad eating habits and lack of exercise), use of antipsychotic drugs
      and disease as intrinsic factor.

      There has been an increase in interest for the study of metabolic syndrome (MetS) in
      psychiatric patients in recent decades. Although his description has evolved over time, we
      can define the MetS as a group of risk factors (abdominal obesity, elevated blood pressure,
      elevated fasting plasma glucose, high serum triglycerides and low high-density lipoprotein
      (HDL cholesterol) levels) that predict the onset of coronary heart disease, type 2 diabetes,
      gallstones, asthma, sleep apnea, fatty liver disease and several cancers. The most commonly
      used criteria for his diagnosis are the National Cholesterol Education Program-Adult
      Treatment Panel III (NCEP-ATP III 2003), requires at least three of the following risk
      factors:

        1. Elevated waist circumference: ≥102 cm in men and ≥88 cm in women.

        2. Elevated serum triglycerides: ≥150 mg/dL or drug treatment.

        3. Reduced HDL cholesterol: <40 mg/dL in men and <50 mg/dL in women or drug treatment.

        4. Elevated blood pressure: systolic blood pressure ≥130 mm Hg or diastolic blood pressure
           ≥ 85 mm Hg or drug treatment.

        5. Elevated fasting glucose: ≥100 mg/dL or drug treatment.
    
  