
    
      This multicenter prospective, randomized controlled clinical trial compared the open label
      use of sirolimus with that of azathioprine in a tacrolimus-based immunosuppression regimen.
      Eligible patients were identified during a 90-day screening period immediately after
      transplantation and randomized via a computer-generated scheme. Patient randomization was
      stratified according to center and rejection status in the first 90 days after
      transplantation. All patients received IL-2 receptor antagonist induction therapy,
      tacrolimus, azathioprine, and corticosteroids until 90 days after transplantation. At 90 days
      after transplantation, patients were randomized at a 1:1 ratio to either continue
      azathioprine or change from azathioprine to sirolimus.

      The dosing and levels of immunosuppressive medications were standardized for all patients
      included in this study. Tacrolimus was dosed at 0.04 mg/kg twice daily with target trough
      levels between 5 and 15 ng/ml, azathioprine was administered at 2 mg/kg daily with dose
      adjustments for leukopenia, sirolimus was initially dosed at 2 mg/day with target trough
      levels between 5 and 15 ng/ml, and prednisone was tapered to not more than 10 mg/day by 3
      months after transplantation. All patients received induction therapy with either daclizumab
      or basiliximab as per the product package insert.

      In addition, prophylactic antimicrobials were standardized among the participating sites. All
      patients with either donor and/or recipient cytomegalovirus (CMV)-positive serostatus
      received either intravenous ganciclovir or oral valganciclovir for a total of 90 days. Lung
      transplant recipients who were negative for both donor and recipient CMV serostatus received
      valacyclovir for 90 days. Antifungal prophylaxis was determined by each site. Pneumocystis
      jiroveci prophylaxis was continued throughout the study. Lipid-lowering medications were
      recommended according to the National Cholesterol Education Program guidelines.
    
  