
    
      Postpartum depression (PPD) affects up to 20% of women and has profound effects on women and
      their families (1,2). Indeed, the cost of one case of PPD is estimated to exceed $150,000
      (3). Unfortunately, fewer than 15% of women with PPD receive evidence-based care (4), which
      is at least partly due to difficulties accessing treatment, particularly therapies that are
      most preferred (e.g., psychotherapy (5)).

      Clinical practice guidelines recommend that the majority of women with PPD receive
      psychotherapy (e.g., cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT)) as a 1st-line treatment (6).
      Moreover, consensus recommendations such as those made by the US Preventive Services Task
      Force suggest that screening only occur in settings where evidence-based counselling such as
      CBT is readily available (7). In order to increase access to treatment, screening efforts
      have been undertaken by public health units province-wide in Ontario. This has occurred
      despite the widespread availability of evidence-based psychotherapies.

      The purpose of this pilot study is to successfully adapt and deliver a 1-day CBT workshop for
      depression to women with PPD, establish the feasibility of a study protocol, and generate an
      estimate of the treatment effect (as well as its variance) in this population for a later,
      large-scale study.

      A previously validated 1-day CBT workshop has been adapted for depression for use with women
      experiencing PPD and living in the community. 476 women will be randomized to active
      treatment or a 12 week wait list in each of 5 settings (Simcoe County, Kitchener-Waterloo
      Region, Halton Region, Prince Edward County, Elgin County), and compare changes in
      depression, mother-infant attachment, service utilization, quality of life, and offspring
      behaviour.

      If this study can show that a 1-day CBT workshop for PPD can be effectively delivered to
      women, it would set the stage for the conduct of a larger trial aimed at establishing the
      effectiveness of delivering this 1-day CBT workshop to women with PPD. If this intervention
      is eventually proven effective, more women would receive treatment and the burden of PPD on
      women, families, and the healthcare system would be significantly reduced. Providing women
      with PPD with CBT skills at this crucial stage in life also has the capacity to prevent
      future depressive relapse with significant benefits for patients, families, employers, and
      the healthcare system.
    
  