
    
      This is a prospective, open label, multi-centre phase II trial with a two-arm non comparative
      design aiming to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Enasidenib (investigational product) as
      prophylactic consolidation in patients with IDH2-mutated MDS, CMML and AML in remission after
      allo-SCT (Arm A) and as salvage therapy in patients with IDH2-mutated MDS, CMML and AML who
      have relapsed after allo-SCT (Arm B).

      Study Design:

        -  interventional

        -  prospective, open-label, non-randomized with 2 single non-comparative arms, multicenter
           phase-II trial

        -  total patients sample size: 30 patients (Arm A) + 30 patients (Arm B) = 60 patients

        -  number of trial sites: 10 all located in Germany and members of the EBMT

      Arm A (Consolidation):

      Patients with AML, MDS and CMML, in whom an IDH2 mutation has been detected at diagnosis
      prior allo-SCT, are eligible for consolidation therapy, if they are in complete molecular
      remission (no IDH2 mutation detected) after first allo-SCT. Remission will be evaluated
      within a screening period between day +25 and day +35. Evaluation of remission will be
      performed locally with IDH2 mutation analysis performed at an experienced local laboratory of
      the respective center. Reports about IDH2 mutation testing at diagnosis and at screening have
      to be sent to the principle investigator for review at screening to include the patient; a BM
      sample will be stored for central retesting, which will be performed in batch during the
      course of the study. Having a documented molecular CR, patients will enter the treatment
      phase within 30 days after this BM evaluation (latest time point day +65) and start treatment
      with Enasidenib. They are envisaged to receive Enasidenib (100 mg per day, day 1-28) for up
      to 12 cycles (=12 months). Patients will go off protocol prematurely in case of relapse,
      intolerability of study treatment and in case of withdrawal of consent. In those patients who
      relapse during study treatment subsequent therapy for relapse will be performed according to
      the choice of the individual treating physician. Patients who finish study as planned or
      prematurely will be regularly followed for one year, lost to follow up, death or withdrawal
      of consent.

      Arm B (Salvage):

      Patients, either with known IDH2 mutation prior transplant or with unknown IDH2 mutation
      status, who have already relapsed after first allo-SCT either on a molecular or hematological
      level at any time point and have an IDH2 mutation at relapse, are not eligible for part A of
      this study. They are eligible for screening for Arm B of this study. Screening will be
      performed locally with IDH2 mutation analysis performed at an experienced local laboratory of
      the respective center. Reports about IDH2 mutation testing at diagnosis and at screening have
      to be sent to the principle investigator for review at screening to include the patient; a BM
      sample will be stored for central retesting, which will be performed in batch during the
      course of the study. In case of ineligibility according to exclusion and inclusion criteria,
      patients will not enter the treatment phase and go off protocol. They should be treated
      according to the choice of the individual treating physician and the chosen treatment will be
      recorded. If an IDH2 mutation is present and patients also fulfill all other inclusion
      criteria, they will be included and enter treatment phase of the study. They will be treated
      according to the treatment schedule outlined below:

        -  Enasidenib 100 mg/day for 28 days per cycle up to 12 cycles (investigational product)

        -  Optionally: DLI after cycle 4, 6 and 8 at a dose of 1-5 x10^6 CD3/kg (1st DLI), 5 x10^6
           -5x10^7 CD3/kg (2ndDLI) and 5 x10^7-5x10^8 CD3/kg (3rd DLI) (in case of HLA-identical
           donors or at lower dosages in case of unrelated, mismatched or haploidentical donors, as
           per standard of care)
    
  