
    
      There are over one billion Muslims in the world with the majority participating in Ramadan.
      The prevalence of diabetes in several countries with large Muslim populations is similar to
      the rates observed in westernised countries, which increases by 10% annually as a result of
      urbanization and socioeconomic development. Observance of Ramadan is an integral part of
      Islamic identity being one of the five main pillars that constitute this widely followed
      religion. Muslims observing Ramadan are required to fast from sunrise to sunset during this
      holy month. The timing of Ramadan follows the lunar calendar which occurs 10 days earlier
      each year; this means that the fasting period coincides with the summer season for many
      consecutive years before moving in line with the winter months. During the summer season
      Ramadan can take place with the longest hours of daylight which has a greater impact and risk
      for people with diabetes who fast during this period.

      Although the Quran exempts "sick" people from the duty of fasting many Muslims with diabetes
      do not consider themselves to be sick and are keen to fast. A recent epidemiological study
      involving 13 Islamic countries reported that 43% of patients with Type 1 diabetes mellitus
      (T1DM) and 79% of people with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) fast during this religious
      period.

      Concern for Muslims with diabetes fasting during Ramadan has been recognised by religious
      leaders and indeed 2009 saw a landmark event. A statement was issued at the meeting of the
      Council of the International Islamic Fiqh Academy of the Organisation of Islamic Conference
      at its 19th session. In brief, people with diabetes were classified into four categories in
      line with expert recommendations published in 2005. Categories 1 and 2 include those with
      diabetes at very high risk of serious complications and high risk of complications due to
      fasting, respectively. These two groups are exempt from observing Ramadan. Categories 3 and 4
      include those with diabetes who have a medium risk of complications and those with a low risk
      of complications due to fasting, respectively. The latter two groups are not automatically
      exempt from observing Ramadan. The risk of complications in this context refers specifically
      to the likelihood of hypoglycaemic events, and includes other acute illnesses associated with
      diabetes, patients on renal dialysis, women with diabetes during pregnancy, patients with
      macrovascular disease, and those who live alone and are on insulin therapy or oral insulin
      secretagogues. Additionally, all people with T1DM are classed as category 1. However, the
      impact of the feasting part of Ramadan, for example on hyperglycaemia or deterioration of
      glycaemic control, is not considered in this statement. Furthermore, it is not known to what
      extent these guidelines are followed in practice.

      There is an abundance of evidence describing the impact of Ramadan on people with T2DM from
      retrospective to population-based studies. However, there is a lack of evidence available to
      help guide the management of people with diabetes who wish to observe Ramadan. Fasting and
      feasting during this holy month can cause health risks for people with diabetes. The
      Epidemiology of Diabetes and Ramadan 1422/2001 Study ("EPIDAR") was a large population-based,
      international epidemiological study of diabetes conducted in 13 countries with Muslim
      populations. One of the aims of this study was to determine the potential effects of fasting
      in people with diabetes on their well-being and the management of this condition. They
      observed a 7.5-fold (from 0.4 to 3 events per 100 per month) increased risk of severe
      hypoglycaemia in patients with T2DM as a result of a change in eating patterns during
      Ramadan. Severe hypoglycaemia was defined as hypoglycaemia leading to hospitalization.
      Additionally a 5-fold increase in the incidence of severe hyperglycaemia with/without
      ketoacidosis was observed in patients with T2DM.

      Other risks for people with diabetes who fast during Ramadan include diabetic ketoacidosis
      due to a lack of insulin, dehydration due to lack of fluid intake during the fasting period,
      and orthostatic hypotension in addition to an increased risk of thrombosis due to increased
      blood viscosity secondary to dehydration. Only 62% of those with T2DM in the "EIPDAR" study
      reported receiving recommendations from their health care providers. These recommendations
      should include changes in lifestyle (diet and physical activity) and in medication choice and
      dosage to limit the potential complications of fasting and feasting for this patient
      population.

      There have been significant advances in glucose lowering therapies in T2DM and their
      availability, thus offering a greater choice of therapies to people with diabetes with the
      potential for supporting safer fasting. Three new classes of therapy have been licensed for
      the treatment of T2DM in the United Kingdom (UK) in the past 10 years. The most recent class
      that has been introduced are the Sodium Glucose Co-Transporter 2 Inhibitors (SGLT2
      inhibitors). There are six known members of the SGLT family to date. Canagliflozin
      (Invokana™), a once daily tablet, is one of a number of SGLT2 inhibitors that have been
      licensed within the UK. This medication is taken once daily orally (either 100 or 300mg).
      Phase III trials of this novel agent have reported reductions in HbA1c between 0.70 and
      1.16%, body weight reduction between 1.8 and 3.7% and systolic blood pressure reduction
      between 1.6 and 6.6mmHg (millimetre of mercury) from baseline. Canagliflozin (Invokana™) has
      a low intrinsic propensity to cause hypoglycaemia. Importantly this drug is reported to be
      well-tolerated and has a good safety profile in patients with inadequately controlled T2DM as
      monotherapy or in combination with other glucose lowering therapy including sulphonylureas
      and metformin.

      In 2016, Ramadan takes place throughout the months of June and July. At this time of year in
      the UK, between dawn and sunset there are approximately 14.5 hours of daylight at the
      beginning and 13 hours towards the end of Ramadan during which there is fasting. This is a
      significant portion of the 24 hour day; thus abstinence from food for such a prolonged period
      poses an increased risk for those with T2DM especially if their medicine regimens are not
      altered to accommodate this. In light of this the study aims to determine if the addition of
      Canagliflozin (Invokana™) therapy to monotherapy of metformin is more effective at achieving
      the double composite endpoint of a reduction in HbA1c (≥ 0.3%) and weight loss (≥1kg) 3-4
      weeks post-Ramadan. The study will also include patients currently on dual therapy,
      specifically metformin plus a sulphonylurea, pioglitazone or repaglinide to determine whether
      switching to metformin plus Canagliflozin (Invokana™) is more effective at achieving the
      composite endpoint compared to those remaining on previous dual therapy. There are a number
      of secondary outcomes including weight loss, rates of hypoglycaemia, blood pressure and a
      number of biochemical endpoints.

      The study will also include an objective measure of glycaemic status using a Flash Glucose
      Monitoring System (FGMS) called a "FreeStyle Libre" sensor in a sub-set of participants
      (15-20 participants). Participants can 'opt-in' to the FGMS sub-study and the device will be
      worn before medication is initiated and at the first follow-up visit 3-4 weeks post Ramadan.
      The study will also invite those participating in the sub-study to wear the device during
      Ramadan. The use of FGMS will provide up to 14 days of blood glucose readings taken every 15
      minutes allowing us to apply glycaemic thresholds to the uploaded data and calculate the
      proportion of time spent in hypo, hyper or normoglycaemic states in the two treatment groups.

      There is limited evidence on the changes in levels of physical activity for people who
      observe Ramadan. It is widely believed that levels of physical activity are reduced due to a
      fear of feeling too weak [29]. To address this, the study will objectively measure physical
      activity levels before, during and after Ramadan in a sub-set of participants (15-20
      participants) in addition to using the self-reported validated international physical
      activity questionnaire (IPAQ).

      It is hypothesised that therapy based on Canagliflozin (Invokana™) is more effective than
      sulphonylurea-based regimen at helping people with established T2DM who are observing Ramadan
      to achieve the double composite endpoint of a reduction in HbA1c (≥ 0.3%) and weight loss
      (≥1kg) 3-4 weeks post-Ramadan.

      STUDY DESIGN

      This is an open label randomised controlled trial with two cohorts:

        1. Cohort 1 - Individuals on metformin monotherapy will be randomised (1:1) to either the
           addition of Canagliflozin (Invokana™) or repaglinide, a sulphonylurea or pioglitazone,
           and

        2. Cohort 2 - Individuals on dual therapy (metformin plus repaglinide, a sulphonylurea or
           pioglitazone) will be randomised (1:1) to either continuation of their current therapy
           or to switch to metformin and Canagliflozin (Invokana™) Randomisation will be stratified
           by site and entry therapy (monotherapy OR dual therapy which includes metformin plus
           pioglitazone, or metformin plus either a sulphonylurea or repaglinide, respectively)
           resulting in 6 stratification groups. Randomisation will not be carried out until after
           the baseline data have been collected.

      The intervention group in Cohort 1 will be those randomised to metformin + Canagliflozin
      (Invokana™). The control group in Cohort 1 will be those randomised to receive metformin plus
      repaglinide, or a sulphonylurea or pioglitazone in line with current National Institute for
      Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidance as the preferred second-line therapy after
      metformin.

      The intervention group in Cohort 2 will be those randomised to switch to metformin plus
      Canagliflozin (Invokana™). The control group in Cohort 2 will be those who continue with
      their current medication.

      The study will recruit patients from both primary and secondary care in Leicester and
      Birmingham. It is envisaged to commence recruitment in February 2016, although this date is
      conditional upon on ethics committee and regulatory approval and necessary preparatory
      arrangements, including research governance approval at both sites. Actively recruitment will
      begin once all approvals are in place and after Sponsor 'green light' has been issued.

      Randomisation and Code breaking:- There will be six randomisation lists. Participant
      identifier numbers will be assigned sequentially as each subject enters the study. The
      participant will be assigned a study drug through a randomisation schedule based on the
      randomisation plan.

      Randomisation will be stratified by site and entry therapy (monotherapy OR dual therapy which
      includes metformin plus pioglitazone or metformin plus either a sulphonylurea or repaglinide)
      resulting in 6 groups using a variable block size of between 4 and 6. Participants will be
      randomised 1:1 to metformin + Canagliflozin (Invokana™) or to metformin + a sulphonylurea, or
      continuation of their sulphonylurea, repaglinide or pioglitazone.

      Discontinuation/Withdrawal of Participants from Study Treatment:- Each participant has the
      right to withdraw from the study at any time without giving a reason and without any future
      care being affected. The investigator may discontinue a participant from the study at any
      time if the investigator considers it necessary for any reason. The reason for withdrawal
      will be recorded in the case report form (CRF) and documented in the medical notes. If the
      participant is withdrawn due to an adverse event, the Investigator will arrange for follow-up
      visits or telephone calls until the adverse event has resolved, stabilised or concluded.

      Source Data:- Source documents are original documents, data, and records from which
      participants' CRF data are obtained. These include, but are not limited to, hospital records
      (from which medical history and previous and concurrent medication may be summarised into the
      CRF), clinical and office charts, laboratory and pharmacy records, diaries, microfiches,
      radiographs, and correspondence. CRF entries will be considered source data if the CRF is the
      site of the original recording (e.g., there is no other written or electronic record of
      data). Specifically, for this study the CRF will be used as the source document for all
      anthropometrics, questionnaire and biochemistry that is collected during the study visits and
      copy of the biochemistry and anthropometric results will be put into the patient medical
      notes.

      Drug Management Storage of Study Treatment:- The local National Health Service (NHS) Trust
      pharmacies will supply the licensed products and will handle it according to their in-house
      protocols. The study will be conducted in accordance with the Helsinki declaration. All staff
      working on this study will have an up to date International Council for Harmonisation -Good
      Clinical Practice (ICH-GCP) certificate.

      Compliance with Study Treatment:- The study will measure compliance by requesting
      participants to bring all unused or part-used medications and packaging from used medication
      at each visit. This will be recorded in the drug accountability log as part of the CRF. A
      participant who ceases to take their medication for up to two weeks will be considered
      'non-compliant'. They will have the opportunity to re-initiate medication.

      Accountability of the Study Treatment:- The local NHS Trust pharmacies will dispense the
      study medication from their own stocks and they will also provide the appropriate drug
      labels. Returned and unused medication will be recorded by the research team and the research
      team will provide pharmacy with this medication at the end of the visit so that they can be
      destroyed in accordance with local regulations. Metformin will be prescribed as per usual by
      their General Practitioner (GP).

      Concomitant Medication:- Throughout the study, Investigators may prescribe any concomitant
      medications or treatments deemed necessary to provide adequate supportive care except for
      those listed in the exclusion criteria. If the participant is subsequently prescribed
      excluded medication they will be withdrawn from the study.

      SAFETY REPORTING Please note the Sponsor of the Study (University of Leicester) and the Chief
      Investigator shall be responsible for complying with UK Competent Authority (Medicines and
      Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA)) safety reporting requirements and be
      responsible for the participating (co- or sub-) investigators, as defined in the applicable
      laws and regulations.

      As provided for in Article 3 of the Research Funding Agreement, the Sponsor and Chief
      Investigator will submit the safety information requested on the 'Clinical Serious Adverse
      Event Report' form (FRM-09210, Version 9.0) to the identified Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc.
      representative of the country of origin, (i.e., Drug Safety Department of Janssen-Cilag Ltd)
      either by fax 01494 567799, or secure email and pdf to "Dsafety@its.jnj.com". For additional
      support, the Janssen-Cilag Ltd Drug Safety Department can be contacted on 01494 567 447.

      Reporting Procedures for All Adverse Events (AEs):- All AEs occurring during the study
      observed by the investigator or reported by the participant, whether or not attributed to
      study medication, will be recorded on the CRF. The following information will be recorded,
      description, date of onset and end date, severity, assessment of relatedness to study
      medication, other suspect drug or device and action taken. Follow-up information will be
      provided as necessary.

      Reporting Procedures for Serious Adverse Events (SAEs):- All SAEs must be reported to the
      Sponsor within one working day of discovery or notification of the event. The Sponsor will
      perform an initial check of the information and ensure that it is reviewed at the next R&D
      Management meeting. All SAE information must be recorded on an SAE form and sent to the
      Sponsor. Additional information received for a case (follow-up or corrections to the original
      case) needs to be detailed on a new SAE form and sent to the Sponsor.

      The Sponsor will report all Suspected Unexpected Serious Adverse Reactions (SUSARs) to the
      MHRA and the Research Ethics Committee (REC) concerned. Fatal or life-threatening SUSARs must
      be reported within 7 days and all other SUSARs within 15 days. The Chief Investigator will
      inform all investigators concerned of relevant information about SUSARs that could adversely
      affect the safety of participants. The Sponsor will use the Summary of Product
      Characteristics (SMPC) as the Reference Safety Information (RSI) when determining the
      expectedness of any untoward medical occurrences and thus SAE/SUSAR reporting.

      In addition to the expedited reporting above, the Chief Investigator will submit once a year
      throughout the clinical study or on request a Development Safety Update Report (DSUR) to the
      MHRA and REC.

      STATISTICS Description of Statistical Methods:- Participants recruited to the study will be
      compared by randomised group with respect to both their baseline characteristics and their
      pre-Ramadan characteristics. Numbers (with percentages) for binary and categorical variables
      and means (and standard deviations), or medians (with lower and upper quartiles) for
      continuous variables will be presented. There will be no tests of statistical significance
      nor confidence intervals for differences between randomised groups on any baseline variable.

      The primary outcome of this study is the achievement of the double composite endpoint of a
      reduction in HbA1c (≥ 0.3%) and weight loss (≥1kg) 3-4 weeks post-Ramadan.

      All analyses of outcome data will be carried out on a complete case basis according to
      randomised group. As a sensitivity analysis, for the primary and main secondary outcome,
      multiple imputations will be used to perform an intention to treat analysis. The investigator
      will also conduct a per protocol analysis excluding those who report no longer taking their
      randomised treatment at the two follow-ups. All analyses will be performed assessing change
      during the following time periods:

        -  Baseline to 3-4 post-Ramadan data constituting the primary analysis

        -  Pre-Ramadan to 3-4 weeks post-Ramadan ±2 weeks

        -  Baseline to 12 weeks post-Ramadan ±2 weeks

        -  Baseline to 12 months post-baseline ±6 weeks The primary outcome will be analysed using
           logistic regression adjusted for the stratification factors (site, entry therapy ((1)
           monotherapy (2) dual therapy metformin plus pioglitazone (3) dual therapy metformin plus
           either a sulphonylurea or repaglinide)). The dependent variable will be defined as those
           achieving all of the composite end point targets. The same analysis method will be used
           for the secondary composite outcomes.

      The biomedical outcomes will be analysed using linear regression adjusted for the
      stratification factors and baseline value. Ordinal regression will be used to compare
      treatment groups for the treatment satisfaction scores. Linear regression will be used for
      total metabolic equivalent (total METs).

      The percentage of patients experiencing one or more self-reported hypoglycaemic events in
      their diaries (defined as a blood glucose level of ≤3.9 mmol/l) will be reported by group
      along with the median (Inter Quartile Range) number of episodes per patient. The incidence
      rate of hypoglycaemia per person year will be calculated per group and compared using the
      incidence rate ratio (IRR).

      Continuous Glucose Monitoring System (CGMS) data will be collected at 3 time points. The mean
      proportion (%) of time spent either above (≥10mmol/l), below (≤3.1mmol/l) or within
      (3.2-9.9mmol/l) - which are our predefined glycaemic ranges - will be calculated for each
      participant over the recording period and adjusted for 24 hours. The study will compare these
      by treatment group for each time-point. The investigator will calculate change in proportion
      of time spent in each category from pre-Ramadan against during and against post-Ramadan
      within each group. The investigator will then compare any identified glycaemic shifts between
      treatment groups. The investigator will calculate the number of Continuous Glucose Monitor
      (CGM) low glucose events (≤3.1 and ≤2.2mmol/L) and CGM high glucose events (≥10.0mmol/L)
      within each treatment group and determine if the incidence changes across the three time
      points.

      The Number of Participants:- The sample size required to detect a minimum clinical
      significant difference of 27.7% in those achieving the primary outcome between the treatment
      arms is 116 participants (n=58 per group), with 80% power and an alpha of 5%, assuming a
      dropout rate of 20%. This is based on 21.2% of the SU plus metformin group in the 'Treat 4
      Ramadan study' having met the proposed primary outcome of achieving the double composite
      endpoint of a reduction in HbA1c (≥0.3%) and weight loss (≥ 1kg) 3-4 weeks post-Ramadan.

      The Level of Statistical Significance:- All analyses will be carried out in Stata (version
      12.0) 95% confidence intervals will be reported with p<0.05 relating to statistical
      significance.

      Procedure for Accounting for Missing, Unused, and Spurious Data:- Data will be entered into a
      database with real-time validation, which will limit spurious data. Before analysis begins
      all data will be checked and any anomalies will be checked against the source data.

      During data collection the study team will attempt to minimise missing data items.
      Participants with missing data will be excluded on a case-wise basis, i.e., only from those
      analyses which required the missing items. The primary and main secondary outcomes will be
      analysed on both a complete case basis and using multiple imputation to estimate the effect
      of missing data.

      QUALITY CONTROL AND QUALITY ASSURANCE PROCEDURES A monitoring plan will be developed by the
      Sponsor in accordance with Sponsor Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). The monitoring plan
      will be based on a study risk assessment which is determined by the level of risk within the
      study to participant safety and data integrity and validity; monitoring will be carried out
      by monitoring staff employed by the Sponsor.

      The Leicester Diabetes Centre in conjunction with the Leicester Clinical Trials Unit will be
      responsible for all elements of study management on an ongoing basis. For example, the CRFs
      will be checked for completeness at the end of a measurement session and any data queries
      will be raised with the research nurse who recorded the data in the first instance. Repeated
      errors will be referred to the Senior Research Team Manager who will instigate training. The
      study monitor will remain external to the study team thereby ensuring independence during the
      sponsor monitoring process. All in-house monitoring and audit will be performed by staff who
      are ICH/GCP trained and are competent in monitoring to GCP standards. A documented monitoring
      log and audit trail will be maintained throughout the lifetime of the study.

      The Trial Manager in conjunction with the Clinical Trials Unit will oversee the set-up of and
      conduct of study procedures at each site. All source data, study documents, medical notes
      will be made available for Sponsor monitoring, and any external audits and inspections as
      appropriate, for example by the MHRA or Research Ethics Committee.

      STUDY GOVERNANCE Trial Steering Committee (TSC):- TSC will comprise an independent chair, at
      least one other independent clinician with expertise in the management of diabetes, the chief
      investigator, key co-investigators, and representation from the Leicester Clinical Trials
      Unit. The study statisticians may attend as needed. This committee will be responsible for
      the overall management and oversight of the study and will meet once prior to start up and
      then every 6 months, normally within 2 months of the Data Safety Monitoring Committee (DSMC)
      (although additional meetings may be called by the Chief Investigator or TSC or DSMC chair)
      to review and approve protocol amendments and any sub-study proposals, review recruitment
      rates, protocol adherence, retention, compliance, safety issues, planned analyses and reports
      and act on recommendations of the DSMC. A copy of meeting minutes will be sent to the
      Sponsor.

      Data Safety Monitoring Committee (DSMC):- DSMC will comprise an independent chair,
      independent clinician and independent statistician. The chief investigator or study
      statistician may be invited to attend to provide specific input by the DSMC Chair. The DSMC
      will be responsible for the interests and safety of the participants and its main role will
      be to make advisory recommendations to the TSC who will report to the Sponsor. To this end,
      the DSMC will undertake safety data reviews every six months after the first 5 participants
      are recruited unless otherwise deemed necessary. In addition, the DSMC will review analysis
      plans.

      Project Management Committee (PMC):- PMC will report to the TSC and will include the chief
      investigator, other senior investigators and the day-to-day project management team. The
      group will meet monthly or bi-monthly depending on need, either face-to-face or by
      teleconference, to discuss the details and logistics of recruitment, retention and follow-up
      data collection.
    
  