
    
      Multiple myeloma (MM) is a deadly cancer of the bone marrow that is challenging to manage and
      treat: the drugs that are currently available attack the cancer in the same way for everyone,
      but each patient has different types of MM cancer cells and different family traits that
      predict better or worse outcomes. As well, the ways in which clinicians test to see if the
      cancer is in remission are not very good at detecting small numbers of cancer cells still in
      the bone marrow after treatment - and which will, sooner or later cause the patient to get
      sick again. The goal of the M4 study is to improve MM patients' survival and quality of life
      over time, by finding better ways of a) characterizing each patient's experience with the
      disease, and b) identifying and tracking the small numbers of cells that remain after
      treatment.

      The investigators plan to track 250 patients across Canada over time, who are getting
      treatment for multiple myeloma. While they are getting treatment, the research team will
      evaluate samples of their blood and bone marrow with newer, more precise laboratory tests.
      Participants will also be asked to take part in two scans of their bodies during their
      treatment. The investigators hypothesize that these tests can help clinicians make better
      treatment recommendations to patients.

      The investigators will look at whether one test is better than another, or if a combination
      of these tests is needed to have the best information possible to make treatment decisions.
      At the same time, the research will also explore how and why some patients' cancer becomes
      resistant to the treatments over time, and how myeloma cells are able to start growing again
      after treatment. The research team will also collect information on how each patient's health
      and quality of life changes during and after treatment, and what are the associated costs
      with these new approaches - to both the healthcare system overall, and to patients.

      Once the five-year research program is complete, it is hoped that clinicians will have a new,
      proven and affordable process of combining these new laboratory tests with the current
      clinical approach, to create new options to evaluate and treat multiple myeloma.

      It is the overall goal that this research will make a difference, right away and across the
      world, in how doctors treat multiple myeloma, in how it is studied by scientists, and in how
      patients advocate for their own healthcare.
    
  