
    
      The overall goal is to determine the changes that occur in amyloid-beta (Aβ) metabolism in
      Alzheimer's disease (AD) and model the production, transport, metabolism and clearance of Aβ
      in the human central nervous system (CNS) and periphery to improve clinical trial designs and
      also possibly develop an AD blood test.

      Clearance of brain Aβ occurs by enzymatic digestion (e.g. Insulin Degrading Enzyme,
      Neprilysin, etc.), cellular uptake and breakdown, transport across the blood-brain-barrier,
      and transport from the brain to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and then to blood. However, the
      relationship between CNS Aβ and blood Aβ is not known in humans and only partly understood in
      other animals. The goal is to determine the kinetics of Aβ in the CNS and blood to test the
      hypothesis that altered Aβ kinetics in the CNS in AD is associated with altered blood Aβ
      labeling kinetics. Understanding blood and CSF Aβ kinetics will contribute to a better
      understanding of Aβ production, transport, and breakdown within and between the brain, CSF
      and blood compartments. These fundamental measurements of Aβ kinetics in AD will help
      determine the effects of peripheral Aβ metabolism on pathophysiologic changes in AD. This
      information will provide key insights into whole body Aβ metabolism and will be useful for
      understanding the causes of AD. Further, these results may lead to a specific blood biomarker
      for AD.

      Aim 1. To determine blood Aβ isoform SILK (stable isotope-linked kinetics) using existing
      steady state infusion labeled blood samples from amyloid positive and amyloid negative
      control participants. Blood Aβ kinetics will be compared to CSF Aβ kinetics and combined
      utilizing multi-compartment and structural models to determine the direction and magnitude of
      transport and breakdown.

      Current labeling methods employ a primed continuous infusion which labels Aβ to near
      steady-state. In order to provide additional kinetic information on Aβ kinetics and
      potentially better distinguish AD from controls, an alternative pulse labeling protocol is
      proposed. In addition to providing clearer information on Aβ transport and clearance, the
      simplified labeling method makes blood Aβ kinetics feasible as a clinical test for treatment
      trials or as a diagnostic test.

      Aim 2. To perform pulse bolus labeling in amyloid positive and amyloid negative controls and
      measure CSF Aβ isoform kinetics and blood Aβ isoform kinetics. Participants will be recruited
      to complete a pulse labeling study. Results from Aim 2 will be incorporated into
      complimentary models with results from Aim 1 and ongoing studies to provide measures of Aβ
      production, transport, and breakdown within and between the brain, CSF and blood
      compartments.

      Approach: Based on preliminary data and published studies, the hypothesis will be tested that
      blood Aβ isoform kinetics are disrupted in AD and to model the Aβ production, transport and
      clearance between the brain and periphery. The data from these studies will be useful to
      model the production, transport and breakdown of Aβ throughout the human body.

      Results of these aims will be utilized in complimentary modeling approaches and combined with
      the results of prior studies to provide a comprehensive model of in vivo Aβ kinetics in both
      the human CNS and periphery. The data and models will be able to confirm and exclude current
      hypotheses of human Aβ metabolism. The goals of the aims are to determine the CNS Aβ isoform
      kinetics with a pulse labeling protocol (Aim 1), and to determine the peripheral blood Aβ
      isoform kinetics with a pulse labeling protocol (Aim 2).

      Experimental Design: A pulse labeling protocol with twenty participants was completed to
      simplify labeling. Pulse labeling experiments provided additional kinetics results to
      determine Aβ kinetic models. Of the next sixty participants most will be re-enrolled that
      have completed prior intravenous steady-state labeling Aβ SILK studies. All participants will
      have had a PET/PIB scan completed for fibrillar amyloid deposition measurements or CSF Aβ42
      concentration measurements.

      Clinical Study: A single pulse dose of leucine will be given at the beginning of the study
      and blood and/or CSF will be collected for 24-36 hours.

      Data Analysis: We will compare the pulse labeling blood Aβ SILK results of the amyloid
      positive vs. amyloid negative control group for Aβ38, Aβ40, Aβ42, and ratios of isoforms vs.
      tests of amyloidosis such as PET/PIB scan and/or CSF Aβ42 concentration.
    
  