
    
      This study will confirm the dose and evaluate the safety, acceptability, tolerability, and
      pharmacokinetics (PK) of oral cabotegravir (CAB), long-acting injectable cabotegravir (CAB
      LA), and long-acting injectable rilpivirine (RPV LA) in virologically suppressed HIV-1
      infected children and adolescents aged 12 to less than 18 years.

      The study will include two cohorts of participants and two steps of study participation in
      each cohort. Cohort 1, Step 1 and Cohort 2, Step 3 are both a lead-in phase in which
      participants will receive oral formulations of the study products for at least 4 weeks, and
      up to 6 weeks (maximum). In Cohort 1, Step 2 and Cohort 2, Step 4, participants will receive
      injectable formulations of the study products. In each cohort, participants will enter the
      study in the oral lead-in phase (Step 1, or Step 3) and then transition to the injectable
      phase (Step 2, or Step 4) if eligibility criteria for the injectable phase are met. Cohort 1,
      Step 2, and Cohort 2, Step 4, participants, including those who prematurely permanently
      discontinue injectable study product, will continue on-study for an additional 48 weeks after
      their last study product injection, per the long-term safety and washout PK follow-up (LSFU)
      schedule.

      The study will open to accrual in Cohort 1, in which participants, in addition to continuing
      their pre-study combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) regimen, will receive either oral
      CAB or oral RPV (Step 1) followed by either CAB LA or RPV LA (Step 2). Cohort 1 participants
      will be assigned either CAB (Cohort 1C) or RPV (Cohort 1R) based on their pre-study cART
      regimen. Participants will not stop their cART. An interim analysis of safety and PK data
      will be performed, and Cohort 2 will initially open to accrual based on these interim
      analyses; however, accrual at this stage will be limited to Cohort 1 participants who meet
      criteria to enter Cohort 2. After Cohort 1 is fully enrolled and a full cohort data analysis
      is performed, accrual into Cohort 2 will be opened to additional participants who were not
      previously enrolled in Cohort 1. Upon Cohort 2 Entry (i.e. Cohort 2, Step 3), all Cohort 2
      participants will discontinue their pre-study cART regimen and receive both study products -
      CAB and RPV - at the doses confirmed in Cohort 1.

      Participants in Cohort 1 will be followed for up to 64 weeks, and participants in Cohort 2
      will be followed for up to 144 weeks. Enrolled parents/caregivers will complete a single
      qualitative phone interview (U.S. sites only).
    
  