
    
      This study is a randomized controlled trial utilizing a patient-centered questionnaire
      distributed to parents of children with autism. Potential study participants will be
      identified during the triage process through medical history taking, which is routine for the
      triage process at this institution. The triage nurse will be educated to alert a research
      associate if a patient with one of our qualifying diagnoses is identified. This study will
      include patients aged 2-18 with parental report of a diagnosis of (1) Autism, (2) Autism
      Spectrum Disorder, (3) Pervasive Developmental Disorder, (4) Childhood Disintegrative
      Disorder, or (5) Sensory Integration Disorder. All patients whose caregiver is fluent and
      literate in either English or Spanish will be included.

      Research associates will then attempt to obtain consent from the parent. If consent is
      obtained, the research associate will then attempt to obtain assent from patients aged > 6
      years. If the research associate feels the child is unable to assent based on their
      developmental capabilities, the research associate will then indicate this on the assent form
      and sign in the space provided for the research associate.

      Once consent and assent, if applicable, are obtained, the research associate will then select
      an envelope from the top of a pre-randomized stack. The contents of the envelope will either
      contain a questionnaire and satisfaction survey for the intervention arm, or simply a
      satisfaction survey if in the control arm.

      If the intervention arm is selected, the research associate will then distribute the
      questionnaire to the parent and ask them to fill it out to the best of their ability. The
      research associate will then return to collect the questionnaire and one of the physician
      providers caring for the patient must review the questionnaire prior to seeing the patient.
      This hospital is a teaching institution and physician providers may include residents,
      fellows, and attendings.

      Once reviewed, the physician provider will sign at the bottom of the questionnaire and
      proceed with the encounter. Multiple providers, including nursing staff and clinical
      assistants may review the questionnaire as well, which will be kept on the paper chart.

      When the patient's disposition is determined, the research associate will distribute the
      satisfaction survey and an envelope for the survey to be sealed within once completed by the
      parent. The satisfaction survey, along with the questionnaire and any other study documents,
      will be collected and placed in the envelope. The envelopes will be stored in a badge-access
      protected office inside of a locked cabinet behind a password protected door. Only fellows,
      attendings, and a few fellowship-associated and research-associated providers have access to
      this office.
    
  