
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety of neoadjuvant pembrolizumab in combination with paricalcitol with
      or without gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel for the treatment of resectable pancreatic cancer.

      II. To estimate the number of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in resected pancreatic
      cancer subjects receiving neoadjuvant pembrolizumab in combination with paricalcitol with or
      without gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the resection rate and pathological response of resectable pancreatic cancer
      treated with neoadjuvant pembrolizumab in combination with paricalcitol with or without
      gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel.

      EXPLORATORY CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the disease free survival (DFS) of resectable pancreatic cancer subjects
      treated with neoadjuvant pembrolizumab in combination with paricalcitol with or without
      gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel.

      II. To estimate the overall survival (OS) of subjects with resectable pancreatic cancer who
      received neoadjuvant pembrolizumab in combination with paricalcitol with or without
      gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel.

      III. To enumerate CD8+ and CD8+ CD45RO+ cells within and around tumor cell nests, and
      characterize immunotypes based on distribution of T cells relative to intratumoral
      vasculature post-neoadjuvant treatment.

      IV. To evaluate PD-L1 expression on tumor samples pre- and post-neoadjuvant treatment.

      V. To estimate changes in different subsets of T- cells in the peripheral blood pre, during
      and post-neoadjuvant treatment.

      VI. To identify immune signature based on gene expression profiling in tumor samples that may
      correlate with clinical response in pancreatic cancer patients.

      VII. Compare TILs in resected specimen to historical controls of untreated and treated
      samples.

      VIII. To explore the relationship between genomic alterations and treatment administered.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 of each
      course and paricalcitol IV over 15 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 21
      days for up to 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Surgical resection is performed within 1 week and up to 4 weeks from last dose of
      paricalcitol.

      ARM B: Patients receive pembrolizumab and paricalcitol as in Arm A. Patients also receive
      gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes and nab-paclitaxel IV over 30-40 minutes on days
      1, 8, and 15 of course 1 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Surgical resection is performed within 1 week and up to 4 weeks from last dose of
      paricalcitol.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 4 months for
      1 year, then every 6 months for 2 years.
    
  