
    
      Over a lifetime, an average American will be admitted to an intensive care unit (ICU) twice,
      will spend nearly a week in an ICU during their last six months of life, and will have a one
      in five chance of an ICU-related death. Of those millions who annually survive critical
      illness, ICU survivorship is marked by an inability to manage medication, handle finances,
      live independently, and maintain employment due to post-ICU long-term cognitive impairment
      (ICU-LTCI).

      Data from the investigators' group and others show that 50% of ICU survivors suffer from
      ICU-LTCI. The investigators' Veterans Affairs (VA) Merit Award funded research, "Measuring
      the Incidence and determining risk factors for Neuropsychological Dysfunction in ICU
      Survivors" (MIND-ICU) study, helped define the epidemiology of this persistent and
      progressive chronic brain dysfunction that affects both executive function and memory domains
      of cognition. Among survivors from medical and surgical ICUs, 40% have impairments rivaling
      moderate traumatic brain injury, and 30% have impairments similar to mild-moderate
      Alzheimer's disease. The MIND-ICU study indicates that the number of Veterans who develop
      ICU-LTCI is as high as the number of new traumatic brain injury diagnoses among all Active
      Duty, National Guard, and Reserves of the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps. For a
      public health problem of this magnitude, there is a driving unmet need to find solutions for
      ICU-LTCI.

      The investigators' pilot randomized "Returning to Everyday Tasks Utilizing Rehabilitation
      Networks-I" (RETURN-I) Study showed that a 12-week cognitive rehabilitation intervention (vs.
      controls) improved executive dysfunction. Next, the investigators transformed this
      non-computerized, resource-intensive strategy into a novel, efficient, and scalable
      Computerized Cognitive Rehabilitation (CCR) method. This plasticity-based adaptive CCR was
      applied to a case-series of ICU survivors which signaled improvements across multiple
      cognitive domains.

      Building on nearly two decades of aging brain research with the VA-Tennessee Valley Geriatric
      Research, Education and Clinical Center (GRECC), the investigators now propose a Phase II
      randomized controlled trial (RCT) to investigate the efficacy of CCR for survivors with
      ICU-LTCI. The Returning to Everyday Tasks Utilizing Rehabilitation Networks-III Study
      (RETURN-III Study) will be the next logical data-driven approach to develop and offer
      innovative real-world solutions for civilians and Veterans surviving critical illness with
      disabling ICU-LTCI.

      To test these hypotheses, the RETURN-III study will randomize medical and surgical VA ICU
      survivors to either intervention using CCR, or control of non-specific computer games. At
      three, and twelve months post-randomization, trained research personnel blinded to group
      assignment will use a validated battery to assess global cognition [primary outcome].
    
  