
    
      The Genomic Ascertainment Cohort (TGAC) will be a large cohort of individuals with sequence
      data unselected for any specific phenotype. TGAC will enable the study of genetic disease
      while minimizing the bias of phenotypic ascertainment.

      TGAC will have a two-tiered system of participation. Tier 1 will be individuals who have
      undergone or consented for exome or genome sequencing under separate studies and consented to
      data sharing and re-contact by the research team. Sequencing data from all participants will
      be aggregated to form the Shared Genomic Ascertainment Cohort (SGAC) which will be available
      to NIH investigators and extramural investigators participating in TGAC via a genome browser,
      such that it is de-identified and visible as unlinked aggregate genotypes.

      Investigators will be able to use the genome browser to select genetic variants of interest
      and formulate hypotheses. Investigators will apply to the TGAC program with a scientific
      proposal describing the phenotyping that is requested. These proposals will be reviewed and
      prioritized by the TGAC scientific advisory committee (SAC). The TGAC staff will then
      facilitate re-contact and sample collection and/or phenotypic studies on individuals based on
      genetic variants of interest. These individuals will be offered Tier 2 participation via an
      investigator s own protocol or via the Genomic Ascertainment Phenotyping Program (GAPP). The
      GAPP will include the ability to perform basic, non-invasive phenotypic studies using the
      NIHCC. The GAPP will return results from clinical tests performed and will also be able to
      return sequence variants deemed clinically relevant and validated in a CLIA-certified lab.
      The specific phenotyping will depend on the nature of the hypothesis regarding the genetic
      variant or variants of interest.

      The SGAC will initially consist of genome or exome sequence data from approximately 8,000
      individuals from the ITMI longitudinal study and NHGRI s ClinSeq (Registered Traemark) study
      (Biesecker et al., 2009), with planned increases in sample size as additional cohorts are
      added to the shared cohort. We anticipate approximately 200 individuals from SGAC will be
      enrolled into Tier 2 participation in the first year after establishment of TGAC.

      As a data resource, there are no predefined outcome measures. We expect TGAC to generate
      hypotheses regarding phenotypic consequence of genetic variants and enable the study of such
      hypotheses without the limits of traditional phenotype-first genetic research.
    
  