
    
      The study uses a mixed-method design (quantitative experimental pilot study with qualitative
      descriptive and multiple case study methods) to address the study aims:

      AIM 1: Generate estimates of effect sizes and assess feasibility of procedures for a future
      RCT testing a model of a standardized, prerecorded guided imagery intervention on functional
      outcomes of TKR.

      AIM 2: Elucidate the GI responder mechanism through analysis of the effect of imaging ability
      and other potential moderators on guided imagery's effects on TKR outcomes.

      AIM 3: Analyze the effect of guided imagery on outcome expectancy, psychological distress,
      rehabilitation commitment and neuroimmune activation as mediators on TKR functional outcomes.

      AIM 4: Identify patients' perspectives related to receiving, and participating in a study of,
      guided imagery intervention for total knee replacement surgery (TKR).

      DESIGN The proposed study is a modified sequential explanatory mixed methods design
      consisting of a Phase I RCT combined with a Phase II qualitative descriptive and case study.
      Mixed-methods research is an ideal strategy for rigorous development of interventions such as
      GI for further clinical testing. By systematically combining quantitative and qualitative
      approaches, the method is uniquely able to produce information for evaluating an
      intervention's context, its interactions with participant characteristics, and the link
      between the intervention and the outcomes. A variety of mixed methods designs have been
      developed, each with a different emphasis on (denoted as UPPER CASE LETTERS), and sequence of
      (denoted as order of listing), qualitative (qual) and quantitative (quan) approaches. The
      sequential explanatory design (QUAN/qual), which is primarily quantitatively oriented, uses
      qualitative methods to further describe and explain within- and between-subject variation on
      quantitative outcomes in experimental studies.

      After the initial quantitative (QUAN) data collection and analysis, criterion sampling will
      be used to identify average and extreme cases on values of the quantitative outcome variables
      in treatment groups. Qualitative (qual) data collection and analysis of these cases can
      provide additional information about the application, operation, and outcome of the
      intervention beyond statistical findings, and test the validity of conceptual links between
      the intervention and outcome. Qualitative methods permit fuller exploration of subjective
      processes as they evolve during a major health care experience and uncover the complex and
      dynamic nature of these processes, and are particularly suited for gaining description and
      insight regarding responses to alternative therapies. The sequential explanatory method is
      thus well-suited for a study of the effects of a CAM intervention. The mixed method design
      also helps to clarify participants' views of the actual nature of an intervention, including
      the burden of treatment, and to reveal unanticipated situational constraints and enhancements
      to its execution.

      METHODS In accord with the sequential explanatory design, the project will involve three
      phases: Phase I (QUAN): Quantitative data collection and analysis; Phase II (qual):
      Qualitative inquiry to amplify the quantitative findings; and Phase III: Final integration of
      findings to address the study aims and inform development of a subsequent RCT.
    
  