
    
      Following surgery or radiation of a primary early-stage prostate cancer (PrCA), one in three
      patients will experience an elevation in serum prostate antigen (PSA) within 10 years. For
      men whose primary treatment was prostatectomy, a PSA rise virtually always signals the spread
      of PrCA. After such evidence of recurrence, the "standard" treatment is medical or surgical
      castration. Castration results in reducing the PSA about 85% of the time, but it makes no
      difference whether such treatment occurs before or after the appearance of clinical symptoms
      of recurrence. This time interval between the first rise in PSA and symptom appearance may be
      many years. The most salient fact, however, is that castration does not prolong men's lives
      and it is not certain whether it even meaningfully delays symptom appearance in men who
      receive the treatment at the first sign of biochemical recurrence. Castration also has
      significant side effects including osteoporosis (bone loss), decreased muscle mass,
      impotence, and urinary incontinence. Because PrCA is usually a disease of older men, many
      will succumb to other diseases before they ever develop a symptom related to metastatic PrCA.
      For this large fraction of men, a treatment with deleterious affects on quality of life and
      no clear overall survival benefit may not be a good choice. The protocol the investigators
      propose will be performed instead of medical or surgical castration, which is not medically
      indicated at this point in the course of PrCA. Castration can and will be offered to these
      men at the first clinical symptom or sign of metastatic cancer, at which time those men will
      come off this study. It also is important to note that if the intervention results in
      reductions in PSA then the investigators will offer it to all men who had been randomized to
      the control condition initially. The investigators will conduct this randomized study in 60
      asymptomatic men who have undergone radical prostatectomy (removal of the prostate gland) as
      their primary therapy of biopsy-confirmed adenocarcinoma of the prostate and subsequently
      have been found to have rising PSA levels, indicating an early recurrence of the cancer. Half
      (30) of these men will be randomized to usual care (watchful waiting) and the other half to
      an intervention consisting of a vegetable-based diet, program of physical activity timed to
      the natural rhythm of the day (i.e., circadian, or "around the day" - basically to timing of
      their exercise to improve their sleep cycles), and mindfulness-based stress reduction
      (consisting of meditation and other stress-reducing techniques). The intervention will
      continue for three months, followed by monthly booster sessions for 9 months. Data will be
      collected on compliance with the intervention and other factors that could modify the
      intervention or confuse our interpretation of its effect. The overall goal of the study will
      be to see the effect of making these behavioral and attitudinal changes on PSA levels, an
      indicator of disease progression in these men. The therapies the investigators will study are
      completely non-toxic and behavioral in nature.
    
  