
    
      Neovascular age-related macular degeneration (NV AMD) remains the leading cause of vision
      loss among people over 65. Intravitreal injections with drugs that block vascular endothelial
      growth factor (VEGF), a major protein mediator of angiogenesis and vascular leakage, have
      revolutionized treatment of NV AMD. This class of drugs includes the FDA-approved medications
      ranibizumab (Lucentis ®, Genentech) and aflibercept (Eylea ®, Regeneron), as well as
      bevacizumab (Avastin ®, Genentech), which is not FDA-approved for the treatment of NV AMD but
      is used off-label with demonstrated clinical efficacy. However, these therapies are not a
      cure. Even when effective, the vast majority of NV AMD patients require continued treatment
      with anti-VEGF drugs indefinitely for the rest of their lives, to sustain stable visual
      acuity. Further, in spite of continuous monthly anti-VEGF therapy, up to 40-50% of patients
      demonstrate persistent disease activity (PDA). Patients with persistent disease activity in
      spite of ongoing anti-VEGF therapy remain at increased risk for long-term vision loss.
      Persistent disease activity is defined as (1) unresolved intraretinal, subretinal, or
      sub-retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) fluid or exudation; (2) progressive lesion enlargement
      and fibrosis; and/or (3) persistent or new hemorrhage. Several large, multicenter,
      prospective clinical trials have demonstrated ~75% rate of PDA following loading dose therapy
      (i.e. three consecutive monthly injections), and ~ 40-50% PDA following one year of continued
      anti-VEGF therapy.

      The treatment burden to sustain visual acuity for patients with PDA is especially high, since
      undertreatment or cessation of therapy assures visual decline. The PIER study assessed the
      efficacy of quarterly (i.e. every-three-months) anti-VEGF therapy with ranibizumab, following
      initiation with loading dose therapy. Patients who had resolution of disease activity
      following loading dose maintained visual acuity gains with subsequent quarterly therapy. In
      contrast, patients with PDA following loading dose had progressive loss of visual acuity
      gains when switched to subsequent quarterly therapy. Several subsequent clinical trials
      (CATT, IVAN, others) have demonstrated that patients with PDA typically require continued
      monthly therapy to sustain improved visual acuity. Though "do-able" in the short term,
      indefinite long-term therapy with monthly injections is often impractical for patients and
      for retina physicians, and as a result, undertreatment occurs with high frequency.

      Verteporfin (Visudyne ®, Bausch + Lomb) PDT is an FDA-approved treatment for NV AMD that was
      initially approved over 10 years ago, prior to the advent of anti-VEGF therapy. As a
      first-line therapy, verteporfin PDT is much less effective than anti-VEGF therapy in
      improving vision for NV AMD patients. PDT has been studied as an adjunctive therapy in
      previously treatment-naïve patients receiving anti-VEGF therapy. It was not found to offer
      significant visual acuity benefit over anti-VEGF therapy alone, in this population. However,
      it is unknown whether adjunctive PDT may be effective in improving treatment response in
      patients with PDA in spite of anti-VEGF therapy. The investigators have performed several
      retrospective studies of NV AMD patients in the Duke Medical Retina practice to assess the
      role of adjunctive PDT in cases of PDA. Preliminary results indicate that adjunctive
      verteporfin PDT reduces disease activity (i.e. decreased fluid and exudation) in patients
      with PDA, facilitates treatment with fewer anti-VEGF injections (i.e. reduces treatment
      burden), and reduces risk of subsequent vision loss. However, no studies have prospectively
      evaluated the efficacy of adjunctive PDT in patients with PDA in spite of anti-VEGF therapy.
      The present study will assess the efficacy of adjunctive PDT for the treatment of PDA in NV
      AMD. The investigators will compare administration of anti-VEGF therapy with adjunctive PDT
      to the standard-of-care treatment approach, anti-VEGF monotherapy administered according to a
      "treat-and-extend" approach, where the interval between intravitreal injections is as short
      as every 1 month (approximately 4 weeks) but can be gradually lengthened to the longest
      interval between treatments that ensures disease quiescence.
    
  