
    
      Many times each day, we see food or representations of food and evaluate whether or not the
      food looks good to us. If it does, we then balance external factors, such as the social
      situation or time of day, against internal signals about our hunger state in order to decide
      what and when to eat. However, recent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies
      suggest that internal signals, such as hormones regulating appetite and satiety, govern our
      food intake in part by acting on neural circuits to affect whether a given food appears
      appetizing at that moment. In addition, photographs of food perceived to be "fattening"
      activate brain regions involved in appetite and reward processing, including the
      hypothalamus, nucleus accumbens, and orbital frontal cortex. This activity is potently
      reduced by food intake, suggesting that it reflects underlying brain mechanisms involved in
      satiety. We now propose to study the mechanism of these changes in brain activity by asking
      if they are directly related to the action of glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), a satiety
      signal. GLP-1 is released by cells in the gut in response to nutrients, suppressing food
      intake, and its actions can be blocked by a GLP-1 receptor antagonist, exendin-[9-39]. In 2
      randomized, controlled, crossover studies, we will assess whether exendin-[9-39] infusions
      reverse GLP-1-mediated effects on food intake and on brain response to visual food cues. Our
      scientific aims are to 1) observe the effect of exendin (9-39) on blocking GLP-1-mediated
      satiety in humans and assess its effect on food intake in humans for the first time (to our
      knowledge) and 2) to test whether endogenous GLP-1 signaling is required for the effect of a
      meal to reduce brain response to visual food cues in humans. We hypothesize that
      exendin-[9-39] will diminish the effect of a meal in suppressing subsequent food intake and
      in reducing activation to visual food cues in reward pathways. Determining the extent to
      which the experience of satiety arises from a decrease in the reward value of food is
      fundamentally important to understanding human feeding behavior. In addition, this promising
      line of research is directly relevant to some of the most pressing public health issues of
      our time: obesity and overnutrition. We hope that investigating mechanisms affecting our
      perception of satiety at the most basic level will eventually result in novel behavioral or
      pharmacologic strategies for obesity prevention and treatment.
    
  