
    
      The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommends yearly screening of thyroid studies in
      DS. Clinical experience suggests that thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) concentrations in the
      subclinical hypothyroid range (5-10 milli international units(mIU/L)) are not uncommon in DS,
      but the benefits and risks of treating SCH in the DS population are not known. In adults, SCH
      has been associated with increased cardiometabolic risk (CMR) and individuals with DS may be
      at increased cardiometabolic risk as well.

      Data in children with SCH are limited. Despite the recommendations to screen for thyroid
      dysfunction, evidence to guide management of elevated TSH in children with DS is equally
      sparse. In non-DS children, TSH>4.65 mIU/L was associated with lower HDL. One year of
      levothyroxine treatment in short children with subclinical hypothyroidism and short stature
      improved growth velocity. Left ventricular (LV) function and LV mass (by echocardiography)
      was not different in 16 children with DS and subclinical hypothyroidism (TSH>6.5 mIU/L; mean
      TSH = 7.8 mIU/L) vs. 25 children with DS and normal TSH. However, these findings may be
      limited by the small sample size. An intervention study of 7 subjects age 2-42 years with DS
      and hypothyroidism, defined as low T4 and normal or elevated TSH (0.2-18.9 mIU/L) on 8 weeks
      of levothyroxine treatment did not improve developmental or functional outcomes.
      Anthropometrics and CMR factors were not examined. In contrast, increased TSH in the absence
      of overt congenital hypothyroidism is common in neonates with DS and prompted a randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) in 181 neonates with DS. TSH-directed levothyroxine treatment was
      associated with better growth, weight gain, and motor development after 24 months compared to
      placebo. These findings highlight that the "asymptomatic" component of subclinical
      hypothyroidism may have medically-relevant effects. This study will provide potentially
      clinically relevant preliminary evidence for the treatment of subclinical hypothyroidism in
      DS.
    
  