
    
      The trial was initiated to identify a gene expression signature profile biomarker for
      panitumumab sensitivity in locally advanced, untreated SCCHN. SCCHN expresses or over
      expresses EGFR in >90% of tumors. Panitumumab is a fully human IgG2 monoclonal antibody
      approved for the treatment of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) expressing previously
      treated metastatic colorectal cancer. It competes with endogenous ligands such as epidermal
      growth factor and tumor growth factor-α and blocks stimulation of the EGFR. Preclinical
      experiments have shown that panitumumab has both direct anti-tumor activity and can activate
      a cellular immune response to SCCHN.This study provides the opportunity to better define the
      population of patients that would benefit from EGFR inhibition in SCCHN.

      Patients received single agent panitumumab in a "window of opportunity" design prior to
      definitive surgical or radiation therapy. The decision to treat primarily with either surgery
      or Radiation Therapy (RT) based therapy was based on best medical practice by the treating
      physician per National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines at www.nccn.org.

      Response to panitumumab monotherapy before surgery or radiation was evaluated as a continuous
      variable, and a median split of patients will be used to develop a signature of drug
      responsiveness. An Affymetrix chip based gene signature model was then developed by analyzing
      gene expression in panitumumab sensitive versus resistant tumors. Identification of a gene
      expression profile for tumor sensitivity allowed for prospective trials treating patient
      populations enriched for likelihood of clinical benefit from panitumumab therapy. It is also
      possible that a gene signature profile for panitumumab responsiveness identified in SCCHN
      could be used as a biomarker in other epithelial cancers.

      Tumor response as measured by percentage decrease in PET scan standardized uptake value (SUV)
      level or objective evidence of tumor response (by CT scan or direct measurement) was the
      basis for examining the activity of panitumumab by means of identifying a gene expression
      signature that predicted response in this patient population. Therefore, PET scan SUV levels
      was assessed at baseline prior to any treatment. If a baseline PET/CT was obtained and a
      lesion identified with SUV level ≥6, an additional pre-treatment research PET/CT was
      performed after consent (prior to dose #1 panitumumab. A second research PET/CT was also
      obtained after the first dose of panitumumab as part of this research study. If no baseline
      PET/CT had been obtained, a research PET was obtained pre-treatment; if SUV level ≥6 an
      additional research PET was obtained after the first dose of panitumumab.

      All subjects underwent imaging, biopsy and a single dose of panitumumab 9mg/kg IV. Two to
      three weeks after panitumumab, imaging was repeated and a second biopsy was obtained (at
      surgery for surgery patients) and an optional biopsy for patients receiving RT. Subjects
      received 2 additional doses of panitumumab during their standard therapy.
    
  