
    
      An increased prevalence of cataracts was recently described in a small number of granulocyte
      donors who had received repeated doses of adrenal corticosteroids as part of their
      mobilization regimen for granulocyte donation. Mild posterior subcapsular cataracts (PSCs)
      were found in 4 of 11 (36%) of granulocyte donors versus 0 of 9 platelet donors. Though the
      relationship or corticosteroid administration to the development of PSCs is well established,
      not all steroid recipients develop such lesions. Observational studies suggest that the
      development of PSCs is an associated risk if steroids are given for a prolonged period of
      time (greater than 10 mg/day for 1-2 years). To maximize the cellular yield of
      granulocytapheresis procedures, granulocyte donors are given a single dose of an adrenal
      steroid the day prior to donation. Since 1984, it has been standard practice in the NIH
      Department of Transfusion Medicine (DTM) to administer dexamethasone 8 mg orally 12 hours
      prior to donation. Since 1996 both dexamethasone 8 mg orally as well as granulocyte
      colony-stimulating-factor (G-CSF) 5 microg/kg subcutaneously are administered on the day
      prior to donation to maximize cell yields during apheresis. It is also standard procedure in
      DTM to restrict granulocyte donation to once per month (12 times/year), with few medical
      exceptions. To determine the prevalence of ophthalmologic abnormalities, particularly PSCs,
      in DTM granulocyte donors, we propose to perform a medical history and comprehensive blinded
      ophthalmologic examination on all consenting granulocyte donors. Age and gender-matched
      volunteer plateletpheresis donors will be invited as controls. If an increase in the
      incidence of PSCs or other lens or eye abnormalities is found in the granulocyte donors
      compared with the plateletpheresis donors, we will attempt to correlate the factors operating
      during granulocyte donation that are related to this increased risk.
    
  