
    
      Purpose and design

      Previous studies have demonstrated the detrimental effect of inhaled cold air for COPD
      sufferers [1].

      Recommendations for COPD sufferers suggest covering the mouth or mouth and nose during cold
      weather to reduce the impact of cold air, but to date there is no information about how
      effective this actually is. A previous study of an alternative mask only involved 9
      participants with moderate levels of COPD [2].

      A further study is needed to establish how effective masks are during cold conditions as they
      could be a simple, inexpensive way of improving quality of life through exercise, further
      deterioration of the condition can result from sufferers becoming more sedentary.. A better
      understanding could be useful for clinicians to advise patients on how and why they can
      protect themselves from the cold.

      NICE guidelines published in 2004 and 2010 highlight the importance of pulmonary
      rehabilitation in improving the quality of life of COPD patients incorporating a programme of
      physical training, disease education, nutritional, psychological and behavioural
      intervention. Exercise has many health benefits, including reducing depression and anxiety;
      clinical depression and anxiety are common problems for participants with COPD. Exercise can
      be, or perceived to be difficult for COPD sufferers during cold periods due to
      brochoconstriction (constriction of the airways in the lungs) and many sufferers can be
      confined indoors during cold weather in the winter months.

      The primary aim of the study is to answer the question of whether a face mask, which provides
      air warmed by the body and brought to the mouth, increases exercise capacity in participants
      with stable and moderate or severe COPD, during cold weather. Cold weather can cause an
      immediate drop in FEV1 and increased breathlessness discouraging sufferers from going
      outdoors during the winter.

      The sample size of 24 participants has been determined from a power calculation by the trial
      statistician.

      The study has been designed as a crossover trial, with each participants performing an
      exercise test three times. The first test will be performed in ambient temperature with no
      face covering. Participants will have their health assessed and be trained on how to use a
      treadmill. The other two tests will be performed in a climate controlled chamber set at 5oC,
      once wearing the test mask and once wearing no mask or face covering. The order of these two
      tests will be determined at random by the statistician. The participants will dress as they
      feel appropriate for a cold winter's day except for any scarf or muffler.

      The study will be held in the spring or autumn to avoid periods of cold weather but also to
      avoid the hot summer months as excessive heat can equally trigger increased breathlessness in
      COPD sufferers.

      The effects of exercise and exercise tolerance testing on COPD participants has been
      researched and documented elsewhere and is not the purpose of this study [3] so participants
      will not undergo rigorous exercise patterns such as the full Bruce Protocol[4] (standardised
      protocol that monitors functions in exercising participants). The American Thoracic Society
      has produced a protocol for the Six-Minute Walk Test which is a simple test measuring the
      distance a patient can walk on a hard flat surface in a period of 6 minutes (6MWD)[5]. The
      6-minute walk test (6MWT) is commonly used to assess changes in functional exercise capacity
      in COPD participants following pulmonary rehabilitation with the primary outcome reported
      being the distance walked during the test. Studies have shown that the 6MWT can be equally
      used on a treadmill [6]. The choice of protocol was made after consultation with a
      respiratory clinician and a sports physiologist.

      The mask is a simple device comprising a plastic face mask (with elastic strap) and plastic
      tube that feeds into it with a one way valve to prevent moisture laden breath returning down
      the tube. The wearer inserts the tube into their own clothing and inhales air preheated by
      their own body. The device is made of medically approved, flexible plastics. The wearer
      inhales through the mouth and exhales through the nose. The shape and size of the mask has
      been determined by research conducted by the Health Design & Technology Institute based at
      Coventry University and it is configured to fit the majority of participants of any gender or
      ethnicity. The material chosen is one which is of a softness which is sufficiently firm to
      maintain shape whilst sufficiently soft to be comfortable worn next to the skin.

      Participants will undertake three tests on three separate visits. The first test will
      comprise of walking for 6 minutes on a treadmill in ambient temperature wearing appropriate
      clothing and no mask. The other two tests will comprise of once walking for 6 minutes on a
      treadmill inside the environment chamber, with the temperature set to 5oC wearing the warm
      air mask and once walking for 6 minutes on a treadmill inside the environment chamber, with
      the temperature set to 5oC but not wearing any face covering. The order of these two tests
      for each participants will be determined at random by the trial statistician.

      Pulmonary function will be assessed immediately before and after the exercise test using a
      spirometer. This will measure airflow obstruction by measuring the forced expiratory volume
      in one second (FEV1) and forced vital capacity (FVC) (the total amount of air that you expire
      in one breath in litres per second). Both measurements are predictive of COPD and it would be
      expected that FEV1 would decrease when a COPD sufferer breathes in cold air.

      Participants will also be asked to provide a rating on the Perceived Exertion Scale (ranks
      from 1 to 10) and breathlessness on the Borg scale during the exercise test (ranks from 1 to
      10 with a written description of each level). If participants rank their breathlessness above
      5 (severe breathlessness) the exercise test will be stopped immediately. Oxygen saturation
      and heart rate will be continuously monitored during the exercise tests.

      At the end of each exercise test, participants will have a rest period during which time they
      will be monitored by a clinician. Full resuscitation facilities will be available including
      defibrillator.

        1. Kosela H, Pihlajamaki J, Pekkarinene H, Tukiainen, H O (1998) Effect of cold air on
           exercise capacity in COPD: Increase or decrease? Chest 113: 1560-1565.

        2. Seifer J G The Cardiopulmonary effect of a heat and moisture exchange mask on COPD
           patients during cold exposure. Presented at the European Respiratory Society Annual
           Congress, Vienna 2009

        3. Cooper, C. B. Exercise in chronic pulmonary disease: aerobic exercise prescription. Med.
           Sci. Sports Exerc., Vol. 33, No. 7, Suppl., pp. S671-S679, 2001.

        4. Bruce et al Normal Respiratory and circulatory pathways of adaptation in exercise J Clin
           Invest. 1949 November; 28(6 Pt 2): 1423-1430

        5. ATS statement: Guidelines for the Six-Minute Walk Test. Am J Respir Crit Care Med Vol
           166 pp111-117, 2002

        6. Almeida et al, Hallway versus treadmill 6 minute Walk Tests in Patients with Chronic
           Obstructive Pulmonary Disease. Respiratory Care December 2009 Vol54 No 12
    
  