
    
      Type-2 diabetes (T2DM) in Kenya is on a rise with about 458,900 people diagnosed in 2017 and
      a 2.5-fold projected increase by 2030. Prevalence of T2DM is 5.8% and 6.2% in men and women.
      T2DM has an inflammatory disease character and is characterized by hyperglycemia. Common
      beans in T2DM patients could have many health benefits such as modulation of glucose
      metabolism, reduction of low-density lipoproteins, and satiety.

      In this research, we develop a food-grade novel common bean product from food-grade
      ingredients though the application of conventional food processing technologies. We will then
      assess postprandial insulin, blood glucose and appetite responses associated with consumption
      of the common bean product in healthy volunteers and T2DM patients. The specific aims of our
      research are:

        1. to assess the glycemic index (GI) of the common bean product in vivo among 10 healthy
           volunteers. The GI of the product will be measured over a 120 min period starting at the
           ingestion of the common bean product. Participants will be fed with an equi-carbohydrate
           portion of the common bean product to the reference food (anhydrous glucose powder, 50g
           or dextrose (glucose monohydrate), 55g). The test food and reference food will be
           assessed in each subject on separate days with a 1 week period between each study day.

        2. to assess the food insulin index (FII) of the common bean product in vivo among 10
           healthy volunteers. Participants will be fed with iso-caloric (240 kilocalorie) portions
           of the test food and reference food.

        3. to determine glycemic, insulinemic and satiety (appetite) response associated with
           consumption of the common bean product among T2DM patients. Glycemic and insulinemic
           response will be evaluated over a 120 min period starting at the ingestion of the common
           bean product. Appetite scores will be used to assess the satiety power of the test
           product. The appetite score will be assessed before and after consumption of test
           product at time points 0, 15, 30, 45, 60, 90 and 120 minutes using short questionnaire.
    
  