
    
      Details of the trial are described in a design paper published in the American Heart Journal
      (1).

      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained cardiac arrhythmia with approximately
      one million affected patients in Germany. Current estimates suggest that the life-time risk
      for AF is 30% for men and slightly less for women at the age of 40 years. Due to demographic
      changes in the German population, the incidence and prevalence of AF is expected to double
      within the next 30 years. AF almost doubles mortality and causes important morbidity, mainly
      due to thrombo-embolic complications and stroke. In addition, the arrhythmia in itself
      reduces the chronotropic adaptation of the heart to increased work load and reduces cardiac
      output, especially in patients with heart failure or other cardiac disease. Restoration of
      sinus rhythm would reduce this burden of disease.

      Acute termination of AF is almost always successful by external electrical cardioversion,
      especially using recently optimized techniques [biphasic shock wave forms, anterior-posterior
      electrode position, sintered steel electrode paddles. Maintaining sinus rhythm, however, is a
      more difficult task. Antiarrhythmic, ion channel-blocking drugs are effective in preventing a
      part of recurrent episodes of AF. Their long-term use, however, is limited by pro-arrhythmic
      side effects which are especially apparent during long-term therapy. AF initiates major
      changes in atrial electrophysiology per se which have been summarized as "electrical
      remodeling". The main consequence of these changes is a shortening of the atrial refractory
      period and action potential duration. Electrical remodeling maintains AF and is related to
      recurrence of AF after successful cardioversion. Electrical remodeling is reversed when sinus
      rhythm is maintained over approximately 4 weeks after successful cardioversion.
      Interestingly, the vast majority of AF recurrences occur during these first few weeks after
      cardioversion.

      Conceptually, the initial phase of "reversal" of electrical remodeling can be separated from
      the long-term treatment aimed at modifying the underlying substrate of AF. Classical sodium-
      or potassium channel blocking antiarrhythmic drugs prolong the atrial action potential even
      in the fibrillating atrium and may therefore support or even anticipate reversal of
      electrical remodeling. Such pharmacological reversal of electrical remodeling may only
      transiently be required, i.e. until electrical remodeling is in itself reversed by the
      natural restoration of normal atrial electrophysiology. Atrial action potential prolongation
      beyond normal values may indeed even be pro-arrhythmic. Therefore, it is tempting to treat
      the main electrophysiological end point of electrical remodeling, shortening of atrial action
      potential duration, by a limited short-term use of action potential-prolonging antiarrhythmic
      drugs.

      Hypothesis: Targeted "pharmacological reversal" of atrial remodeling by short-term
      administration of action potential prolonging antiarrhythmic drugs (4 weeks therapy duration)
      is equally efficient and potentially safer to prevent recurrent AF after cardioversion when
      compared to current long-term antiarrhythmic drug therapy.

      Trial design: This is a prospective, randomized, controlled, open label, parallel group
      multi-center investigator-initiated trial. The study medication is prescribed in an open
      fashion. We chose an open design in order to increase external validity ("relevance for
      clinical practice") of the results.

      After successful cardioversion, patients will be randomized to one of three treatment groups:

      Group A: No antiarrhythmic treatment

      Group B: 4 weeks antiarrhythmic treatment with flecainide

      Group C: Standard long term antiarrhythmic treatment (6 months) with flecainide

      Group sizes were calculated to allow demonstration of non-inferiority of the two active
      treatment arms with a 10% boundary.

      Flecainide was chosen for antiarrhythmic treatment in the Flec-SL trial because it is
      effective in the prevention of recurrent AF after cardioversion in the absence of major
      structural heart disease, has been safe as an outpatient treatment for recurrent AF, and
      prolongs the atrial action potential in patients with AF. In addition to its action
      potential-prolonging effect, flecainide induces post-repolarization refractoriness in the
      atria, an electrophysiological effect that may assist in the prevention of recurrent AF.

      This is an investigator-initiated trial. Sponsor is the AFNET
      (www.kompetenznetz-vorhofflimmern.de).

      Primary end point is the time to persistent AF as assessed by daily telemetric ECG recordings
      and confirmed by conventional Holter ECG recordings. Secondary end points include burden of
      AF, time to first symptomatic episode of AF, AF burden (number and duration of AF episodes),
      number of hospitalizations due to AF, time to termination of trial medication, number of
      serious adverse events including pro-arrhythmic events, and quality of life. Details of the
      secondary end points are indicated in the approved trial protocol.

      All patients are systematically followed for 6 months by daily telemetric ECG recordings. All
      recordings are obtained using miniaturized ECG recorders which allow recording of a 60-second
      ECG and transtelephonic ECG transmission of the ECG via a toll-free number. All ECGs are
      received at the central analysis unit located at the Institute for Clinical Cardiovascular
      Research (IKKF) in Munich. Each telemetric ECG is analyzed within 24 hours of receipt at the
      analysis unit. The study physician is informed in case of any abnormal results within these
      24 hours. Suspicion of persistent atrial fibrillation in the Tele-ECG prompts a local visit
      to record a Holte ECG. The Holter ECGs are centrally analyzed (blinded end point analysis).
      The systematic telemetric ECG monitoring allows for detection of all episodes of recurrent
      persistent AF.
    
  