
    
      Stroke may result in acute or chronic hemiplegia and spasticity in stroke patients.
      Spasticity in upper extremities may interfere with motor voluntary function, activities of
      daily living and cause muscle pain. Botulinum toxin type A (BTX-A) has been shown to relieve
      spasticity and pain in upper extremities of stroke patients. There are no researches to
      compare the efficiency of BTX-A by different injection guidance methods in stroke patients.
      The aims of our study were to compare the injection locations of key spastic muscles on upper
      extremity by three different guidance localization methods ( surface anatomy landmark,
      ultrasonography, electric stimulation) and the effectiveness. The investigators will enroll
      60 hemiplegic stroke patients with upper extremity spasticity more than modified Ashworth
      scale ( MAS) 1+ and duration more than 6 months. Under different guidance methods (surface
      anatomy landmark/ ultrasonography /electric stimulation ), BTX-A will be injected to the key
      spastic muscles on upper extremity. Outcome measures include MAS, motor function ( Brunnstrom
      stage of upper extremity), range of motion , the degree and visual analog scale of pain ,
      pinch and grasp power，Stroke Impact Scale, Barthel index and upper extremity function (Nine
      hole peg test，Action Reaearch Arm Test，Wolf Motor Function test，Chedoke Arm and Han Activity
      Inventory，Fugl-Meyer Assessment Scale，Motor Activity Log). All the assessments will be
      performed before BTX-A injection and followed up at 4 weeks, 8 weeks, 12 weeks and 24 weeks
      after injection. After performing all the assessments, investigators will investigate the
      efficiency of BTX-A by different guidance methods.

      Four of arms:

      ultrasonography direct-guidance: To inject Botulinum toxin type A on the spasticity lower
      extremity for stroke patients by Ultrasonography direct-guidance.

      ultrasonography indirect-guidance: To inject Botulinum toxin type A on the spasticity lower
      extremity for stroke patients by Ultrasonography indirect-guidance.

      electric stimulation guidance: To inject Botulinum toxin type A on the spasticity lower
      extremity for stroke patients by electric stimulation guidance.

      surface anatomy landmark: To inject Botulinum toxin type A on the spasticity lower extremity
      for stroke patients by surface anatomy landmark.
    
  