
    
      It has been realized that micronutrient deficiencies are a major determinant of intra-uterine
      growth retardation (IUGR) so multiple trials using micronutrient supplementation during
      pregnancy have been done & shown a positive effect on birth weight.UNICEF/WHO/United Nations
      University(UNU) designed a new multiple micro nutrient supplement for pregnant and lactating
      women-the UNICEF/WHO/UNU international multiple micro nutrient preparation (UNIMMAP)-that
      provides the Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) of 15 vitamins and minerals. The benefit of
      this supplementation over routinely prescribed iron and folic supplementation has been proven
      in multiple trials. Evidence has shown reduction in low birth newborns.

      This randomized controlled trial will compare the effect of calories and multiple micro
      nutrients provided in energy dense biscuits manufactured by EBM to malnourished pregnant
      women seen by AKU's Department of Paediatrics and Child Health at their Ali Akbar Shah Goth
      and Ibrahim Hyderi, compared to food supplementation ration of wheat and oil, plus iron and
      folic acid tablet supplementation.

      Arm 1: Dietary supplementation with EBM biscuits containing multiple vitamins and calcium in
      the recommended allowance (RDA) for pregnant women Arm 2: Supplementation with Wheat flour
      and oil, iron and folic acid All undernourished pregnant females identified before 14 weeks
      of gestation through our surveillance system will be offered enrollment.

      First contact: First meeting will be on enrollment. Patients will be randomized into any one
      of the arm. After randomization Weight, height, MUAC and BMI will be recorded. Samples for
      Ferritin & hemoglobin will be drawn. In Arm 1 participant will be supplied with energy dense
      biscuits while in arm 2 will be provided with Wheat flour and oil after every two weeks.

      End of each trimester: In second(20-22 week) & third trimester(33-35 week) weight, MUAC & BMI
      will be recorded. Supplementation will be given according to the Arm. Samples will also be
      drawn for Ferritin & hemoglobin on third visit. Also at the third trimester visit
      palatability, accessibility and compliance with biscuits will be assessed by filling a
      preformed questionnaire.

      Follow up of the newborn: Follow up of the newborn will be done within 48 hours. Length,
      weight, fronto-occipital circumference and MUAC will be recorded.
    
  