
    
      The study population will included all subjects who participated in the TDA202 study at the
      Vaccine Trial Centre (VTC), Faculty of Tropical Medicine, Mahidol University, Bangkok.

      This is further follow-up from TDA202 clinical trial, which was completed on 29 November
      2016. Target population for this study is the group of subjects who had received one dose of
      one of the three study vaccines in the TDA202 trial at site VTC and who had completed the
      study follow-up at 1-year after vaccination (223 subjects).

      The subjects who had received a single dose of one of the 3 study vaccines and completed
      1-year follow-up visit at Day 336±28 during the TDA202 study will be called for consent
      process at 2 years after vaccination based on Vaccination Date in TDA202 study within ±1
      month window period. Subjects aged ≥ 18 years who have signed the written informed consent
      form or subjects aged < 18 years who have signed the assent form with their parent/legal
      guardian's given written informed consent will be screened for general health status and
      those who fulfill all inclusion and exclusion criteria will be enrolled into the study.

      Once enrolled, blood sample (approximately 5 mL) will be taken from all subjects. After blood
      collection, vaccination with a licensed influenza vaccine will be offered to all
      subjects.Blood samples will be processed for serum separation and shipped to Bionet Human
      Serology Laboratory where immunogenicity testing (ELISA antibodies against tetanus,
      diphtheria, Pertussis Toxin (PT) and Filamentous hemagglutinin (FHA) and PT neutralizing
      antibody by Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO cell assay) will be performed . ELISA testing to
      detect antibodies against tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis antigens (PT and FHA) will be
      performed for all enrolled subjects while CHO cell assay to detect PT neutralizing antibody
      will be performed only in the same subset of 75 subjects (25 subjects in each vaccine group)
      who had been selected for PT neutralizing antIbody assessment in the previous TDA202 study.

      Statistical analysis will be performed to evaluate antibody persistence at 2 years after one
      dose of each study vaccine given to subjects during the previous TDA202 study.

      Data management and statistical analysis will be performed by Center of Excellence for
      Biomedical and Public Health Informatics (BIOPHICS), Bangkok, Thailand.
    
  