
    
      There are over 900,000 individuals currently utilizing Long Term Oxygen Therapy (LTOT) in
      this country. LTOT is administered by using one or a combination of three basic delivery
      systems: compressed gas cylinder, liquid oxygen system, and oxygen concentrator. Each of the
      base oxygen delivery systems has unique advantages and disadvantages regarding operation,
      function, and cost.

      The majority of LTOT users require oxygen during ambulation. Within the home this is
      accomplished by a 20-50-foot extension tubing. Extending the length of the tubing allows the
      user (patient) to ambulate up to the extended distance from the base oxygen delivery system.
      Limitations are of course, the distance, becoming entangled in the tubing and it is not
      conducive for short trips such as to the mailbox.

      Ambulation outside the home, however, requires the use of a "portable oxygen system". Put
      simplistically, portable oxygen systems are miniaturized versions of the base systems. Here
      also, each particular delivery system has inherent advantages and disadvantages.

      An important development in portable oxygen systems has been the advent of pulse-dose
      technology. Pulse-dose technology allows both the gaseous and liquid portable systems to
      conserve oxygen delivery. During the inspiratory phase of breathing a solenoid control valve
      opens "dosing" a bolus of gas flow through the cannula. Unlike traditional continuous-flow
      cannula, where oxygen is delivered during both the inspiratory and expiratory cycle,
      pulse-dose technology only delivers oxygen during in an inspiratory phase of breathing.
      Oxygen flow that is delivered only during inspiration results in less total oxygen
      consumption. This in-turn allows relatively small portable oxygen systems to be more
      efficient and last longer. Such efficiency is not only important to the patient, but also to
      the Home Medical Equipment (HME) provider. Portable oxygen systems that incorporate
      pulse-dose technology typically decrease the home visits required to deliver to replenish the
      patient's oxygen supply.

      One portable technology allows the patient to refill small oxygen devices in their home, but
      uses electricity (battery or AC) for functionality, providing economic hardship for some
      patients who are prescribed LTOT. Another portable technology is an actual portable oxygen
      concentrator that is lightweight and operates on electricity as well.

      By comparison, the oxygen delivered to patients by HME providers, in either cylinder or
      liquid form, is an indirect product of liquefaction of air. Stringent FDA repackaging
      production and transfilling processes must be met. Strength and purity testing requires such
      "medical grade" oxygen be at least 99.5% pure. Such medical grade oxygen containers typically
      result in 100% oxygen being provided to the participant.
    
  