
    
      Acute postoperative pain after orthopaedic surgery is common and approximately 40% of all
      surgical patients experience moderate-severe acute postoperative pain. Treatment of acute
      pain after surgery is important to relieve patient suffering, expedite resumption of
      activities of daily living, mitigate the risk of postoperative complications, speed
      ambulation and rehabilitation and hospital discharge. Good pain treatment requires proper and
      sound pain assessment to guide analgesic therapy. Past studies have determined the MCID
      values for a variety of chronic pain disorders. There are however limited data on the MCID
      for acute pain.At the present time, most perioperative acute pain studies use MCID values
      that are extrapolated from chronic pain studies yet the validity of MCID extrapolation
      remains unknown. Procedure-specific MCID for pain after most major orthopedic surgery has not
      been reported.The MCID for a patient reported outcome can be determined using an anchor and a
      distribution based method.The anchor based method uses a subjective Global Rating Scale (GRS)
      scale to assess patient's perception of pain relief after treatment. This is a 15-point
      Likert scale that ranges from -7 to +7 .Another method to determine the MCID value in pain is
      the distribution based method using mathematical calculations to generate 3 MCID values - 1)
      0.3 standard deviation (SD) of mean change in NRS scores, 2) the standard error of
      measurement (SEM), and 3) 5% of the instrument range of the mean change in the NRS scores
      after an analgesic intervention according to patient-rated GAR scale. The SEM is calculated
      as the SD multiplied by the square root of 1 minus the intraclass correlation coefficient.
      The final MCID value is the average of 4 values, 1 generated from the anchored and 3
      generated from the distribution based methods.

      The Patient Acceptable Symptom State (PASS) is another measure for patient-reported outcomes.
      It represents the threshold beyond which patients consider themselves well (satisfied) after
      an intervention. The PASS is an absolute value, not a change but this value will vary among
      patients. In essence, PASS indicates a state of wellbeing (feeling good) as opposed to MCID,
      a state of improvement (feeling better). The 2 concepts are complementary but contrary to
      MCID, the PASS is the outcome of interest, instead of the extent of improvement. To determine
      PASS, the patients are asked this question "In your opinion, do you consider your current
      pain state satisfactory after your operation?" Patients responding "yes" are considered
      having an acceptable pain state. The PASS is the 75th centile of the pain scale in those who
      rated their pain state as satisfactory. Higher baseline pain scores are often associated with
      higher PASS estimates. Little is known about PASS for acute pain after surgery thus a need to
      determine this benchmark to properly evaluate the clinical benefits of analgesic
      interventions.

      Quality of Recovery (QoR) is another important PRO measure when evaluating the impact of
      novel intervention strategies. Quality of recovery can be assessed using the QoR-15
      questionnaire (scores 0-150) which measures physical & mental well-being as an indication of
      the quality of recovery after surgery and anaesthesia.

      To determine MCID for QoR, both the anchor and distribution based methods will be used. The
      patient will be asked "How would you rate your overall recovery from surgery since
      yesterday?" Patients will use the same GRS (-7 to +7) to measure their response. With the
      anchored-based method, the MCID is the mean change in the QoR-15 score when the patient
      reports a GRS score of +2 or +3. The distribution-based method will generate 3 other MCID
      values: 1) 0.3 standard deviation (SD) of the mean change in the QoR score; 2) the standard
      error of measurement (SEM); and 3) 5% of the instrument range. Again, the final MCID value is
      the average of 4 values, 1 generated from the anchored and 3 generated from the distribution
      based methods.

      To determine PASS for QoR, the patients will be asked, "In your opinion, have you made a good
      recovery from your operation?" with response options of yes, no, or unsure. Those who give a
      positive response is considered having made a good recovery. The PASS for QoR is the 75th
      centile of the QoR-15 score in those who rated their recovery as good. The only MCID and PASS
      study by Myles reported a QoR-15 score of 8 & 118 (out of 150), respectively, in patients
      undergoing a broad range of surgical procedures. Procedure-specific MCID & PASS for QoR-15
      after major orthopaedic surgery are currently unknown. Our proposed observational study seeks
      to define what constitutes an MCID and a PASS in patients undergoing a variety of elective
      major orthopedic surgery.
    
  