
    
      The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of gluten friendly bread on the faecal
      microbiota composition, metabolism and immunity in coeliac individuals aged 20-80 years.

      The study consists of a 6-visit (screening visit + 5 visits) randomised intervention with the
      Gluten Friendly bread at different doses and placebo (control bread).

      Subjects will be randomly distributed into four groups: placebo (control bread in a dose of
      1.5 g gluten/day), low gluten group taking the Gluten Friendly bread in a dose of 1.5 g
      gluten/day, medium gluten group (3 g gluten/day) and high gluten group (6 g gluten/day). As
      wheat generally contains 10% of gluten (i.e. 100 g of bread contain 10 g of gluten), bread
      buns of 60 g, 30 g and 15 g will be elaborated for high, medium and low gluten groups,
      respectively.

      Control bread and also gluten free bread as 15g buns will be assessed as controls.

      The study will include a screening visit, baseline visit, visits at midpoint, endpoint of the
      treatment periods and a final visit after 2 weeks of the treatment. Volunteers will provide a
      blood sample at a pre- screening visit (~10ml; 1 dessert spoon), to check for anaemia
      (defined as haemoglobin men <14g/dl; women <11.5g/dl). The design will include a 14-day
      run-in period followed by 14 days of treatment and a final visit post-gluten challenge.
      Participants will be asked to consume a multi-sugar drink (7.5g lactulose and 2g D-mannitol
      ≥98% in 100 ml of water) (a dosage used widely in oral clinical testing- LAMA testing) in the
      evening before each study visit (visits: 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5) at 8 pm and be instructed to
      collect all overnight and morning first spot pass urine sample. This non-invasive assessment
      of intestinal permeability in humans has a 20-year history. LAMA evaluation has been reported
      to be an accurate measure of small intestinal mucosal permeability though assessment of
      differential absorption of lactulose and mannitol. They will also provide a faecal sample for
      each study visit (visits: 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5).

      Each visit will take approximately 30 minutes.
    
  