
    
      Immunotherapy, in the shape of immune checkpoint inhibitors, is transforming the therapeutic
      landscape of non-small cell lung cancer. Checkpoint inhibitors can deliver durable tumor
      regressions, however only a minority of patients derive this kind of benefit, even with
      recent combinatorial approaches. It is clear from these clinical results that the full
      anti-tumoral power of the immune system is not being leveraged yet.

      Vaccination aims to prime and/or expand tumor antigen-targeting T-cells and induce
      immunological memory against later disease relapse. Whereas immune checkpoint blockade boosts
      inactivated responses of effector T cells, vaccination can potentially activate naive T cells
      with tumor specificity and in this way broaden the tumor-specific immune responses that are
      the target of immune checkpoint inhibition.

      However, the optimal vaccination modality for NSCLC still needs to be established.

      Dendritic cells (DCs) are specialized antigen presenting leukocytes that are now recognized
      as the central controllers of the immune response. The DCs unique capacity to induce robust,
      highly antigen-specific cytotoxic T-cell responses has led to the use of in vitro-generated
      autologous DCs as cancer vaccines.

      The investigators have developed a method for the rapid production of DCs with all the
      required features for the induction of anti-tumor immunity. The cells are particularly potent
      in inducing type 1-polarized T-helper cell and antigen-specific cytolytic T-cell responses.
      The DCs are loaded with a proprietary selection of 4 antigens that cover >90% of all NSCLC
      patients.

      With the objective of ultimately combining this DC vaccine with immune checkpoint inhibition,
      the investigators will first establish feasibility and maximal tolerated dose of DC
      vaccination as monotherapy using an intra-patient dose escalation scheme.
    
  