
    
      In phase 2 and phase 3 studies, inotuzumab has shown evidence of single agent anti-leukemic
      activity and proved to be particularly effective in providing a deep response, with an
      acceptable safety profile. Since 2014 anti-CD22 has been available for compassionate use in
      Italy.

      In this non-interventional retrospective study, toxicity, effectiveness and costs assessment
      data will be collected from patients with ALL, to improve the knowledge about anti-CD22
      treatment in clinical practice.

      Despite recent advancements in the treatment of hematological malignancies, still a
      considerable number of cases cannot be cured and represent real societal challenges with a
      relevant social and economic impact. Indeed, treatments are becoming more expensive and the
      current state of the art does not allow a good prediction of the therapeutic outcome. In
      particular, several steps of the diagnostic and therapeutic paths should be improved, from
      early and advanced diagnosis, in order to avoid treatment delays or impairment, to prognostic
      assessment and monitoring of therapeutic response. The unsatisfactory response to
      conventional chemotherapy has led to the development of high-cost targeted therapies, whose
      administration and schedules has to be guided by defined molecular criteria. Beside the
      economic perspective, these novel drugs have relevant side effects that cannot be predicted
      before treatment starts.

      The management of hematological malignancies is further complicated by the high level of
      disease heterogeneity in terms of pathogenetic and molecular mechanisms. A number of subtypes
      have been defined for each disease, based on cytogenetic and molecular profiles and relevant
      differences can be even observed within the same disease subtype, leading to different
      clinical outcomes and responses to treatment and to guide therapeutic decisions for patients
      affected by CD22 positive ALL.

      Due to the observational nature of the study, for the patient there is no benefit expected.
      For this observational nature of the study, for the patient there is no risk about his
      health. Data will be treated according GCP/EU laws/Italian laws/local laws according the most
      restrictive between these laws.
    
  