
    
      The investigators propose to prospectively randomize orthopedists, with their patients, to
      receive (or not) a real-time, web-based system intervention: the OA Care plan. The OA Care
      plan will include individualized, patient-centric information: (1) trended patient-reported
      OA pain and function, (2) tailored estimates of likely TJR benefits and risks based on a
      contemporary US cohort of 25,000 TJR patients (FORCE-TJR Registry), (3) evidence-based
      information for non-operative care, and (4) individual patient goals.

      Specific Aims include:

      Aim 1. Patients and their Caregivers/Trusted Others will refine the design, content, and
      usability of a real-time, web-based individual OA Care plan to guide TJR and non-operative OA
      care decisions.

      Aim 2. Randomize 26 orthopedists, and their patients, to receive the OA Care plan at the time
      of orthopedic consultation (intervention) vs. usual care (control) and compare (a) OA care
      decision process and quality and (b) quality of OA care as measured by pain relief and
      functional gain in the two arms at 6 and 12 months after the decision, and assess the impact
      of decision quality on quality of OA care.

      Aim 3. Randomize 36 orthopedists, and their patients, to receive the OA Care plan plus peer,
      family, and primary care physician support (OA Care plan+Support; intervention) vs. the OA
      Care plan alone and compare the quality of OA care decision and quality of care (pain relief,
      functional gain) in the two arms.

      Based on the components of the Chronic Care Model, this technology-delivered, individualized
      OA Care plan will enable patients and clinicians to make treatment decisions based on patient
      symptoms, goals, and comparative effectiveness evidence. The investigators hypothesize that
      OA Care plan users, as compared to usual care, will report greater decision quality for both
      TJR or non-operative care, and better quality of care (less OA pain, greater function).
      Further, the investigators anticipate incremental effectiveness of the OA Care plan+Support
      (peer, family, and primary care support) on the same outcomes. Study results will guide
      future OA Care plan implementation to assure optimal healthcare for patients with advanced
      knee and hip OA. Finally, lessons learned from the evaluation of this automated
      patient-centric decision support system can be extended beyond OA and TJR to other elective
      surgical procedures to engage informed patients to make optimal individual decisions.
    
  