
    
      This study is a single-centre, open-label pilot study that will investigate the safety,
      tolerability, pharmacokinetics (PK), and target engagement during long-term dosing with
      losmapimod tablets in adult subjects with FSHD1. Subjects will be evaluated during an 8- week
      pre-treatment period (Visits 1 through 3) to establish pre-treatment baseline assessments.
      Subjects will then be treated with losmapimod for approximately 1 year (Visits 4 through 9)
      and assessed at relatively regular intervals for change from pre-treatment assessments. All
      subjects will undergo two muscle biopsies; one at baseline, pre-treatment (Visit 4, Week 8 ±
      1 week) and the second on-treatment muscle biopsy approximately 4 or 8 weeks later (Visit 5,
      Week 14 ± 2 weeks). Up to 8 subjects will have an on-treatment biopsy at 4 weeks and up to 8
      subjects will have the on-treatment biopsy at 8 weeks.

      Only subjects who participated in and competed all study procedures in the OLS Study
      treatment period (Week 60) will be eligible to participate in the open-label extension study.

      The extension of this study will enable continued investigation of the efficacy of long-term
      dosing with losmapimod tablets in adult subjects with FSHD1. During the extension study,
      subjects will receive 15 mg of losmapimod by mouth twice daily for a total of 30 mg by mouth
      daily. All subjects will attend clinic visits approximately every 12 weeks and 7 days after
      the last dose of study drug for safety follow-up assessment. Participation in the open-label
      extension study will continue until losmapimod is approved, the patient withdraws from the
      study, or the Sponsor terminates the study.

      The primary endpoint of the main study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of
      long-term dosing of losmapimod tablets in subjects with FSHD1. Secondary endpoints include
      assessment of target engagement of losmapimod in blood and skeletal muscle and repeated dose
      pharmacokinetics in subjects with FSHD1 over long-term dosing.

      The extension will continue investigation of efficacy with assessment of skeletal muscle by
      ultrasound as well as the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics (PK), and exploration of
      efficacy measures including whole body skeletal muscle MRI and selected clinical outcome
      assessments during long- term dosing with losmapimod tablets in adult subjects with FSHD1.
      Secondary endpoints include assessment of efficacy as evaluated by whole body skeletal muscle
      MRI parameters, safety and tolerability of long-term dosing, target engagement of losmapimod
      in blood and skeletal muscle and repeated dose pharmacokinetics in subjects with FSHD1 over
      long-term dosing.
    
  