
    
      The specific objectives, falling into three main categories, are as follows:

        1. Monitor the uptake of newer antiretroviral treatment (ART) drugs and drugs for treatment
           of co-infections and co-morbidities;

        2. To evaluate the safety profiles of the newer individual ART drugs when used in routine
           clinical practice as part of either first-line or subsequent treatment regimens.

        3. Investigate long term outcomes and clinical disease progression overall and in specific
           sub-groups

      The Outcomes study is a collaboration between investigators from clinics and cohorts across
      Europe, Australia and South America with a willingness to share data and to use a common
      follow-up schedule and assessment. Participating sites have a commitment to continue to
      follow this large cohort that is heterogeneous in both its demographic profile and in ART
      prescribing patterns thus resulting in enough power to answer many key clinical questions.

      The Outcomes study is a study in the RESPOND International Cohort Consortium of Infectious
      Diseases. RESPOND is an innovative, flexible and dynamic cohort consortium for the study of
      infectious diseases, including HIV, built as a generic structure for facilitating multi
      stakeholder involvement. In RESPOND all collected data is part of a common data repository or
      'data lake', which is stored in a database located at CHIP, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen,
      Denmark. Data collection in RESPOND is modular with a core data collection module onto which
      additional modules/studies can be added. Pseudonymised patient data can be entered manually
      via an online secure platform or be electronically transferred from existing local, regional
      or national data structures to the data lake.

      In the Outcomes study data will be collected at enrolment and at annual follow-up (FU)
      visits. For patients living with HIV-1 enrolled and under FU, demographic, laboratory,
      therapeutic and clinical data on HIV and viral hepatitis will be collected once a year.
      Clinical event data (except AIDS other than AIDS defining malignancies) will be collected in
      real-time on RESPOND event forms.
    
  