
    
      Age-related cognitive decline has become a major public health concern. As the population
      ages, the number of older adults experiencing cognitive and functional disturbances has
      increased. There is currently a paucity of effective interventions to prevent or treat
      cognitive decline or to enhance brain function in the elderly. The proposed study will
      recruit a cohort from the state with the highest growth of older adults. The study team will
      employ a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to test whether the benefits of cognitive training
      (CT) can be enhanced by a combined adjunctive intervention aimed at increasing neural
      plasticity and optimizing readiness for learning: intermittent hypoxia (IH).

      Current CT approaches have been shown to improve performance on trained tasks, with effects
      lasting up to ten years. However, generalization of effects to other cognitive domains and
      everyday functioning has been a problem in the past. There is now compelling evidence that
      the elderly do experience functional improvements that persist long after initial training,
      though peoples' ability to derive such benefits varies. Combined interventions have rarely
      been examined and methods aimed at increasing neural plasticity and optimizing readiness for
      learning are only now beginning to be explored. The proposed study will test one theoretical
      approach for facilitating and optimizing CT effects on functional outcome. The investigators
      will use an adjunctive physiological method to further stimulate task-related brain regions,
      directly enhancing neural responsivity/plasticity and ultimately learning. While theoretical
      rationales exist for each of these approaches, no studies to date have shown whether
      adjunctive administration can optimize learning and functional status in the elderly.

      A pilot randomized clinical trial will enroll 55 participants, with a target of 20
      participants completing the study, and as many as 30 participants consenting but failing to
      meet inclusion criteria at in person screening, and 5 participants withdrawing prior to
      completion. Cognitively healthy elderly adults, age 65-89 will undergo either a CT
      intervention in combination with IH or sham IH control. The CT intervention will employ the
      Double Decision task from the POSIT Science Brain HQ; a well validated CT method for
      enhancing cognitive functioning in the elderly. Participants will receive IH or sham/placebo
      IH administered during training.

      Participants will be assessed at baseline and after CT (2 weeks). At each time point, a
      comprehensive neurocognitive, clinical and multimodal neuroimaging assessment of brain
      function, metabolic state, and brain structure will be conducted.

      FMRI will be used to assess brain response during working memory, attention and memory
      encoding. Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) will assess cerebral metabolites,
      including gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) concentrations, sensitive to neural plasticity in
      task-associated brain regions.
    
  