
    
      Docetaxel, a semi-synthetic analogue of paclitaxel, is one of the most widely used human
      anti-cancer agents. Docetaxel and paclitaxel belong to a group of cytotoxic agents called
      taxanes. Docetaxel has been marketed worldwide by Sanofi-Aventis under the trade name
      Taxotere® and its use is approved for different types of solid tumors. The efficacy of
      docetaxel has been proven in two different phase 3 trials in metastatic castration resistant
      prostate cancer (mCRPC) and is a standard of care option for patients with prostate cancer.
      In Taxotere®, polysorbate 80 is used as surfactant. Fluid retention and hypersensitivity
      reactions are reported, and the patients are pre-treated with corticosteroids, e.g.
      dexamethasone, to avoid or at least reduce the frequency and the severity of both
      hypersensitivity reactions and fluid retention.

      Oasmia Pharmaceutical AB (Uppsala, Sweden) has developed a novel formulation of docetaxel
      (Docetaxel micellar) with N-(all-trans-retinoyl)-L-cysteic acid methyl ester sodium salt
      (XMeNa) as excipient, thus reducing adverse reactions caused by polysorbate 80. XMeNa forms
      micelles into which docetaxel can be incorporated thus increasing its aqueous solubility and
      keeping it dissolved.

      Rational Treatment with polysorbate 80-solved Docetaxel (Taxotere) is hampered by the
      requirement to co-administer steroid pre and post Taxotere infusion. Chronic (intermittent)
      steroids are hurting bone health and have well known immunosuppressive effects. Despite
      steroid premedication, polysorbate 80-solved Docetaxel (Taxotere) results in occasional
      infusion reactions due to the solvent polysorbate 80. The new micellar formulation of
      docetaxel is a promising alternative to polysorbate 80-solved Docetaxel (Taxotere) as it
      avoids the mandatory need for steroid administration pre and post infusion, and thus avoids
      immunosuppressive and bone-damaging effects.

      Safety and pharmacokinetics (PK) of Docetaxel micellar have been assessed in 2 clinical
      studies, but only in breast cancer patients. This is the first clinical trial to assess the
      safety and tolerability of 3-weekly intravenous Docetaxel micellar infusions in patients with
      mCRPC.

      The primary objective of this study is to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the
      recommended phase II dose (RP2D) for Docetaxel micellar in patients with mCRPC.
    
  