
    
      This study addresses the intractable challenges of adverse birth outcomes, including preterm
      delivery and low birthweight, by proposing the development, implementation and evaluation of
      a model of group prenatal care that could be scaled nationally. Group prenatal care models
      have been demonstrated through rigorous research to provide significantly improved birth
      outcomes with implications for maternal-child health and substantial cost savings. However,
      group prenatal care is currently available to only a small fraction of the more than four
      million women who give birth annually in the US. Through the development, implementation and
      evaluation of a new model of group prenatal care, we will create an outcomes-focused model of
      group prenatal care that will be scalable nationally with an eye toward improving US birth
      outcomes.

      Specific Aims:

      The long-term objective of the proposed study is to reduce the risk for adverse perinatal
      outcomes during and after pregnancy among women and families receiving prenatal care in
      health centers in 3 geographic locations serving vulnerable populations: Hidalgo County
      Texas, Nashville Tennessee, and Detroit Michigan. We will develop, disseminate, and evaluate
      a new and improved model of group prenatal care, "Expect with Me," based on our previous
      research on group models of prenatal care, which has already yielded favorable behavioral and
      biological results in two randomized controlled trials. The overall objective of this project
      is to improve maternal health and reduce adverse birth outcomes. We will meet this objective
      by achieving three specific goals:

        1. Develop a new and improved model of group prenatal care, including curriculum, training
           materials, IT infrastructure and marketing materials to support broad adoption of group
           prenatal care, enhance consumer experience, monitor patient outcomes, and ensure
           national scalability.

        2. Implement group prenatal care in three communities at high risk for adverse perinatal
           outcomes (Hidalgo County TX, Nashville TN, Detroit MI), engaging and training providers
           in group facilitation and the established curriculum, engaging patients through improved
           in-reach and outreach strategies, and implementing IT infrastructure to improve uptake,
           patient experience, and sustainability through the monitoring of patient outcomes.

        3. Evaluate the effect of implementing group prenatal care through a rigorous process and
           outcome evaluation that identifies any barriers to national scalability and examines
           maternal health and birth outcomes and resultant cost implications.

      Specific Study Hypotheses

      We hypothesize that, relative to women who receive standard individual prenatal care, the
      women who receive "Expect with Me" group prenatal care will be significantly more likely to:

        1. have better perinatal outcomes, including better health behaviors during pregnancy
           (e.g., nutrition, physical activity), better birth outcomes (e.g., decreased preterm
           labor, low birthweight, Neonatal Intensive Care Unit stays), and better postpartum
           indicators (e.g., increased breastfeeding);

        2. report greater change in risk-related behaviors and psychosocial characteristics that
           could be considered potential mechanisms for the program's effectiveness;

        3. have lower rates of sexually transmitted diseases and rapid repeat pregnancy one year
           postpartum;

        4. have lower healthcare costs through improved outcomes (e.g., appropriate care
           utilization, fewer complications, reduced NICU admissions/length of stays)
    
  