
    
      This is a randomized (study assigned by chance), double-blind (neither physician nor patient
      knows the name of the assigned study drugs), double-dummy (all patients will be given both a
      placebo [salt solution] and study drug in alternating periods of time during the study),
      active comparator-controlled (compare the 'test' treatment to standard-of-care therapy),
      multinational, multicenter study to establish the safety and tolerability of doripenem (an
      antibiotic) compared with cefepime (an antibiotic) administered by intravenous (iv) infusion
      (slow injection of drug solution into the vein over a period of time) in children ages 3
      months to less than 18 years hospitalized with pneumonia (includes nosocomial pneumonia [NP],
      severe community-acquired pneumonia (CAP), and ventilator-assisted pneumonia [VAP]). The
      study includes 3 periods: a pretreatment (screening) period that will occur within 2 days
      prior to randomization (assignment of study drug); a treatment period of 10 to 14 days where
      patients will receive study drug treatment, and a posttreatment period consisting of 2 study
      visits. The maximum duration of study drug therapy is 14 days. The total duration of the
      study is approximately 7 to 8 weeks for each patient. The primary outcome measure in the
      study is safety and tolerability. Safety and tolerability will be evaluated by examining the
      incidence, severity, and type of adverse events, changes in clinical laboratory tests, vital
      signs measurements, and findings from physical examinations observed during treatment and at
      each posttreatment visit. An independent monitoring committee (IDMC) will be established for
      this study to ensure that the safety of the patients is not compromised. The IDMC will
      consist of individuals who are not associated with the conduct of the study, and will include
      but will not be limited to individuals with expertise relevant to the care of pediatric
      patients, and including at least one infectious disease physician and at least one
      statistician. Patients will receive IV Doripenem (20 mg/kg up to a maximum of 500 mg/dose)
      and cefepime placebo OR cefepime (50 mg/kg up to a maximum of 2 grams/dose and doripenem
      placebo once every 8 hours for up to 14 days. After receiving a minimum of 3 days of IV study
      drug therapy, patients may be switched to the oral antibiotic (amoxicillin/clavulanate
      potassium suspension or tablets) or an approved alternative oral agent to complete a total
      10-14 days course of antibiotics.
    
  