
    
      During surgery under anaesthesia, use of cuffed endotracheal (ET) tubes is standard practice
      in adults. The cuff prevents air leak and protects the airway from soiling. Traditionally, in
      paediatric practice an uncuffed ET tube is used, sized according to the child's age. This
      prevents damage to the lining of the trachea by excessive pressure from the cuff.

      The debate regarding the use of cuffed ET tubes in children is long-standing. New insight
      into the understanding of paediatric airway anatomy and newer designs of cuffed ET tubes
      (such as the MicroCuff Endotracheal tube, Halyard Health UK) have resulted in a shift towards
      their more frequent use. Studies suggest cuff pressures should be maintained below 20 - 25cm
      H2O, to minimise airway complications related to high pressures on the tracheal lining
      leading to inadequate blood flow, potentially causing swelling and, rarely, tracheal
      stenosis. This is of particular importance in small children, where even slight swelling can
      significantly reduce the airway diameter, with potentially serious consequences. Use of
      pressure monitoring is recommended by AAGBI, but may not be consistently done. A safe method
      of limiting pressure, that is effective, imposes minimal extra workload and has minimal cost,
      would reduce risk to patients.

      The widespread use of nitrous oxide (N2O) in paediatric anaesthesia raises another issue.
      Nitrous oxide diffuses easily into the ET tube cuffs, raising the pressure within them.
      Various interventions have been trialled in adult studies to address this. Inflating ET tube
      cuffs with a mixture of air and N2O may be beneficial, but varying concentrations of N2O
      during anaesthesia limit the benefits. Filling the cuff with saline instead of air has been
      shown to prevent increases in cuff pressures in the adult population without any adverse
      safety issues, but it is still not standard practice.

      Despite reports of similar variation in cuff pressures in paediatric patients, there have
      been no reported studies to date comparing the intra-operative changes in cuff pressures in
      children when the cuff is inflated with saline instead of air.

      Therefore, the investigators propose to determine whether filling the ET tube cuff with
      saline prevents the changes in intra-cuff pressures, in children undergoing balanced
      anaesthesia with N2O, that are seen with air filled cuffs.

      CLINICAL RELEVANCE The use of cuffed tubes in paediatric anaesthesia has become more and more
      common over the last decade. Newer, more anatomically based designs have helped to overcome
      many of the potential problems, but the issue of safe cuff pressures remains paramount.

      Work in the adult literature has demonstrated the pressure at which there is a reduction in
      capillary perfusion. In paediatrics, the huge variation in capillary perfusion pressure makes
      finding an exact 'safe' level for every patient very difficult, but attempts have been made
      to characterise what an 'unsafe' level is.

      The widespread use of nitrous oxide in paediatric anaesthesia also complicates the situation.
      The cuffs on modern paediatric cuffed tubes are very thin, allowing gasses to diffuse into
      them more easily. This means the volume (and thus the pressure) at the beginning of
      anaesthesia is not the same as at the end. Studies have also shown that the incidence of
      post-operative airway complications increases as the cuff pressure increases.

      The AABGI has recently recommended cuff pressure monitoring as a minimum standard of care.
      However, achieving this through a lengthy case, where access to the airway may be limited,
      can prove challenging.

      This studies hypothesis is that the use of saline, instead of air, in the cuff will lead to
      reduced pressure variation during anaesthesia, meaning that the pressure in the cuff at the
      end would be the same as at the beginning. This would minimise risk of complications for the
      patient and give a high level of patient safety and satisfaction, with minimal extra workload
      for the anaesthetist or expense for the NHS.
    
  