
    
      Parkinson's disease (also known as Parkinson's, Parkinson disease, or PD) is a degenerative
      disorder of the central nervous system that impairs motor skills, cognitive processes, and
      other functions. The most obvious symptoms are motor-related, including tremor, rigidity,
      slowness of movement, and postural instability. Among non-motor symptoms are autonomic
      dysfunction and sensory and sleep difficulties. Cognitive and neurobehavioral problems,
      including dementia, are common in the advanced stages of the disease. PD usually appears
      around the age of 60, although there are young-onset cases.

      Gaucher's disease is a genetic disease in which a fatty substance (lipid) accumulates in
      cells and certain organs. Gaucher's disease is the most common of the lysosomal storage
      diseases. It is caused by a hereditary deficiency of the enzyme glucocerebrosidase (also
      known as acid β-glucosidase). The enzyme acts on a fatty substance glucocerebroside (also
      known as glucosylceramide). When the enzyme is defective, glucocerebroside accumulates,
      particularly in white blood cells (mononuclear leukocytes). Glucocerebroside can collect in
      the spleen, liver, kidneys, lungs, brain and bone marrow.

      Symptoms of Parkinson's syndrome in classical type 1 Gaucher patients were first
      systematically described in 1996. In GD patients, a marked heterogeneity is detected in terms
      of disease-causing mutations. In 17 Gaucher patients with symptoms of Parkinson's disease, 12
      different genotypes were sequenced and compared to other Parkinson's patients, a lower L-dopa
      responsiveness, a higher frequency of cortical dysfunction and a relatively early onset of
      the symptoms was described. Many of these Gaucher patients with clinical Parkinson's symptoms
      had a positive family history of Parkinson's disease among relatives with heterozygous
      mutations in the Gaucher gene that could be confirmed in systematic studies.
    
  