
    
      Foot pain is common in the general population, with prevalence estimates ranging from 17 to
      30% . A systematic review concluded that nearly one-quarter of adults over age 45 experience
      frequent foot pain. Foot pain has been associated with poor balance, gait problems, the
      limitation of daily living activities, and health-related quality of life. It has been
      reported that at least two-thirds of individuals experience moderate functional daily life
      problems .The etiology of hindfoot pain is mostly associated with Achilles Tendinopathy and
      Plantar Fasciitis, which are prevalent, affecting millions of people each year . Most cases
      of hindfoot pain if not treated, they will get worse with time and resistant symptoms. This
      is why to get more information on prevalence and risk factors in the general population is
      necessary to organize health care planning and the extent of clinical need.An increase in the
      use of digital technology and smart phones globally with mobile applications provide an
      alternative solution to the planning of primary health care services. In the US,
      approximately 90% of adults have a mobile phone, and 58% of these prefer smart phones, while
      in Turkey, 98% of adults use mobile phones, and 77% of them are smart phones owners. The
      popularity of smart phones provides opportunities for reaching information and giving skills
      to users through applications. These applications offer new opportunities for collecting,
      evaluating, and monitoring health information and have portability, the flexibility of use,
      and a width of the access area.With the concept of this approaching (using digital
      technologies,) several systematic reviews have examined digital programs using for different
      health conditions/ pathologies (paralysis, lack of balance/stabilization, cardiac disorders,
      and joint / extremity). A great deal of physiotherapy interventions for hindfoot pain
      includes electrotherapy agents, 'hands-on' therapy, stretching, and strengthening exercises.
      The exercise programs are an essential part of rehabilitation programs for hindfoot pain, and
      patients who involved in this exercise program also need to get feedback by physiotherapist.
      For this reason, the digital technology-based applications are considered to be contributive
      for follow-up exercise regularly and detecting the changes and progression. Additionally, to
      the best of our knowledge, a smartphone application research involving hindfoot pathology
      with suggesting assessment methods and including exercise program is not available in the
      literature. Thereby, the study aims to evaluate the status of the individuals with hindfoot
      pain and to recommend preventive precautions and appropriate exercise programs with Smart
      Phone-Based Applications and to compare the results of patients who attended through mobile
      applications (Achilles Tendinopathy and Plantar Fasciitis) with the results of patients
      included in the hands-on program.
    
  