
    
      Conventional endoscopic resection of small and large (≥1cm) colorectal lesions is well
      established and performed with the colon fully distended with gas. Conventional polypectomy
      is effective, but the rate of incomplete resection is approximately 10%. Incomplete
      eradication of precancerous lesions contributes to interval colorectal cancer; therefore,
      alternative techniques for resection that safely and effectively increase the rate of
      complete resection are important. Underwater resection (UR) of benign colorectal lesions is a
      novel technique that utilizes the advantages of water aided endoscopic methods and may
      decrease the incomplete resection rate of small and large non-pedunculated lesions.

      The investigators propose the hypothesis that small (6-9mm) and large (≥1cm) non-pedunculated
      neoplastic colorectal lesions resected by UR (partially distended, water filled lumen without
      submucosal fluid injection), will significantly decrease the incomplete resection rate (IRR)
      compared to conventional polypectomy performed in a gas distended lumen.

      Small (6-9mm) and large (≥1cm) non-pedunculated benign neoplastic colorectal lesions
      identified during screening, surveillance, diagnostic or therapeutic colonoscopy will be
      randomized to conventional polypectomy (in a gas distended lumen with or without submucosal
      fluid injection) versus UR (partially distended, water filled lumen without submucosal
      injection) at the patient level. Small (6-9mm) lesions will be removed with a 9mm firm, thin
      wire cold snare and large (≥1cm) lesions will be removed by snare electrocautery. Efforts to
      remove lesions en bloc with a small rim of normal mucosa will be made, although some larger
      lesions (≥2cm) may require piecemeal resection. Submucosal fluid injection with a solution
      may be used with conventional techniques for large and/or flat lesions. Post-polypectomy
      incomplete resection rates will be assessed from 4 quadrant biopsies obtained around the
      resection site immediately post-resection.
    
  