
    
      The study introduces a highly accessible and compelling educational film designed to
      introduce, motivate, and sustain patient exercise for wellness amongst older hemodialysis
      patients, and exercise counseling and support by nephrology staff and family caregivers. Fit
      for Dialysis is a filmed drama that is based on focus group research with older hemodialysis
      patients, family caregivers, and health care practitioners that highlighted patients' desire
      to exercise as well as discouragement of patients to do so by overprotective families, and
      nurses' preferences for patient sedentariness during hemodialysis. Fit for Dialysis was
      tailored to the exigencies of out-patient hemodialysis settings by acknowledging and
      providing a roadmap to overcome the disciplinary silos and paternalism towards patients which
      inhibit exercise during hemodialysis, and highlighting some of the life circumstances that
      may influence patients' self-management of exercise behaviours at home and in the community.

      In order to advance our understanding of the ways in which Fit for Dialysis influences
      participant outcomes, a prospective 2-site parallel intervention trial will be implemented
      that will compare the film + a 16-week exercise program in one hospital, with a 16-week
      exercise-only program in another hospital. Each hospital will have a 12-week follow-up.
      Qualitative and quantitative methods will be used including semi-structured interviews, and
      physical fitness and activity measures. These data will be used to explore the impact of Fit
      for Dialysis on: the knowledge/attitudes of patients, family caregivers, and staff regarding
      exercise-based principles of wellness; the education, motivation, or maintenance of patient
      exercise during dialysis, at home, and in the community; adherence to exercise prescription;
      and patient physical fitness and activity outcomes. The study will also explore factors
      related to family caregivers, nephrologists, nurses, and hospital administrators, and
      patients' home and community environments that may impact the successful uptake of the key
      messages of Fit for Dialysis.

      In the intervention site (film+exercise hospital), 30 patients will view Fit for Dialysis and
      participate in the exercise program; at the exercise-only hospital, 30 patients will only
      exercise. A family caregiver of each participating patient will either view Fit for Dialysis
      and read an information letter on the benefits and contraindications of exercise (in the
      film+exercise hospital), or will only read the information letter (in the exercise-only
      hospital). In the film+exercise hospital, five nephrologists, 10 nurses and 3 administrators
      will also view the film. In both hospitals, 10 patients, 10 family caregivers, 10 nurses, 5
      nephrologists, 3 administrators, and the physiotherapist assistants will be interviewed.
    
  