
    
      Recent years, the rapid development of endovascular treatment, especially the introduction of
      blood flow diverter device, has led to a new step in the treatment of intracranial aneurysms.
      It is different from usual treatment concept, blood flow diverter device's innovation is
      guiding to its parent artery reconstruction by cutting into the blood flow velocity and flow
      rate to the IA, and, promote the forming of aneurysm cavity thrombosis and the Neointima
      growth of IA's neck, so that to achieve aneurysm treatment.

      A number of multi-center clinical studies on Pipeline embolization devices (PED, Ev3
      Company/Medtronic, USA) have been conducted in North America and Europe recently. Becske etc
      reported the result of one multi-center prospective clinical trial of North America (PUFS),
      the PED treats the complicated intracranial internal carotid artery aneurysm. At the time of
      180 days, 1 year, 3 years follow-up, the complete occlusion rate were 73.6%, 86.8% and 93.4%
      respectively. O 'kelly etc. the study showed that the rate of subtotal occlusion over 1 year
      follow-up of PED treatment for complex intracranial aneurysms was 90%. Many studies have
      confirmed the effectiveness of PED in the treatment of complex intracranial aneurysms.

      The main motivation to innovate the blood flow diverter device is to use it to treat some
      large or giant aneurysms, fusiform aneurysm which can't be treated well by ordinary
      interventional embolization methods. So, in the initial stage of the application, its
      indications are mainly focus on the large or giant aneurysms located in the internal carotid
      artery before the origin of the posterior communicating artery. In recent years, the blood
      flow diverter devices were already used to treat many kinds of IA in almost all parts of the
      brain, different sizes and with pathological changes, such as dissecting aneurysms and
      vesicular aneurysms.

      Although there was already much clinical research evidence which proved the efficacy and
      safety of PipelineTM 's treatment to the aneurysm as the embolization device, but these data
      are all from the foreign population, there is still no published clinical evidence of large
      sample size clinical study of Chinese population. Pipeline has been widely used to treat
      large width IA. Therefore, it's meaningful to evaluate effectiveness and safety in Chinese
      population, and this may guide the clinical practice and meet the clinical needs better.
    
  