
    
      Almost 70% of older adults experience multimorbidity and medication is often the first
      intervention used to manage it. In fact, 90% of older adults take at least one medication and
      36% take 5 or more, commonly known as polypharmacy. When taken correctly, medication can
      extend life-expectancy and improve quality of life. However, estimates show 40-75% of
      community-dwelling older adults are nonadherent, or deviate from their medication regimen.
      These older adults are at an increased risk of nonadherence because the physical changes
      associated with multimorbidity including decreased memory, fine motor skills, and visual
      acuity and because of the complexity polypharmacy adds to a medication routine. Nearly 43% of
      older adults with polypharmacy take medications that are inappropriate and can cause negative
      long term physical and cognitive function, which further complicates the mediation management
      process.

      Nonadherence has significant consequences which include increased health care costs, falls,
      institutionalization, and decreased medication effectiveness, quality of life. In fact,
      improving medication adherence has been identified as a public health concern by the World
      Health Organization. Despite this, interventions designed to improve adherence in older
      adults remain largely ineffective. The majority of interventions are disease or medication
      specific or are implemented with a "one size fits all" approach (e.g. providing standard pill
      organizers that may be difficult for some older adults to open). Furthermore, interventions
      are often implemented in a clinical setting such as doctor's office or hospital and do not
      consider the unique home environment where medication management typically occurs. Home
      environments can offer support (i.e. caregiver to set up medications) or barriers (i.e. low
      lighting that makes medications difficult to see) to medication management. Given the
      complexity of each older adult's risk factors and home environment, a more tailored,
      individualized approach must be considered.

      Tailored, individualized interventions aimed at remediating the environmental barriers in the
      home have been successful in improving daily activity performance for older adults. However,
      this type of intervention has not been tested specifically to improve medication adherence in
      older adults with multimorbidity and polypharmacy. We propose a tailored, individualized
      medication management intervention (TIMM) for community-dwelling older adults with
      multimorbidity and polypharmacy. TIMM is an interdisciplinary, compensatory intervention
      which consists of: 1) an initial in-home evaluation of medication management ability,
      individual risk factors, and identification of environmental barriers to independence; 2) a
      medication review by a pharmacist to address polypharmacy; and 3) tailored intervention by an
      occupational therapist to improve adherence by reducing barriers to medication management.

      We will conduct a single blind, randomized controlled feasibility trial. The objective of
      this study is to determine the feasibility, acceptability and preliminary efficacy of a
      tailored intervention designed to improve medication adherence in older adults. We will test
      the working hypothesis that TIMM will be a feasible and acceptable intervention that is
      superior to standard treatment on measures of medication adherence, ability to complete
      medication management tasks.
    
  