
    
      Hypertrophic Obstructive cardiomyopathy (HOCM) is the most common genetic cardiomyopathy,
      heterogeneous in phenotype and clinical course. The genotype-phenotype relationship and
      associated molecular mechanisms are still incompletely understood. In the HOCM milieu,
      increased energy cost of force production, impairing performance and mitochondrial function,
      may be associated to patients' genotype and/or phenotype (1).

      Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy as a clinical entity was first described by Brock in 1957 (2).
      Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is the most common cause of sudden cardiac death in young people,
      including competitive athletes (3).

      The characteristic pathologic features of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy are asymmetric
      hypertrophy, especially of the interventricular septum myocardial fiber hypertrophy and
      disorganisation of myocardial cells, abnormal thickened intramyocardial coronary vessels
      ("small vessel disease") and interstitial fibrosis (4). In the majority of patients
      (approximately 90%), hypertrophy mainly involves the interventricular septum and
      anterolateral wall. In a minority of patients myocardial hypertrophy is confined to the
      apical part of the left ventricle (4).

      Myocardial hypertrophy is not the only hallmark of hypertrophic Obsructive cardiomyopathy.
      Klues et al. have described anatomic alterations in the mitral apparatus which may be present
      in this disorder: an increase of the mitral valve area, increase in length of the anterior
      leaflet, abnormal laxity and anterior displacement of the valve (5). Mitral valve (MV)
      leaflets have an important role in the pathophysiological process of left ventricular (LV)
      outflow tract obstruction in patients with hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy (HOCM).
      Systolic anterior motion (SAM) of the mitral apparatus and contact of the leaflets with the
      hypertrophied septum narrow the LV outflow, leading to dynamic pressure gradients and in many
      patients, mitral regurgitation (MR) (6).

      Currently, surgery is the gold standard treatment for most drug refractory and severely
      symptomatic patients [New York Heart Association (NYHA) class III or IV] with obstructive
      HOCM [7].

      The Septal myectomy is the preferred treatment of most patients with HOCM, and many studies
      have documented relief of symptoms and satisfactory late patient survival after relief of
      outflow tract gradients.

      valve repair or replacement may be necessary (7). However, adequate septal myectomy relieves
      outflow tract gradients, SAM of the MV, and MR in many patients (6). Nevertheless, several
      reports have described adjunctive techniques of mitral valvuloplasty aimed at eliminating SAM
      of the MV (8,9).

      Guidelines support decisions to select surgery for patients with mitral structural
      abnormalities. The 2011 American guidelines state: "Additionally, specific abnormalities of
      the mitral valve and its support apparatus can contribute significantly to the generation of
      outflow tract obstruction, suggesting the potential value of additional surgical approaches
      (e.g., plication, valvuloplasty, and papillary muscle relocation) and making myectomy more
      appropriate than alcohol septal ablation in some patients" (10)

      Finally, An appreciation of mitral abnormalities in HCM has accumulated over the past 20
      years (11). There has been a natural response by surgeons to this greater understanding of
      the contribution of mitral pathology to SAM. At myectomy, they have tried to avoid leaving
      unrepaired pathology by repairing the mitral valve (12).
    
  