
    
      STUDY DESIGN Multicentre, randomized, open-label, pilot study enrolling HIV-infected
      subjects, of age ≥18 years, with or without cART, either sedentary or already practicing
      mild/moderate physical activity.+

      Subjects satisfying the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be randomized 1:1 to one of the
      following arms:

      i) experimental group (EG), where participants will be trained with an exercise program for
      16 weeks with the use of a smartphone application; ii) control group (CG), where participants
      will be trained with an exercise program for 16 weeks without smartphone application.

      You will be screened for eligibility by an infectious diseases specialist and a sport
      medicine specialist through collection of clinical and treatment history, physical
      examination, routine blood screen, ECG at rest and during submaximal cycle ergometer test.
      Eligible patients will sign a written informed consent and will be followed-up at screening,
      baseline (start of the training program) and after 16 weeks of training, except for profile
      of mood states that will be assessed weekly

      Each study visit will include: the evaluation of CDC stage, anthropometric assessment
      (height, weight), systolic and diastolic blood pressure, smoking status, assessment of the
      antiretroviral and concomitant therapies and routine laboratory tests. Additional 30 mL of
      peripheral blood will be withdrawn at baseline and at the end of the study (week 16) and
      stored in a biobank for further investigations for patients recruited from San Raffaele
      Hospital. The demographic, clinical, physical fitness, quality of life information will be
      accurately recorded at the study visits in an electronic Case Report Form (eCRF).

      Randomization Randomization list will be computer-generated (block sizes of ten) and will be
      incorporated within the electronic clinical report form (eCRF) of the study. Study
      participants, study nurses and study physicians will be aware of the allocation group but
      allocation will be concealed from laboratory staff.

      Discontinuation from the study You may withdraw consent at any time for any reason or be
      dropped from the study at discretion of the investigator if he/she violates the study plan or
      for administrative or other reasons.

      You will be discontinued from the study if you will:

        -  withdraw consent or

        -  miss the exercise sessions for ≥ 2 consecutive weeks (corresponding to 6 sessions).

      Any female patient who becomes pregnant during the course of the study will be also
      immediately withdrawn from the study.

      Exercise program The exercise prescription will be scheduled according to the American
      College of Sport Medicine guidelines (Garber et al., 2011). You will perform 3 outdoor
      training sessions a week for 16 weeks, consisting of brisk walking or running for one hour.
      In both groups, participants will be assigned the same volume and intensity of exercise.
      After baseline O2max examination, participants will receive and individual training program
      written by exercise scientists (MB, GP, ALT), which will be designed according to the
      performance at O2max examination. The exercise program will be divided into two periods. In
      the first period (weeks 1-4) subjects will train at 60-70% of maximal heart rate to improve
      the aerobic metabolism capacity. Moreover, participants will be familiarized to both physical
      activity (both EG and CG) and the use of mobile application (the EG only) through direct
      coach supervision. In the second period (weeks 5-16), participants will train without direct
      coach supervision, but following the individualized program on a designed timeline. The EG
      participants will receive automatic real-time feedback though the application and both EG and
      CG participants weekly feed-back from trainers. During this period exercise intensity, will
      be increased to 70-80% of maximal heart rate.

      Training adherence Adherence to the program will be defined as the proportion of sessions
      attended during the 16-week training period and it will be calculated only among the
      participants who will complete the study.

      Anthropometric Assessment The anthropometric assessment will be performed before and at the
      end of the program by the same operator following the standardized techniques described by
      Lohman (1981). Anthropometric variables will include body mass, stature, and skinfold
      thickness on the dominant side. Stature and body mass will be measured with a portable
      stadiometer and scaled to the nearest 0.5 cm and 0.1 kg, respectively. Skinfolds will be
      taken three times in each anatomic site using a calliper (Holtain Ltd, Crymych Uk) to the
      nearest 0.2 mm. The average value obtained among the three measures will be computed. Body
      density (d) will be calculated using the Jackson & Pollock equation (1985) from three
      skinfolds (Female: triceps, suprailiac and thigh; Male: pectoral, abdominal and thigh). The
      percentage of fat mass will be finally derived as: fat mass (%) = 495/ d - 450 (Siri et al.,
      1961).

      Physical Fitness Evaluation You will be instructed to arrive at the laboratory in a rested
      and fully hydrated state and to avoid strenuous exercise in the 24 h preceding the testing
      session. In addition, they will avoid alcohol intake in the 48 h before the exercise test.
      All tests will be carried out in a well-ventilated laboratory at a temperature of 20-22°C on
      an electromagnetically-braked cycle ergometer (Monarc, Ergometric 893, Finland). The protocol
      will begin with subjects cycling at 50 W for 6 minutes; then the load will increase by 15 W
      each minute until volitional exhaustion. The peak values of the main cardiovascular,
      respiratory, and metabolic parameters will be taken as the highest 30-s mean value attained
      before the subject's volitional exhaustion. Oxygen consumption (), carbon dioxide production
      (), respiratory exchange ratio (RER) and pulmonary ventilation () will be measured on a
      breath-by-breath basis by telemetric metabolimeter (Quarkb2, Cosmed, Rome, Italy). O2max will
      be assessed according to the criterion described by Taylor et al. Heart rate (HR) will be
      recorded during the whole test by a HR monitor (Polar S810, © Polar Electro 2011, Kempele,
      Finland). The VT will be assessed according to the gas exchange method (V-Slope).24 Briefly,
      the break point in the vs relationship will be detected and considered as the VT. Then the VT
      will be expressed in percentage of the max.

      Rating of Perceived Exertion The Borg 6-20 scale is selected to rate the perceived intensity
      of exertion (Borg, 1982). A verbal-anchored scale will be shown to participants before,
      immediately and after 30-min completing the training session. Each subject will be
      familiarized on the use of Borg 6-20 scale, including anchoring procedures.

      Total Quality Recovery scale (TQR) Psychophysiological recovery process status will be
      checked using the Total Quality Recovery scale (TQR) (Kenttä et al., 1998). Participants will
      provide a rating of perceived quality of recovery using a scaling from 6 (worst) to 20
      (best). A verbal-anchored scale will be shown to the subjects, the morning after the training
      session. Each subject will be familiarized on the use TQR scale, including anchoring
      procedures.

      Profile of Mood State (POMS) The POMS questionnaire contains 32 items reflecting an
      individual's mood on five primary dimensions (i.e. depression, fatigue, vigour, tension and
      anger). Subjects will complete POMS individually once a week. The POMS data will be analysed
      for each specific dimension and "energy index" was calculated as "vigour-fatigue" and used to
      monitor changes in energy balance.

      Quality of life The SF-12 questionnaire is derived from Short-Form Health Survey (36-item).
      It is a patient-reported survey of patient health (Brazier et al., 1992). This questionnaire
      was used to evaluate the participant's perception of QOL in the domains of physical
      functioning, role limitations due to physical health, emotional well-being, social
      functioning and general health with higher scores indicating greater QOL.

      Nutrition The use of a daily food diary will be adopted to assess the nutritional habits of
      participants; the diary will be fulfilled at least 3 days a week (during 2 working days and 1
      day during week-end) and the patient will be requested to indicate the name, the amount and
      the cooking method of consumed foods and seasonings; beverages will also be included in the
      report. Diet quality and diet variety indexes will be evaluated starting from the food diary
      provided by the patients.

      Concomitant medications The use of concomitant medications/therapies (already ongoing or that
      might need to be prescribed during the study) are allowed and recorded. No specific
      restrictions are foreseen during the course of the study with regard to concomitant therapy
      or vaccination.

      Laboratory analysis Blood examination will include complete blood count; standard biochemical
      exams with fasting total, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and low-density lipoprotein (LDL)
      cholesterol, triglycerides, glucose, insulin, glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c); cluster of
      differentiation 4 (CD4+) and cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8+) T-cell counts, HIV-1-RNA
      plasma level (Abbott RealTime HIV-1 assay). The Homeostatic Model Assessment (HOMA)-I and the
      Veterans Aging Cohort Study Risk (VACS) indexes will also be calculated [15].

      Inflammatory markers Soluble biomarkers will be measured in cryopreserved plasma samples,
      drawn at BL and at the end of the program, by commercially available enzyme-linked
      immunosorbent assays according to manufacturers' recommendation. These will include
      high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP, Catalog Number DCRP00), interleukin-6 (IL-6,
      Catalog Number D6050), D-dimer (Asserachrom, Diagnostica Stago, Asnieres-Sur-Seine, France),
      interleukin-18 (IL-18) (Medical and Biological Laboratories, Nagoya, Japan), myostatin
      (Cusabio, China).

      Flow cytometry for cell-activation markers will be measured on cryopreserved peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells isolated by Ficoll-Paque gradient from EDTA-anticoagulated whole blood.
      After thawing and PBS-washing, 3 x 105 cells will be stained using phycoerythrin
      (PE)-conjugated anti-HLA-DR, PE-cyanin red 5.1-conjugated anti-CD38, Alexa Fluor
      647-conjugated anti-CD3, fluorescein isothiocyanate-conjugated anti-CD4 or anti-CD8
      (BD-Biosciences, San Diego, CA). CD38+ and HLA-DR+ cells will be gated from the CD3+/CD4+ or
      CD3+/CD8+ cells on a 2-dimensional dot plot. Analyses will be performed by FACSCalibur with
      CellQuest software (BD-Biosciences) and results reported as percentages of CD3+/CD4+ and
      CD3+/CD8+ T-cells expressing both HLA-DR and CD38.

      For both soluble and inflammatory markers, samples will be analysed in batch at the end of
      the study and blindly with respect to group assignment.

      Sample size We estimated that a sample size of 48 patients per group, or a total of 96
      subjects would be required in order to detect a 30% increase in the proportion of subjects
      with an improvement of VO2max through 16 weeks of training, from 40% (hypothesized for the
      control arm, i.e. no use of the smartphone application) to 70% (hypothesized for the
      experimental arm, i.e. use of the smartphone application arm), with 80% power at an α of
      0.05.

      As the improvement of VO2max is directly correlated to the adherence to training sessions, we
      expect that the proportion in the experimental arm (using the smartphone application as
      supervision) might be similar to that observed in a previous paper (Bonato et al., 2016),
      reporting that the adherence to exercise program with the supervision of professional coaches
      was found to be 67%. On the contrary, in absence of training supervision (control group) we
      expect a lower adherence, i.e. 40%. As the accrual of such a number of subjects is not
      feasible, we plan to enrol 60 patients.
    
  