
    
      The physiotherapist works with movement as a main mean of promoting health and reducing
      illness. At disposal, the physiotherapist has a wide arsenal of educational, physiological
      and manual methods for preventing and treating various health problems, diseases or injuries.
      In Physiotherapy science, movement is seen as the basis for the individual's total function
      and as a mean in achieving his goals in relation to the environment. Thus, the individual can
      affect health through adequate movement and awareness of the body (1). Grotell (2) describes
      that human movement is a core concept in physical therapy that can continue to be developed
      both as a practical concept and as a research concept to broaden and deepen the understanding
      of the complex reality of physical therapy.

      Often, individuals' patterns of movement change after injury or illness. The role of the
      physiotherapist is to support the individual/patient to find a new way or to find a
      functioning way to move after injury or illness. There are various methods for assessing and
      analyzing how an individual/patient moves in everyday life and in sports.

      One systematic concept for analyzing motion and promoting the basics of effective motion is
      Joanne Elphinston Movement Systems, JEMSⓇ (3). With the help of structured and severely
      increased movements, a performance can be improved and developed, which is important both in
      everyday activities and in sports. The present study is expected to provide knowledge of
      physiotherapists' experiences and clinical experiences working with the JEMS method in
      primary care. The study will be conducted as a focus group study.

      It is of interest to take note of how the informants reason about concepts such as movement
      and movement analysis, communication, learning and performance development in the
      rehabilitation process. By exchanging experiences new knowledge can be formed and the main
      perspective of the study is expected to shed light on this. The new knowledge can be used in
      reflection and guidance contexts discussing central concepts. It can also guide the choice of
      method for motion analysis, treatment and training when implementing rehabilitation methods.

      In organisations where time and financial resources are limited, it is important that
      assessment instruments and treatment methods measure and treat what is useful to most
      patients. From a socio-economic perspective, it is also important that the patient is offered
      the right care at the right level of care. The results may constitute a puzzle piece if the
      method JEMS is perceived by the informants to be an appropriate method to use in primary care
      for motion analysis and rehabilitation. The results can also be compared with studies on
      other methods in physiotherapy. Examination of examination and treatment methods is of utmost
      importance in the selection and implementation of methods in clinical rehabilitation
      activities.

      Physiotherapists are clearly involved in the interprofessional public health work. Early
      efforts can promote health and improve the functioning of the individual and thus contribute
      to cost-effectiveness at both individual, business and social levels. Therefore, there is a
      continuing need for research in physiotherapy and the profession's health promotion,
      treatment and rehabilitation interventions.
    
  