
    
      A hallmark of higher cognition is the capability for flexible association of diverse bits of
      information stored in memory, such that experiences can be remembered in detailed and
      distinct terms (i.e., high-fidelity LTM). Interventions capable of sustaining improved
      learning and flexible association of new information into LTM remain elusive. Interventions
      have yet to be developed to attenuate the decline of high-fidelity LTM in normal aging or
      provide therapeutic treatment for patients with cognitive impairment without dementia (i.e.,
      MCI).

      This project applies a translational neuroscience approach in development of a cognitive
      training intervention that targets sustained improvement in capabilities for long-term memory
      (LTM) and cognitive control. Treatments use commercially available head-mounted display
      Virtual Reality (VR) technology for deeply immersive presentation of a spatial wayfinding
      video game. The hypothesis is that immersion in a game to navigate errands through
      unfamiliar, visually complex neighborhoods (i.e., wayfinding) will be an effective means to
      environmental enrichment, which refers to a process whereby new and complex experiences bring
      change to brain and behavior.

      The significance of this platform is in value to both gains from cognitive training that can
      generalize to improvements in untrained capability for high-fidelity LTM and clinical
      assessments for patients with memory deficits. Research in rodents and humans shows that
      healthy function of the hippocampus supports lifelong neurogenesis, which has been linked as
      the neurobiological basis to formation of new, high-fidelity memories.

      The VR spatial wayfinding game was developed in-house to incorporate full scientific rigor,
      as with procedures in any properly controlled behavioral experiment. The game uses both VR
      computer graphics tools and numerous levels of adaptive challenge to deliver a dynamic,
      engaging experience for participants throughout the training regimen. A participant's pre-
      and post-training assessments will occur promptly before and after their 15-hour training
      regimen, including collection of functional MRI (fMRI) data and blood-drawn biospecimens.
      Cognitive outcome measures will assess capabilities for high-fidelity LTM retrieval.

      Effectiveness of the VR wayfinding game intervention will be evidenced by post-training
      improvements in retrieval of high-fidelity LTM and associated cognitive control capabilities.
      FMRI results associated with the measured cognitive improvements will localize changes in
      functional brain networks that support gains in memory capabilities. Neuronal-derived exosome
      factors will provide confirmatory evidence of a hippocampal-dependent mechanism of action
      stimulated by the training regimen.
    
  