
    
      Impairing anxiety affects 33% of the population by adolescence and can become chronic,
      leading to depression, substance abuse, school-drop out and even suicide. To reduce anxiety
      and prevent its sequelae, patients must be effectively treated early; yet, the first line
      intervention, cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), has a heterogeneous response with 40-60% of
      treated patients continuing to experience impairment from residual symptoms. The reasons for
      variability in CBT outcomes remain poorly understood, but individual (including
      developmental) differences in brain-behavioral targets of CBT may contribute. This proposal
      addresses two primary questions: 1) Do individual differences in CBT-relevant
      brain-behavioral functions lead to variation in CBT outcomes? and 2) Does development
      contribute to this variation? To answer these questions, this study will measure changes in
      brain and behavior markers of anxiety, before and after CBT, in children and adolescents
      across traditional, categorical anxiety disorders (e.g., social, generalized and separation
      anxiety disorders). Given that CBT facilitates control over fear to enable effective
      regulation, the investigators hypothesize that brain-behavioral markers of fear sensitivity,
      cognitive regulatory capacity and cognitive regulation of fear will predict and characterize
      mechanisms of CBT effect. In addition, the investigators hypothesize that these markers will
      differentially relate to CBT effect, depending on patient age.

      Children and adolescents (7.0 - 17.99 years) with clinically impairing anxiety will be
      randomized to receive CBT or a relaxation control therapy for 12 weeks. Before and after
      therapy, all participants will receive an MRI scan to see what regions of the brain become
      active when emotion and concentration tasks are performed and how that activation is changed
      after CBT.

      While the study itself is of parallel design for its data-collection and measurement purpose,
      it is listed as a partial-crossover design in the IRB-approved protocol because subjects
      randomized to the relaxation therapy are given the option of receiving 12-weeks of CBT
      sessions after the relaxation therapy data has been collected. Some limited data will be
      collected in patients who are initially randomized to relaxation therapy but then opt to
      crossover to CBT. MRI data will also be collected in healthy youth before and after 12 weeks
      (but without intervening therapy) to allow the investigators to control for the simple
      effects of time that may cause brain changes that are not related to therapy.
    
  