
    
      Urinary incontinence (UI) is prevalent and morbid in the elderly, and its associated costs
      exceed $26 billion annually. Although effective therapy exists, it is underutilized. This is
      particularly true for non-pharmacologic therapies, which are at least as effective as drugs
      but safer, and recommended as the initial approach by every national panel. If therapies such
      as biofeedback (which targets pelvic muscles and detrusor suppression) are to become more
      widely used, they will require simplification, fewer and briefer sessions, less expensive
      equipment, and less sophisticated therapists. Unfortunately, such protocols cannot yet be
      devised because it is unknown which components are essential. We postulate that the
      mechanisms mediating effectiveness can be identified and that such knowledge will make it
      possible to enhance efficacy and to formulate more feasible and cost-effective protocols.
      Since reduction in UI correlates weakly with improved quality of life, however, it is
      important that biofeedback's impact on life quality be assessed concomitantly to ensure that
      formulation of such streamlined methods does not eliminate components essential for improved
      quality of life, even if they have no physiological correlates. We will address these issues
      by treating at least 150 elderly subjects with urge UI in an 8-week course of biofeedback. We
      will collect clinical and quality of life data and perform extensive physiologic testing on
      each subject at baseline and 8 weeks later. Improvement will be correlated with change in
      physiologic and quality of life parameters to identify the parameters that likely mediated
      it. Knowledge from this study should identify predictors and mechanisms mediating success of
      biofeedback; suggest ways that it could be further improved; facilitate development of less
      expensive, quicker, and more feasible protocols to deliver it (potentially permitting
      application to less motivated or cognitively impaired patients); and shed insight into
      mechanisms that may even improve efficacy of other interventions.
    
  