
    
      -  Not everyone who participates in this research study will receive the same schedule of
           radiation therapy. The schedule of radiation therapy will depend on the number of
           participants enrolled on the study and how well they have tolerated their radiation
           schedule. All patients will receive proton beam therapy.

        -  Here are the proposed schedules of radiation therapy. If at any point too many subjects
           experience too many unacceptable side effects, no subject will be enrolled to the next
           level. Dose Level 1: 10 radiation sessions given Monday-Friday for two weeks. Dose Level
           2: 5 radiation sessions given Monday, Wednesday and Friday in Week 1 and Tuesday and
           Thursday in Week 2. Dose Level 3: 5 radiation sessions given Monday, Tuesday, Thursday
           and Friday in Week 1 and Monday in Week 2. Dose Level 4: 5 Radiation sessions given
           Monday through Friday in Week 1.

        -  In Dose Levels 2, 3 and 4, there are fewer radiation sessions, but the radiation dose
           given at each session is slightly higher than the dose given in each of the 10 sessions
           of Dose Level 1.

        -  Capecitabine will be given orally (pill form) starting on the first day of radiation
           therapy and will be taken for the two weeks that the participant receives radiation
           therapy.

        -  On days 1, 8 and 15 of each study cycle, the participant will be seen at the clinic for:
           physical examination, questions about side effects; and routine blood tests.

        -  After the last day of study treatment there will be up to a six-week rest period before
           surgery is performed.

        -  About three to six weeks after the participant has finished study treatment, the
           following procedures will be done: CT or MRI, physical examination; questions about side
           effects and blood tests.
    
  