
    
      This study is a prospective, cross-sectional observational study of pregnant women >=
      18-years-old receiving prenatal care through the Duke University Health System. Potential
      study subjects will be approached by obstetric providers or by trained research staff at
      routine prenatal visits. Approximately 55 subjects will be enrolled, accounting for a
      potential 10% loss to follow-up.

      Women with pre-pregnancy BMI ≥ 30 will be considered obese, while women with BMI <30 will be
      included in the non-obese control group. Extremely obese (BMI≥40), obese (30≤BMI<40),
      overweight (25≤BMI<30), and non-obese subjects (BMI<25) will be recruited in a 1:1:1:1
      fashion. Subjects will not be matched.

      Data collection

      Once consent to participate in the study has been obtained and a patient has been deemed
      eligible to participate, plasma N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (collected into a
      PST tube), maternal weight, and systolic and diastolic blood pressure will be collected at
      the given timepoints:

        1. Third-trimester - 27-28 weeks' gestation with third-trimester lab work (CBC, HIV,
           glucola)

        2. Admission to labor and delivery (for labor, rupture of membranes, or scheduled delivery)
           with admission lab work

        3. Immediate postpartum: 24-48 hours postpartum

        4. Delayed postpartum (4-6 weeks' postpartum to coincide with postpartum visit)

      The following additional data will be collected from the electronic medical record: maternal
      age, maternal height, maternal pre-pregnancy weight, maternal weight at each time point, best
      obstetric estimate of due date, patient-reported race/ethnicity, gravida, para, smoking
      status, mode of delivery, delivery date, date of hospital discharge, minimum and maximum
      systolic and diastolic blood pressures during labor admission, type of anesthesia used,
      hemoglobin and hematocrit at 3rd-trimester lab draw, admission, and immediately postpartum
      (if available), and blood loss at delivery. At each visit, subjects will also be questioned
      about symptoms and signs of heart failure, including dyspnea on exertion, orthopnea, chest
      pain, and lower extremity edema.

      PST tubes will be collected by trained research staff at the timepoints listed above. These
      will then be sent to the Duke Clinical Lab for analysis, at which point the samples will be
      centrifuged and the plasma analyzed for NT-proBNP. NT-proBNP will be analyzed using an
      electrochemiluminescence immunoassay on the Roche cobas e411 analyzer.

      At each study visit time point, subjects will be asked about any symptoms related to heart
      failire. Should they answer yes to any of the questions, the study team will notify their
      clinical care team.
    
  