
    
      Hypothesis: The Air-Q® intubating laryngeal airway (Air-Q® ILA) will act as an excellent
      conduit for fibreoptic intubation.

      Background: The laryngeal mask airway (LMA) is used during pediatric anesthesia for routine
      and difficult airway management. The ideal pediatric LMA device would provide excellent
      sealing at low pressure; facilitate easy endotracheal intubation; and be available in
      pediatric sizes. Such a device would be an invaluable addition to difficult pediatric airway
      management plans and, by increasing the likelihood of quickly and effectively securing the
      difficult airway, and decreasing the risk of catastrophic hypoxemia, would increase
      perioperative safety for children. The Air-Q® ILA is a modified LMA device whose features
      encompass the characteristics of the ideal LMA. Our objective is to determine whether or not
      this new airway device is an improvement over the current standard of care.

      Specific Objectives:

      To evaluate the performance characteristics of the Air-Q® ILA as a conduit for fibreoptic
      intubation

      Methods:

      Recruitment of subjects: With ethical and institutional review board approval, and with
      written parental informed consent, we will recruit children undergoing elective surgery.
      Children with ASA status IV-V, abnormal or contraindicated cervical spine
      flexion/extension/rotation, contraindication to LMA placement, or requiring emergency surgery
      will be excluded. All children will undergo intravenous induction of anesthesia, as per our
      routine institutional practice.

      Administration of Air-Q® ILA: The Air-Q® ILA will be inserted and, after ensuring adequate
      ventilation, a study investigator will undertake fibreoptic-guided endotracheal intubation
      through the Air-Q® ILA, after which the Air-Q® ILA will be removed. The performance
      characteristics of the Air-Q® ILA as a conduit for fibreoptic-guided endotracheal intubation
      will be evaluated.

      Data analysis: The arterial oxygen saturation, heart rate, and rise in end-tidal CO2 will be
      reported as outcome variables, along with the time taken to complete the fibreoptic
      intubation. Descriptive data will be presented as mean ± SD, median (range), counts
      (percentages or proportions) as appropriate.
    
  