
    
      Innovations in biomedicine and recombinant protein technology show promising advances for the
      regeneration of advanced alveolar defects. Recombinant growth factors and biologics encourage
      minimally invasive procedures with improved clinical outcomes/healing times in complex oral
      surgery procedures. Recombinant human bone morphogenic protein-2 (rhBMP-2) is a morphogen
      that is a well-known regulator of bone formation1 and has been widely studied for bone
      reconstructive treatments.2-6 RhBMP-2 is currently commercially available and loaded on an
      absorbable collagen sponge (ACS). This recombinant growth factor has been approved by the US
      Food and Drug Administration as an alternative to autogenous bone grafting in sinus
      augmentation and localized alveolar ridge augmentation for defects associated with extraction
      sockets. It is also used off-label for vertical bone augmentation. However, there are
      limitations of the ACS as a carrier because it is compressible and does not ideally support
      soft tissues to maintain space for osteogenesis to occur. Furthermore, the release kinetics
      of rhBMP-2 in a standardized in vitro environment from its ACS carrier are unknown and it is
      further unknown how such release would compare to the use of other carriers. Subcutaneous
      implantation in rats and implantation at orthotropic sites in rats and rabbits has also
      revealed that rhBMP-2-loaded ACS has a release of rhBMP-2 over 21 days with a half-life of 2
      days. The use of an alternative delivery system may retain and sequester rhBMPs at the target
      site and extend its growth factor release over time. This may be clinically relevant as
      prolonging tissue exposure to an osteoinductive growth factor like rhBMP-2 could extend the
      period of osteoblastic bone deposition and improve repair at regenerative sites. E-PRF as an
      autologous carrier for rhBMP-2 may be advantageous based on its resorption properties of up
      to 4-6 months, as well as its ability to support the healing process due to the slow and
      gradual release of several growth factors including, PDGF-AA, PDGF-BB, TGF- β1,VEGF, IGF, and
      EGF. This study aims to quantify the release of rhBMP-2 over a 120 day period with the use of
      a novel delivery system, E-PRF.
    
  