
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate whether finite maximal androgen ablation (8 month), as compared to
      luteinizing-hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) alone, will improve one-year post-treatment
      prostate specific antigen (PSA)-free survival by 20%.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine testosterone recovery difference between the two groups. II. Calculate the
      PSA-free survival following testosterone recovery. III. To determine in the steroid
      biosynthesis metabolome, in the blood and bone marrow of patients at baseline, maximum
      response (eight months therapy) and upon PSA progression, evidence of minimal residual cancer
      (MD Anderson Cancer Center [MDACC] main campus patients only).

      IV. To apply technologies in development able to detect presence of cancer cells ("minimal
      residual disease") at a clinical study milestone (baseline, completion of therapy and upon
      PSA progression).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To explore in archival tissue samples for a candidate predictive signature of outcome
      applying technologies for interrogation of protein deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) and
      ribonucleic acid (rna) levels of molecular markers / pathways of interest.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive either leuprolide acetate via injection every month or every 4
      months, goserelin acetate via injection every month, or degarelix via injection every month
      for 8 months. Patients also receive bicalutamide orally (PO) once daily (QD), flutamide PO
      three times daily (TID), or nilutamide PO QD. Patients may crossover to Arm B with disease
      progression after 8 months.

      ARM B: Patients receive leuprolide acetate, goserelin acetate, degarelix, bicalutamide,
      flutamide, or nilutamide as in Arm A. Patients also receive abiraterone acetate PO daily for
      8 months and prednisone daily. Patients may crossover to Arm A with disease progression after
      8 months.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 and 6 months.
    
  