
    
      Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection remains a major co-morbidity in hemodialysis patients. The
      incidence and prevalence rates of HCV infection in hemodialysis patients are much higher than
      those in the general population, and are attributed to high rates of nosocomial HCV
      transmission. With regard to HCV genotype distribution, HCV genotype 1 (GT-1) infection is
      the most prevalent type of infection worldwide and the genotype distribution in HCV-infected
      individuals receiving hemodialysis (HD) is similar to that observed in HCV-infected
      individuals with normal renal function. Compared to non-HCV infected hemodialysis patients,
      HCV-infected patients have increased risks of liver-related morbidity and mortality. Although
      HCV-infected hemodialysis patients who receive renal transplantation have survival advantages
      over those who remain on maintenance dialysis, these patients still have poor patient and
      graft survival, as well as have poor responses to interferon (IFN)-based therapy.In contrast,
      hemodialysis patients who eradicate HCV infection have improved biochemical, virologic and
      histologic responses, whether on maintenance dialysis or after renal transplantation.

      Approximately one third of hemodialysis patients with chronic HCV infection achieve sustained
      virological response (SVR) by conventional IFN or peginterferon monotherapy.In addition
      18-30% of patients receiving IFN-based monotherapy prematurely discontinued treatment due to
      adverse events (AEs). Although the addition of ribavirin to IFN further improves the SVR rate
      in HCV-infected patients with normal renal function, ribavirin has been considered
      contraindicated to treat HCV-infected hemodialysis patients because of concern for
      life-threatening hemolytic anemia. Recently, pilot studies have indicated the feasibility of
      adding low-dose ribavirin (200 mg three times per week to daily 400 mg, adjusted to achieve a
      target concentration of 10-15 μmol/L), to IFN for treatment of HCV-infected hemodialysis
      patients. Generally, the SVR rate and the premature discontinuation rate due to
      null-response, severe anemia, and/or heart failure for combination therapy are 56% and 22%,
      respectively. Based on these small-scale studies, low-dose ribavirin (daily 200 mg) was
      approved in August 2011 by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to treat HCV-infected
      hemodialysis patients.30 Two recent well-conducted randomized control studies to compare the
      efficacy and safety of combination therapy with peginterferon alfa-2a (135 μg/week) plus
      low-dose ribavirin (RBV) (200 mg/day) or monotherapy with peginterferon (135 μg/week) for 48
      and 24 weeks in treatment-naïve HCV GT-1 and GT-2 infected individuals receiving hemodialysis
      showed that the SVR rates of combination therapy groups were greater than those of
      monotherapy groups (64% versus 34%, p < 0.001 for HCV GT-1; 74% versus 44%, p < 0.001 for HCV
      GT-2), respectively. Although the SVR rate of combination therapy with peginterferon plus
      low-dose ribavirin is higher than that of peginterferon monotherapy. About 70-75% of these
      patients experienced clinically significant anemia which needed high dose of erythropoiesis
      stimulating agents (ESAs) to keep the hemoglobin level within the safety range. Although
      telaprevir (TVR)-based triple therapy has been used to treat 4 HCV-1 patients receiving
      hemodialysis who were not responsive to prior peginterferon plus RBV with good efficacy, the
      added on-treatment adverse events (AEs) and the pill burden precluded the widespread use of
      this agent.

      The recent introduction of IFN-free direct acting antiviral agents (DAAs) has made a paradigm
      shift with regard to the medical treatment for HCV-infected individuals, based on the
      excellent efficacy and safety in ordinary patients. Among the various IFN-free DAA regimens,
      treatment with elbasvir/grazoprevir (EBR/GZR) has been approved in 2016 to treat patients
      with chronic HCV GT-1 and GT-4 infection. Treatment with EBR/GZR with/without weight-based
      ribavirin for 12-16 weeks achieved an SVR12 rate of 94-100% in treatment-naïve and PR or
      protease-inhibitor based treatment-experienced HCV GT-1a, GT-1b or GT-4 patients,
      respectively (C-EDGE TN, TE, SALVAGE). Furthermore, the SVR12 rates in HIV-coinfected
      patients with HCV GT-1a, GT-1b and GT-4 were 95.3% and 98.0% by using EBR/GZR for 12 weeks
      (C-EDGE Coinfection). In addition to high SVR rates by 12-16 weeks of EBR/GZR treatment, the
      overall safety profiles are excellent, with only 1% of the patients who discontinue treatment
      due to drug-related adverse event. With regard to constitutional symptoms, treatment with
      EBR/GZR had comparable rates to the placebo arms. With regard to laboratory abnormalities,
      about 1% and less than 1% of the treatment patients experience AST/ALT elevation and
      hyperbilirubinemia. Clinically significant anemia is more commonly encountered in patients
      receiving EBR/GZR with weight-based ribavirin. Taking together, treatment with EBR/GZR is
      efficacious and safe for HCV-infected subjects with HCV GT-1 or 4 infection. The post-hoc
      analyses for potential factors affecting the SVR rates showed that among GT-1a infected
      patients with baseline NS5A resistant associated variants (RAVs) at position of 28, 30, 31
      and 93, the SVR rates will be compromised for those receiving 12 weeks of treatment or
      without adding RBV. In addition, treatment-experienced HCV GT-4 patients should also receive
      16 weeks of EBR/GZR plus RBV to secure the SVR rates. In GT-1a or GT-1b patients who fail
      prior protease inhibitor-based triple therapy, 12 weeks of GZR/EBR plus RBV are recommended
      to secure the high SVR rates. For GT-1a treatment-naïve or PR-experienced patients without
      the presence of baseline NS5A RAVs, GT-1b treatment-naïve or PR-experienced patients or GT-4
      treatment-naïve patients, EBR/GZR for 12 weeks offer satisfactory safety and efficacy
      profiles. Gender, ethnicity, age, interleukin-28B (IL28B) genotype, cirrhosis status and
      baseline HCV RNA levels do not affect the overall SVR rates in EBR/GZR treatment patients.

      The pharmacokinetic (PK) study of elbasvir and grazoprevir was evaluated 16 subjects with
      severe renal impairment and end-stage renal disease (ESRD) on maintenance hemodialysis and
      matched healthy controls. Compared to subjects with matched healthy controls, the area under
      the curves (AUCs) of elbasvir in subjects with severe renal impairment and ESRD were 99% and
      86%; the AUCs of grazoprevir in subjects with severe renal impairment and ESRD were 85% and
      83%, respectively. The pharmacokinetic study indicated that dose dosage adjustments of
      EBR/GZR are not needed for patients with severe renal impairment or those who are on
      maintenance hemodialysis.

      The phase 3 C-SUFER study evaluated the safety and efficacy of EBR/GZR BV for 12 weeks in a
      total of 235 treatment-naïve and treatment-experienced HCV GT-1 patients with severe renal
      impairment or ESRD.42 About 82% of the patients had chronic kidney disease (CKD) stage 5, and
      the remaining 18% of the patients had CKD stage 4. The full set and the modified full set
      analyses for SVR12 in patients receiving 12 weeks of treatment were 94% and 99% respectively.
      On-treatment undetectable HCV RNA levels at weeks 4 and 12 were 90% and 100%, respectively.
      In patients with ESRD, the overall SVR12 was 98.9%. No patients discontinued the study drugs
      due to adverse events. Furthermore, the constitutional and the laboratory abnormalities were
      mild in grades and were lower in frequency, compared to the control arm. This large-scale
      study shows that treatment with EBR/GZR is efficacious and safe for HCV-1 patients with
      severe renal impairment and those with end-stage renal disease.

      Although peginterferon monotherapy and combination therapy with peginterferon plus low-dose
      RBV for 24-48 weeks have been evaluated in many studies, the efficacy for the treatment
      regimens were only modest (SVR rate about 60%). In addition, the on-treatment AEs and SAEs by
      IFN-based therapies were frequently encountered in HCV-infected patients receiving
      hemodialysis. Of note was the pronounced on-treatment hemoglobin level decrease in patients
      receiving combination therapy by peginterferon plus low-dose RBV, necessitating significant
      RBV dose reduction and high-dose erythrocyte stimulating agent (ESA) support.

      By receiving IFN-free DAA therapies, HCV-infected patients have excellent SVR rates, low
      on-treatment SAE and AE rates, shorter treatment duration, and low pill burdens. The PK study
      of EBR/GZR proves the excellent safety profiles and dose adjustment are not needed for
      EBR/GZR regimen in subjects with various degrees of renal impairment. The C-SURFER study
      showed the excellent on-treatment and off-therapy antiviral effects in HCV GT-1a and GT-1b
      infected patients receiving EBR/GZR, respectively. However, the C-SURFER study enrolled only
      limited patients of Asian ancestry, making the safety and efficacy in this group of patients
      still to be confirmed. Based on the excellent safety and efficacy profiles of EBR/GZR
      treatment for HCV GT-1b infected patients with normal renal function, we aim to evaluate the
      safety and efficacy of EBR/GZR for 12 weeks in treatment-naïve and treatment-experienced HCV
      GT-1b patients receiving hemodialysis in Asian population, taking HCV GT-1b patients treated
      by peginterferon plus ribavirin for 48 weeks as the historical control.
    
  