
    
      One in four women have mental health problems, such as feeling anxious or depressed, during
      pregnancy and following childbirth. This not only impacts on the woman's own wellbeing but
      can also adversely affect the physical development and mental wellbeing of her child. The
      National Health Service (NHS) Long Term Plan aims to be able to provide better access to
      quality psychological interventions for women with mental health problems in pregnancy. Since
      the start of the Covid-19 outbreak in March 2020, pregnant women have been placed in a
      vulnerable group. There have been dramatic changes to maternity services in the community and
      hospital settings with remote midwife visits and changes to antenatal services. The normal
      support from friends and family has been reduced due to the current social distancing
      guidelines. This has all led to an increase in levels of stress and anxiety in the antenatal
      population.

      The investigators have developed a unique pregnancy-specific on-line educational CBT based
      life skills course called Enjoy Your Bump (EYB). Unlike other CBT tools currently in use,
      this tool is specifically designed for use by pregnant women with chronic PNMH problems like
      elevated anxiety, mild depressive symptoms or high levels of self-reported stress. It also
      addresses specific concerns that women have during pregnancy, is the only pregnancy specific
      on-line CBT tool available and teaches CBT-based life skills in a fun and low-jargon way.

      This implementation study will be open to any pregnant women in NHS Lothian who are
      experiencing mild or moderate symptoms of anxiety or depression. All pregnant women have
      access to an antenatal booking appointment with the community midwife following a positive
      pregnancy test. Women receive routine antenatal appointments during other stages of pregnancy
      and can participate in the study at any time point up to 32 weeks of pregnancy. During the
      booking appointment women are routinely asked two mental health questions:

        1. During the past month has the participant often been bothered by feeling down, depressed
           or hopeless?"

        2. During the past month has the participant often been bothered by having little interest
           or pleasure in doing things?"

      If participants answer yes to either of these questions, the midwife can direct them to the
      online Enjoy Your Bump study website to gain further information about the study.

      Information about this study will also be displayed in maternity waiting rooms in hospitals
      and on-line websites and women can self refer to participate.

      Following completion of three baseline questionnaires, the participants will be provided with
      a link to the Enjoy Your Bump website. It can be completed using a tablet, smart phone,
      computer or kindle and is delivered as a modular intervention.

      Women are asked to complete 5 'core' modules. There are additional optional modules and
      support materials the women can access to support their journey through the programme. The
      modules are supported by completion of 'worksheets' which can be accessed electronically. EYB
      is unique, as it is tailored to include specific issues relevant to pregnancy. At
      approximately 36 weeks gestation (after completion of the modules) the participants will be
      asked to complete 3 short questionnaires either by phone or by an email link to the study
      website. As part of routine practice all women receive a 6-12 week community follow up
      appointment by a health care professional. During this appointment the EPDS questionnaire is
      collected to assess postnatal mental Health.
    
  