
    
      Methods:

      The training protocol and pilot study have been developed through a collaborative effort
      involving emergency medicine physicians at University of Michigan (UM) and KATH. Select
      resident physicians (approximately 1/3 of the emergency medicine resident physicians) at KATH
      will participate in a one-week, hands-on ultrasound course concentrating on solidifying their
      preexisting skills in ultrasound, with a focus on the RUSH and BLUE protocols for assessment
      of critically ill patients. Resident physicians will be trained, as attending physicians are
      not routinely present during the majority of patient evaluations.

      The RUSH (Rapid Ultrasound in SHock) protocol was first described in publication in 2010 and
      has since become widely used throughout the country to aid in identifying the cause of shock
      for a patient. It is a three-step ultrasound scanning protocol, first evaluating "the pump"
      or heart, second "the tank" or intravascular volume status, and third "the pipes" or large
      arteries and veins. Ultrasound findings from the exam are then compared with those typically
      seen in hypovolemic shock, cardiogenic shock, obstructive shock and distributive shock (1).
      The BLUE (Bedside Lung Ultrasound in Emergency) protocol was initially published in 2008 as a
      quick tool to determine diagnosis in acute respiratory failure. Based on ultrasound findings,
      this scanning protocol provides specific profiles for six main causes of acute respiratory
      distress, pulmonary edema, pulmonary embolism, pneumonia, chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease, asthma, and pneumothorax (2).

      As most of the emergency physicians at KATH have previously expressed interest in receiving
      this training, we will offer training to all physicians in three different cohorts, 1/3
      initially, 1/3 part way through the study, and 1/3 at the end. The physicians in the initial
      training group will be chosen based off their availability and work schedule. The
      participants will take a test prior to beginning the training and also at the end. They will
      also be required to pass an OSCE (Objective Structured Clinical Exam) at the end of the week.
      One week will be allocated for ultrasound training, to allow the physicians to participate
      and practice their new skills. These select residents will make up the cohort of CPUS-trained
      physicians.

      The pilot study will be conducted over a four-month period in the emergency department at
      KATH. All patients presenting to the ED will be screened for study inclusion criteria as
      defined below by a triage nurse, and informed consent will be obtained by research assistants
      in all patients deemed competent.

      All patients will immediately receive usual and customary care, to include physical
      examination, IV access, continuous cardiac monitoring, and supplemental oxygen. Following the
      initial assessment, the treating physician will be asked to choose the most likely diagnosis
      from a provided checklist. All checklists were designed specifically for research purposes in
      this study and the information documented on the checklists will be used in clinical
      decision-making. The information contained in the checklists is based on the well-validated
      RUSH and BLUE protocols and will be used strictly in the context of these protocols only. The
      physicians filling out the checklists will be part of the study team at KATH. When a patient
      meets inclusion criteria and their treating physician has received CPUS-training, the patient
      will receive a CPUS exam in addition to standard care. In addition to the CPUS exam, any
      other ultrasound exams deemed necessary for clinical care will occur as they normally do as
      part of regular standard of care. Ultrasound will not be withheld for any patient as part of
      their clinical care. There will be no aspects of the study conducted prior to enrollment that
      will impact care or study design.

      Patients in the CPUS group will receive imaging in concordance with the standardized RUSH and
      BLUE protocols and findings will be documented on a second checklist. Emergency physicians
      trained in CPUS will perform the ultrasound exams, after which they will again choose the
      most likely diagnosis from the same initial checklist. The pre-ultrasound and post-ultrasound
      diagnoses will be recorded for comparison. Diagnostic accuracy will be assessed based on
      post-hoc review of hospital records. Ultrasound competency will be assessed intermittently by
      means of direct supervision during site visits to ensure that there is no skill degradation
      and to ensure safety of study participants.

      Data Analysis:

      Power analysis was performed for the primary outcome of diagnostic accuracy. Assuming a
      baseline of 60% correct diagnosis we calculated that 158 subjects are required to detect an
      absolute 30% increase in correct diagnosis. A minimum of 180 patients will be enrolled to
      account for loss to follow-up. Additionally, the information gathered during the pilot study
      will be used to help guide planning for a long-term follow-up study in the future. During the
      initial ultrasound training, competency will be assessed using pre and post-tests, in
      addition to OSCE (Objective Structured Clinical Exam). General Linear Model (GLM) framework,
      with pretest scores as the covariate, will be used to analyze the pre and post-test data. All
      data from the pilot study will be collected on I-pads or paper copies and transferred into a
      CSV-formatted file by a research assistant. Data will be examined using SPSS statistical
      analysis software using linear and (multiple) logistic regression analysis. A p-value of
      <0.05 will be interpreted as statistically significant.

      Ethical Considerations:

      Ethics approval will be sought from the Committee for Human Research, Publication and Ethics
      (CHRPE) of the School of Medical Sciences, Kwame Nkrumah University of science and Technology
      (S.M.S.-K.N.U.S.T.) and the Institutional Review Board (IRB) of the University of Michigan.

      All patients considering taking part in this study will be provided with a consent form
      describing the interventions and given sufficient time to decide whether or not to
      participate. When informed consent cannot be obtained from the patient due to incapacitation
      or impaired decision-making, consent will be obtained from the next of kin or from legally
      authorized representative. Legal guardians or the head of household can serve as a proxy or
      legally authorized representative. According to local customs, in the case where there are no
      parents then the "head of the family" is given proxy. This person may not have court
      documentation but is presented by the family and accepted as the one to make decisions. Only
      adults, those over the age of 18, will be included in this study. The subject population
      consists of the community surrounding KATH which sees a range of patients, from children to
      adults. Only adults meeting the inclusion criteria will be included in this study.

      Confidentiality will be maintained by de-identifying patient information as early as possible
      during the study and storing personal information and data on secure servers in the United
      States which will likely be very effective in protecting patient information. In reports,
      data and discussion are confidential.
    
  