
    
      The process of aging involves numerous structural and functional changes also affecting the
      skin. The skin fulfills a variety of protective and regulatory functions. Compared to other
      organs, the skin is constantly exposed to harmful environmental influences. Besides intrinsic
      factors these external factors may accelerate skin aging. Due to its ageing-related loss of
      functional capacity the skin becomes susceptible to develop adverse skin conditions and
      dermatological diseases (e.g. skin dryness, fungal infections). Especially old aged, care
      depended, and severely ill individuals are at high risk for developing severe skin injuries
      and wounds (e.g. decubitus, skin tears) with high social and economic impact. Empirical
      evidence indicates that the reduced adhesion of the dermal-epidermal junction is a major
      pathophysiological predictor for these types of injuries.

      The suction blister model is an artificial and controlled technique for dermal-epidermal
      separation along the dermo-epidermal junction (DEJ). Empirical evidence suggests that the
      time of the dermal-epidermal separation (blistering time) is a measure of the dermo-epidermal
      adhesion. It has been proposed that the blistering time might be a clinically relevant
      parameter reflecting the mechanical integrity/stability of the dermo-epidermal junction.

      Clinical practice guidelines recommend the use of topical skin care products to reduce the
      risk for pressure ulcer and skin tear development. However, the underlying working mechanisms
      of most basic skin care products are poorly understood. It is known that topically applied
      skin care products exhibit physical and chemical effects on and in the uppermost skin layers
      (e.g. the stratum corneum). Despite a few well known active ingredients (e.g. retinoids,
      vitamin C) exhibiting effects in the dermis, a particular skin protective effect of the vast
      majority of daily basic skin care applications on these deeper skin layers is unknown. The
      primary objective of this study is to test, whether the use of a basic skin care formulation
      increases the mechanical integrity/adhesion of the dermo-epidermal junction.
    
  