
    
      Rationale: Study to assess the possible effects of the use of a point-of-care thoracic
      ultrasound protocol for hospital medical emergency teams Objective: Concordance between MET
      diagnosis with and without the use of ultrasound with the chart review definitive diagnosis
      will be studied. Also other secondary endpoints will be evaluated.

      Study design prospective, interventional study Study population: patients on the general
      wards in need treatment by the MET team Intervention (if applicable): When the MET team
      arrives first assessment will be done according to the abcde algorithm. If immediate
      interventions are needed (intubation, CPR etc) this will be done first (and noted). After the
      abcde assessment an initial diagnosis is noted. In the even weeks the thoracic ultrasound
      protocol will be done, in the uneven weeks not. After the use of ultrasound various variables
      are noted.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      Concordance between MET diagnosis with and without the use of ultrasound with the chart
      review definitive diagnosis will be studied.

      Also other secondary endpoints will be evaluated.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      The use of ultrasound is without direct side effects in terms of radiation or other potential
      (non)physical disturbances.

      There are no data on the effects of the use of ultrasound during MET calls. The MET team will
      first deliver acute care if necessary, the ultrasound protocol can be done within 10-15
      minutes which is acceptable in terms of MET call care. The MET team physician can at any
      point decide to use the ultrasound if he/she thinks it is necessary.

      In other circumstances (e.g. emergency department or intensive care units) point-of-care
      ultrasound is considered to be part of standard care.

      The investigators will study the potential influence of ultrasound during MET calls in terms
      of accuracy of the initial diagnosis and whether ultrasound influences initial treatment,
      patients' disposition and so on, ultrasound is no treatment nor will be the use of ultrasound
      be decisive in the treatment of MET call patients in this study.
    
  