
    
      An ongoing debate, as long-running as treatment with antidepressants itself, is the delay in
      response to these drugs. Antidepressant drugs take 2 to 4 weeks to produce the treatment
      response effect (at least 50% improvement in depressive symptoms versus baseline levels).
      This delay in antidepressant response can prove highly problematic since, during this interim
      period, the patient is exposed to the suffering, debilitative effects, direct and indirect
      costs and risks associated with major depressive disorder (MDD).

      Another important issue is when to define failure of a therapeutic trial and how to change
      treatment. Between 30 and 50% of MDD patients fail to respond to adequate first-line
      treatment. If favorable outcome is defined as full remission (as opposed to only 50%
      improvement) of the patient, the failure rate during first trial is greater still. Some
      reviews recommend dose adjustments every two weeks and a 4-8 week wait before treatment
      change for poor response. Despite these recommendations, the question over when and how to
      change treatment strategy warrants further debate.

      Early improvement in antidepressant treatment is desirable because it reduces the suffering,
      losses and costs associated with MDD. In addition, the risk of suicidal ideation or
      committing suicide are reduced in patients presenting early improvement of depressive
      symptoms. However, early improvement not only reduces risk but also predicts outcome at the
      end of the acute phase of treatment. A number of studies investigating different
      antidepressants have shown that the presence of early response is a good predictor of
      favorable outcome at the end of the acute phase of treatment (after 6 or 8 weeks of
      treatment). A meta-analysis reviewing 41 simple or double-blind clinical trials included a
      total of 6562 patients.

      Early improvement, defined as a 20% reduction in score on the Hamilton Depression Scale
      (HAMD-17) within 2 weeks, was associated with sustained response, remission (defined as
      HAM-D-17 score ≤7). While early response has been amply demonstrated in numerous clinical
      trials, there are gaps in knowledge on the subject. Scant studies have documented whether
      there are differences in the pattern of early improvement among different antidepressants.
      Similarly, there is a dearth of studies analyzing whether the presence or otherwise of early
      response has the same predictive value for different antidepressants. Another little explored
      aspect is the arbitrary nature of the criteria defining onset of improvement, early
      improvement, treatment response and symptomatological remission. Studies tend to reproduce
      previously-adopted criteria without elaborating on the exploratory analyses justifying the
      cut-off points adopted.

      The aim of the present study is to assess the presence of early improvement after one and two
      weeks of treatment with sertraline. Besides assessing the presence of early response, the
      study will include an exploratory analysis assessing positive and negative predictive values,
      sensitivity and specificity of early improvement as a predictor of sustained response and
      remission after 6, 8 and 24 weeks of treatment.
    
  