
    
      The purpose of this research study is to learn alternative ways to control the body's immune
      responses after renal transplantation. The investigator's goal is to prevent or reduce the
      side-effects of long-term immunosuppressive therapy.

      By doing this study, the investigator hopes to learn how safe and effective infusing
      autologous Treg cells, after renal transplantation, to renal transplant recipients who are
      taking Zortress (Everolimus) to control the immune response.

      Individuals who decide to take part in this research study and are eligible to start, will be
      followed for 1 year after their transplant. The research procedures will be conducted at the
      University of Kentucky Medical Center and require nine study visits. One of the study visits
      requires an overnight stay. Participants will be admitted to the University of Kentucky
      Center for Clinical and Translational Science (CCTS) inpatient research unit for this study
      visit. Depending on the frequency of an participant's post-transplant clinic visits, some of
      the study visits could be done at the same time as their regular clinic visits. If not, they
      will occur in the transplant clinic or in the University of Kentucky Center for Clinical and
      Translational Science (CCTS) outpatient research unit.

      The total amount of time required for participation in the study will be up to 40 hours over
      1 year. The total amount of blood taken for the study will be about 14 tablespoons (200ml/6.5
      ounces) over 1 year.

      STUDY PROCEDURES:

      Blood Samples: These will be collected via a needle inserted into a vein in the arm.

      Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and hepatitis testing: Test for HIV, Hepatitis B and
      Hepatitis C will be done as part of the participant's routine transplant evaluation. The
      results from these tests will be used to determine study eligibility at the pre-transplant
      study visit.

      If any of these tests are positive, a qualified person will provide counseling to the
      participant. The State of Kentucky requires that researchers must report HIV, Hepatitis B and
      Hepatitis C positive test results to the local health department serving the jurisdiction in
      which the participant resides, and that the information reported must include the
      participant's full name, address, phone number, county of residence, and applicable
      disease/condition.

      Apheresis: Apheresis is a procedure in which a machine receives blood removed from a
      participant's body and separates it into its various components: plasma, platelets, white
      blood cells and red blood cells. This procedure is done in the Apheresis Center in the Gill
      Heart Building at the UK Chandler Hospital. Depending on the reason for apheresis, one of
      these components is isolated and collected by the instrument, while the others are re-infused
      to the body.

      In this particular research study the investigator is going to collect white blood cells to
      isolate Treg cells for expansion. The process of collecting white blood cells will take
      approximately 90 minutes. Once the blood cells are collected, the research team will isolate
      the Treg cells. These cells will be cultured in the laboratory under special conditions and
      will be expanded. After approximately 3 weeks in culture, the cells will have increased in
      number and be ready for the autologous Treg cell infusion.

      Autologous Treg cell infusion: This will be a single intravenous (IV) infusion. A standard IV
      line will be started in a vein of the arm. The participant's own expanded regulatory T cells
      will be added to a sterile infusion solution, called Albumin, and administered to to the
      participant, and the infusion will take about 3 to 4 hours. Participant's vital signs will be
      monitored before, during, and after the infusion.

      Renal Biopsy: Two renal biopsies (removal of a piece of kidney tissue) will be performed. The
      first one will be done in the operating room during the participant's renal transplant
      surgery. The biopsy will come from the new kidney prior to being transplanted. The second one
      will be done 6 weeks after the autologous Treg cell infusion and will be compared to the
      first one. The second renal biopsy is optional. If a participant agrees to the second biopsy
      it will be done as an outpatient procedure in the radiology department at the University of
      Kentucky. Using an ultrasound for guidance, the investigator will pass a larger needle
      through the skin to obtain a small sample of the transplanted kidney.

      Physical Examination and Vital Sign Measurement: These will be done by a member of the study
      team. The participant's body temperature, heart rate, respiratory rate, and blood pressure
      will be measured and recorded.

      Pregnancy Tests: A pregnancy test will be performed on women who could be pregnant prior to
      beginning the study and again prior to receiving the autologous Treg cell infusion to exclude
      the possibility of pregnancy. For study purposes women who could become pregnant must use two
      effective contraceptive starting prior to renal transplant through to visit 9.
    
  