
    
      The three main objectives of this project are:

        -  To Identify, compare and combine the predictive markers of AD,

        -  To better understand the pathophysiologic mechanisms of AD,

        -  To study the ability of different neuroimaging techniques to monitor AD's evolution.

      For these purposes, detailed neuropsychological evaluations, biological measures and brain
      structural & functional imaging measures are associated for a fully-comprehensive description
      of the different manifestations of AD through disease progression and toward identifying
      early markers.

      Subjects are evaluated using neuropsychological tests of episodic memory (encoding vs.
      retrieval), executive functions (inhibition, flexibility, and updating processes),
      self-judgment, theory of mind, mental imagery and verbal fluency. A FDG-PET measure of
      resting state glucose consumption, an AV45-PET measure of amyloid deposition as well as
      anatomical, resting-state and activation fMRI scans are performed for each volonteer. In
      addition, blood and cerebro-spinal fluid samples will be performed to determine different
      biomarkers (Aβ1-40, Aβ1-42 and tPA as circulating blood proteins and Aβ40, Aβ42, tau and its
      phosphorylated form in CSF). The investigators also study the polymorphism of Apolipoprotein
      E as a genetic risk factor of AD.

      One hundred and twenty healthy controls (40 young, 40 middle age and 40 elderly), 40 Mild
      Cognitive Impairment patients (MCI; i.e. isolated memory impairment and increased risk of
      developing AD) and 30 AD patients will be selected. Participants with increased risk of
      developing AD and without objective evidence will be also studied: 50 asymptomatic subjects
      from families carrying a genetic mutation with an autosomal dominant transmission (NORMA) and
      40 Subjective Cognitive Impairment patients (SCI).

      Clinical follow-up of patients will be completed during 36 months (18 months for AD
      patients), as a neuropsychological evaluation every 6 months. Comparable neuropsychological
      and imaging exams will be proposed once again after 18 months for all participants as well as
      after 36 months for elderly controls, NORMA and SCI & MCI patients.

      To study and compare the effectiveness of different in vivo markers (to predict cognitive
      decline in populations at risk of developing AD), each data set (i.e. modality) will be first
      analyzed independently from one another (intra-modality analyses), including inter-group
      comparisons, correlations and connectivity analyses, as well as longitudinal assessment of
      cognitive, biological and brain changes. Baseline data will also be analyzed in function of
      patient's clinical evolution to assess their predictive value. Comparisons and correlations
      between the different patterns of alterations will then be performed through inter-modality
      analyses. More specifically, the investigators will address the questions of the
      relationships between cognitive and cerebral alterations and structural / functional brain
      changes over our different patient samples, neuroimaging data sets, and through disease
      evolution.

      This project is expected to identify specific and early markers of the MA and also to compare
      the diagnostic efficiency of different measures. It should contribute to better understand
      brain and cognitive alterations in AD. Finally, the investigators will be able to appreciate
      the dynamic properties of these alterations in the evolution of the disease through the
      longitudinal study.
    
  