
    
      Dilation and evacuation (D&E) is commonly performed for second trimester abortions and
      management of second trimester intrauterine fetal demise (IUFD). Cervical preparation prior
      to second trimester D&E increases safety.

      Osmotic cervical dilators and prostaglandin analogs are used widely for cervical preparation
      before second trimester D&E. Osmotic dilators are placed into the cervical canal, radially
      expand as they absorb moisture and decrease the risk of cervical injury during D&E. Laminaria
      tents are the most commonly used osmotic dilator for D&E cervical preparation but require N18
      h to reach maximum diameter. Dilapan-S®, a synthetic osmotic cervical dilator, has a
      significant dilation effect 2 h after placement with the majority of expansion occurring in
      4-6 h according to the manufacturer.

      Misoprostol is the most commonly used pharmacologic cervical preparation for D&E with
      duration of action between 2 and 4 h after administration. Multiple studies demonstrate the
      safety of misoprostol before early second trimester abortion. One prospective and four
      retrospective studies suggest that same-day cervical preparation with Dilapan-S and/or
      misoprostol for second trimester D&E through 20 weeks is safe and effective. Misoprostol may
      be less effective when used alone compared to overnight osmotic dilators for cervical
      preparation later in the second trimester but has adjunctive benefit on cervical dilation and
      procedure time when used with overnight osmotic dilators between 16 and 24 weeks. The effect
      appears most pronounced at N19 weeks gestation. No prospective studies have been published
      examining misoprostol as an adjunct to osmotic dilators for cervical preparation for same-day
      D&E.

      Administration of adjunctive misoprostol with Dilapan-S has the potential to effectively
      prepare the cervix and decrease operative time for same-day D&E. We compared cervical
      preparation with Dilapan-S with and without adjunctive buccal misoprostol for same-day D&E
      between 16 0/7 and 20 6/7 weeks gestation.
    
  