
    
      PHASE 1

        1. Develop a process and tools (DAST) to capture the rationale, criteria, and logical basis
           behind the treatment planning process using well understood Human Factors knowledge
           gathering methodologies and Machine Learning tools.

        2. Build the AI technology to learn the process and apply it to generating treatment plans.
           Images and expert-drawn volumes from Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) 0938 will
           be used for initial training of the AI system. These data are not Dartmouth-Hitchcock
           Medical Center (DHMC) patients, but rather were consented and acquired through RTOG
           0938. These data are housed at NRG/RTOG headquarters in Philadelphia. NRG already has an
           established, IRB-approved protocol for exploring AI systems for the 0938 data set. A
           minimum of 30 cases will be used for this initial training work for the AI system to
           "learn" volume segmentation of important structures and targets. Additional patients
           from the available 200+ patients on 0938 may be added for additional AI learning of
           volume segmentation as initial software programming is implemented.

        3. Determine the optimal number of historic treatment plans to train the AI technology and
           test it. 45 cases will be provided by NRG from NRG/RTOG studies 0415, 0126, and 0521
           (totaling 135 cases), respectively representing favorable-, intermediate-, and high-risk
           prostate cancer treatments. These scans and expert-defined volumes are part of NRG
           datasets housed in Philadelphia. All these patients already signed study-specific
           consents which included permissions to allow personally specific clinical information to
           be used for other cancer-related studies. IRB review of the use of these data for this
           specific study is anticipated to be achieved through NRG mechanisms in the context of
           these prior consents, to assure that the use of these data for this specific AI study is
           appropriate and approved. Provision is anticipated of a total of 30 additional patient
           cases as "gold standards," 10 each from DHMC, University of Massachusetts (UMass), and
           Oregon Health Sciences University (OHSU), respectively, all initially planned and
           treated within the 2015-2018 time frame. The first 5 from each institution will be
           favorable-risk patients, and the next 5 from each institution will be high-risk patients
           (thereby achieving a wide range of treatment approaches, with more to be added
           subsequently). As part of this effort, each individual institution will contact its own
           specific patients (5 favorable-risk, 5 high-risk) to obtain study-specific consent for
           the use of their data for this protocol. Once anonymized, these scans and plans will be
           shared across all three institutions. For each of these patients, the other two
           ("non-host") institutions will create their own volumes and plans. Using a modified
           Delphi approach, the three teams will then meet to generate an agreed-upon "composite"
           plan for each patient. Thus, in total there will be four treatment plans for each of
           these 30 patients, yielding 120 total plans that will serve as the "gold standard" for
           this AI project, and will be inputted for testing/validation to the AI system.

           PHASE 2

        4. Expand the database to include intermediate-risk patients, 5 respectively from each
           institution, following the above procedures, to yield an additional 60 plans to serve as
           additional inputs for the AI system.

        5. Validate and test the AI technology by inputting patient images and target delineations
           from historic case data and assessing whether the AI technology-generated plans are
           "consistent" with the final plans that were created by expert clinicians.

        6. Test the technology with new patient case data and validate the plan with a team of
           expert clinicians. This will involve "modified Turing tests," as developed in NRG-RTOG
           studies exploring AI applications.
    
  