
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the disease-free and overall survival in patients with previously untreated
           squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity or oropharynx treated with resection with or
           without and neoadjuvant and adjuvant perilymphatic interleukin-2 (IL-2) and
           radiotherapy.

        -  Compare the response rate in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the local and systemic effects of locoregional IL-2 on host-tumor interaction
           and immune properties in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to center
      and tumor stage (T2, N0-2 vs T2, N3 or T3-4, N0-3). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo induction comprising interleukin-2 (IL-2) via perilymphatic
           injections to the ipsilateral myelohyoid muscle and insertion of the sternocleidomastoid
           muscle on days 1-5 and 8-12. Within 10 days after the last IL-2 injection, patients
           undergo en bloc resection of the primary tumor and corresponding lymphatic drainage area
           and pre-study margins. Beginning within 4 weeks after surgery, patients with T2, N0-3
           disease but with pathohistological evidence of node invasion or capsular rupture of node
           metastasis or T3-4, N0-3 disease undergo adjuvant radiotherapy 5 days a week for 4.5-6.5
           weeks. Beginning within 4 weeks after surgery or radiotherapy (if applicable), patients
           receive adjuvant IL-2 via perilymphatic injections to the contralateral myelohyoid
           muscle and insertion of the sternocleidomastoid muscle on days 1-5. Adjuvant IL-2
           continues monthly for at least 1 year in the absence of disease progression.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo resection and radiotherapy (if eligible) as in arm I. Patients
           are followed monthly for 1 year and then every 2 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 260 patients (130 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  