
    
      Cardiovascular diseases (CVD) still a major cause of health loss for all regions of the
      world. Sociodemographic change over the past 25 years has been associated with the dramatic
      decrease in CVD in regions with very high sociodemographic index (SDI), but only a gradual
      decrease or no change in most regions (Roth et al., 2017).

      Statistics from the World Health Organization indicates that cardiovascular diseases are the
      leading cause of death in Egypt, accounting for 46% of total deaths ( Royal Philips,2018).

      The mouth serves as "a mirror of health or disease, as a sentinel or early warning system, as
      an accessible model for the study of other tissues and organs, and as a potential source of
      pathology affecting other systems and organs (Dr. Shantala Arunkumar, 2013).

      The oral cavity is considered as a window to the body because oral manifestations accompany
      many systemic diseases. In many instances, oral involvement first appears than other symptoms
      or lesions at other locations. These oral manifestations must be properly recognized if the
      patient is to receive appropriate diagnosis and referral for treatment (Mehrotra et al.,
      2010b).

      People with cardiovascular disease and who are at high cardiovascular risk (due to the
      presence of one or more risk factors such as hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidaemia or
      already established disease) need early detection and management using counselling and
      medicines, as appropriate(World Health Organization, 2013).

      A great many cardiovascular drugs have adverse reactions in the mouth in the form of
      xerostomia, lichenoid reactions, burning mouth sensation, loss of taste sensation, gingival
      hyperplasia and bleeding(Arunkumar, 2013).

      Cardiovascular disease is the main cause of early death among people with diabetes. People
      with diabetes also suffer from hypertension, dyslipidaemia, and obesity, which contribute to
      increased incidence of cardiovascular disease (Malik and Dwivedi, 2015).

      CVDs are a leading cause of death worldwide including the Middle East. This is caused in part
      by the dysregulation of adipose tissue cause increasing in production of pro-inflammatory
      adipokines and reduction in cardio-protective adipokines such as adiponectin (Abu-Farha,
      Behbehani and Elkum, 2014).

      Low- and middle-income countries are disproportionally affected: over 80% of CVD deaths take
      place in low- and middle-income countries and occur almost equally in men and women. By 2030,
      almost 23.6 million people will die from CVDs, mainly from heart disease and stroke (WHO,
      2015).

      Medications used for management of hypertension cause oral alternation like Diuretics cause
      oral dryness, adrenergic inhibitors cause oral dryness and ulcerations, calcium antagonists
      cause overgrowth of gingiva while ACE inhibitors affect test sensation and lichenoid
      reactions of the oral mucosa (Mehrotra et al., 2010).
    
  