
    
      Cardiovascular diseases and stroke are the major causes of morbidity and death in Taiwan.
      Patients with dyslipidemia are prone to atherosclerosis, which predispose to various
      cardiovascular pathology including coronary artery disease (CAD), ischemic stroke and
      peripheral artery occlusive disease (PAOD). There are, however, no reliable biomarkers to
      detect atherosclerotic vascular diseases among dyslipidemic patients or to predict the risks
      of cardiovascular morbidities and mortality among patients with atherosclerosis. There is a
      clear need to identify novel mediators of atherosclerosis in dyslipidemic patients to provide
      insights into the pathogenesis, to tailor clinical care based on cardiovascular risks, and to
      develop new therapeutic strategies.

      It has become increasingly clear that the transcription of the eukaryotic genome is far more
      pervasive and complex than previously appreciated. While the expression of messenger RNAs
      (mRNAs) and microRNAs (miRNAs) account for only ~1% of all transcribed species, up to 90% of
      the mammalian genome is transcribed as long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs), a heterogeneous group
      of non-coding transcripts longer than 200 nucleotides. LncRNAs have been shown to be
      functional and involved in specific physiological and pathological processes through
      epigenetic, transcriptional and post-transcriptional mechanisms. While the roles of lncRNAs
      in human diseases including cancer and neurodegenerative disorders are beginning to emerge,
      it remains unclear how lncRNA regulation contributes to atherosclerotic vascular diseases in
      patients with dyslipidemia.

      In this proposal, we seek to apply next-generation sequencing technology to investigate
      circulating (plasma and peripheral blood mononuclear cells [PBMC]) lncRNA expression in
      control subjects and in dyslipidemic patients with and without atherosclerotic vascular
      diseases (CAD, ischemic stroke and PAOD). We will test the hypothesis that circulating lncRNA
      expression signature can reflect the atherosclerotic disease states in patients with
      dyslipidemia. A gene co-expression network analysis will be conducted to identify lncRNAs
      that are functionally involved in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. With the experimental
      results from an initial dyslipidemic cohort, we will establish an atherosclerosis scoring
      model on the basis of circulating lncRNA expression signature to facilitate the detection of
      atherosclerotic vascular diseases in patients with dyslipidemia. The accuracy, sensitivity
      and specificity of the lncRNA-based atherosclerosis scoring system will then be tested in an
      independent, large validation cohort. Next, we propose to test the hypothesis that
      circulating lncRNAs can be novel prognostic biomarkers to predict atherosclerosis progression
      and cardiovascular outcomes in dyslipidemic patients. The results from these experiments will
      lead to better understanding of how circulating lncRNAs contribute to atherosclerotic
      cardiovascular complications. These studies will also establish a set of novel, lncRNA-based
      diagnostic and prognostic biomarker in dyslipidemic patients to improve clinical preventive
      and therapeutic care. In addition, the findings from these studies will help to develop novel
      therapeutic strategies to treat or prevent atherosclerotic vascular diseases in patients with
      dyslipidemia.
    
  