
    
      I. Rationale / Objectives This study will determine the effectiveness of tele-psychology in
      treating persons with spinal cord injury (SCI) with depressed mood in the early period
      post-rehabilitation discharge. Depression among individuals with SCI is the most common
      psychological condition following an injury; 22% of civilians with SCI and 28% of veterans
      with SCI experience depression after injury, which is higher than the able-bodied population
      (Williams 2015; Ullrich 2014). Individuals with SCI face many barriers in receiving
      psychotherapy, such as lack of accessible transportation, unfamiliarity with community
      resources, or stigma associated with seeking treatment for depression, which this project
      aims to address. Cognitive behavior therapy (CBT), which helps people develop different ways
      of thinking and behaving to reduce their psychological distress, will be provided via iPad
      FaceTime by a psychologist with expertise in working with persons with SCI.

      The objectives of the proposed project are to reduce depressive symptoms, decrease associated
      symptoms of anxiety, and to improve satisfaction with life with CBT provided via
      tele-psychology. The secondary objective is to show intermediate efficacy of tele-psychology
      in persons with SCI with depressed mood.

      II. Impact CBT via iPad FaceTime is expected to be a convenient and effective treatment for
      depression after SCI with short-term (14-week post-discharge) and intermediate (26-week
      post-discharge) benefits. This project would impact individuals with SCI, post-discharge from
      rehabilitation, through the provision of an innovative treatment for depression, easing the
      transition back to their home and community. Furthermore, CBT treatment will be provided in
      the comfort and privacy of the participant's home, therefore combating stigma, as well as
      physical and transportation-associated barriers. CBT via FaceTime does pose a potential
      confidentiality risk, but the study team will stress that both parties choose a location
      (i.e. private office for the psychologist and a private room at home for the participant)
      that will minimize this risk. Prior studies have shown a beneficial effect of CBT provided
      with tele-psychology among other populations. Telemedicine is rapidly advancing within the
      field of medicine; however, its impact on persons with SCI and the use of tele-psychology are
      not yet widespread. This proposed study aims to close this gap and can determine whether CBT
      via iPad improves mood and quality of life (as measured by satisfaction with life) and can
      assess if tele-psychology is an effective and replicable method for providing psychological
      care. With evidence from this study elucidating the effectiveness of tele-psychology
      utilizing rapidly advancing technology, tele-psychology for individuals with SCI may become
      as usual and routine as in-person psychological treatment within several years.

      III. Contribution This project provides an innovative approach to treating depression and an
      exciting opportunity to understand the treatment effects of our proposed tele-psychological
      intervention for individuals with SCI. CBT treatment provided via iPad FaceTime
      tele-psychology for depression is a novel approach that can easily be disseminated to other
      SCI centers and community hospitals. Hence, medical teams will have an alternative option to
      consider during the discharge planning stages of rehabilitation and during their transition
      to home.
    
  