
    
      The null hypothesis is that the clinical response to exclusive enteral nutrition (EEN) and
      reduction of colonic inflammatory markers are not associated with a characteristic bacterial
      taxonomy (composition) and metabolites (functionality); and that maintenance of any bacterial
      changes with supplementary enteral nutrition (SEN), while returning to habitual diet, does
      not reduce the risk of disease relapse.

      The study design will build on previous work by looking at differences in both the gut
      bacteria (faecal and mucosal) and bacterial metabolic activity at different stages of disease
      activity. Changes in bacterial composition between disease groups will be examined; between
      Crohn's disease children on different treatments; and between different sites in the gut.
      Crohn's disease biomarkers in faeces and urine will also be assessed by analysing bacterial
      metabolites.

      Up to a total of 42 children with Crohn's Disease will be recruited. 42 healthy children will
      also be recruited to provide a faecal and urine sample, to show the normal variety of gut
      bacteria and metabolites in healthy children for comparison.

      Children who underwent colonoscopy but did not have Crohn's disease will be used as a
      comparison group to try and identify Crohn's disease bacterial signatures from faeces and
      urine, and as a non-Crohn's disease control group for comparison of mucosal biopsies.

      Recruitment Three groups of children will participate in this study. A. Children undergoing
      endoscopic investigations (colonoscopy) for colonic inflammation including Crohn's disease
      [children who are found not to have Crohn's disease will not participate in the follow up
      aspect (during treatment with EEN) of this study].

      B. Previously diagnosed patients with Crohn's disease due to start an 8 week standard course
      of treatment with EEN due to disease flare up.

      C. Healthy children unrelated to Crohn's disease patients will be used as a control group.

      Groups A and B: an initial blood, urine, faecal sample followed by 5 further faecal and urine
      samples over 12 months; and dietary information.

      [Group A will also have 8 mucosal biopsies taken during routine endoscopy]. During treatment
      with EEN (clinical decision), an additional blood sample will be requested during routine
      blood sampling at start and end of treatment.

      Group C: 1 urine and faecal sample will be requested.

      All groups will have height, weight and grip strength measured at baseline. Participant
      receiving EEN will have this repeated 60 days after start of treatment and 60 days after end
      of treatment.

      Detailed Methods Preliminary health check by means of a short health questionnaire - basic
      health information, age, any medication.

      Mucosal samples: in newly diagnosed patients having a colonoscopy for diagnostic purposes, an
      additional 6 mucosal biopsy samples; 2 from the terminal ileum when possible, 2 from the
      proximal colon and 2 from the distal colon will be taken (14-16 are collected at normal
      colonoscopy). An additional 2 biopsy samples will also be collected from the duodenum during
      upper endoscopy.

      Dietary information: habitual dietary intake and eating patterns assessed using validated
      Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ); a 5 step multiple pass 24 hour dietary recall
      questionnaire for data on actual diet at time of faecal and urine sampling.

      EEN compliance (groups A&B only): completion of short EEN compliance questionnaire at 28 day
      and 56 day time points.

      Medication and Disease History: information on disease activity, medication and medical
      history collected from medical notes.

      Lab Assays Bacterial diversity: The gut bacterial diversity and composition from stool
      samples will be measured using molecular techniques such as quantitative polymerase chain
      reaction (PCR) from bacterial ribosomal DNA and next generation sequencing (metagenomics).
      These techniques will also be used to look at the composition of bacteria associated with
      mucosal tissue biopsies. Changes in overall gut bacteria composition using standard numerical
      indices will be measured across the 6 faecal samples collected over the 12 month period, as
      well as between groups.

      Bacterial metabolism: A large number of different products from bacterial metabolism, such as
      short chain fatty acids, sulphide, and ammonia will be measured using a range of techniques
      including gas chromatography and gas chromatography mass spectrometry (GCMS) (metabolomics).
      Faecal pH, a marker of bacterial fermentation, will also be measured.

      Disease markers: Other disease markers and metabolites such as faecal calprotectin, will be
      measured from faecal samples .
    
  