
    
      Early endoscopic retrograde choledocho pancreatogram with endoscopic sphincterotomy is
      suggested in patients with acute biliary pancreatitis to reduce complication and mortality.
      Retrospective study of the investigators' hospital showed that endoscopic papillary balloon
      dilation is safe in the treatment of acute biliary pancreatitis. However, there is no report
      in literature concerning about the prospective study comparing the effect of endoscopic
      sphincterotomy and endoscopic papillary balloon dilation in the treatment of acute biliary
      pancreatitis.

      Moreover, the presence of infective microorganisms in the biliary and/or pancreatic ducts may
      play important role in both the onset and outcome of acute biliary pancreatitis. Blood or
      bile obtained via endoscopic means is another way to know the causative bacterium/bacteria.

      However, it still need considerable period of time to get the result of the culture.
      Recently, next-generation sequencing technologies have been developed, which can facilitate
      the analysis of a large number of microorganisms in different environments and human body
      sites. 16S(a svedberg unit) ribosomal deoxyribonucleic acid sequence analysis and
      metagenomics are two effective DNA sequencing approaches, and both have been used to study
      uncultivated gut microbial communities.

      Aims:

        1. To study the clinical effects of endoscopic sphincterotomy and endoscopic papillary
           balloon dilation in acute biliary pancreatitis.

        2. To compare the results obtained from the traditional bile/blood culture and
           metagenomics.

      Methods: Beginning from Jan 2016, patients with age ≥ 20 years and acute biliary pancreatitis
      concomitant with either signs of acute cholangitis or bile duct obstruction will be enrolled
      in the study. Participants will be randomized into either the endoscopic sphincterotomy or
      endoscopic papillary balloon dilation groups. The treatment effects and safety of both groups
      will be compared. The primary endpoint is the relative successful rates of retrieval of
      common bile duct stones of both groups. The secondary endpoint is the frequency of use of
      mechanical lithotripter, other drainage procedures, complication and mortality, as well as
      the number of treatment sections.

      Besides blood culture exam, bile will be aspirated by placing a single-use, 5-French,
      standard catheter (after guide-wire cannulation) into the bile duct before the injection of
      contrast agent for endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreaticography. Approximately 10 mL of
      bile will be collected and transferred in a sterile tube. Half of the bile obtained will be
      transported to the microbiology laboratory in blood culture bottles and in an anaerobic
      transport system. Bacteria will be cultured and identified according to the standard protocol
      used in our clinical microbiology laboratory. Another half of the bile specimen will be
      sending for metagenomic study. Finally, investigators will try to compare the results
      obtained from the traditional bile culture /blood culture and metagenomics, and to understand
      the effects of infective microorganisms in the biliary and/or pancreatic ducts on the acute
      biliary pancreatitis. In addition, investigators want to find out the best means of early and
      accurate diagnosis of the pathogen responsible for the infection.
    
  