
    
      This overarching aim of this pilot randomized controlled trial is to determine the
      feasibility of implementing the STEADES system (device and app) in smokers and to compare its
      effectiveness in increasing their smoking quit rate between the intervention and control
      groups. Feasibility is demonstrated by quantifying the self-surveillance, serious gaming and
      engagement of the virtual coaches in the STEADES-2 system. Thus the feasibility is evaluated
      by the utility rate of the STEADES-2 device by the smokers, transmission rate of the eCO data
      and frequency of interaction with their virtual coach and gamification rate.

      Aims The study aims to determine the proportion of smokers with total abstinence of smoking
      in the STEADES-2 intervention arm compared to those in the control arm at the end of 12 weeks
      after study enrolment.

      Hypothesis The proportion of smokers with total smoking abstinence in the intervention arm
      will be 50% higher than those in the control arm at the end of 12 weeks from the time of
      study recruitment. The total smoking abstinence is defined by both the eCO measurement
      (0-1pmm) from the STEADES-2 device and the negative result based on the cotinine test kit at
      12 weeks.

      Method The study is a pilot randomized controlled trial in ambulatory setting at public
      primary care clinics (polyclinics) in a densely populated, urbanised community in Singapore.

      Study sites:

      The main site for the implementation of the study will be located at two branches of
      SingHealth Polyclinics in Pasir Ris and Bedok estates in north-eastern and eastern region of
      the island state.

      Subjects The target subjects are adult smokers aged 21 years and above, who will be recruited
      at the two sites. Smokers from the other SingHealth Polyclinics can be directed to the study
      sites by internal referral.

      Sample size calculation This is planned as a pilot study to assess the feasibility of this
      complex intervention involving a multi-component innovation. In addition, the limited funding
      allows the recruitment of up to 40 smokers, 20 of which will be randomly selected to the
      intervention arm and another 20 to the control arm.

      Randomization Randomization will be carried out centrally at the Research Department office
      at the institution headquarter. The clinical research coordinator will call in to an
      administrator to determine the assignment of the consented subject. The administrator will
      use sealed envelope with a prior sequence of allotment based on random numbers generated by
      SPSS software to assign the subject to either intervention or controlled arm.

      Recruitment process A clinical research coordinator (CRC) will be trained by the
      investigators on the functions and use of the STEADES-2 system. The CRC will recruit smokers
      who are referred by the clinical teams at the study sites. They will provide information to
      the potential subjects using the institution review board's approved study documents which
      describe the study intent and protocol and address their queries before the subjects endorse
      the written consent form.

      Intervention Subjects in the intervention arm will be inducted to the use of STEADES-2 device
      by the CRC. The CRC will assist to download the STEADES app into the subject's smartphone;
      demonstrate the use of the app and the procedure for the serious games; and linkage to the
      virtual coach.

      In the control arm, the subjects will be enrolled into the existing smoking cessation program
      in the respective polyclinic, which covers smoking cessation advice, together with an exhaled
      breath analysed using a commercially available eCO measurement device and the STEADES device
      by a trained nurse counsellor. They will complete a questionnaire and their smoking status
      will be re-assessed at 12 weeks after their enrolment.

      Questionnaire

      The questionnaire will collect these data from both groups of subjects:

      Demographic characteristics (Year of birth, gender, ethnic group, marital status, highest
      educational level attained, employment status, estimated annual personal incomes) Smoking
      Characteristics (Readiness to quit smoking [pre-contemplation, contemplation, preparation,
      action, maintenance], modified Fagerstrom Test for Nicotine dependence; CAGE questionnaire
      modified for smoking behaviour; 4 "Cs" Test to assess nicotine addiction [compulsion,
      control, cutting down, withdrawal symptoms, and consequences]; smoker's profile [stress
      relief, conditional responses, relief of withdrawal symptoms, elevation of depression mood];
      number of cigarettes smoked per day)

      Intervention arm only: views and experience with the gamification and the STEADES-2 system;
      Games Experience Questionnaire (GEQ) and System Usability Scale (SUS) Completion visit The
      subjects of both arms will make a final study visit at the 12th week post-enrolment. Their
      smoking status of the subjects will be determined by on-site measurement of the eCO using
      their STEADES-2 device as well as to detect the presence of nicotine related product using
      the cotinine test kit. Photo of the STEADES-2 measurement and the cotinine test kit result,
      together with the study identification number of the subject (excluding identifiable personal
      data such as facial photo) will be recorded by the CRC to define the outcomes and stored in a
      secured hard disk for references.

      Statistical analysis plan Descriptive statistics will be presented in frequency and
      percentages. Smoking cessation is defined as both measurements using the STEADES-2 device
      with results of 0 or 1 ppm and negative cotinine test. Smoking cessation will be assessed
      with demographics using Chi-square test to identify the profiles of those who quit smoking.
      Smoking cessation between the intervention and control groups will also be compared using
      Chi-square test. Cells with less than 5 count will be compared using Fisher's Exact test.
      Independent t test and Mann Whitney U test will also be used for normally distributed data
      and non-normally distributed data respectively to compare the difference in scores between
      the two groups for selected variables.

      All analyses will be done using IBM SPSS version 25.0. A p-value of less than 0.05 is
      considered significant.

      An e-library will be embedded in the app for reference to the smokers, including curated
      video, smoking cessation motivational messages. The resource material includes information on
      the pharmacies where nicotine replacement products can be purchased, dosing which is
      compatible with the nicotine dependency of the smokers, tips on cutting down on the number of
      cigarettes.

      Data Repository All activities, device measurement and gameplay on the STEADES App will be
      uploaded to a centralized server, where it will be displayed for the virtual coaches to
      monitor. Through their dashboard in the app, the virtual coaches will also be able to
      communicate and prescribe further activities and advice to the smokers.

      Virtual Coaches The clinical team of investigators are multidisciplinary primary care
      professionals including family physicians, nurses and a pharmacist. They have the training
      and experience in smoking cessation and will serve as e-coaches to provide advice and support
      to the smokers. They will be anonymized with the use of a generic term like "coach", who will
      support the smokers via asynchronous counselling via the app.

      Implementation time frame The proposed project will be implemented in phases. Phase 1 (week
      1-28) Concurrent development of the STEADES device, app, serious games The development of the
      STEADES-2 device, app and serious games will be carried out by the technical team members.
      The clinical team will assemble an e-library of motivational messages and develop an
      associated algorithm to forward these messages to subjects based on their smoking profiles
      and trend of eCO data. Scripts will be developed for use by the virtual coaches to interact
      with the smokers. A training manual for the virtual coaches will be concurrently drafted by
      the STEADES clinical team.

      Phase 2 (week 29-36) The STEADES-2 study protocol will be finalized and submitted to CIRB for
      ethics approval. Meanwhile, the User Acceptability Testing (UAT) of the STEADES-2 and its
      integration with the mobile app, serious games, virtual coaching system and the
      algorithm-based motivational messages will be carried out by both the clinical and technical
      teams, together with the clinical research coordinator.

      Phase 3: (week 37-60) This phase will focus on the implementation of the pilot randomized
      controlled trial with recruitment to be completed over 12 weeks and follow them up for
      another 12 weeks.

      Phase 4: (week 61-64) The clinical team will audit and analyse the data, interpret the
      results, share the results via presentations, draft and submit publications to journals.

      The study sites at the polyclinics will be test-beds for the STEADES-2 system and programme.
      If the intervention is proven effective, the integrated system will transform the institution
      smoking cessation programme and potentially leverage on the research partner in this project
      to incorporate into local national smoking cessation programme.
    
  