
    
      The hypothesized sequence of events in inflammatory acne starts with the formation of a
      microcomedone with accumulation of cornified keratinocytes within the follicle. Presence
      and/or proliferation of P.acnes induces the production of IL-1 alpha, tumor necrosis factor
      (TNF)- alpha, IL-8 and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF).
      Inflammation caused by CD4+ T cells causes a T-helper 1 cytokine response mediated by
      Toll-like receptors (TLR)-2 and TLR-4 whose expression is increased by P. acnes. Infiltration
      by neutrophils appears 72 hrs after, with possible disruption of the follicular wall and more
      inflammation. TNF-alpha liberated by keratinocytes stimulates the activation of pro-matrix
      metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 activity in the dermis with remodeling by fibroblasts with the
      consequence of possible scarring.

      The usual treatment for moderate to severe inflammatory acne involves the use of long-term
      topical retinoids and antibiotics such as doxycycline or minocycline that had been showed to
      decrease the inflammatory response as well as decreasing the population of P. acnes. Since
      acne is a long term condition, several years of antibiotics are usually required. Recently,
      the problematic of antibiotic overuse has received great attention and concerns. Chronic
      antibiotic use has been implicated in increasing the risk of breast cancer and upper
      respiratory infections, and there is also a concern for antibiotic resistance. Recent
      recommendations by the Global Alliance to Improve Outcomes in Acne Group include the
      limitation for the use of oral antibiotics to a maximum of 3 months. So there is a need to
      find alternatives that does not include the use of oral antibiotics.

      The only effective and available treatment for severe acne is isotretinoin which may have
      potential serious side effects. Lately also it has been implicated in the development of
      depression and suicidal ideations in the teenager population.

      A novel anti-inflammatory, not antibiotic drug may be an excellent alternative for the
      treatment of moderate to severe acne. Apremilast has been shown to inhibit the production of
      tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, IL-8 and neutrophil infiltration, all of which are
      elevated in inflammatory acne. Preliminary data of the use of Apremilast in psoriasis makes
      us believe that this medication is safe for short-term use in acne patients.

      Our intention is to study Apremilast in the treatment of moderate to severe acne.
    
  