
    
      From July 2005 to December 2006, three hundred patients with peripheral arterial disease, who
      were enrolled in a tertiary center specialized in vascular disease and were able to walk for
      at least 2 minutes at 2 miles per hour, were invited to a meeting at which explanations about
      this study were given. 80 patients attended the meeting, 60 of them decided to take part of
      the study, and 52 attended for the screening tests.

      Patients were included in the study if they met the following criteria: Fontaine stage II
      peripheral arterial disease, symptoms of IC for at least 6 months, ankle/brachial index (ABI)
      at rest ≤ 0.90 in 1 or 2 legs, reduction of ABI after treadmill test, and exercise tolerance
      limited by IC. Patients were excluded under the following conditions: presence of chronic
      lung disease, inability to obtain ABI measurement due to noncompressible vessels, exercise
      tolerance limited by factors other than claudication (eg, dyspnea or orthopedic problems),
      poorly controlled blood pressure, presence of electrocardiogram response suggestive of
      myocardial ischemia during the exercise test, and history of revascularization in the
      previous year.

      Procedures Patients were randomly (by drawing lots) divided into 2 groups: strength (ST, n =
      17) and walking (WT, n = 17) training. They were evaluated at baseline (pre-training) and
      after 12 weeks of exercise training (post-training). During evaluations were assessed
      exercise tolerance and strength.

      Both training programs (ST and WT) were supervised, conducted twice a week, lasted for 12
      weeks, and started after a 2-week preconditioning-orientation phase. In both programs, rate
      of perceived exertion during exercise was kept similar and between 11 to 13 on the15-grade
      Borg scale. Furthermore, the duration of exercise sessions was prescribed as 30 min of
      exercise for ST and WT groups.
    
  