
    
      In 2015, 3500 patients were diagnosed with colon cancer in Denmark (DCCG Årsrapport 2015,
      www.dccg.dk). Despite curative intended surgery and perioperative chemotherapy in colon
      cancers, relapse is often encountered, and across tumor stage recurrence is found in 18-26%
      of the resected patients. Eighty-six percent of the recurrences are diagnosed within three
      years after resection, and 36% of the recurrences are diagnosed within the first year
      regardless of tumor stage. The route of dissemination varies with different cancer types, but
      a common denominator is the risk of peritoneal metastases (PM). PM is the second most common
      site of recurrence in colon cancer patients, and accounts for 25-35% of all recurrences.
      Patients with PM - both in the synchronous and metachronous setting - will often have a very
      short life expectancy and traditionally, treatment have been nihilistic due to poor
      performance status and response rates, and most patients with recurrence to the peritoneum
      will only be treated with best supportive care. During the last two decades, more aggressive
      treatment strategies have been implemented, including extensive surgery (Cytoreductive
      surgery, CRS) followed by hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC). However, CRS and
      HIPEC are only used in selected patients with limited PM. High risk factors for relapse with
      PM have been identified, and patients with T4 colon cancers have a risk of relapse with
      metachronous PM between 12-50%, while patients with intraperitoneally perforated colorectal
      cancers relapse with PM in 14- 58% of the cases. The risk of metachronous PM in perforated or
      T4 colorectal cancers has been validated and this is widely recognized in the ongoing trials
      around Europe, where adjuvant HIPEC is being investigated in patients with high-risk colon
      tumors to prevent metachronous PM (www.clinicaltrials.gov NCT02231086, NCT02965248,
      NCT02614534, NCT02974556, NCT01226394).

      In addition to tumor stage, free intraperitoneal tumor cells (FITC) are perceived as a
      precursor of PM, and it is expected, that patients with perforated/T4 colon cancers will have
      FITC prior to visible recurrence with PM. However, despite the reported impact on the risk of
      recurrence and poor survival data, the presence of FITC is not routinely investigated, and
      this may be due to the lack of treatment options regarding the eradication of free tumor
      cells. In a systematic review of resected patients with stage I-IV colorectal cancer, 13.7%
      had FITC detected during perioperative peritoneal lavage. The rate of FITC increased with
      increasing T-stage and the patients with FITC had a significantly increased risk of both
      local and overall recurrence, plus a significantly increased mortality risk.

      Based on the above-mentioned rate of recurrences after resection of high-risk colon cancers
      and the limited treatment options, new treatment strategies are needed. A German research
      group has invented a new intraperitoneal chemotherapy delivery method, where the chemotherapy
      is nebulized within the pressurized abdominal cavity - Pressurized IntraPeritoneal Aerosol
      Chemotherapy (PIPAC).

      PIPAC As blood supply to the peritoneal surface is scarce, systemic chemotherapy has limited
      access to the peritoneal cavity, especially when the primary tumor including its exfoliating
      surface has been resected. Even though intraperitoneal chemotherapy would seem like a
      tempting alternative, convincing results are still missing. Temperature and pressure are
      important factors during absorption of fluid from the peritoneal cavity, and the use of a
      relative low intraperitoneal pressure (2-6 mmHg) seems to increase the inflow of
      intraperitoneal fluid into the abdominal wall. Studies have confirmed that higher tissue
      concentrations of chemotherapy may be obtained by increasing the intraperitoneal pressure.
      After years of extensive testing, and the development of a CE-certified nebulizer (CapnoPen,
      Capnomed, Villingendorf, Germany) for safe aerosol infusion, a German research group has
      designed a system that allows a laparoscopy controlled delivery of Pressurized
      IntraPeritoneal Aerosol Chemotherapy (PIPAC). The aerosol technique ensures that the entire
      peritoneal surface is covered by chemotherapy, and this is relevant when trying to eradicate
      (all) free intraperitoneal tumor cells. With the nebulizer positioned through a standard
      trocar pointing away from the bowels, a commercially available injection pump (MEDRAD Salient
      Dual Contrast Injector, Bayer HealthCare, Leverkusen, Germany) provides the necessary
      pressure to induce an aerosol mist covering the peritoneal cavity. After five minutes, the
      chemotherapy has been delivered, and the injector is turned off. After an additional 25
      minutes of simple diffusion, the aerosol is gone and the remaining intraabdominal CO2 is
      evacuated through a standard trocar.

      PIPAC is safe, both for patients and healthcare workers, and preliminary data suggest
      encouraging objective tumor response and survival data. Based on the results of the German
      research group, PIPAC has been implemented at Odense University Hospital in a feasibility and
      safety study (www.clinicaltrial.gov NCT02320448, The Regional Scientific Ethical Committees
      for Southern Denmark Project-ID: S-20140211). Accrual has stopped, as the planned 35 patients
      have been included. 130 PIPAC treatments have been performed so far, and three patients are
      still in treatment. Preliminary data suggest a good safety profile, both in terms of patient
      safety and occupational health safety, as demonstrated on The First Scandinavian PIPAC
      Symposium, April 20th 2017. In brief, environmental and biological analyses demonstrated no
      risk of chemotherapy exposure to the health care workers, the planned procedures could be
      completed in 100% of the patients and 90% were discharged within the first postoperative day
      (range 1-4). In 20% of the procedures using oxaliplatin, the patients had postoperative
      urinary retention relieved by a singleuse catheter and in less than 5% of the procedures, a
      serious adverse event (CTCAE grade 3) was encountered (1 small bowel perforation, 1 small
      bowel obstruction, 1 cholestasis, 1 diarrhea), and there was no mortality.

      Detection of FITC FITC is usually detected by analysing smears of sediment from the
      peritoneal lavage fluid collected during a staging laparoscopy or during the course of
      surgery. As FITC is routinely investigated in especially Asian gastric cancer patients, the
      current experience on the detection of FITC arises from studies in gastric cancer patients. A
      recent meta-analysis described the risk of peritoneal recurrence of gastric cancer, based on
      analysis of peritoneal lavage fluid. In this study, peritoneal lavage cytology predicted
      peritoneal recurrence with a sensitivity of only 0.45, while the specificity was 0.92-0.98.
      By the detection of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) in the peritoneal lavage fluid, the
      sensitivity was 0.77 and the specificity 0.89, whereas the analysis of CEA mRNA raised the
      sensitivity to 0.87, with a specificity of 0.80. In a systematic review, peritoneal lavage
      cytology predicted peritoneal recurrence of gastric cancer patients with a sensitivity of
      0.11-0.80 and a specificity of 0.86-1.00. By analysing the lavage fluid with immunoassays,
      immunohistochemistry or Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) mainly
      towards CEA, the sensitivity and specificity still varied significantly (sensitivity
      0.23-1.00, specificity 0.81-0.98). Despite the variable results, the included studies of this
      systematic review confirmed a significantly reduced median overall survival in patients with
      FITC. However, there is no standard definition of the techniques or cut off points used to
      detect FITC - neither in gastric/GEJ cancer patients nor in colon cancer patients.

      Study rationale As PIPAC seems to have an effect on visible PM in colon cancer patients, the
      investigators hypothesize that PIPAC can minimize the risk of PM recurrence in resected high
      risk colon cancer patients.

      Furthermore, the investigators expect that PIPAC can eradicate FITC in these patients.

      Study population Danish patients with colon cancer are eligible candidates according to the
      inclusion criteria. The patients will be included after resection and, if indicated, adjuvant
      systemic chemotherapy. While expected accrual is based on the number of resected patients at
      Odense University Hospital, this study will include patients nationwide.

      In 2015, 284 patients were resected due to colon cancer at Odense University Hospital (OUH).
      Ninety-three percent of the resections were with curative intent (n=264), and eighteen
      percent had T4 tumors (DCCG Årsrapport 2015, www.dccg.dk). Based on these data and according
      to the inclusion criteria, 47 patients are eligible candidates per year, and the expected
      accrual of 60 patients (see below) is two years.
    
  