
    
      Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries are prevalent in sports with female athletes at
      particularly high risk. Female athletes have 2-4x higher risk of ACL injury compared to their
      male counterparts in the same high-risk sports. Modifiable and non-modifiable risk factors
      play a role in the high incidence of ACL injuries in female athletes. High knee abduction
      moment (KAM), is a known modifiable risk factor for ACL injury risk. Female athletes with a
      KAM greater than 25.25 Nm have been identified as at high risk for an ACL injury. The ability
      to classify female athletes who are at a high risk for an ACL injury, highlights the
      importance of identifying modifiable risk factors that can be readily addressed by physical
      therapists and developing targeted treatments to potentially reduce ACL injury risk while
      improving functional performance.

      Neuromuscular training programs are treatments designed to help improve coordination,
      strength, and control. Such training programs have been designed to alter biomechanical and
      neuromuscular measures, in particular high KAM, in order to improve performance and function
      and thereby reduce the risk of ACL injury. Neuromuscular training programs involving
      plyometric exercises can reduce dynamic lower extremity valgus and limb-to-limb asymmetries
      in healthy female athletes. Despite the reductions in injury rates seen with performance of
      neuromuscular training programs, incidence of ACL injuries is remains higher than acceptable.
      Novel training methods are currently in development to optimize these current ACL injury
      prevention programs. As unanticipated perturbations may contribute to ACL injury risk,
      incorporating a mechanical platform device that provides unanticipated surface compliance
      changes (i.e. the floor lowering down below a subject's feet) into an ACL injury prevention
      program has the potential to optimize knee biomechanics and neuromuscular performance,
      including during unanticipated perturbations.

      Mechanical perturbation has been advocated for as an effective training method to modify the
      sensorimotor system and restore normal neuromuscular coordination through exposing the
      subjects to controlled, progressive perturbations. Furthermore, mechanical perturbation has
      the potential to improve dynamic postural stability and control, and enhance muscle
      activation patterns. One advantage of mechanical perturbation devices is that they can be
      utilized while performing a variety of dynamic tasks such as hopping and jumping compared to
      static loading tasks such as standing and balancing activities. Dynamic tasks may place a
      greater demand on the knee joint, promoting joint stability as the subject overcomes the
      perturbation. Additionally, mechanical perturbation may allow physical therapists to
      administer random perturbations at different phases of the activities (i.e. as the subject is
      landing from a hop, or taking-off from a jump) that simulate real-life perturbations which
      occur during different functional or sporting activities.

      The goal of this study is to assess the effectiveness of an intensive neuromuscular training
      program to reduce risk factors associated with ACL injury
    
  