
    
      General summary of myelodysplastic syndrome with alteration in 5q. Myelodysplastic syndromes
      (MDS) are a very heterogenic group of diseases characterized by the presence of morphologic
      features of dyshemopoiesis in bone marrow (BM) and in peripheral blood (PB), which is
      translated into an inefficient hematopoiesis. This will lead to the concomitant development
      of peripheral cytopenias which will be the cause of complications in these patients and, in
      most cases, the cause of death. In addition, these patients have an increased risk of
      developing acute leukemia, and this risk increases with the progression of the disease.MDS
      represents an incurable disease with standard treatments with a quite variable survival mean
      ranging from 3 months to 15 years depending on the number of blasts, the number of cytopenias
      and the type of cytogenetic disorders2. The sole curative treatment of the MDS is the
      allogenic transplant of hematopoietic progenitors but this option is only available for a 5%
      of the patients with MDS.

      Lenalidomide, initially known as CC-5013, is an analogue of the immunomodulator Drug
      Thalidomide (Thalidomid®; Pharmion Corp., Boulder, CO, USA), which was the first drug with
      anti-angiogenic and immunomodulator properties investigated in MDS. Lenalidomide has, as well
      as thalidomide, a broad array of potential activities against dysplastic cells, not fully
      known, among which we find immunomodulator and non-immunomodulator properties
      (anti-angiogenic effect, anti-proliferative and pro-apoptotic). The greater advantage of
      Lenalidomide in comparison with thalidomide is that the former is between 50 and 2000 times
      stronger tan thalidomide in what respects to its immunomodulator effects. And moreover, the
      toxic profile of Lenalidomide seems lower than that of its analogue; Thalidomide.

      There is no treatment indication on the present times for patients with low risk MDS
      associated to the loss of 5q without transfusion dependent anemia. The results with
      Lenalidomide are highly promising for patients with low risk MDS associated to the loss of 5q
      when (it has so been tested) there is red blood cells transfusion dependent anemia. In this
      sense, the proposal consists on being able to state that treatment with Lenalidomide can be
      efficient from diagnose preventing CH transfusions with an acceptable toxicity.

      In this sense, the present study has the intention to treat early patients with low-risk MDS
      associated to the loss of 5q with a view to prevent CH transfusion. Therefore, we could
      extend in these patients the time until CH transfusion and even assess the possibility of
      eradicating the disease at a cytogenetic/morphologic level. In the present trial and given
      the characteristics of the patients, we have chosen the option of supplying Lenalidomide at a
      dose of 5mg/day. The option of considering a lower dose to the one currently considered as
      "standard" (10mg/day) is to reduce toxicity, mainly hematologic, in patients who do not
      receive treatment normally. A dose with lower toxicity has been chosen which has revealed
      itself efficient.

      Main efficiency objective:

      •To assess if treatment with Revlimid (Lenalidomide) extends the period until the progression
      to myelodysplastic syndrome del(5q) considered as transfusion independent, documented
      verification that the patient suffering from anemia due to MDS requires transfusion of at
      least 2 UCH/56 days (2 months) with a minimum follow up of 112 days (4 months). Revlimid will
      be compared to the current standard treatment for patients with low risk myelodysplastic
      syndrome associated with the loss of 5qwithout transfusion dependent anemia, which is the
      therapeutic abstention and monitoring until its progression.

      Secondary efficiency objectives:

        -  Erythroid response according to the Criteria of the myelodysplastic syndrome
           International Work Team 2006).

        -  Duration of the red blood cells transfusion independency (defined as the number of days
           elapsed between the randomization and the first transfusion after this period free of
           transfusions).

        -  Change of hemoglobin concentration (Hb) in relation to baseline levels of patients who
           show erythroid response.

        -  Variation in platelets absolute count in relation to baseline levels.

        -  Variation in neutrophils absolute count in relation to baseline levels.

        -  Cytogenetic response according to the Criteria of the myelodysplastic syndrome
           International Work Team.

        -  Bone marrow response according to the Criteria of the myelodysplastic syndrome
           International Work Team.

        -  To assess the safety and tolerance of the Lenalidomide scheme, measured according to the
           incidence of clinical and laboratory toxicity.

        -  Global survival, Event Free Survival and Rate of Transformation to Acute Leukemia.

        -  Time from diagnose to transfusion independence.

      Main safety objective:

      Safety (type, frequency and severity [Criteria of normal terminology of adverse reactions of
      the National Cancer Institute (NCI CTCAE) version 3.0] of adverse reactions (AR)and list of
      the AR with Lenalidomide.
    
  