
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine if there is a differential effect of NG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA) on tumor
           and normal tissue vasculature (blood flow/volume) in patients with advanced solid tumors
           in order to propose a safe recommended dose range for further evaluation.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the correlation between plasma concentration of L-NNA and toxicity and
           vascular effects.

        -  To further determine the effects of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibition on tumor
           tissue vasculature.

        -  To determine the pharmacokinetics of L-NNA.

        -  To determine the safety profile of L-NNA.

      Tertiary

        -  To evaluate the potential pharmacodynamic effect of NOS inhibition on angiogenesis.

        -  To evaluate the effect of L-NNA on circulating NOS levels.

        -  To evaluate the correlation between expression levels of iNOS and eNOS and
           vasoconstrictive effects of L-NNA in tumor tissue (where available).

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive a single dose of NG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA) IV over 10 minutes on day 1.
      All patients undergo up to 6 dynamic contrast-enhanced computed tomography (DCE-CT).

      Patients enrolled in the expanded cohort study undergo 4 additional scans of dynamic
      contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) as well as DCE-CT scans.

      Blood samples are collected periodically for pharmacokinetic and biomarker studies. Samples
      are analyzed for L-NNA levels via a reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography, NOS
      inhibition via cGMP analysis, and VEGF-A and osteopontin levels. Previously collected biopsy
      samples are analyzed for iNOS and eNOS expression.

      After completion of study treatment and one week assessments, patients are followed up once a
      week for 28 days and then monthly thereafter (if required).

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK.
    
  