
    
      The link between asthma and fertility may be associated with widespread tissue inflammation,
      as inflammatory changes are not only affecting the respiratory organs, but also systemically,
      and here by affecting both the lungs and the reproductive organs in women with asthma.

      A likely mechanism involved in infertility among asthmatic women seems to be inflammatory
      changes found in the endometrium of the uterus. Some studies show high number of mast cells,
      eosinophil granulocytes and basophil granulocytes in the endometrium[1]. One study found low
      values of VEGF in endometrial secretion in women with asthma as a possible cause for
      subfertility [2]. Others assume, that an imbalance of the adaptive immune system (both the
      Th1 and Th2/TH17 response) is associated with infertility [3].

      It has been shown that inflammation in the endometrium with a specific combination of
      cytokines and chemokines is part of successful implantation [4]. However, If the inflammatory
      process is characterized by a less optimal combination of cytokines and chemokines the
      reproductive outcome may be less successful. The systemic inflammation caused by asthma could
      offset the balance between the cytokines and chemokines in the endometrium and thereby have
      negative impact on reproductive outcome.

      In the present study, our aim is to analyze inflammation in the uterus and in the airways in
      women with asthma referred to fertility treatment receiving Intrauterine insemination (IUI)
      or in vitro fertilization (IVF) to characterize and thereby provide knowledge of the
      mechanisms underlying the association between asthma and reproductive outcomes.

      In an explorative non-randomized study, including 30 participants divided into two groups: 15
      women with asthma and 15 non-asthmatic controls. The patients will go through an asthma
      work-up (diagnosis, allergy, medication, and inflammation). Menstrual blood will be collected
      at home using the menstrual cup and at the 7th-14th day cycle day, an endometrium sample from
      the uterus lining will be obtained together with sputum, as indicators of the system
      inflammation expressed both in the lungs and the uterus, and blood samples.
    
  