
    
      A) Specific Primary Objective:

      1. To determine if minocycline, administered within 3 to 48 hours of acute ischemic stroke
      onset is superior to placebo in reducing neurological deficit and improving functional
      outcome on day 90 post stroke.

      B) Specific Secondary Objectives:

        1. To determine if minocycline administered within 3 to 48 hours of acute ischemic stroke
           onset is superior to placebo in reducing the 90 day risk of recurrent ischemic stroke,
           myocardial infarction (MI) and death.

        2. To study and compare the differential efficacy of minocycline administered as stated
           above, on the four stroke subtypes according to TOAST criteria, i.e. lacunar stroke,
           large vessel atherosclerosis, cardioembolic and cryptogenic stroke

      C) Primary Efficacy Endpoint:

      The primary efficacy endpoint is the modified Rankin scale score at 90 days for all
      randomized patients.

      Favorable outcome at day 90 is defined as achieving an mRS score of 0 to 1. Last observation
      carried forward (LOCF) will be used for subjects without assessments of the primary efficacy
      variable at Day 90. Deaths will be assigned a score of 6.

      D) Secondary Endpoint measures:

        1. NIHSS score at day 90.

        2. Difference of NIHSS scores between baseline and days 7 (plus or minus 2 days) and 90
           post stroke. (Favorable outcome at day 90 is defined as achieving a decrease of > 6
           points on NIHSS from baseline or NIHSS < 1 at day 90.

        3. mRS scores at days 7 (plus minus 2 days) and 30 post stroke.

        4. Barthel index at day 90. (A score of > 85 is defined as good outcome)

        5. First documentation during follow-up of ischemic stroke, myocardial infarction or death
           from any cause.

      Recruitment of study subjects:

      Acute ischemic stroke patients admitted to NNI (TTSH campus) and CGH ASU during the study
      period who are eligible to participate in this study based on criteria stated above will be
      invited to participate in this study. Approximately 1300 and 800 patients with acute ischemic
      stroke are admitted to NNI (TTSH campus) and CGH ASU respectively per year.

      The time window for enrolment will be within 3 to 48 hours of symptom onset. For patients who
      are found with stroke on awakening, it will be assumed that the stroke occurred the last time
      that the patient was known to be normal. All eligible patients will be identified by the ward
      and on-call Neurology/Medical teams and referred to the study research assistants or
      investigators; who will then screen the patient for participation in this trial.

      STUDY INTERVENTION

      The assigned treatment, i.e., Minocycline 200mg or matching placebo will be administered once
      daily for 5 consecutive days soon after informed consent is taken and the patient is enrolled
      into the study.

      Follow-up Assessment:

      The neurologic deficits, global functional abilities and level of handicap will be scored
      using the NIH Stroke Scale (NIHSS) and the modified Rankin scale (mRS) at baseline and on day
      7 (plus or minus 2 days).

      On day 30 post-stroke, a telephone assessment with additional questions will be performed to
      obtain the mRS score, document any recurrent stroke, MI or death.

      On day 90, in addition to a neurological evaluation, mRS and NIHSS scoring, the Barthel Index
      (BI) score, a measure of independence in activities of daily living, will be obtained for all
      subjects.
    
  