
    
      Anemia is the most common extraintestinal manifestation of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD).
      Most cases of anemia in IBD are due to iron deficiency (IDA) and to anemia of inflammation
      (AI) (Bergamaschi et al, 2010). Guidelines by the European Crohn's and Colitis Organisation
      (ECCO) suggest that iron supplementation should be started when IDA is present or even in the
      presence of iron deficiency without anemia (Dignass et al, 2015). However, many IBD patients
      with IDA are not properly treate, probably due to the belief that mild to moderate degrees of
      anemia may not have a significant impact on the patient's quality of life, that oral iron
      supplementation may adversely affect disease activity, and that parenteral iron
      administration may cause severe side effects. In this study the investigators will compare
      three iron supplementation regimens (two iv iron formulations and one oral iron integrator)
      for the treatment of IDA in patients with IBD in terms of both efficacy and safety.
      Participation to the trial does not involve additional risks for the patients. In fact, the
      trial does not require additional diagnostic procedures beyond those that are usually
      performed in IBD patients and the drugs that will be use din the trial are already used in
      patients with IBD and IDA. According to WHO criteria (WHO scientific groupl, 1968), anemia is
      defined as Hb <13.0 g/dL in males and Hb <12 g/dL in females (Blanc et al, 1968). A serum
      ferritin <30 µg/L or a serum ferritin ≤100 µg/L with transferrin saturation <20% are required
      for the diagnosis of isolated IDA and of IDA associated with inflammation, respectively.

      300 subjects with IDA and IBD will be recruited in a multicenter trial and randomized 1:1:1
      to the three iron replacement arms. Expected duration of subject participation to the trial
      will be 24 weeks for each patient, consisting of an 8 week treatment period, with follow-up
      visits at weeks 4, 8, 12 and 24 from treatment start.

      Study participants can be participating in other research, either observational or
      interventional, or other drug research concerning the treatment of IBD.

      Iron gluconate and FCM are licensed for use in Italy and will be used according to AIC. Iron
      gluconate will be part of the normal hospital stock. FCM will be purchased through an IG-IBD
      donation to the Fondazione IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo. Microsomial iron is a formulation
      for oral administration commercially available in Italy as an iron integrator; for the study,
      however, it will be provided free of charge from Pharmanutra S.r.l.

      Concomitant therapy No other iron supplementation is allowed during the trial. Vitamin
      integrators containing folic acid, vitamin B12 and vitamin D or calcium are allowed, as well
      as any other treatment for IBD and related comorbidities; therefore, study patients can be
      treated with topic and systemic mesalazine and steroids, or with immunosuppressors
      (azathioprine, mercaptopurine, cyclosporine, methotrexate) and biologic immunomodulators
      (infliximab, adalimumab, golimumab) commonly used in IBD patients; pain relievers and
      antibiotics (the latter for either infection treatment or profilaxis) can be used without
      restrictions.

      Procedures and assessments Laboratory assessments can be performed outside the participating
      Centers, and results faxed or emailed to the Investigators who will register data in the
      eCRF. Result notification to the trial team must be performed as soon as possible.

      Safety/Adverse events (AE)/Serious AE (SAE) review as well as treatment compliance review at
      scheduled time points will be included during every visit. This will be included specifically
      in the list of assessments.

      Subject Registration Subjects will be registered locally and assigned a registration
      number/code. This number, together with the Center code, will constitute the unique patient
      identification code. Only the patient physicians must be able to identify the patient from
      the assigned code. Randomization will be performed by the Coordinator Center.

      Baseline assessments

      All patients will have a full medical history taken and a clinical examination. The following
      data points are to be recorded:

      a) Weight in Kg b) Gender c) Age (year of birth) d) Any significant past medical history e)
      CDAI and CAI disease activity scores for CD and UC respectively f) Full blood count
      (including platelets and differential white cell count) g) Biochemical series: including
      creatinine, serum iron, transferrin, serum ferritin, C reactive protein (PCR), folic acid,
      vitamin B12 and urine pregnancy test for women of childbearing potential (these are mandatory
      tests; further biochemical parameters useful for the study are reported in the CRF) h) Tests
      for HIV, HCV, HBsAg, QuantiFERON TB-2G (QuantiFERON is not necessary in patients previously
      treated for latent or active TB as per local standard of care) i) IBDQ score, VAS evaluation
      of fatigue J) Actual treatment k) Chest radiograph l) A blood sample (two 1.5 mL serum vials)
      will be obtained and stored at -20° C.

      Timing of assessments Follow-up will be performed at weeks 4, 8, 12 and 24.

      The following data are to be recorded:

        1. Physical examination

        2. Adverse Event Review

        3. Weight in Kg

      e) Full blood count f) Biochemical series g) IBDQ score, VAS evaluation of fatigue h) Actual
      treatment i) One blood sample (two 1.5 mL serum vials) will be obtained at the week 8
      follow-up visits and stored at -20° C.

      Long-Term Follow-up Assessments After the end of the study patients will be followed-up as
      usual for their conditions. Telephone calls will be used to contact patients if visits or
      data collection time-points are missed; whenever data collection will be impossible, the
      patient will be identified as 'lost to follow-up'.

      Patients will be expected to return to normal standard of care following their participation
      in the trial.

      Trial restrictions

      Women of childbearing potential participating in the trial are required to use adequate
      contraception for the duration of the trial and for 3 months after the completion of the
      trial/last treatment. This includes:

        -  Intrauterine Device (IUD)

        -  Hormonal based contraception (pill, contraceptive injection or implant etc)

        -  Barrier contraception (condom and occlusive cap e.g. diaphragm or cervical cap with
           spermicide)

        -  True abstinence (where this is in accordance with the patients preferred and usual
           lifestyle)

        -  Men are not required to use contraception and do not need to refrain from donating sperm
           for the duration of the trial and any period thereafter.

      Assessment of efficacy will be performed at 4, 8, 12 and 24 weeks after the start of
      treatment and will be based on determination of complete blood counts. Other informations
      concerning laboratory parameters, quality of life, clinical course, serum hepcidin and
      inflammatory cytokine concentrations will be gathered at the scheduled follow-up visits.

      Data analysis Primary endpoint: the rate of response will be compared between groups with the
      Fisher exact test. The combined iv regimens will be compared to the oral regimen at the 5.0%
      significance level. Difference in response rate (iv regimens - oral regimen) and 95%
      confidence interval will be computed. If the lower limit of the confidence interval for the
      difference in rates is above 15%, the non-inferiority limit, non-inferiority will be claimed.
      If non inferiority is shown overall, 97.5% confidence intervals will be computed for the
      difference of oral vs each i.v. regimen and non-inferiority will be assessed as above.
      Finally if non inferiority against the combined iv regimen is shown, superiority will be
      tested at the same 5% level.

      Further paired comparisons will be performed using the Bonferroni correction and will be
      considered descriptive only.

      The primary endpoint will be analyzed both in the intention to treat and in the per-protocol
      (PP) population. In a non inferiority setting. The PP population represents the primary
      population.

      Data handling and record keeping All data will be transferred into an electronic Case Report
      Form (eCRF) identified by a patient code. All trial data in the eCRF will be extracted from
      and be consistent with the relevant source documents. The eCRFs will be completed, dated and
      electronically signed by the investigator or designee in a timely manner. It remains the
      responsibility of the investigator for the timing, completeness and accuracy of the eCRF
      pages. The eCRF will be accessible to trial coordinators, data managers, the investigators,
      Clinical Trial Monitors, Auditors and Inspectors as required. The investigator will maintain
      a logbook with patients identification and the allocated codes in the investigator study
      file.

      Remote data-entry will be performed through the RedCap platform by each investigator. A paper
      copy of the eCRF will be provided with the investigator study file.

      Remote monitoring of the eCRF completeness and incongruences will be performed at the
      clinical trial center of the coordinating center and queries will be submitted to the
      investigators as appropriate.

      The investigator will also supply the trial coordination Center with any required, background
      information from the medical records as required. Data should be entered into the database
      within 2 months of the patient visit being completed.

      The investigators may retain copies of the eCRF in the relevant sections of their
      Investigator Site File with any required coded background information from the medical
      records as required.

      Source Data The investigators agree to keep records of all participating patients: sufficient
      information to link eCRFs, hospital records and samples, all original signed informed consent
      forms and copies of the CRFs, Patient Medical Records, On-line test results, sample logs.

      Data Safety Monitoring Board/Trial Steering Committee The study has been planned in Pavia by
      Prof. A. Di Sabatino, Dr. G. Bergamaschi and Prof. G.R. Corazza, from the Department of
      Internal Medicine, and DR. C. Klersy, Servizio di Biometria, all from Fondazione IRCCS
      Policlinico San Matteo; they represent the Trial Steering Committee.

      Consent The Informed Consent is in compliance with GCP, local regulatory requirements and
      legal requirements. Informed consent from each patient or the patient's legally acceptable
      representative will be obtained before any trial-specific activity is performed. The informed
      consent form used and any change made during the course of this trial, will be submitted to
      the REC. The investigator will retain the original of each patients signed informed consent
      form.

      Should a patient require a verbal translation of the trial documentation by a locally
      approved interpreter/translator, it is the responsibility of the individual investigator to
      use locally approved translators.

      Any new information which becomes available, which might affect the patient's willingness to
      continue participating in the trial, will be communicated to the patient as soon as possible.
      This may occur either verbally over the telephone, or at their next visit (if visits are
      close together).

      Regulatory Compliance The trial started after approval by the National Competent Authority
      and by the Ethics Committees of the participating Centers. The protocol and trial conduct
      will comply with the Medicines for Human Use (Clinical Trials) Regulations 2004.

      The trial will be performed in accordance with the spirit and the letter of the declaration
      of Helsinki, the conditions and principles of Good Clinical Practice, the protocol and
      applicable local regulatory requirements and laws.

      Sponsorship, Financial and Insurance The trial has obtained financial support from IG-IBD for
      patients' insurance, FCM procurement and FCM and microsomial iron shipment to participating
      Centers. Microsomial iron will be provided for free from Pharmanutra S.r.l.
    
  