
    
      Objectives and Background

      The purpose of this study is to determine whether Duet 2.0- a light-touch, public health
      model of remote intervention delivery 1) increases caregiver knowledge about children's
      language development, 2) improves caregiver-child language interaction quantity and quality,
      and 3) enhances children's language skills. It is hypothesized that dyads who receive the
      Duet 2.0 intervention will make greater gains in knowledge of child development, early
      interaction quality, and child language skills than the delayed-access control group.
      Secondary analyses will be conducted to examine if and how parent (e.g., self-efficacy) and
      child (e.g., child language abilities) characteristics relate to each other, baseline
      measures, and treatment outcomes.

      Early language skills are fundamental to language, cognitive, and socioemotional development
      and are the single best predictors of later academic success. Caregiver-child language
      interactions in the first three years of life not only predict early language development,
      but also influence school readiness skills and academic achievement. High-quality early
      language interactions are characterized by rich and diverse vocabulary, responsive talk
      (i.e., language following the child's attention), decontextualized language (e.g., language
      beyond the here and now context, "Remember we went to a party last night"), communication
      foundation (e.g., use of verbal and gestural symbols, engaging in back-and-forth
      conversations), and question use. In fact, early reading outcomes are particularly contingent
      on strong language skills that go beyond and accompany strong decoding skills.

      Despite the importance of these factors, there are large disparities in the frequency and
      quality of children's early language interactions. Although there is great within-group
      variability, children from low-income families on average have fewer and lower-quality
      language experiences than their middle- or high-income peers. Early disparities in language
      experiences can lead to gaps in language skills and academic achievement that persist into
      adulthood.

      Duet 2.0 will adopt an innovative and scalable approach-remote delivery and coaching. This
      design reflects arguably the strongest evidence for successful intervention. Remote coaching
      and telehealth are becoming accepted models for public health intervention in domains like
      nutrition, fitness, heart health, and diabetes. There is also growing support for remote
      delivery parent and teacher training programs. For instance, remote coaching has effectively
      improved Head Start teachers' language and literacy practices. This intervention model has
      also been used successfully to promote mental health in parents of infants, train parents in
      domains such as child socioemotional development, and support language and communication in
      young children with autism.

      With the support of the William Penn Foundation and the Bezos Family Foundation, the PIs
      spent three years designing and piloting a caregiver- implemented early language intervention
      program-The Duet Project: Early Engagement, Future Success. Using community-based
      participatory research (CBPR) framework with partners at the Maternity Care Coalition (MCC),
      the PIs created Duet training materials that are evidence-based and culturally sensitive.

      Pilot work with Duet yielded promising findings despite low sample sizes. These preliminary
      results support the efficacy of the Duet modules. Duet participants included some Spanish
      speakers; however, all participants had to be able to receive services in English. This
      significantly limited recruitment-nearly 25% of infants and toddlers in Philadelphia are of
      Latino/Hispanic origin. Furthermore, the percent of Hispanic/Latino people living in poverty
      is disproportionately high-they make up 21% of the population living in poverty but only
      14.4% of the total population.

      Translating the Duet modules into Spanish and developing a more efficient delivery system
      will maximize their scalability and positive impact on low-SES families. Establishing an
      efficient communication foundation, will enhance language learning and literacy development
      with the goal of narrowing the achievement gap in future generations. Given the undeniably
      powerful link between early language competencies and later literacy skills, this
      intervention has the potential to have long-lasting and widespread benefits both at local and
      national levels.

      Duet 2.0 Intervention and Data Collection

      Prospective research participants will be identified and recruited through the Department of
      Pediatrics at Temple University Health System(TUHS) and possibly by sharing recruitment
      materials with local community organizations (e.g., Early Head Start centers). Participants
      will be recruited and screened. If they meet study requirements during screening, they will
      then be consented and enrolled. Families who are randomly selected into the intervention
      group will complete the modules at home on their own time and receive remote coaching from an
      interventionist or coach (terms used interchangeably). Families in the delayed-access control
      group will receive access to the modules at the end of the study, but will still complete
      data-collection sessions. Approximately once a week after enrollment, Interventionists will
      support the intervention-group families remotely in comprehending and implementing what they
      have learned from the modules. Interventionists may also be involved in remote data
      collection. All participants will be scheduled for follow-up data collection sessions via
      phone or video conference.
    
  