
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The prevalence and severity of essential hypertension (EH) are greater among Black Americans
      than other ethnic groups in the U.S. Blacks are at increased risk for target organ damage
      from elevated blood pressure, including heart disease, stroke, and endstage renal failure.
      There are significant ethnic differences in cardiovascular reactivity (CVR) to stress, which
      is a risk factor for elevated blood pressure. Studies have shown that CVR to stress is stable
      over time, heritable, and predictive of future elevations in blood pressure and the
      development of essential hypertension. These properties make measures of CVR a valuable
      intermediate for genetic studies of hypertensive risk.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The genetic epidemiology study will test the hypothesis that individual differences in CVR to
      acute stress in Black youth are associated with well defined polymorphisms in candidate genes
      related to blood pressure including: 1) alpha- and beta-adrenergic receptor genes; 2) genes
      involved in catecholamine metabolism; 3) genes involved in endocrine function; 4) genes
      involved in the renin angiotensin system. By focusing on normotensive youth at risk for
      developing essential hypertension, the investigators hope to identify genes associated with
      the onset, rather than the sequelae, of hypertension. Moreover, given that CVR to acute
      stress is defined as a change in cardiovascular function evoked by an environmental
      manipulation of stress, the research is inherently a study of gene-environment interactions.

      A total of 500 unrelated Black adolescents and young adults (equal numbers of males and
      females), 15-21 years of age will be studied. Buccal cell samples will be collected for DNA
      extraction from all subjects for genetic association analyses. Impedance cardiography and
      blood pressure monitoring will be used to assess components of CVR to stress during video
      game, mental arithmetic, cold pressor, and whole body cold exposure tasks, all of which have
      been utilized or developed in the laboratory. Various methods will be used to evaluate
      genetic associations with CVR to acute stress, including analyses of single nucleotide
      polymorphisms and haplotypes. Supplementary analyses will evaluate potential gene-gene
      interactions and additional gene-environment interactions involving chronic environmental
      stress.
    
  