
    
      In this crossover trial, all study participants underwent two interventions, each on a
      separate occasion (>72 hours apart). A standalone 30-minute sauna at 75°C (S), and 15-minutes
      of cycling on the stationary bike at 75% maximum heart rate, followed by 15-minutes of sauna
      exposure (ES). A cycling exercise test was conducted on a separate day prior to the
      experiment to ascertain individual maximal exercise heart rates, which was then used to
      calculate individual 75% maximum.

      After the ﬁrst 15-minute period of S, the participants left the sauna room to have a quick
      shower (<30 seconds) before going back for the second 15-minute period. The same sauna
      bathing room (75°C) was used for all participants and the cycling exercise was conducted
      within 10 meters of the sauna room to minimize transit time during ES. Participants were
      instructed to abstain from eating 2h, caffeine 12h and alcohol 24h prior to the measurements.
      Food intake was not standardized. Fluid was consumed ad libitum. A medical physician was in
      attendance at all times and participants were allowed to leave the sauna or stop the
      experiment at any time if they felt uncomfortable.

      Brachial blood pressures and pulse wave velocity (PWV) as a measure of arterial stiffness,
      were taken in their respective order at three different time points; before (PRE),
      immediately after (POST), and after a 30-minute recovery (POST30). Transit time from the
      cessation of the intervention to POST measurements were kept under 60 seconds. All
      measurements were performed by the same assessor to minimize ascertainment biases.

      Participants were permitted to take a quick shower (<30 seconds) before POST measurements
      were taken. Water temperature or the shower was not controlled and participants could freely
      select their desired temperature. Thereafter, they were instructed to rest in a designated
      waiting lounge (mean temperature 21°C) in a seated position for a duration of 30-minutes
      before the last measurement (POST30) was taken.
    
  