
    
      Depression is now a public health issue, concerning 300 billion people in the World it is the
      leading cause of disability according to the World Health Organization and 800 000 persons
      die each year by committing suicide. Despite the finding of specific and efficiency
      treatments, recommended by main guidelines, a first prescription of antidepressant, Specific
      Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitor (SSRI) or Serotonin and Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors
      (SNRI), is associated with a remission in only 35 to 45%. Using switch strategies in case of
      non-response and the fact that the number of antidepressant molecules stagnates from few
      decades lead patients to refractory disease and heavy care like using of mood-stabilizers
      molecules, Electro-Convulsive Therapy or Repetitive Trans-cranial Magnetic Stimulation. To
      avoid therapeutic escalation and limit collateral consequences it seems to be essential to
      understand physiopathological feature of each patient and proposing adapted treatment in
      front of early signs of resistance.

      The hypothesis of a link between depression and Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis (HPA) dysfunction
      is now experienced. Since a first description in 1949 this link has made the HPA one of the
      most investigated hormonal axis in depression.

      Many studies have demonstrated quantitative variations of circulating cortisol in situation
      of depression including increasing of basal concentration of blood cortisol or
      Adrenocorticotropic Hormone (ACTH), a flattened rhythm of diurnal secretion, an early nadir
      and a disappearance of the morning secretion peak. Moreover it has be observed an anarchic
      rhythm and an increased amplitude of the secretion peaks. Furthermore there is an attenuated
      negative feedback performance of the blood cortisol on the release of ACTH and cortisol. This
      attenuation seems to be a consequence of a bluntness of sensibility of the hypothalamic cells
      and their Glucocorticoids Receptors type 2 (GR2). This bluntness seems to be consequence of
      genetic and epigenetic factors including maternal behaviors but also inflammation status with
      cytokines activation and abnormalities into the GR2 recycling process, with persistence of
      altered receptors.

      Actually it seems that these phenomena are included in a diversion of the cortisol's action.
      From a function of acute stress management, with short-time exposures, the cortisol become
      one of the factors increasing an allostatic load, or resulting of this increase, maintaining
      a permanent state of stress, an inertia delay to adaptation and facilitating the emergence of
      psychiatric disorders.

      This lack of function can be estimated by the Dexamethasone Suppression Test (DST) which, by
      stimulation attempting of feedback mechanisms by Dexamethasone (which has cortisol-like
      properties), can show a non-suppressor population with HPA bluntness. If this biological
      feature isn't a biological marker of depression, because of a lack of specificity and
      sensibility, is notably associated with a poor outcome and higher risks of suicidal behaviors
      and pharmacological resistance.

      Many studies have explored possibilities of action on the HPA to treat depression or improve
      antidepressant specific therapeutics, with inconstant results. One of the most promising
      molecule seems to be Metyrapone, a reversible inhibitor of the 11ß-hydroxylase enzyme which
      transform desoxycorticosterone and 11deoxycortisol to respectively corticosterone and
      cortisol. There have been several open label studies which aim to explore the possibility of
      an effect of the combination between Metyrapone and antidepressant molecules. This led to two
      randomized double blind controlled versus placebo studies whose conclusions are divergent :
      if the study of Jahn et al. have showed a significative amelioration of clinical response, by
      association SSRI with Metyrapone, the Antiglucocorticoid Augmentation of Anti-Depressants in
      Depression (ADD) Study concluded that this improvement is not significative in clinical
      routine practice.

      These conclusions and their heterogeneity lead to think that there is a sub-population which
      could be better responder to this type of association. Physiopathological knowledges and
      preliminary observations in DST non-suppressor population by using anti-glucocorticoids
      therapies, makes it possible to consider possible that responsive sub-population can be
      defined by the feature " DST non-suppressor ".

      This is a multicenter, open-label study in 14 patients, men and women, aged 18 to 60 years,
      hospitalized following a characterized depressive episode, with alteration of the response by
      the hypothalamic-pituitary axis to the Dexamethasone restriction test and resistant to an
      antidepressant treatment proposed in primary care medicine. The main investigator centre will
      be the Rouffach Hospital Centre, the co-investigator centre will be the Strasbourg University
      Hospital (Hôpitaux Civils de Strasbourg).

      Patients eligible for the study will present:

      A characterized depressive episode defined according to International Classification of
      Diseases version 10 (ICD-10) criteria.

      Persistent symptomatology despite treatment with a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor or
      a well-conducted serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (inclusion score >18 on the
      Hamilton Depression Scale 17 items).

      An alteration of the hypothalamic-pituitary response to the Dexamethasone Suppression Test
      (DST) defined by a non-suppression of cortisol production after taking 1mg of Dexamethasone
      (defined by a blood cortisol>120nmol/L at 8AM).

      For the duration of the study, the psychotropic treatment previously prescribed (before
      admission) will remain unchanged.

      This is an exploratory pilot study. The primary purpose is to assess the possibility of
      obtaining a normalized biological response to the Dexamethasone Suppression Test by the
      addition of short-term Metyrapone therapy to antidepressant therapy.

      Secondary purposes are:

      To determine if this effect is accompanied by a clinical improvement in depression defined by
      a sufficient decrease on the Hamilton Depression Scale 17 items (score below 18).

      To determine if such an effect persists at distance (1 month) from taking Metyrapone without
      modifying the initial psychotropic treatment.

      In the case of highlighting of a effect new study protocols, in particular controlled studies
      versus placebo, could be proposed.

      The study will be conducted in a hospital setting and according to good clinical practice. It
      will include :

      A pre-selection visit (at the beginning of hospitalisation) including a clinical examination
      (somatic and psychiatric), routine biological examinations, a review of medical and surgical
      history and previous and current treatments.

      An evaluation of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis by a dynamic Dexamethasone Suppression Test,
      the interpretation of the results and their announcement to the patient by a physician.

      An inclusion visit including verification of inclusion and exclusion criteria and a
      presentation of the study to the patient with consent (Day 0).

      Treatment with Metyrapone 1 gram per day divided into four 250mg doses: in the morning at
      8AM, at noon (12PM), in the evening at 6PM and at 10PM. This administration scheme was chosen
      because it has already been published in the literature in a similar context. Treatment will
      be given for 4 weeks without interruption and on a consistent dosing schedule (Day 2- Day
      29).

      Three evaluations of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis by a Dexamethasone Suppression Test
      (respectively at Day 17, Day 29 and Day 60), interpretation of the results and their
      announcement to the patient by a physician. The Day 29 evaluation is the only measure used
      for the primary outcome.

      A final study visit including a psychiatric clinical examination. The decision to continue or
      modify psychotropic treatment will depend on the clinical situation observed.
    
  