
    
      The study will be a single center, pilot trial. It will be an open label, single-arm, non-
      controlled design. All HS kidney transplant recipients with a PRA ≥ 30%, age 18 and older,
      requiring desensitization may be included in the study. Initial desensitization protocol for
      LD or DD includes Intravenous Immunoglobulin (IVIG) 2g/kg (>70kg max 140g) given on day 0
      (split over 2 days for peritoneal dialysis patients), rituximab 375mg/m2 (rounded to the
      nearest 100mg vial) given on day 15, and IVIG 2g/kg (>70kg max 140g ) given on day 30.
      Recipients for LD or DD who are unresponsive to IVIG/ritux (after 2 months for LD and after 6
      months for DD) will require plasma exchange (PLEX) 5-7 sessions followed by IVIG 2g/kg (>70kg
      max 140g) and rituximab 375mg/m2. Patients will be receiving acetaminophen, antihistamine,
      and steroid as premedication for all infusions.

      A total of 20 subjects will be enrolled in the study. Subjects will take part in the study
      until they are one year post-transplant. All subjects will require informed consent. At the
      time of screening, subjects will receive a physical exam and undergo lab testing. Alemtuzumab
      30mg, will be administered subcutaneously to all subjects for induction immunosuppression
      immediately post-transplant. Maintenance immunosuppression will consist of tacrolimus
      extended-release, mycophenolate mofetil 500mg twice daily or mycophenolate sodium 360mg twice
      daily, and prednisone. Patients will receive antimicrobial prophylaxis per CSMC protocol. Lab
      tests and physical exams for safety will take place according to the evaluation schedule
      below. Safety will be assessed by the reporting of serious adverse events.

      Tacrolimus trough level, complete metabolic panel, liver function panel, complete blood count
      with differential, DSA, and urinalysis with culture will be assessed according to the
      evaluation schedule below. Subjects will complete the study at one year post-transplant.
      Consent may be withdrawn by the study participant at any time. The investigator may also
      withdraw the study participant at any time if there are any safety concerns.

      Desensitization includes Intravenous Immunoglobulin (IVIG) 2g/kg (>70kg max 140g) given on
      day 0 (split over 2 days for peritoneal dialysis patients), rituximab 375mg/m2 (rounded to
      the nearest 100mg vial) given on day 15, and IVIG 2g/kg (>70kg max 140g ) given on day 30.
      Patients will require plasma exchange (PLEX) 5-7 sessions if they have received
      desensitization in the past. In this case, patients will receive PLEX daily x 5-7 sessions
      followed by IVIG 2g/kg (>70kg max 140g) and rituximab 375mg/m2. Patients will be receiving
      acetaminophen, antihistamine, and steroid as premedication for all infusions.
    
  