
    
      Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS) is a rare (1/25,000) clinically recognizable syndrome,
      characterized by the following features: a distinct pattern of minor craniofacial and
      skeletal anomalies, expressive speech/language delays, psychomotor and growth retardation,
      and a striking neurobehavioral phenotype. This phenotype includes stereotypies,
      self-injurious and aggressive behaviors, and a chronic sleep disorder associated with an
      inverted circadian melatonin rhythm. Sleep disturbances include daytime sleepiness, early
      sleep onset, and early morning awakening. Disturbed sleep is the strongest predictor of
      maladaptive behavior in children with SMS. Diminished nocturnal sleep is virtually universal
      in SMS, representing a major challenge to the patient and family. The majority (greater than
      95%) of cases are due to interstitial deletion of 17p11.2; however, rare cases due to RAI1
      gene mutations are also reported.

      One of the likely contributing factors to these sleep disturbances is an inverse circadian
      pattern of the sleep-promoting hormone, melatonin. In SMS, plasma melatonin is high during
      the day and low at night, which is opposite the normal pattern. The underlying reason for
      this regular daytime melatonin secretory pattern is unknown. To our knowledge this pattern is
      distinctive to persons with SMS and not found elsewhere. SMS therefore offers a unique human
      syndrome for the study of melatonin function. At the present time, there is no effective
      treatment for sleep disturbances in SMS. Moreover, there are currently no controlled
      treatment trials underway in the U.S. with the specific goal of correcting the disturbed
      sleep pattern observed in this disease.

      The aim of this Phase 1 treatment trial is to improve the quality of nocturnal sleep and
      decrease the need for daytime sleep by restoring a normal circadian pattern of melatonin
      levels in children with Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS). We predict that the inverse pattern of
      release can be corrected by the combination of non-pharmacological suppression of daytime
      melatonin release and pharmacological replacement of nocturnal melatonin. Negative behaviors
      associated with accumulated sleep debt are expected to diminish as sleep quality improves.

      Two treatment modalities will be evaluated alone and in combination: 1) light-induced
      suppression of daytime melatonin release and delay of nighttime sleep; and 2) pharmacological
      replacement of nocturnal melatonin. Melatonin levels measured in blood (Pre- vs.
      Post-treatment) will serve as the primary outcome parameter. A dTR-melatonin tablet developed
      by the Clinical Center Pharmaceutical Development Services (CC-PDS) will be used in this
      trial.
    
  