
    
      Patients with psoriatic arthritis, who initiate or switch anti-rheumatic treatment
      (conventional disease modifying drugs or biologic drugs) in routine care due to an active
      disease state, will be enrolled in the observational study.

      The overall aim is to investigate pain mechanisms, comorbidities and US psoriatic changes and
      elucidate if these factors - independently or by interaction - influence treatment response
      after 4 months. Patients will have a baseline visit, a follow up visit after 4 months and
      yearly thereafter. Examinations will be performed at all time points (except stated
      otherwise) and include:

        1. Assessment of pain mechanisms by clinical evaluation (swollen/tender joint ratio, tender
           points) and pain questionnaires (widespread pain index, PainDETECT).

        2. Ultrasonography of joints and entheses by two trained assessors

        3. Clinical examination of all psoriatic manifestations

        4. Interview and questionnaires regarding lifestyle, comorbidity status, function, quality
           of life and the impact of psoriatic manifestations.

        5. Blood samples for standard rheumatic monitoring and biobank

        6. X-ray of hands and feet (only at baseline)

        7. AMPS test (assessment of motor and process skills) will be performed and interpreted by
           an certified ergo therapist (only at baseline visit and at 34-months follow-up and oly
           for the first included 20 PsA patients)

      Clinical as well as patient-reported and observer-based outcomes will be described for the
      overall study population and the prognostic influence of US, comorbidities, and pain
      mechanisms will be analysed. Subsequently, the analyses will be repeated for certain
      subgroups of patients (e.g., conventional drug therapy vs. biologic drug intervention) in an
      exploratory manner. We will compare baseline data including pain, fatigue, work, life style
      and comorbidity status of PsA patients before initiating new treatment with patients with
      skin psoriasis without arthritis and healthy controls
    
  