
    
      This is a Phase 2 mechanistic clinical trial to assess the systemic and mucosal
      immunogenicity of the multicomponent meningococcal serogroup B vaccine (4CMenB or Bexsero
      (R)) (group 1, 40 subjects) against Neisseria gonorrhoeae, using a placebo vaccine (normal
      saline) as a comparator (group 2, 10 subjects). There will be 50 participants, ages 18-49,
      both male and non-pregnant female subjects, enrolled at 1 site in the US. The goal will be to
      ensure adequate representation of subjects by sex in both treatment groups. The enrollment
      will be stratified by both sex and treatment arm. A subset of subjects in each treatment
      group (N=16 in Group 1, N=4 in Group 2) will undergo rectal mucosal biopsy at two time points
      (baseline and following the second vaccination) for assessment of tissue Neisseria
      gonorrhoeae (GC) specific cellular responses. The rectal mucosal biopsy cohort ("biopsy
      cohort", N=20) will be enrolled first to address the primary objective of the study. During
      enrollment of the "biopsy cohort" male and non-pregnant female subjects will be randomized
      4:1 to either 4CMenB or placebo, up to a maximum of 10 male and 10 non-pregnant female
      subjects. All subjects will undergo sampling of mucosal secretions for testing for antibodies
      against Neisseria gonorrhoeae (GC). Male subjects will undergo oropharyngeal and rectal
      mucosal sampling, and female subjects will undergo oropharyngeal, vaginal and rectal mucosal
      sampling. Group 1 (N=40) will receive two doses of 4CMenB on Day 1 and Day 29. Group 2 (N=10)
      will receive two placebo injections on Day 1 and Day 29. Both groups will receive a
      single-dose prefilled syringe that is administered intramuscularly (0.5-mililter each). The
      duration of each subject's participation is approximately 8 months, from recruitment through
      the last study visit, and the length of the study is estimated for 14 months. The primary
      objective is to characterize the rectal mucosal Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody response to
      Neisseria gonorrhoeae (GC) elicited by the 4CMenB vaccine as compared with the placebo
      vaccine (normal saline) in healthy adult subjects. The secondary objectives are: 1) To
      characterize the serum IgG antibody response to Neisseria gonorrhoeae (GC) elicited by the
      4CMenB vaccine as compared with the placebo vaccine in healthy adult subjects, 2) To assess
      the safety and reactogenicity of 4CMenB in healthy adult subjects.
    
  