
    
      Previously at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, monitoring and reporting of late
      treatment sequelae developing in protocol participants have occurred at the discretion of
      individual investigators. A formal mechanism for coordinating long-term follow-up data
      collection of late cancer-related toxicity did not exist within the institution, nor did a
      central data repository to facilitate correlation of clinical and treatment factors
      predisposing to toxicity. Central coordination of late effects monitoring and reporting at
      St. Jude offers the potential benefit of facilitating timely communication about
      life-threatening or unanticipated late toxicity to investigators developing contemporary
      therapeutic studies and monitoring predisposed survivors who may benefit from preventive or
      corrective interventions.

      This study centralizes the late effects monitoring and reporting of St. Jude therapeutic
      studies which have been completed under the auspices of one umbrella protocol. This protocol
      is not an independent research study, but rather a means to aggregate outcome and late
      effects reporting regarding all patients actively being treated and previously treated at St.
      Jude Children's Research Hospital for the diagnosis of childhood cancer. Data collected on
      the patient will include only those data obtained through clinical staff or Cancer Registry
      encounters that are documented in the medical record or provided by the patient or family on
      follow-up forms. All monitored patients will have information provided regarding status
      (alive/expired), relapse, subsequent malignancies, and death for any cause. Clinical
      outcomes, toxicity and late effects monitoring planned in the study on which the patient was
      originally enrolled will be collected by the principal investigators of that study. Subjects
      will then be followed in the After Completion of Therapy on an annual basis for 10 years from
      diagnosis (or 10 years from completion of salvage therapy for relapse) or until they are at
      least 18 years of age. They will undergo specific screening laboratory, diagnostic imaging
      studies, and subspecialty consultations as medically indicated by predisposing cancer
      treatment exposures. At the time of discharge from ACT clinic the subject will begin annual
      lifetime follow-up by the St. Jude Cancer Registry.
    
  