
    
      Background information:

      Stent deployment for the treatment of coronary artery stenoses has evolved as the standard
      treatment in nearly all types of coronary lesions over the past two decades. The initial
      recurrence rate of bare stents in the range of 20 30 % in low risk stenoses has been further
      reduced by devices with passive coatings such as silicon carbide, heparin, phosphorylcholine,
      and carbon.

      In the percutaneous transluminal treatment of stenotic coronary arteries with diameters below
      3 mm, however, none of the currently available methods, namely balloon angioplasty with
      conventional balloons (POBA) and deployment of non-drug eluting stents have shown acceptable
      results for the various reasons inherent to these approaches. Although some studies showed
      POBA and the deployment of bare stents to be equally effective with respect to restenosis, in
      a recently published meta-analysis of eleven trials the restenosis rates were as high as 25.8
      % for POBA and 34.2 % for bare stents, respectively.

      Brachytherapy initially demonstrated encouraging results. However, due to its disadvantages
      such as delayed endothelialization, the risk associated with additional stenting, the
      cumbersome logistics at the sites and in the labs, brachytherapy is not considered as a valid
      approach. Data with the Sirolimus-eluting Cypher™ stent in vessels averaging 2.60 ± 0.54 mm
      in diameter showed the benefit of this cytostatic drug in this indication. However, this
      approach introduces a layer of metal to the per se small vessel and, thus, reduces the
      vascular lumen.

      Study Rationale:

      Since none of the above mentioned options for the percutaneous treatment of small vessel
      coronary artery stenoses seems to be universally recommendable the Paclitaxel-eluting PTCA
      balloon catheter has to be considered as an alternative. The possible advantages over either
      the uncoated balloon or bare stent include the antiproliferative mode of action of the
      compound. In comparison to the drug eluting stents (DES) the homogenous distribution of the
      compound along the target vessel segment, the lack of chronic mechanical alteration of the
      artery and the ease of access to the lesion would favor the Paclitaxel-eluting balloon.

      However, there are no data available on the use of the drug eluting balloons in small vessel
      disease and the information on the other indication evaluated to date, the treatment of
      in-stent restenosis is limited. In the latter indication, the animal model and according to
      unpublished results in humans, the proliferation induced by a Paclitaxel-eluting balloon
      catheter was significantly less compared to an uncoated balloon, the Paclitaxel-coated Taxus™
      stent, and to the Sirolimus-eluting Cypher™ stent. Therefore, it is prudent to test the
      Paclitaxel-eluting PTCA balloon catheter as an alternative approach for the percutaneous
      transluminal treatment of small vessel coronary artery lesions.

      Since none of the alternative methods has unequivocally shown its superiority over the other,
      none of them may serve as the golden standard and, i.e., for direct comparison. Consequently,
      as the initial step conducting a single arm study with the Paclitaxel-eluting balloon is
      suggested with historic data serving for comparison. Once these results will have been
      obtained a prospective randomized trial shall be discussed.
    
  