
    
      Bisphosphonates (BP) are widely used in the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis in
      postmenopausal women and older men. Recently, there has been concern about the risk of
      adverse events after several years of using these agents. This has resulted in a publication
      from the Food and Drug Administration that suggested that, for many individuals, a holiday
      from bisphosphonates might be considered after 4-5 years of continuous use. In that
      publication there was little, if any, guidance on how clinicians should proceed after the
      holiday is initiated.

      Bisphosphonates likely work by first binding to the hydroxyapatite crystal, and when the
      crystal is dissolved in the acid medium created by osteoclasts in the process of bone
      resorption, the bisphosphonate is released, and is incorporated into the osteoclast where it
      inhibits farnesyl pyrophosphate synthase and interferes with intracellular protein
      trafficking. The consequence is loss of osteoclast resorptive activity and in some cases
      osteoclast apoptosis. Thus the potency of any particular bisphosphonate is dependent on
      independent processes, such as the binding affinity to hydroxyapatite and the potency of
      enzyme inhibition. As patients remain on bisphosphonates, it is likely that more and more of
      the drug will become incorporated into the skeleton. Therefore, when the drugs are
      discontinued, they gradually leach from the skeleton. The rate at which the effects of the
      drug wear off ("off-rate"), as evidenced by changes in biochemical markers of bone turnover,
      should be dependent on the binding affinity. The length of time for which the pharmacologic
      effect continues will also be dependent on potency of enzyme inhibition. Thus, each
      bisphosphonate will likely have a unique off-rate. Data from the extensions of some of the
      clinical trials support the concept of variable off rates, but there are no head to head data
      to determine this. Furthermore, clinical trial data may have limited utility in patients seen
      in a practice setting.

      Biochemical markers have been shown in a number of studies to be reliable surrogate markers
      for the overall rate of bone remodeling in the skeleton. After menopause or ovariectomy,
      serum levels of biochemical markers increase and these increments have been associated with
      the rate of bone loss as measured by dual x-ray absorptiometry (DXA). As individuals age,
      fracture risk is determined by both age and bone mineral density (BMD). Trabecular bone score
      (TBS), an advanced application for DXA, describes the quality of bone microarchitecture,
      which has been shown to impact bone strength and thus fracture risk.

      In clinical trial data where bisphosphonates have been discontinued and subjects continue to
      be followed, biochemical markers increase after the drug is stopped, and presumably the
      fracture benefit of the drug will be gradually lost. Concern over possible association of the
      long term side effects of bisphosphonates (notably osteonecrosis of the jaw and atypical
      fractures of the femoral shaft) have led to a concept, endorsed by FDA, of a drug holiday. At
      present there are no guidelines on how patients should be followed when the drugs are
      discontinued. From the clinical trial data in different subject populations with differing
      protocols, as well as in vitro data, the inference may be drawn that the off effects will
      vary with different drugs. It is hypothesized that risedronate will lose its effect more
      rapidly than alendronate. However, this concept has never been studied in a prospective
      clinical study. Therefore, the intent in this prospective study is to examine patients who
      are about to be taken off of 2 different bisphosphonate drugs and compare their off rates
      using two established biochemical markers (sCTX and P1NP).
    
  