
    
      Introduction In 2020, the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) has affected more than 190
      countries, registering more than 79.2 million cases and more than 1.7 million deaths
      worldwide since the start of the pandemic. The first reported case in Argentina was on March
      5; two days later, the first fatality was registered in the country and in Latin America. On
      March 6, the first case of COVID-19 was confirmed in Córdoba, the second most populated
      province, out of a total of 23 provinces that make up the Argentine Republic. Until December
      31, 2020, the Ministry of Health of the Province of Córdoba registered a total of 126,893
      cases and 2,496 deaths from COVID-19.

      The current health crisis produced by the coronavirus pandemic and defined as an
      unprecedented situation led us to raise doubts, controversies, and dilemmas in health care in
      general, and in surgery in particular, understanding that residents are possibly so
      vulnerable or more than all professionals.

      In this scenario, the Association of Residents and Concurrents of General Surgery of Córdoba
      (ARCCC), which represents a non-profit civil association, founded in 1989, with the purpose
      of promoting scientific activity among resident physicians, prepared a survey with the
      objective of obtaining more information on how the COVID-19 pandemic affected the training
      and education of surgical residency programs in Córdoba.

      Material and methods A cross-sectional study was carried out, supported by a digital survey
      tool (Google Forms). The survey presented 25 mandatory multiple-choice questions and was
      distributed through social networks such as WhatsApp, Facebook, and Instagram, from August 15
      to September 30, 2020. All surgical residency programs in Córdoba, Argentina were invited to
      participate.

      The survey asked the demographic characteristics of the residents, the type of hospital
      (public / private / Armed Forces) where they worked, the adherence of the training center to
      the resolution of the Ministry of Health 718/2020 (extension of discharge and promotion of
      the academic year of residents until September 30, 2020, within the health services, to
      attend the health and social emergency produced by COVID-19) (6), the type and the year
      (Considering the National Decree 718/2020) of the training program, work modality, number of
      days of attendance at your institution and surgical practices, before and during the
      pandemic. Residents were asked whether these changes would affect their surgical training and
      overall preparation for their next career move. The effects of the pandemic on the well-being
      and burnout of residents were also assessed.

      All respondents voluntarily participated in this study and were advised that the information
      provided is confidential and will not be used to identify individual responses.
    
  