
    
      Diabetic foot ulcers (DFU) are one of the most frequent and difficult complications in
      diabetes. The risk for a diabetic patient to develop an ulcer during his life is estimated as
      being 25%. Ulcers are a frequent cause of lower limbs amputation and 84% of lower limb
      amputations are preceded by ulcers .

      Diabetic ulcer (DU) is not only a serious clinical problem with negative impacts on both the
      life quality and survival time, but also an economic burden with significant contribution to
      high cost and lengthy hospitalizations. Furthermore, the non healing diabetic cutaneous
      ulcers along with the subsequent amputations may bring about costly to treat and painful
      disabilities. However, healing of the DU may be improved and most of the amputations may be
      prevented by more effective treatments based on diabetic education .

      In spite of the high prevalence and morbidity associated with DFUs, current treatment options
      are limited. Current standard management consists of surgical debridement followed by
      frequent dressing changes with tight infection and glycemic control. Despite this
      comprehensive approach, complication and amputation rates remain high.

      The use of platelet-rich plasma (PRP) has emerged as an adjunctive method for treating DFUs.

      Platelet-rich plasma (PRP) preparations were first described in the 1980s as plasma with a
      platelet count above that found normally in peripheral blood.

      First used in the field of hematology, PRP use has expanded throughout the fields of
      dermatology, oral-maxillofacial surgery, plastic surgery, cardiac surgery, ophthalmology,
      urology, and gynecology .

      The concentration of platelets in PRP is 2-6 folds higher than that of whole blood .

      The curative properties of PRP rely on the fact that platelets are a physiological reservoir
      of a variety of growth factors, with healing function which have an active role in tissue
      regeneration .

      Platelets contain proteins, known as growth factors that trigger biological effects including
      directed cell migration (i.e. chemotaxis), angiogenesis, cell proliferation and
      differentiation, which are key elements in the process of tissue repair and regeneration.

      Specifically, the platelet alpha-granules contain several of these molecules, including:
      platelet derived growth factor (PDGF),transforming growth factor B ( TGF-β), vascular
      endothelial growth factor (VEGF), epithelial growth factor (EGF), fibrinogen, fibronectin,
      and vitronectin.

      In addition, platelet delta granules contain serotonin, histamine, dopamine, calcium, and
      adenosine, which act in tandem with the aforementioned growth factors to regulate wound
      healing .

      platelets exert antimicrobial activity against some bacteria of the skin, and clinical data
      shows that the presence of infection is reduced in PRP-treated wounds.

      The advantages and merits of PRP are apparent since it is easy, cost-effective and much more
      lasting compared to other standard treatments and being autologous in nature, it is free from
      communicable pathogens, making it a safe treatment modality with good clinical results
    
  