
    
      Despite the success of antiretroviral therapy (ART), a subset of HIV-1-infected patients have
      uncontrolled viremia, multiple drug class resistance, and limited treatment options.
      Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) forms part of most ART regimens, however its long-term
      use is associated with renal tubulopathy and reduced bone mineral density. Viral mutations
      (eg, K65R, multiple thymidine analog mutations (TAMs) can confer resistance or reduced
      susceptibility to TDF.

      Tenofovir alafenamide (TAF) is an investigational oral prodrug of tenofovir. When compared to
      TDF, TAF demonstrated lower plasma tenofovir concentrations and more potent antiviral
      activity at approximately one-tenth of the dose. TAF has the advantage of reduced tenofovir
      exposure to the renal tubules and bone, potentially resulting in fewer kidney and bone
      effects. As with TDF, TAF has potent activities against hepatitis B virus (HBV), and may be a
      treatment option for patients with HIV/HBV co-infections. Phase 2 trials have demonstrated
      the non-inferiority of TAF to TDF in treating HIV-1 infection in ART-naive patients. Smaller
      reductions in bone mineral density were measured with TAF than TDF. The most common adverse
      events were nausea and diarrhea.

      This single-arm, single-site, open-label trial will explore the safety and efficacy of TAF in
      a fixed combination with emtricitabine (FTC) (F/TAF, Gilead Sciences Inc.) as part of a
      salvage antiretroviral regimen for HIV-1-infected adults and adolescents (greater than or
      equal to 14 years) who experienced virologic failure. The study will recruit patients who
      have failed TDF-containing regimens or cannot take TDF (due to resistance mutations or risk
      of renal injury) and for whom abacavir/lamivudine (ABC/3TC) is not an optimal alternative.
      Eligible patients will begin 9 days of inpatient directly observed therapy (DOT) with F/TAF
      plus their pre-enrollment background regimen. On Day 10, patients will switch to F/TAF plus
      OBT while waiting for the results of Day 10 HIV RNA results. Patients with an HIV RNA decline
      of <0.5 log10 from Day 1 to Day 10 will discontinue F/TAF, end their study participation, and
      continue OBT (with TDF/FTC or ABC/3TC in place of F/TAF, as appropriate) under the 14-I-0009
      protocol. Patients with a greater than or equal to 0.5 log10 decline in HIV RNA will continue
      on F/TAF + OBT for 48 weeks, with periodic outpatient assessments of adherence, safety, renal
      function, bone mineral density, HIV RNA, and CD4 T cell counts. Switching of one or more
      drugs in an ART regimen due to inadequate viral response will require inpatient DOT under
      14-I-0009.
    
  