
    
      The spread of multidrug-resistant (MDR) and extensively drug-resistant (XDR) bacteria have
      become a worldwide public health concern. Infection with MDR/XDR bacteria is associated with
      increased morbidity, increased risk of therapeutic failure and healthcare costs. The largest
      burden is from extended-spectrum betalactamase-producing enterobacteriaceae (ESBL) and
      carbapenem-resistant enterobacteriaceae (CRE).

      The World Health Organization (WHO) has considered the epidemic of MDR/XDR bacteria as a
      major health concern and has registered these bacteria in the "priory pathogens list." This
      list includes pathogens for which new antibiotics are urgently needed. Moreover, in their
      recent report on ESBL, the French National Authorities of Health (HAS) has recommended that
      additional studies be conducted to improve knowledge about colonization risk factors.

      Some risk factors have been already identified: antibiotic intake and travel to countries
      with high MCR/XDR bacteria prevalence; however, many others are poorly identified. Patients
      visiting the CeGIDD (free information, screening and diagnosis center for sexually
      transmitted infections) and those receiving pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) to prevent HIV
      infection are more exposed to STIs (including methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus,
      MRSA) and receive antibiotics for STI treatment. Moreover, an increase of STIs has been
      recently observed in men who have sex with men and in patients receiving PrEP. As antibiotic
      use is likely considerably increased in this population, we anticipate a high proportion with
      MDR/XDR colonization.

      The objective of the "BMR-IST" study is to identify risk-factors (i.e. sexual behaviors, HIV
      status, antiretroviral PrEP, STIs, antibiotic use and travel to epidemic countries) of
      MDR/XDR bacteria colonization among patients at high risk of acquiring STIs and to determine
      the prevalence of MDR colonization in the studied population.
    
  