
    
      Participants People with MS (aged 18 or over) who are assessed for their suitability for FES
      to treat foot-drop at Slateford Medical Centre are eligible for participation in this study.

      For this feasibility study we aim to recruit at least 10 participants.

      Recruitment Eligible patients will be given an information sheet by their physiotherapist who
      will introduce the study at their initial appointment. A second appointment is made to fit
      the FES unit and if the patient is willing to consider taking part in the study, informed
      consent is taken.

      Data collection To record the degree of foot-drop, one arm of the electrogoniometer will be
      attached to the side of the participant's lower leg and the other arm to the shoe using
      skin-friendly double sided adhesive tape.

      The participant will then be asked to walk in their normal walking speed around the corridors
      of the clinic for six minutes or shorter if the participant is not able to walk for this
      duration. A data logger carried on the belt on the participant's waist will continuously
      record the ankle angle data at 50Hz. Walking speed will be derived by measuring the distance
      walked in the time recorded. Rate of perceived exertion on the Borg Scale will be recorded
      every minute and immediately after the walk. Participants will also be asked to fill in a
      questionnaire on their perceived walking performance (Multiple Sclerosis Walking Scale 12).

      At a follow-up appointment (1-2 weeks later) this data collection will be repeated with the
      participant using the FES unit.

      Data analysis. To assess the impact of fatigue on the ankle angle during prolonged walking,
      ankle angle data in the first and last 60 seconds of the walk will be recorded. Two way ANOVA
      will be employed to analyse both the effects of time (within session) and that of FES use
      ('Off' and 'On', between sessions) on the degree of foot-drop if data are normally
      distributed. Equivalent non-parametric statistics will be used for non normally distributed
      data. Statistical significance will be accepted at p<0.05.

      Inclusion criteria People with MS (aged 18-80) who are assessed for their suitability for FES
      to treat foot-drop between September 2013 and March 2014 at Slateford Medical Centre are
      eligible for participation in this study.

      Exclusion criteria Patients with fixed ankle deformities, who are allergic to tape and who
      are unable to walk for at least for two minutes (with or without walking aids) will be
      excluded. Patients who experienced a relapse or any trauma affecting their walking between
      the first fitting appointment and the follow-up appointment will also be excluded from the
      study.
    
  