
    
      Background of the study: The sentinel procedure (SN) for surgically treated cervical cancer
      is promising. Unfortunately, efficient and direct intra-operative SN localisation, without an
      extensive retroperitoneal exploration, remains a challenge even with combined use of patent
      blue dye en 99mTc. The draining lymph nodes are positioned around the retroperitoneal pelvic
      vasculature, in close relation to the ureters and nerves innervating bladder, rectum and
      sexual functionality (inferior hypogastric plexus, genitofemoral nerve, etc), which makes
      exploration hazardous and time consuming. Furthermore, complete retroperitoneal exploration
      often necessitates dissection of lymph vessels (to find the SN) which would have been spared
      in a selective SN excision. The use of technetium-99m(99mTc) enables preoperative SN mapping
      with SPECT(-CT) to localise SN and partly alleviate this issue. Some clinics perform
      preoperative SPECT(-CT), despite its disadvantages of prolonged hospital admission, radiation
      exposure, limited spatial resolution (SPECT) and the limited soft tissue differentiation in
      the female pelvis (CT). The investigators postulate that Magnetic Resonance (MR)
      Lymphangiography is a better technique for preoperative SN mapping in cervical cancer. It
      allows for integration with regular work-up pelvic MRI and could make SPECT-CT unnecessary.

      Objective of the study: To study the concordance of sentinel node localization between
      preoperative MR Lymphangiography and SPECT-CT SN mapping and the intra-operative sentinel
      node procedure (patent blue and 99mTc) for low stage cervical cancer.

      Study design: Prospective, feasibility type diagnostic study with the experimental test (MR
      Lymphangiography) added to standard clinical care (SPECT-CT, intra-operative SN procedure).

      Methods: 40 subjects targeted. Via a vaginal speculum exam 1ml of MR contrastmedium will be
      intracervically injected peripheral of the cervical tumor at 3, 6, 9 and 12 o'clock (suspine
      position). On a wide bore digital 1.5T MRI multiplanar T1w imaging is performed, followed by
      a blinded review (experienced radiologist) for bilateral SN localization with a standardized
      anatomical system. Standard procedure with a preoperative 220 MBq 99mTc SPECT-CT, a blinded
      nuclear medicine specialist will localize the SN. Standard peri-operative care; under general
      anesthesia 1ml injection of patent blue V in each of the four quadrants. Open or
      (robot-assisted) laparoscopy performed for visual localization of the blue SN's. Introduction
      of a gamma-probe and localization 'hot and blue' SN. For both methods anatomical locations of
      the SN are registered. Excision SN for freeze sectioning and histological review. Statistical
      analysis with intrapatient testing for concordance of SPECT-CT and MR Lympangiography based
      SN localization against the reference standard: the intra-operative sentinel node procedure
      (Patent blue and 99mTc).
    
  