
    
      BACKGROUND Diagnosis and management of ACO (the anatomic substrate for ST-elevation
      myocardial infarction) is time sensitive. Diagnosis necessitates emergent reperfusion
      therapy. An important predictor of death from ACO includes time to reperfusion.1 Delays in
      reperfusion therapy, including primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or
      fibrinolysis, are associated with worse 30-day and 1-year mortality. American Heart
      Association (AHA) guidelines for treatment of ACO recommend that the first medical contact to
      device time be less than 120 minutes in patients who have no contraindications to treatment.2
      Though cardiac biomarkers are helpful in making the diagnosis in uncertain cases, the time
      sensitive nature of intervention for ACO precludes their use to direct emergent reperfusion
      therapy. Furthermore, biomarkers do not diagnose ACO but rather any AMI, including those
      without occlusion that do not need emergent intervention.

      The "traditional" ECG diagnosis of ACO, which includes ST-elevation cutoffs based upon age
      and sex, excludes patients with ventricular paced rhythm (VPR).3 The small field of research
      on the topic of ACO in VPR has extrapolated and analyzed data from patients with left bundle
      branch block (LBBB). That is because VPR with right ventricular pacing and LBBB both result
      in depolarization from right to left through myocardium (not through conducting fibers) and
      thus result in similar ECG findings (e.g. wide QRS, delayed onset of depolarization, and
      abnormal repolarization with "discordant" [in the opposite direction of the QRS] T-waves and
      ST-segment deviation). In the presence of known LBBB, AHA guidelines recommend using the
      Sgarbossa criteria to make the diagnosis of ACO.4 Sgarbossa et al. proposed requiring at
      least 3 points from the following criteria for the diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction
      in the presence of LBBB: (1) concordant ST-segment elevation of 1 mm (0.1 mV) in at least 1
      lead (5 points), (2) concordant ST-segment depression of at least 1 mm in leads V1 to V3 (3
      points), or (3) excessively discordant ST-segment elevation, defined as greater than or equal
      to 5 mm of ST-segment elevation when the QRS complex is negative (2 points). There have been
      only a handful of evaluations of Sgarbossa's criteria in VPR, with variable methodologies and
      patient populations; sensitivities in the studies ranged from 10-53% and specificities ranged
      from 84-99%.5,6 Neither study used angiographic endpoints, but only used biomarker
      definitions of AMI; one study used a very flawed biomarker definition with no adjudication.
      Thus, the number of occlusions is entirely unknown and probably very small.

      For LBBB, Smith et al. derived and validated a "modified Sgarbossa rule" in which they
      replaced Sgarbossa's third criterion (excessively discordant ST elevation as defined by 5 mm)
      with a proportion-based criterion (defined by > 25% of the previous S-wave) (see Table 1).
      This rule resulted in much higher sensitivity and accuracy for diagnosis of ACO than the
      original Sgarbossa.7,8

      Table 1: MODIFIED SGARBOSSA CRITERIA

        1. ST-segment elevation >= 1 mm and concordant with the QRS in any lead

        2. ST-segment depression >= 1 mm and concordant with the QRS in any of leads V1- V3

        3. Proportionally excessive discordant ST-segment elevation in at least one lead, as
           defined by ST/S (</= -0.25) with at least 1 mm of STE

      The modified Sgarbossa criteria have never been evaluated in patients with VPR and very few
      additional criteria have ever been evaluated. To our knowledge, no criteria have been
      evaluated using an angiographic outcome, the only outcome relevant to guiding emergency
      reperfusion therapy. The primary purpose of this study will be to investigate the diagnostic
      performance of selected ECG criteria for the diagnosis of ACO in VPR. Through the process of
      answering this question, a database will be formed to answer multiple additional questions on
      this patient population that is underrepresented in clinical trials.

      STUDY DESIGN The primary analysis will be designed as a multicenter, retrospective
      case-control study. Additionally, data will be collected to create a database of
      de-identified patient information that will allow researchers to investigate numerous
      additional questions.

      Study sites will include Hennepin County Medical Center (HCMC, the lead site) and academic
      and community centers (study sites) located internationally. Because AMI was redefined in
      2007 by a rise and/or fall of troponin, with at least one value above the 99% reference
      value,9 our study will only include subjects that presented from January 1, 2008 through
      December 31, 2015.
    
  