
    
      Study participants will include 280 children ages 2 months to 8 years old, with a Height for
      Age Z score (HAZ) less than median for the Parque Universitario community, living in
      Brazilian favela. Subjects will be enrolled into this prospective, randomized, placebo
      controlled study of the Long-term Impact and Intervention for Diarrhea in Brazil. Children
      meeting the inclusion criteria will be prospectively, randomized to four arms: (1) placebo:
      placebo (2) Vitamin A: Zinc Placebo (3) Vitamin A Placebo:Zinc (4) Vitamin A:Zinc.
      Intervention will last for one year with two additional years of follow up. A nested study
      involving all patients will take place at week four. At week four there will be a second
      randomization to either oral glutamine or glycine (placebo) for an additional ten days. The
      primary endpoint of the nested study will be the L:M ratio at 6 weeks. The master
      randomization list will be broken, only by combined approval of the Principal Investigators,
      at the end of the study or in the unexpected event of a child needing removal from the study
      (for that case only). All randomized subjects will be visited in their home two times per
      week for assessment of intercurrent diarrhea. At 1, 4, 8, 12, 24 and 36 months patients will
      have a nutritional status/anthropometry and diarrheal illness rate assessment. At 0, 1, 1.5,
      and 4 months all randomized subjects will have a Lactulose:Mannose Ratio (L:M) performed. A
      blood Zinc and Vitamin A level will be drawn at 0 and 4 months. Also a stool microbiology,
      lactoferrin and protein loss assessment will be completed at 1 month. All randomized subjects
      who complete the protocol should have assessments as outlined above at 36 weeks. The primary
      effect of interest is the difference in mean HAZ changes between children receiving Zinc plus
      Vitamin A compared to children receiving no Vitamin A or Zinc, averaging the difference in
      children receiving glutamine and children not receiving glutamine.
    
  