
    
      After detailed history and examination,A transvaginal ultrasound will be done using a
      transvaginal transducer with 7.5 MHz.

      Each ovary will be measured in 3 planes maximal longitudinal, antero-posterior and transverse
      diameters, D1, D2 and D3 respectively. And ovarian volume will be calculated using the
      ellipsoid formula:

      V = D1× D2 × D3 × 0.523 The volume of both ovaries will be added for the total basal ovarian
      volume (BOV).

      The mean diameter of the antral follicles will be used by measuring the diameter of the
      follicle in two perpendicular directions.

      The total AFC is calculated by counting the follicles with mean diameter 2-10mm in both
      ovaries.

      • Ovulation induction protocol:- Long luteal phase agonist protocol will be used in all
      patients. Pituitary suppression will be done using daily subcutaneous injection of
      triptorelin acetate ( Decapeptyl 0.1mg, Ferring, Germany). Starting from day 21 of the
      previous cycle.

      Controlled ovarian hyperstimulation will be done using daily intramuscular injection of
      highly purified Human Menopausal Gonadotrophins (Merional 75 IU/ml, IBSA, Switzerland),
      starting from day 2-3 of the stimulated cycle, total dose will be adjusted according to
      patient response.

      Induction of oocyte maturation will be done using human chorionic gonadotrophins as an
      intramuscular injection of 10000 IU hCG (Choriomon 5000 i.u, IBSA, Switzerland). When there
      was sufficient ovarian response that defined as the presence of three or more ovarian
      follicles with mean diameter 18mm or more. [15]

      • Monitoring of the cycle: The response to ovarian stimulation will be monitored by serial
      transvaginal ultrasound starting on day 6 of stimulation and onwards assessing the ovarian
      follicles number and diameter, as well as serum E2 level as indicated.

      • Oocyte Retriveal: Oocyte retrieval will done (34-36 hours) after hCG injection, by
      transvaginal guided vacuumed oocyte aspiration using double lumen oocyte aspiration needle
      for flushing of the follicles.

      • Measurement of FSH and E2 Levels: A blood sample will be withdrawn on day (2 - 3) of the
      menstrual cycle in which the patient will undergo stimulation, for estimation the basal FSH
      (mIU/ml) , E2 (pg/ml) and AMH (ng/ml) levels.

      Both FSH and E2 will be tested using VIDAS equipment, both the FSH and E2 were measured by
      automated quantitative testing, using the ELFA technique (Enzyme Linked Fluorescent Assay).
      In the same way, AMH will be tested by Beckman Coulter, using GenII ELISA, USA.
    
  