
    
      Despite the fast development and popularization of reperfusion as well as adjunctive medical
      therapy, complications of STEMI remain critical causes of adverse events. Among them, the
      formation of the left ventricular thrombus (LVT) subsequent to STEMI is not rare. The
      incidence of STEMI-related LVT could be as higher as 31%-56% in the earlier time when
      thrombolysis was the mainstream of reperfusion . The risk lowers in the ear of the primary
      PCI, but LVT can still be detected in around 15% patients. Anterior MI is the most critical
      determinant of LVT. In a study including 2911 patients, 93.2% LVT occurred due to the
      occlusion of left artery descending (LAD). More than 2/3 of LVT was reported within the first
      two weeks of STEMI, late thrombus can be found in three months or even later. The existence
      of LVT is clearly related to increased risk of embolic events and death. In a meta-analysis
      in 2019, STEMI patients with LVT demonstrated a 3.97 times higher risk of embolic events than
      those without LVT. In a recent study, the rate of 5-year embolism in STEMI patients with LVT
      was up to 16.9% if without effective therapy, significantly higher than the rate of 2.9% in
      patients without LVT and 3% in patients with LVT but undergoing ideal therapy.

      Current therapeutic guidelines recommend anticoagulant therapy for post-STEMI LVT. Since most
      of the LVT would be found in the acute phase of STEMI, the anticoagulant therapy is usually
      in addition to antiplatelet treatment. So far, Vitamin K antagonist (VKA) is still the
      standard medication in the treatment of LVT. The 2013 ACC/AHA guideline for STEMI management
      recommended adding VKA to the dual-antiplatelet regiment in patients with LVT for at least 3
      months. Similarly, the 2014 ASA guideline for primary prevention of stroke gave an IIa level
      recommendation to use VKA adjunctive to antiplatelet medications in STEMI patients developing
      LVT. The treatment of VKA seems effective to both resolve LVT and decrease embolic events. In
      two small studies, the triple antithrombotic regimen comprising of VKA and dual antiplatelet
      (aspirin and clopidogrel) for 3 months resolved 88% and 92.3% LVT on echo, respectively. The
      addition of VKA remarkably could reduce the embolic events to 0-3% as reported in different
      studies.

      However, the complicated titrations and the need to frequently monitor international
      normalized ratios (INRs) make the use of warfarin inconvenient, especially for patients who
      have difficulty to access medical services regularly. Therefore, the use of novel oral
      anticoagulants (NOACs) as a substitute for warfarin is highly attractive. However, the
      efficacy of NOACs in the treatment of STEMI-related LVT is not clear. Current experiences
      come from small series of case reports. Rivaroxaban is a potent Xa factor inhibitor. In the
      field of cardiology, it has become a preferred replacement of VKA in the prevention of
      embolic events due to the left atrial thrombus. In the X-TRA study, 15mg/QD rivaroxaban
      resolved 41% of left atrial thrombus. In the case of post-STEMI LVT, 15mg/QD rivaroxaban
      additional to dual antiplatelet therapy resolved all 4 cases of LVT in 2-4 weeks in a Cyprus
      study. In an American case series, 20mg /QD rivaroxaban plus one antiplatelet medication
      (clopidogrel) also successfully resolved LVT in 2 patients. Therefore, using NOACs to treat
      post-STEMI LVT is promising. The 2017 ESC guideline for STEMI management doesn't limit the
      choice of anticoagulation for LVT only to VKA, but the application of NOACs still needs
      further confirmation.

      This study aims to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy and safety of rivaroxaban on the
      treatment of post-STEMI LVT.
    
  