
    
      Sleep is critical for the regulation and maintenance of biological systems, and sleep
      deficiency, such as insomnia, has been shown to be associated with elevated risks for
      cardiovascular, metabolic, and mood disorders.

      Despite the high prevalence of insomnia in the population, the investigators understanding of
      the biological consequences of the disorder with respect to inflammatory, autonomic, and
      stress system markers is limited, and often not consistent.

      In addition, insomnia may not only alter the basal activity of these systems, but may change
      their reactivity to other stressors and challenges. In support of this assumption are
      findings showing that poor sleep quality in healthy individuals is associated with a stronger
      biological response to a stressful challenge, such as the cold pressor test. This test
      involves the immersion of the hand in ice-cold water. It is one of the most commonly used
      laboratory physiological challenge tests, provoking not only unpleasantness, but also
      increases in stress and inflammatory markers.

      Investigations of such system's reactivity to challenge may elucidate systems abnormalities
      that the investigators do not capture by only assessing basal system's levels. For example,
      in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, basal inflammatory levels are normal, but the response
      to a physiological stress challenge (cold pressor test) is amplified.

      To the investigators knowledge, no studies have measured how insomnia may affect the
      reactivity of biological systems to a stressful challenge, which may serve as an important
      indicator of system's dysregulation and associated disease risk.

      In this light, the primary goal of this proposal will investigate whether stress-related
      systems are more reactive to a physiological stressful challenge in insomnia disorder
      compared to healthy controls.
    
  