
    
      Amblyopia is a visual neurodevelopmental disorder associated, more frequently, with the
      presence of strabismus and anisometropia. It is clinically most important visual condition in
      childhood because, apart from refractive error, it is the most frequent cause of vision loss
      in children. It is a reversible condition that affects up to 5% of the population, and that
      is the result of an abnormal visual experience during the most sensitive period of visual
      development. Although amblyopia is expressed in the clinical practice as a reduction in
      visual acuity, it is also characterized by an altered stereoscopy. Generally, treatments for
      amblyopia focus on the recovery of visual acuity, and there are no treatments that focus
      mainly on the recovery of the altered stereopsis, so present and with an important functional
      impact.

      The aim of this study reviewing, analyzing and, if applicable, updating the current treatment
      model for amblyopia. On the one hand, to evaluate the effectiveness of viewing a 3D movie in
      the improvement of stereoacuity and the deviation, as well as visual acuity and sensitivity
      to contrast. Also, the correlation between them. On the other hand, to assess quantitatively
      the degree of satisfaction and acceptance of the participants and their families towards the
      intervention.

      A quasi-experimental study will be performed, without a control group, pre- and post-
      intervention in which subjects with refractive and / or strabismus amblyopia, that have been
      subjected to traditional treatment for amblyopia, will be selected. Variables of stereopsis,
      latent or manifest deviation, visual acuity and sensitivity to the contrast will evaluate
      previously and after the intervention.

      The sample will include subjects between 5 to 12 years old with a diagnosis of refractive and
      / or strabismic amblyopia.
    
  