
    
      Ebselen, a new drug for mania

      Bipolar disorder, formerly known as manic depression, is a condition that affects mood, which
      can swing from one extreme to another.

      Typically, there will be periods of:

        -  Depression - very low mood and energy levels

        -  Mania or hypomania (less severe) - very high mood and overactive energy levels

      A drug called lithium, used to stabilise mood, is an important treatment for bipolar disorder
      but has a number of problematic side effects, is not well tolerated by patients and requires
      careful monitoring. To replace lithium with other, safer medicines would have clear
      advantages. The investigators are interested in an antioxidant medicine(substance that may
      prevent or delay cell damage) called ebselen which has been shown to work in a similar way as
      lithium and the investigators are investigating whether it might help improve recovery from
      manic episodes.

      The present study aims to see whether ebselen, used as an 'add-on' treatment can help
      stabilise mood in patients experiencing high mood (hypo/mania). Sixty patients experiencing
      hypo/mania will be given in a randomised order (similar to tossing a coin) either ebselen or
      placebo (dummy) in addition to their usual medication for three weeks after which the add-on
      treatment will be stopped. A final follow up visit will take place one week after the study
      medication has been stopped. Participants can be in or outpatients and mood will be monitored
      with questionnaires and interviews. Activity will also be monitored with the use of an
      actiwatch (similar to a wrist watch) which will be worn continuously throughout the study. A
      single blood sample will be optional and occur after the first week of treatment to check
      plasma levels of ebselen and inflammatory markers. A positive outcome in this trial will be
      followed by longer term studies of ebselen in bipolar disorder.
    
  