
    
      Multiple myeloma (MM) is an incurable disease with an annual incidence of 14,000 new cases in
      the US alone. Despite initial sensitivity to corticosteroids, chemotherapy and radiotherapy,
      relapse is inevitable and there is a median survival of only 2.5 to 3 years. The use of
      autologous stem cell transplantation (SCT) has improved the duration of disease remission for
      younger patients but still only results in a median survival of 5 - 6 years.

      Since the early 1970s, azacitidine has been investigated for the treatment of acute leukemia.
      More recently it has been investigated in the treatment of patients with myelodysplastic
      syndrome (a pre-leukaemic condition). It has been shown to prolong the time to development of
      acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) or death and has now been approved for use in these patients.

      Azacitidine is a cytotoxic drug and is directly toxic to cells, preventing their reproduction
      or growth. It is also able to cause cells to undergo the process whereby they mature into
      normal cells. The Myeloma Research Group at The Alfred Hospital has looked at the effect of
      azacitidine on human myeloma cell lines in the laboratory. Azacitidine was found to prevent
      both cell growth and causes cell death. In mouse models with multiple myeloma azacitidine
      prolonged their survival.

      The primary aim of this study is to determine the effectiveness of azacitidine in treating
      patients with multiple myeloma. The other aims of this study are to see whether treating
      patients with azacitidine extends the time that their myeloma is under control, to determine
      the number of cycles of azacitidine required to first achieve a response and to determine how
      safe and tolerable azacitidine is in treating multiple myeloma.

      In the first stage a total of 14 people will participate in this project. If in this group of
      patients azacitidine is shown to be effective as a treatment against multiple myeloma then a
      further 10 patients will be invited to participate.
    
  