
    
      Background and rationale - CRC and PDAC are the second and fourth most common cause of cancer
      death, respectively. Patients affected by these cancers die of liver MTS. Conventional
      therapies are active in either primary tumors but fail in metastatic disease. The
      effectiveness of immunotherapy by immune checkpoint blockade and adoptive cell therapy with
      tumor-specific T cells is only partial or temporary in MTS from solid tumors, because of
      local immunosuppressive mechanisms. This is particularly relevant for hepatic MTS, in which a
      natural tolerogenic milieu may further sustain immunosuppression induced by cancer cells and
      infiltrating immune cells, such as tumor associated macrophages (TAMs), myeloid-derived
      suppressor cells (MDSCs), neutrophils, and regulatory T or B cells.

      In this regard, evidence suggests that progression of primary or metastatic CRC correlates
      with poor immune infiltration and inflammation. Moreover, our published results in primary
      PDAC support a correlation between tumor progression and a strong type 2
      anti-inflammatory/immunosuppressive signature. Efficacy of chemotherapy is known to rely also
      on reactivation and/or repolarization of tumor targeting immune responses. Pre-surgical
      chemotherapy may induce beneficial effects and potentially targetable changes in the immune
      profile of CRC or PDAC MTS.

      The investigators hypothesize that a combination of i) direct cancer cell killing by
      adoptively transferred tumor-specific T cells and ii) indirect control of tumor progression
      via reprogramming of the tumor microenvironment would control hepatic MTS of CRC and PDAC.

      Thus the investigators propose a thorough characterization of the metastatic milieu in these
      two cancer types to rationally shape, on the basis of similarities and differences,
      innovative ATMPs.

      Objectives - The investigators want to study:

        1. the tumor mutational burden and composition of the metastatic tumor microenvironment in
           the liver;

        2. the inhibitory pathways that constrain immunity in liver MTS;

        3. the antigenic and clonal breadth of anti-tumor T cell responses;

        4. the spatial-temporal variations of effector and regulatory immune cells upon therapy.

        5. the characteristics of tumor cells and their microenvironment in liver MTS versus
           primary tumor

      Our primary objectives will be:

        1. to identify immune suppressive/exhaustion pathways

        2. to develop a library of tumor-specific TCR (N≥5/tumor type) and identify new CAR targets
           (N≥1/tumor type) in CRC and PDAC MTS

      Study Design - This clinical protocol aims at deeply characterizing MTS tumor cells and their
      microenvironment, including possibly informative dynamic modifications from pro-tumor to
      anti-tumor profiles that may follow chemotherapy, which is administered pre-surgery
      (neo-adjuvant) to a substantial fraction of patients. PDAC and CRC MTS patients will be
      therefore characterized by either cross-sectional or longitudinal investigations on
      chemotherapy-naïve vs -treated patients.

      In addition, the investigators aim at comparing hepatic MTS with primary tumor, in order to
      highlight dynamic qualitative modifications in cancer cells, immune infiltrates and
      not-immune microenvironment that could facilitate disease progression toward metastatic
      spread. These modifications may offer a window of opportunity for the optimal application of
      our ATMPs. To this purpose, primary non-metastatic PDAC patients undergoing surgical
      resection will be enrolled in this study and followed-up for monitoring the development of
      metachronous liver MTS, that will be characterized and compared to their matched/not matched,
      previously collected, primary tumor samples. Also, in those CRC MTS patients undergoing
      synchronous resection of primary CRC and hepatic MTS, comparative analyses will be carried
      out on tumor from both sites, allowing intra- and inter-patient profiling of both tumor
      niches.

      The investigators expect to collect samples and clinical data from at least:

        -  200 metastatic CRC patients (either synchronous or metachronous);

        -  200 non-metastatic PDAC patients, among whom 20% are expected to relapse and develop
           liver MTS within 1 year since primary tumor resection (possibly providing MTS
           biospecimens);

        -  75 synchronous PDAC MTS patients and about 20 metachronous PDAC MTS patients, the latter
           originally enrolled as primary non-metastatic patients for the longitudinal study, for a
           total of 95 metastatic PDAC patients;

        -  30 healthy volunteers, as negative controls. Almost 505 different subjects will be
           enrolled in the protocol.

      Different biological samples (peripheral blood, primary and/or metastatic tumor tissue,
      portal blood) will be collected, in the course of the standard diagnostic and therapeutic
      care of those patients, and will be in part directly analyzed and in part biobanked for
      further studies. In parallel, clinical data will be collected from patients since the time of
      enrollment in the study for a follow-up period of 2 years.

      The statistical analysis of collected data will be performed throughout the clinical study,
      starting 6 months after the enrollment of the first patient until 6 months after the end of
      patients' follow-up, for a total of 7 years. The study will last 7 years.

      The research activities will be organized and integrated in 6 work packages (WPs):

        1. Collection of the material from patients with CRC and PDAC MTS to the liver and with
           primary non-metastatic resectable PDAC;

        2. Definition of the tumor mutational burden, epigenetic and gene expression profile of the
           CRC and PDAC metastatic liver at bulk and at single cell level;

        3. Evaluation of the molecular and cellular composition of CRC and, if possible, PDAC liver
           MTS by NICHE-seq;

        4. Characterization of the immune landscapes of CRC and, if possible, PDAC liver MTS by
           high dimensional flow cytometry;

        5. Validation of the molecular results obtained in 2) and 4).

        6. Definition of the antigenic landscape and TCR repertoire of CRC and PDAC liver MTS
           Longitudinal PDAC primary tumor immune microenvironment characterization.

      The results obtained by the above mentioned WPs will be crossed with clinical follow-up data.
    
  