
    
      Since December 2019, the COVID-19 pandemic has widespread from China and put under strong
      tension the health organizations throughout the world, especially since march 2020 in France.

      As a consequence, the French hospitals had to cope with a massive amount of COVID-19 infected
      patients and, thus, their organisations had to evolve in order to be able to admit more
      patients in their critical care units.

      First studies reported an important level of inter-human contagiousness of the SARS-CoV-2
      virus with an "R0" (basic reproduction number) superior to 3, which could lead to a massive
      contamination of healthcare workers since they are directly in charge of infected patients.

      Other studies suggested that the healthcare workers are more likely to be contaminated by the
      COVID-19 than the rest of the population, which pushed governments and hospital managers to
      put in place individual and collective measures of protection in order to avoid nosocomial
      transmissions and also to preserve the health of the hospital staffs in a context of high
      tension on the hospital work force.

      There are today few data about the contamination level among the healthcare workers of
      general hospitals in France and about the severity of these contaminations. A national study
      is being conducted but on a macroscopic regional scale. In addition to that, the proportion
      of asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 contaminated healthcare workers is not known as well as the origin
      (hospital or community) of the contaminations.

      In June 2020, the French Health Ministry decided to launch a collection of epidemiological
      data in the French hospitals based on serologic tests. Thanks to this action and with the
      results of all the RT PCR tests systematically conducted since the beginning of the pandemic
      when a healthcare worker had COVID-19-like symptoms, the Centre Hospitalier Sud Essonne has
      decided to conduct an observational study.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the prevalence of COVID-19 among the workers of our
      hospital and the factors that are likely to influence this prevalence. It must be underlined
      that our hospital is settled in two towns and both hospital sites had different missions
      regarding the admissions of COVID-19-infected patients.
    
  