
    
      Glucocorticoid (GC) is the main stay of treatment of many rheumatic diseases but is also an
      important cause of secondary osteoporosis. The long-term use of GCs increases the risk of
      fragility fracture at a much higher bone mineral density (BMD) than postmenopausal
      osteoporosis, indicating an additional deleterious effect of GC on bone quality. More than
      one-third of postmenopausal women receiving GC therapy developed asymptomatic vertebral
      fractures. A study in general practice reported an increased relative risk of vertebral and
      hip fractures in chronic GC users, with fracture risk proportional to the daily dose of GC.
      Another study also confirmed that intermittent use of high-dose GC and the cumulative GC dose
      was associated with an augmented risk of osteoporotic fracture.

      The glycoprotein sclerostin, secreted by the osteocytes under the influence of mechanical
      loading, inhibits activation of the canonical Wnt pathway involved in osteoblastogenesis and
      hence suppresses bone formation. Moreover, sclerostin enhances resorption of the bone by
      stimulating the production of (RANKL) by the osteocytes. Romosozumab (ROMO) is a humanized
      monoclonal antibody against sclerostin. The landmark RCT has demonstrated efficacy of ROMO
      (210mg subcutaneously monthly) over placebo in reducing vertebral fractures by 73% at 12
      months in 7180 postmenopausal women with osteoporosis of the hip at entry. The suppression of
      markers of bone resorption and enhancement of markers of bone formation indicates that ROMO
      has a dual mode of action on the bones. The efficacy of ROMO has also been tested against
      oral bisphosphonates. A RCT was conducted in 4093 post-menopausal women who were assigned to
      receive either ROMO (201mg subcutaneously monthly) or oral alendronate (70mg weekly) for 12
      months, followed by open-label alendronate for another 12 months. At month 24, a 48% lower
      risk of new vertebral fractures was observed in the ROMO (6.2%) than the alendronate group
      (11.9%; p<0.001). The risk of incident hip fractures was also significantly lower in the ROMO
      (2%) than alendronate treated patients (3.2%; p=0.02). The frequencies of adverse events and
      serious adverse events, however, were similar in the two treatment arms.

      There are no data regarding the efficacy of ROMO in GC-induced osteoporosis. Comparative
      study on the efficacy of ROMO and denosumab in post-menopausal osteoporosis is also not yet
      available in the literature. This prompts the current pilot study to compare the efficacy of
      ROMO with denosumab in high-risk patients receiving long-term GCs.
    
  