
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the complete response rate (CR) of the four-drug combination of ixazomib,
      lenalidomide, dexamethasone and daratumumab in patients with previously untreated symptomatic
      multiple myeloma (MM).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR), and very good partial response (VGPR) rate
      with the four drug combination of ixazomib, lenalidomide, dexamethasone and daratumumab, when
      used as initial therapy in patients with previously untreated symptomatic MM.

      II. To determine the progression free survival and overall survival among patients with
      previously untreated symptomatic MM following treatment with the four drug combination of
      Ixazomib, lenalidomide, dexamethasone and daratumumab followed by ixazomib and daratumumab
      maintenance till progression.

      II. To determine the toxicities associated with the four drug combination of ixazomib,
      lenalidomide, dexamethasone and daratumumab in patients with previously untreated symptomatic
      MM.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine the proportion of minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity following induction
      therapy with the four-drug combination of ixazomib, lenalidomide, dexamethasone and
      daratumumab.

      II. To assess the quality of life using patient completed Functional Assessment of Cancer
      Treatment (FACT)/Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG) questionnaires.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION PHASE: Patients receive ixazomib citrate orally (PO) on days 1, 8, and 15 and
      lenalidomide PO on days 1-21. Patients receive daratumumab intravenously (IV) over 3-7 hours
      on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of courses 1 and 2, on days 1 and 15 of courses 3, 4, and 5, and on
      day 1 of courses 7 and beyond. Patients also receive dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and
      22. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE PHASE: Patients receive ixazomib citrate PO on days 1, 8, and 15 and daratumumab
      IV over 3-7 hours on day 1. Courses repeat every 28 days for up to 36 months from
      registration in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 or 6 months.
    
  