
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The study was part of an NHLBI initiative on "CVD Nutrition Education for Low Literacy
      Skills". The initiative originated within the Prevention and Demonstration Branch of the
      DECA, was approved by the September 1988 National Heart, Lung, and Blood Advisory Council,
      and released in July 1990.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Materials were designed to accomplish the objectives of conventional nutrition
      education/behavior change programs, but avoiding the usual dependency of traditional programs
      on strategies that required a high level of reading and arithmetic. Guiding principles were:
      the need to identify the food related conceptual, cultural, and social frameworks of members
      of the target audience; and develop a program that built upon already-developed, alternative
      communication and coping skills. The core of the system was a) a protocol for office-based
      patient assessment and follow up, b) an educational/motivational videotape viewed in the
      clinical setting, c) scripts and supporting materials for a 4-week minicourse led by a clinic
      staff member or volunteer, and d) a package of audiocassettes and supporting printed
      materials to facilitate self-directed learning over an extended time period. Printed
      materials emphasized the use of cards (hence the acronym 'CARDES') that delivered single
      concepts about nutrition or behavior change and that permitted manipulation, selection, and
      reorganization of information.

      CARDES was developed and evaluated in cooperation with Howard University Hospital in
      Washington, D.C. Using a randomized two-group design and a 12-24 month follow up, serum
      cholesterol and blood pressure levels of persons counseled with the CARDES program were
      compared with values for a control group receiving usual care. Process measures described
      adherence outcomes and determinants. Secondary outcomes related to CVD risk factor status
      were also evaluated. Prior to the evaluation, a pilot study determined the best sequence for
      delivering the information related to dietary change (i.e., Na first, fat/cholesterol first,
      or concurrent). Subsequent to the evaluation and prior to development of the final system and
      dissemination plan, an assessment was made of the potential utility of CARDES with other
      black populations with low literacy skills.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  