
    
      AS is the most common valvular heart condition in the Western world. In response to increased
      afterload imposed by AS adaptive left ventricular (LV) remodelling occurs which in a course
      of a disease transitions from LV hypertrophy to maladaptive changes in the myocardium leading
      to cardiac decompensation and symptoms development. This transition is predominantly driven
      by myocardial fibrosis and myocyte cell death. Increasing evidence have demonstrated that
      presence of myocardial fibrosis, detected by cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR), could
      serve as an early marker of LV decompensation and predict adverse outcomes in patients with
      aortic stenosis. Currently, the indications for valvular replacement are based on the
      stenosis severity evaluated by echocardiography and the presence of symptoms.

      The objective of the project is to identify parameters of non-invasive imaging modalities
      (two-dimensional echocardiography with an extended myocardial deformation analysis, 1.5 T CMR
      with T1 parametric map and late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) predictive of cardiac
      decompensation and to evaluate the prognostic significance of myocardial fibrotic changes in
      patients with severe degenerative AS. In patients with suspicion of cardiac amyloidosis,
      99mTc-3,3-diphosphono-1,2-propanodicarboxylic acid (DPD) scintigraphy will be performed.

      Study design: a prospective, open, case-driven, multicentre study (Lithuania, Denmark).

      Investigators will assess LV structural and functional alterations before and 12 months after
      aortic valve intervention. Cardiac imaging data will be aligned with histopathological data
      from myocardial tissue samples collected at the time of aortic valve replacement in SAVR
      group. In patients with suspicion of cardiac amyloidosis, DPD scintigraphy and further
      evaluation regarding amyloidosis will be performed.
    
  