
    
      Cancer and other chronic diseases are the leading causes of death in the United States for
      working-age adults. There are several behavioral risk factors that increase disease risk,
      including missed cancer screenings, physical inactivity, poor eating habits, and tobacco use.
      Evidence-based interventions (EBIs) exist that improve each of these risk behaviors, and many
      of these EBIs can be implemented in worksites where the majority of U.S. adults spend most of
      their waking hours. There are significant disparities in access to worksite EBIs; large
      worksites (more than 1000 employees) are much more likely to offer EBIs to their employees
      than small worksites with less than 250 employees. The American Cancer Society (ACS) and the
      University of Washington Health Promotion Research Center (HPRC) developed Connect to
      Wellness, a package of EBIs appropriate and feasible for small worksites. A recent randomized
      controlled trial of Connect to Wellness with 69 small worksites showed that worksites in the
      Connect to Wellness arms implemented significantly more EBIs at follow-up than worksites in
      the delayed control arm.

      The objective of the present study is to test different methods of scaling up Connect to
      Wellness. Local health departments (LHDs) cover almost every community in the United States
      and most LHDs' missions include preventing chronic disease. In a separate project, UW
      pilot-tested training staff in six LHDs in Washington State to deliver Connect to Wellness to
      worksites in their communities. LHD staff completed the training and recruited worksites to
      participate in Connect to Wellness; these worksites implemented EBIs. The primary goals of
      this competing renewal are (a) to scale up Connect to Wellness by training staff in LHDs
      across the United States to deliver Connect to Wellness to small employers in their
      communities, and (b) to further implementation science by conducting a hybrid type III trial
      comparing the effectiveness and costs of two different implementation strategies. These goals
      will be achieved through three specific aims, guided by the HPRC Dissemination and
      Implementation Framework. The research team will conduct qualitative audience research with
      state and local health department directors and local health department staff to refine
      training and support approaches (Aim 1); conduct a hybrid type III trial comparing standard
      and enhanced technical assistance combined with online training for Connect to Wellness (Aim
      2); and measure the costs of each strategy, both to the local health departments and to the
      research team (Aim 3). The proposed activities will increase the reach of Connect to Wellness
      across the United States to small employers with limited capacity for and access to EBIs.
      These activities will also advance implementation science by measuring the impact and costs
      of implementation strategies offering different levels of ongoing support. The findings from
      this project may inform implementation strategies for other workplace health promotion
      programs focused on EBIs and small worksites, as well as a variety of implementation efforts
      that include partnerships with LHDs. Aim 2 and Aim 3 activities will be achieved through the
      randomized trial described in the protocol registered on ClinicalTrials.gov.
    
  