
    
      Research questions and hypotheses

      i) Is a non-pharmacological cough control therapy feasible to treat chronic cough in patients
      with ILD? Hypothesis: Given the results of previous non-pharmacological interventions in
      patients with refractory cough, we predict that this intervention will be feasible and well
      accepted in patients with ILD.

      ii) Is a non-pharmacological cough control therapy more effective than pulmonary
      rehabilitation (PR) alone to treat chronic cough in patients with ILD? Hypotheses: Given the
      results of previous non-pharmacological interventions in patients with refractory cough, we
      predict that improvements observed in participants receiving the non-pharmacological
      intervention will exceed those receiving PR alone. Improvements are expected in HRQOL
      (exceeding the minimal clinically important difference), intensity of cough-related
      sensations and symptoms of fatigue.

      Research Design The proposed research is a feasibility pre-post intervention study.

      Study details:

      Adults with ILD and chronic cough will be enrolled in this study. Potential eligible patients
      will be recruited from the outpatient PR program at West Park Healthcare Centre and St.
      Joseph's Healthcare. As the outpatient pulmonary rehabilitation program at West Park
      Healthcare Center and St. Joseph's Healthcare will transition partially to virtual meetings,
      the interactions between the research team and patients will be completed via phone calls or
      online.

      This research study will be delivered online using the Zoom Healthcare Plan, an online
      platform that is available at West Park Healthcare Centre, and is used for telerehabilitation
      programs. Participants will be enrolled into a PR program composed of aerobic and
      strengthening exercises, disease-specific education and self-management, as part of their
      usual care. Two weeks before termination of PR, participants will start the
      non-pharmacological cough control therapy, following the intervention proposed by Chamberlain
      colleagues (2017). Participants will attend four virtual sessions of 45 to 60 minutes of
      educational and self-management

      This study will measure several clinical outcomes.

        1. Feasibility will be reflected by the number of eligible patients enrolling (enrolment
           rate of at least 75%) and completing the intervention (attendance rate of at least 80%),
           compliance with the sessions and adverse events.

        2. Leicester cough questionnaire

        3. The King's Brief Interstitial Lung Disease (KBILD)

        4. Modified Borg scale (mBorg

        5. Cough Hypersensitivity Questionnaire (CHQ)

        6. Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy Fatigue Scale (FACIT-F)

        7. Global rating of change questionnaire (GRCQ)

        8. Satisfaction Semi-structured interviews using open-ended questions will be conducted
           before and after the cough control intervention to capture participants' expectations
           and perspectives about the cough control therapy.
    
  