
    
      Resection with negative margins (R0) followed by adjuvant chemotherapy is today the standard
      of care and the only chance of cure for patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA).
      For distal pancreatectomy (DP), lymph node disease and R1 resection are mainly underreported
      owing to the lack of available consensus about the minimum number of lymph nodes to be
      assessed and the definition of the margin status. Incomplete microscopic resection margin
      (R1) after pancreatic resection has been reported to occur in 17 to >80% of cases depending
      on the nonconsensual definition of R1 status. This discrepancy is reflected in conflicting
      reports regarding the prognostic relevance of R1 resection. Currently, neither the definition
      of the margin involvement nor the surgical technique to clear the margins is consistently
      applied, resulting in conflicting data in the literature. The Radical Antegrade Modular
      Pancreatosplenectomy (RAMPS) was described by Strasberg et al. in 2003 to increase the rate
      of R0 resection for left PDA. During the procedure the pancreatic transection is performed in
      front of the mesentericoportal venous axis; the lymphadenectomy extends from the left side of
      the celiac trunk to the left hemicirconference of the superior mesenteric artery; the
      anterior renal fascia is removed. However, there is no grade A recommendation and surgical
      practices still remain heterogeneous as many surgeons still consider the "retrograde"
      technique as the standard procedure. The invasion of the resection margins is often poorly
      evaluated, including in large clinical trials. The surgical specimens are not systematically
      inked and the microscopic invasion of the splenic vessels is underreported, leading to
      inaccurate pathologic evaluation.

      A French prospective multicenter study (Delpero JR et al; ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00918853)
      was previously conducted for pancreaticoduodenectomy specimens. A recent update (Ann Surg
      2017, in press) has emphasized the value of a standardized pathology protocol to accurately
      assess the impact of R0 resection and improve patient's stratification.

      Today, no recommendations are available regarding the surgical procedure and histological
      analysis for DP specimen handling.

      Patients enrolled in this study will be randomized (standard resection procedure versus the
      RAMPS technique) in 20 participating centers. Inclusions are planned over a 3 years-period.
      Margin resection will be assessed using a standardized histopathologic protocol which will
      involve axial specimen slicing, extensive tissue sampling and multicolor staining. Specimens
      will be inked systematically in the operative room. Five margins will be studied: the
      retroperitoneal margin (with the anterior renal fascia in the "RAMPS" group); the
      celio-mesenteric artery interface; the portal vein groove; the anterior margin; the
      pancreatic transection margin. Thus, the inking will identify each face of the
      "circumferential margin". The splenic vessels involvement will be independently identified
      and analyzed. The distance between tumor cells and each inked margin (ie: the clearance) will
      be precisely defined from 0 to 2mm with increments of 0.5mm. The invasion of the splenic
      vessels will be assessed both on the preoperative CT-scan and the specimens. A second
      centralized histopathological review of the specimens will be performed by a committee of
      referents pathologists in pancreatic specimens handling.

      The primary endpoint of this multicenter randomized control trial (RCT) is to investigate the
      benefit of the RAMPS procedure in comparison to standard distal pancreatosplenectomy (SDPS)
      on the R0-resection rate using a high-quality pathology protocol. Secondary outcome measures
      will be: a) survival (overall, relapse and progression free survival) according to the two
      surgical techniques; b) evaluation of the independent determinants of post-resection
      survival: R1 for each margin at each increment; splenic vessels invasion; LN involvement (and
      LN ratio).

      To date, there are no prospective data assessing the superiority of the RAMPS technique over
      standard resection. This study will be the first RCT on the subject.

      This study could improve the surgical practices and define a surgical standard of care. The
      pathology protocol used for the study could help to standardize histopathology report on
      margin status. It could also provide a better evaluation of the impact of adjuvant and
      neoadjuvant therapies on local control. This study should lead to improved selection of
      patients for upfront surgery and give appropriate perioperative treatment tailored to a
      well-defined disease stage. Furthermore, guidelines for surgical practices and
      standardization of histological examination may represent a significant step forward in the
      design of future trials to assess perioperative strategies.
    
  