
    
      The Cognitive Training Program (CTP) is made up of many elements. It includes procedures that
      are designed to build five types of attention skills, as well as motivational activities that
      exercise your child's attention processes. The CTP includes instructions on how to improve
      the way your child's mind approaches a task, how he/she performs different tasks, and what
      he/she does after finishing tasks. The CTP also includes the use of therapy to improve and
      maintain motivation, self-esteem, and self-confidence, as well as to help your child stay
      motivated and keep from getting distracted.

      Before your child can take part in this study, he/she will have what is called a "screening
      test of intelligence." This test will help the doctor decide if your child is eligible to
      take part in the study. In order for a child to participate in the study, he or she has to
      achieve a score > 70 on the screening test (at least within the borderline range of
      intelligence), because this level of intelligence is necessary for a child to understand the
      CPT educational materials. It is possible that after this test, your child may not be able to
      continue on this study. The screening test results will be discussed with you.

      Your child will be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a coin) to either the CTP or a
      "control" group. The control group will receive standard educational support, but will not
      receive the one-on-one cognitive training given during the study. After the study is
      completed, patients randomized to the control group will be eligible to receive the CTP
      intervention, free of charge, if the parents prefer. All participants will complete
      standardized cognitive and academic tests at three time points: at the beginning of the
      study, six months later, and then six months after that. The tests will be given by a very
      experienced research assistant who will ask your child questions and have him or her complete
      various paper and pencil tasks or puzzles. Testing at each of the three time points will take
      about 3 hours. However, the test sessions can be divided into shorter sessions, if necessary
      for the child's comfort. After each test session, you and your child will talk to a member of
      the study staff about your child's results and what they mean to your child's progress.

      Your child will be seen for a total of 20 study-therapy visits (as long as they are in the
      intervention group) over a 4 to 6 month training period. Each visit will be about two hours
      long, and will occur once a week during the training period. The study visits will be
      "one-on-one" sessions between your child and the therapist. Each study visit will be include
      two 50-minute training sessions with a 15-minute break between them. During training
      sessions, your child will participate in several activities. Each activity will only last
      about 15 minutes each. If your child gets tired during a session, the therapist will let
      him/her take a short rest break.

      The therapy program your child receives will be especially designed for him/her, building on
      his/her strengths as well as focusing on areas where he/she needs more help.

      This is an investigational study. CTP and assessment appointments will be scheduled on days
      that your child is already in the clinic or inpatient, as often as possible. About 30
      children will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  