
    
      Currently in Hong Kong, Aranesp®, manufactured by Amgen® is the only available Darbepoetin
      alpha licensed. NESP®, a Darbepoetin alpha agent manufactured by Kirin®, will be replacing
      Aranesp®.It is important to evaluate the therapeutic equivalence of the two agents, and its
      efficacy, tolerability and safety profile in the treatment of anemia in dialysis patients.
      Moreover, a new maximum preparation of NESP 120® microgram will be available to replace the
      Aranesp® 100 microgram prefilled syringe at the same cost. This larger Darbepoetin alpha
      preparation may allow extension of dosing intervals. This may subsequently allow cost saving
      and better convenience to medical staff and patients.

      The objectives of this project are:

        1. To investigate the effectiveness of NESP® in the achieving a stable anemia control in
           chronic dialysis patients with the same dose conversion from Aranesp®

        2. To investigate the effectiveness of increasing the dosing interval of NESP® (but
           maintaining the same total dose) in sustaining a stable anemia control in chronic
           dialysis patients

        3. To explore the possibility of cost saving in administering a larger dose NESP® but at an
           extended interval

           Patients will be divided into 3 groups.

           Group A. Same dose conversion group

           • Patients on stable low dose Aranesp® (on 20mcg preparations or on 40mcg every 2 weeks
           or less) will be converted to the same dose of NESP®

           Group B. Attempt extension of dosing interval with higher dose of NESP® preparations

           • Patients on stable dose of Aranesp® will be converted to higher dose preparation of
           NESP® (40 or 120 mcg preparations) with extended dosing intervals.

           Group C. Attempt dosage saving with 120 mcg preparation

           • Patients on Aranesp® 100mcg will be switched to the NESP® 120mcg preparation with
           slight increase in dosing interval
    
  