
    
      We hypothesize, due to the Sjögren's syndrome (SS) disease characteristics, that the primary
      target hit by the disease process is the secretory acinar cell and that this cell is
      particularly in women damaged due to insufficient support, normally provided by
      dehydroepiandrosterone and its intracrine processing. Dehydroepiandrosterone deficiency at
      the time of adrenopause seems to us as the more likely endocrine trigger than estrogen
      deficiency caused by menopause as androgens in general are considered to be protective
      against autoimmunity and estrogens to favor it. Acinar cell is normally responsible for the
      production of primary saliva. Acinar cell damage can lead to acinar cell apoptosis and loss.
      Normally this is compensated by division of the acinar cells in situ or, according to recent
      reports, perhaps rather by division and subsequent migration of one of the daughter cells
      into the acinar space and transdifferentiation of this intercalated ductal cell progenitor
      into mature acinar cell. In SS this remodeling seems to be impaired, perhaps for the same
      reason, which also leads to primary acinar cell damage. According to this hypothesis, the
      primary changes occur in the salivary glands and more specifically in the acinar cells,
      whereas immune activation and autoimmunity are secondarily activated against abnormally
      damaged acinar cells so that individuals with the "right" genetic background also produce
      SS-A and SS-B antibodies. The cause of the acinar cell damage may not be a direct, damaging
      stimulus, e.g. virus infection or irradiation damage, but rather lack of a supporting
      anabolic stimulus and inadequate maintenance of the acinar cell health leading to cytopathic
      acinar cell changes. In peri-menopausal women (who still produce some estrogens) this
      abnormal antigen release and processing from acinar cells, which reveals cryptic epitopes,
      together with autoimmunity enhancing effects of estrogens, may lead to the full picture of SS
      (Cutolo et al., 2004).

      This neuroimmunoendocrine working hypothesis would explain many central disease
      characteristics, but does not provide a final answer to the mystery of this intriguing
      syndrome as the reasons for the insufficient production and generation of DHEA remain to be
      solved. We have done some preliminary studies to analyze this topic by mapping the signals of
      the extracellular matrix in the adrenal cortex, where the cells proliferate in the outer zone
      and subsequently migrate in a centripetal direction, during which phenotypic transition
      occurs from the outer zone (zona glomerulosa) cells producing aldosterone to the intermediate
      zone (zona fasciculata) cells producing glucocorticosteroids and finally to the inner zone
      (zona reticularis) cells producing DHEA. However, in this research project we have decided to
      totally focus on the salivary gland acinar cell-sex steroid interactions.
    
  