
    
      -  Thrombocyte-level cohorts Patients will be divided into two groups based on the platelet
           level at study index .

             1. Thrombocytopenic Cohort: Patients with morning platelet count below 50*109/L at
                study index. This is the main study cohort for all analyses

             2. Non-thrombocytopenic Cohort: Patients whose morning platelet count is ≥ 50*109/L at
                study index will be considered as a reference group, and not included in the
                primary analysis.

        -  Analysis of outcomes:

      By definition, there will be an intervention at the time of study index (baseline), meaning
      that even if no change is made, it will be considered an intervention. Each patient may have
      multiple exposures/interventions over the study.

      Therefore, in a time dependent analysis, each outcome will be linked to the
      exposure/intervention at study index.

      Each exposure/intervention will be linked with the platelet level on the day of the
      intervention.

      #Competing Events:

      The following events (in addition to death) will be considered competing events and will be
      considered as such in the statistical analyses of the outcomes:

        1. The composite primary outcome

        2. change in the antithrombotic regimen after study index

        3. diagnosis of HIT or TTP

        4. a change in the hematological malignancy treatment regimen. Study follow-up will
           continue after these events, and study data will continue to be recorded until
           censorship for end of study period or death.

             -  Detecting selection bias:

      Patients fulfilling the inclusion criteria but not included in the study, will be detected by
      reviewing the medical records of the hematology institute, weekly. The baseline
      characteristics and reason for not including these patients will be recorded retrospectively
      in the "not-included cohort". The baseline characteristics of this cohort will be compared
      with the study cohort to ascertain whether selection bias exists.
    
  