
    
      OUTLINE: This is a multi-center study.

      Treatment will be administered on an outpatient basis. Chemotherapy will be administered in a
      28-day treatment cycle. The 28 days of treatment with paclitaxel and sunitinib malate (plus
      the time required to recover if toxicity is encountered) is defined as a cycle.

        -  Paclitaxel 90 mg/m2 IV on days 1, 8 and 15.

        -  Sunitinib malate 37.5 mg orally, daily.

      After 4 cycles, paclitaxel will be discontinued and patients will continue on sunitinib
      malate until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or physician discretion.

      Performance Status: ECOG (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group) performance status 0 to 2

      Life expectancy: Not specified

      Hematopoietic:

        -  International Normalized Ratio (INR) < 1.2

        -  Partial Thromboplastin Time (PTT) < 1.5 x Upper Limit of Normal (ULN)

        -  Platelets > 100 K/mm3

        -  Hemoglobin > 8 g/dL

        -  Absolute Neutrophil Count (ANC) > 1.0 K/mm3

      Hepatic:

        -  Aspartate transaminase (AST) ≤ 2.5 x ULN, or ≤ 5.0 x ULN if the transaminase elevation
           is due to known liver metastases.

        -  Alanine transaminase (ALT) ≤ 2.5 x ULN, or ≤ 5.0 x ULN if the transaminase elevation is
           due to known liver metastases.

        -  Total bilirubin < 2.0 x ULN

      Renal:

        -  Serum creatinine ≤ 2 x ULN or a calculated creatinine clearance (using Cockcroft-Gault
           formula) > 50 cc/min

      Cardiovascular:

        -  No history of unstable angina, myocardial infarction, coronary artery bypass grafting
           surgery within 12 months prior to registration for protocol therapy. Patients may be on
           anti-anginal medications, but must be stable on those medications for at least 6 months.

        -  No history of New York Heart Association class II or greater congestive heart failure.

      Pulmonary:

        -  Not specified
    
  