
    
      The amount or levels of some antidepressant medications in the blood (e.g. selective
      serotonin reuptake inhibitors or SSRIs) seem to be decreased during pregnancy. If the levels
      of SSRIs in the blood are low, the medication may not be adequately treating depression. The
      objective of our study is to evaluate whether pregnant women have decreased levels of SSRIs
      and a resultant decreased improvement of depression with SSRIs. We also want to evaluate
      whether variations in the genes related to how the body eliminates the SSRIs or how the SSRIs
      work influence the improvement in the depression pregnant women experience from these drugs.
      We will conduct a study in 100 pregnant women who are receiving fluoxetine (n = 25) or
      sertraline (n = 25) for the treatment of depression, who are not receiving any medication for
      depression (n = 25), or who are pregnant no history or treatment for depression (n= 25).
      Participants will be enrolled any time before 26 weeks of pregnancy. Blood samples will be
      collected for genetic analysis in all subjects, and for drug level measurements during
      pregnancy, at delivery, and post partum in the subjects taking antidepressant medication. We
      will also be monitoring monthly platelet serotonin levels in all groups. In addition, the
      scores of a rating scale to measure the severity of depression and two rating scales to
      measure the undesirable effects of the treatment will be obtained on enrollment and monthly
      for up to 12 weeks after delivery. Maternal and umbilical cord blood samples will be obtained
      at delivery for determination of SSRI levels, platelet serotonin levels (a marker that SSRIs
      are working), and for collection of neonatal DNA. After delivery all mothers will complete a
      survey about how she is feeling about herself and the baby, and the baby's behavior will be
      observed for a 1 hour time interval. Babies of mothers taking medication will have a blood
      sample drawn at 2-3 months after birth to measure the drug level as compared with cord blood
      sample at delivery. We plan to collect a breastmilk sample from the mothers in the medicated
      arms that have chosen to breastfeed. Clinical data related to pregnancy and neonatal health
      will be obtained from the prenatal and neonatal charts.
    
  