
    
      Endotracheal intubation is a highly professional technique, especially for emergency patients
      with shallow coma, closed teeth and awake, it is more difficult to intubate. If the operation
      is improper, it is easy to damage the wound, pharynx and teeth or stimulate the throat to
      produce choking, breath holding, laryngospasm, aggravating hypoxia and mucosal injury. At
      present, the data of endotracheal intubation show that even under the non-emergency state of
      routine operation, the success rate of the first endotracheal intubation is 70%, and the
      success rate of secondary intubation is 89%. Under the pre-hospital emergency, the success
      rate of first intubation of ambulancemen is less than 50%, which is much lower than that of
      professional physicians. Therefore, it is of great significance to simplify the labor
      intensity of anesthesiologists and improve the intelligence of clinical operation.

      In this study, the electromagnetic acousto-optic fusion navigation technology is used to make
      a half-helmet type multi-axis magnetic coupling driving navigation robot cover on the left
      side of the patient's head in the supine position, automatically feeding the guide core with
      the internal magnetic tip through the external guide tube and intubating the trachea to the
      pharynx, applying the attraction of the external magnet to the neck hyoid so that the
      magnetic tip of the guide core in the endotracheal intubation points to the glottis. With the
      help of internal and external magnetic attraction and moderate driving force to push the
      guide core into the tube first, electromagnetic induction detection and spot image analysis
      determine it, continue to use the magnetic coupling device to push the guide bar to the
      bifurcation protuberance of the trachea, fix the guide bar, push the trachea intubation to
      the appropriate position, and then exit the guide bar and inflate the balloon.

      Sputum suction robot that can perform the sputum suction of a nurse simply, safely and
      effectively. It can be equipped with a closed sputum suction tube commonly used in clinical
      practice for sputum suction. And through a wired connection, the operator can perform sputum
      suction through the control unit at a long distance. In order to ensure that the machine is
      suitable for different patients and to ensure the safety of use, our equipment can set
      different depths of tube inlet, tube inlet speed, tube withdrawal speed, and sputum suction
      mode, while the sputum suction robot performs the entire process of sputum suction In this
      case, there is no need to stop the oxygen supply to the patient, and the risk of iatrogenic
      damage to the patient by hypoxia is also reduced To realize the mechanization and integration
      of surgical anesthesia and airway management.
    
  