
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of the
      combination of molibresib besylate (molibresib [GSK525762C]) with etoposide phosphate
      (etoposide) and cisplatin (EP) in patients with NUT carcinoma (NC). (Phase I) II. Evaluate
      the overall objective response rate (ORR) of the triplet combination in participants
      utilizing Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 criteria. (Phase
      II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the preliminary progression-free survival (PFS) rate, ORR, duration of response
      (DoR), and overall survival (OS) rate of the triplet combination in participants utilizing
      RECIST version 1.1 criteria. (Phase I) II. Determine the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of the
      triplet combination. (Phase I) III. Determine the PFS, DoR, and OS rates of the triplet in
      participants with NC using RECIST version 1.1 criteria. (Phase II) IV. Confirm the safety and
      tolerability of the regimen in this patient population. (Phase II) V. Evaluate the
      preliminary PFS rate, ORR, DoR, and the OS rate of GSK525762C monotherapy in a small
      exploratory cohort of patients with non-thoracic origin, non-BRD4-NUT NC. (Phase II) VI. To
      observe and record anti-tumor activity. (Phase 1, phase 2, and non-thoracic, non-BRD4
      exploratory cohort) VII. Explore potential biomarker indicators of response and resistance in
      tumor tissue samples. (Phase 1, phase 2, and non-thoracic, non-BRD4 exploratory cohort)

      VIII. To perform molecular profiling assays on malignant and normal tissues, including, but
      not limited to, whole exome sequencing (WES) and messenger ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing
      (RNAseq), in order to:

      VIIIa. Identify potential predictive and prognostic biomarkers beyond any genomic alteration
      by which treatment may be assigned. (Phase 1, phase 2, and non-thoracic, non-BRD4 exploratory
      cohort) VIIIb. Identify resistance mechanisms using genomic deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)- and
      RNA-based assessment platforms. (Phase 1, phase 2, and non-thoracic, non-BRD4 exploratory
      cohort) IX. To contribute genetic analysis data from de-identified biospecimens to Genomic
      Data Commons (GDC), a well annotated cancer molecular and clinical data repository, for
      current and future research. (Phase 1, phase 2, and non-thoracic, non-BRD4 exploratory
      cohort) X. To bank formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue, blood (for cell-free DNA
      analysis), and nucleic acids obtained from patients at the Experimental Therapeutics Clinical
      Trials Network (ETCTN) Biorepository at Nationwide Children's Hospital. (Phase 1, phase 2,
      and non-thoracic, non-BRD4 exploratory cohort)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of molibresib besylate followed by a phase
      II study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

      PHASE I AND II COHORT: Patients receive molibresib besylate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on
      days 1-14 (may switch to days 1-21 after completion of etoposide and cisplatin cycles).
      Patients also receive etoposide phosphate intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1-3 and
      cisplatin IV over 60 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-4. Treatments repeat every 21 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of cycle 4,
      patients may receive etoposide phosphate and cisplatin for up to 8 cycles total in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity at the investigator's discretion.

      Non-BRD4 EXPLORATORY COHORT: Patients receive molibresib besylate PO QD on days 1-21. Cycles
      repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      who experience disease progression may receive molibresib besylate, etoposide phosphate and
      cisplatin as in Phase I and II Cohort at the discretion of the principal investigator.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days and then every 4
      weeks for up to 2 years.
    
  