
    
      Acronyms:

      Tuberculosis (TB) Receiver Operating Curve (ROC) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse
      Effects (CTCAE)

      The aim of the study is to determine the diagnostic utility of the device 'Electronic Nose'
      for Pulmonary Tuberculosis. Prospective, Open, Three - Arm Controlled trial Study. Validation
      of the E-nose in urban settings to estimate the diagnostic accuracy of the E-nose using
      exhaled air in patients with Pulmonary TB in adults.

      The patients who qualified for the study, according to the inclusion criteria, after
      consenting, will be guided through and oriented survey for risk factors, then a complete
      physical exam, and after that, the patient will breathe for 5 minutes trough the device,
      which stores the patient information, that later will be download to a computer and will be
      send to the server's manufacturer company, in Netherlands.

      During and after the use of the device, we determine the adverse effects of the intervention,
      according to the CTCEA.

      The researchers use the sputum culture, which is the gold standard, to determine the
      diagnostic utility of the test. And, will compare the results with other tests currently
      perform as the regular diagnostic routine, such as Chest X-ray, sputum smear, and symptom
      based diagnosis.

      The patients in the experimental group are invited to come during the treatment phase, and
      will be asses the progress of the treatment, as well as another use of the device, at 5, 15,
      30, 60 days after initiation of treatment, and will be compared the results of the device,
      with symptoms, x-ray changes, improvement of anthropometric findings, to determine the
      utility of the device to measure the response to treatment.

      Patient Registries will be keep in an electronic database, as well as handwriting history,
      with the backup copy in the records of the hospital in which the patient was admitted.

      auditoriae will be realised by the Ethics Comite in different time frames.
    
  