
    
      Despite the benefits associated with lifestyle changes, men are less likely than women to
      engage in healthy lifestyle behaviours. Many men are reluctant and/or 'hard-to-reach', making
      it difficult to implement chronic illness prevention initiatives. Traditionally, a central
      challenge associated with engaging men in their health were perceptions that attention to
      one's health ran counter to masculine ideals of strength, self-reliance and independence.
      Thus, many men refrain from engaging in health promotion behaviors, such as PA and healthy
      eating. Research has highlighted the potential for professional sports teams/clubs to attract
      and engage men in healthy lifestyle behaviours. Such a strategy has been recognised as very
      powerful due to the traditional male environment within these clubs and the social-cultural
      connections the men often make with particular teams in terms of loyalty, identity and
      belonging. Thus, the purpose of this research is to develop and evaluate the feasibility of
      the HAT-TRICK Program, a gender-sensitive intervention program targeting PA, healthy eating
      and connectedness in men living in Kelowna, BC. This program will be delivered as a
      collaborative effort between the research team and the Kelowna Rockets, a major junior ice
      hockey team in Kelowna, BC. The Kelowna Rockets play in a centre with a capacity of over
      6,000 and have one of the most loyal season ticket holders base in the Western Hockey League,
      with 4,500; the majority being men and between the ages of 40-70 years old. With assistance
      from the Rockets, participants (N=30) will be recruited via season ticket holders, at hockey
      games, though the Rockets webpage and local print and electronic media. Participants meeting
      all eligibility criteria will be invited to participate in the 12 week HAT-TRICK Program
      which will consist of a once a week, 90 minute combined physical activity (e.g., resistance
      training, "boot-camp" training, floor hockey, stair climbing) and health education session
      (e.g., goal setting, self-monitoring, barriers and benefits to PA, dealing with set-backs,
      healthy eating, alcohol consumption, etc.) to be held at the Kelowna Rockets game and
      training facility. Kelowna Rockets personnel (e.g., athletic therapist, nutritionist) and
      community experts (e.g., chef, fitness trainer) will be invited to lead some of the PA and
      nutrition sessions. Kelowna Rockets players will also visit the group during selected
      sessions to engage in the PA training with the men, further encouraging social support,
      connectedness and camaraderie. Primary (feasibility and acceptability) and secondary (PA,
      nutrition, quality of life, connectedness, anthropometrics) outcome measures will be
      evaluated using a mix-methods approach including; focus groups, self-reported questionnaires
      and objective physical activity and anthropometric methods. All measures will be collected at
      baseline, post-intervention (12 weeks) and at 9-month follow-up. Findings from the primary
      and secondary outcome measures will be used to refine the HAT-TRICK program in preparation
      for a full-scale evaluation (RCT). Innovative prevention and health promoting approaches are
      needed to better serve this 'hard to reach' population. This innovative program utilizes a
      gender sensitive approach to attract and engage men, providing them with a program that
      recognises their masculine values and interests. Furthermore, the collaborative (i.e.,
      Kelowna Rockets) nature of this program is poised to reach a large proportion of men in the
      Okanagan by capitalizing on the social-cultural connections men often make with sports teams
      and using this as the lynchpin to engaging men in health behaviours.
    
  