
    
      The Outcome Measures (tests) to be used in this study were identified from a survey of Health
      Professionals across the UK. The top 5 in use were:

      SIGAM Mobility Grades The Special Interest Group in Amputee Medicine (SIGAM) Mobility Grades
      describe a single-item scale comprising of six clinical grades (A -F) of amputee mobility. A
      self-reported questionnaire has 21 yes/no items and when the answers are applied to an
      algorithm a final clinical grade is assigned.

      Timed up and go (TUAG) The TUAG test is a standardised quantitative measure of most of the
      manoeuvres required for 'basic mobility'. The subject is timed as they stand up from a chair,
      walk 3m, turn and return to the chair. The score is simply the time taken to complete the
      circuit.

      Timed Walk Test A walk test is often used to measure functional exercise capacity.
      Participants are instructed to walk from end to end of an enclosed quiet corridor, covering
      as much ground as possible in the allotted time period. The primary outcome of interest is
      distance walked, but velocity can also be calculated.

      Locomotor Capability Index, basic (LCI) and advanced (LCI-5) The Locomotor Capability Index
      (LCI) is a self-administered scale specifically designed for use with lower limb amputees. It
      has 14 questions about locomotor activities. The answers required are either yes or no to
      questions phrased such as: "Would you say you are able to do the following activities with
      your prosthesis on?" The LCI can be sub-divided into 2 subscales: basic and advanced. The
      total scores from each activity are totaled for a possible maximum score of 42 (basic) and 56
      (advanced).

      Socket Comfort Score This score is a simple subjective measure of how comfortable the amputee
      feels the socket is at the time the score is taken. Amputees are asked a standard question:
      'On a 0 - 10 scale, if 0 represents the most uncomfortable socket fit you can imagine, and 10
      represents the most comfortable socket fit, how would you score the comfort of the socket fit
      of your artificial limb at the moment?" Their response on the 11 point scale is then
      recorded.

      Finally the EQ-5D™ will be administered at each study visit. The EQ-5D™ is a
      self-administered, standardised instrument that measures health outcomes. It provides a
      simple descriptive profile and a single index for health status.

      In addition an Activity Change Questionnaire will be given to the participants which will
      gather information from the participants about how they feel their ability to perform
      everyday tasks has changed, if at all, from a previous time. They will be asked to use the
      assessment categories "much worse", "slightly worse", "equal", "slightly better" and "much
      better".

      At the first Study Visit (SV1) written consent will be obtained from the amputee by the
      Researcher and the amputee will be enrolled as a study participant. Baseline measurements for
      all the tests will also be taken at this visit as well as basic demographic data recording
      age, cause of amputation, level of amputation and any relevant concomitant medical history.

      Study Visit 2 (SV2) will occur 2 weeks following SV1 and the tests will be repeated. A change
      questionnaire will also be given to the participant which will record on a 5 point Likert
      scale how they feel their ability to perform everyday tasks has changed compared to SV1. A
      second set of tests scores will be collected on a sub-set of participants at this time point
      approximately 24 hours after the first scores to investigate the reliability of the measures
      in this acute rehabilitation period.

      Study Visit 3 (SV3) will occur during the week before the participant is discharged from
      hospital. Discharges from hospital are planned in advance and therefore it is anticipated
      that this visit is likely to be 3-5 days prior to the actual discharge from hospital. The
      same tests will be repeated at this visit. However, if discharge occurs within 1 week of SV2
      then the tests will not be repeated and the scores obtained at SV2 will be used in any
      calculations.

      The last Study Visit (SV4) will occur 6 weeks following discharge from hospital, to coincide
      with the participants 6 week post-discharge multi-disciplinary team clinic appointment at the
      Southeast Mobility and Rehabilitation Technology (SMART) Centre adjacent to the Physiotherapy
      Department at Astley Ainslie Hospital. The tests will be repeated at this visit. A change
      questionnaire will also be given to record how the participant feels their ability to perform
      everyday tasks has changed compared to SV3. A further question will be added to ask how they
      feel their ability to perform everyday tasks has changed compared to SV1.

      Every effort will be made to complete the tests at the same time of day for each of the
      participant's study visits and the order of the measurements will be randomly assigned at
      each visit.

      The changes in scores in all tests will be recorded during three time periods. Time period 1
      (T1), between SV1 and SV2, represents the very early stages of prosthetic limb
      rehabilitation.

      Time period 2 (T2), between SV1 and SV3 (or SV2 if SV3 not done), represents the period of
      in-patient rehabilitation. The limitation of T2 is that the length of stay is variable for
      each patient and will therefore not be used in the primary outcome analysis.

      Time period 3 (T3), between SV3 (or SV2 if SV3 not done) and SV4, represents time period
      immediately following discharge.
    
  