
    
      The development of superelastics nickel titanium (SE NiTi) has overcome problems with
      previous aligning archwires. This archwire is deemed to be the gold standard aligning
      archwire for Straight Wire® system due to its shape memory effect, high elasticity and low
      permanent deformation which delivers continuous force for orthodontic tooth alignment. The
      only drawbacks of this wire type are it is expensive, have high frictional resistance (Kapila
      et al., 1990) and is associated with hypersensitivity reaction in nickel allergic patients
      (Bass et al., 1993).

      Development of teflon or polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) which is anti-adherent and possesses
      aesthetic property had been used as orthodontic bracket, archwire and ligature coating. This
      polymer consists of synthetic fluorine-containing resin or epoxy resin composed mainly of
      polytetrafluoroethylyene to simulate tooth colour. The polymeric chain with good mechanical
      stability had been shown to reduce the frictional resistance between bracket-archwire
      interface and when used as archwire ligature (Farronato et al., 2012, De Franco et al.,
      1995). PTFE-coated brackets were reported to minimise the formation of biofilm during
      treatment which can reduce the risk of enamel decalcification (Demling et al., 2010).
      Furthermore, the coated aesthetic archwires have potential to obviate any allergic reaction
      during orthodontic treatment in patients with known hypersensitivity to nickel alloy.

      Manufacturers have claimed that the aesthetic archwires available in the market have good
      color stability (remains unchanged for 6 to 8-week duration), good coating durability and low
      friction, allowing faster tooth movement. However, to our experience, these claims are the
      opposite.

      As these aesthetic archwires are much more expensive than the conventional superelastic
      nickel titanium, it is therefore important to establish a clinical data to allow clinicians
      and patients to make a justifiable choice on treatment and develop further research in this
      area.
    
  