
    
      What is already known about this topic is that propofol-based sedation techniques are
      effective for ERCP procedures but are not without cardiovascular and respiratory adverse
      effects.

        1. Title:A randomized, controlled trial to compare the efficacy and safety profile of a
           ramazolam-alfentanil combination with a propofol-alfentanil combination for ERCP.

        2. Research center: Single center.

        3. The Design of the study: Randomized, double-blind, controlled study.

        4. The population of the study: Age is between 18 and 85 years; ASA I and II levels;
           Patients undergone elective ERCP surgery, non-intubation patients;

        5. Sample size: Based on Akhondzadeh R et al. research, propofol based sedation resulted in
           43% patients present oxygen desaturation, and assuming a 15% reduction in hypoxic events
           in remimazolam group. From this, we have estimated that oxygen desaturation rate will be
           43% in the propofol group and 28 % in the remimazolam group. We have estimated that,
           with a sample size of 207 patients, the study will have 80% power to detect a
           significant difference using the log-rank test. We have estimated that the rate of
           dropout or withdrawal will be approximately 20%, and thus we plan to enroll 259 patients
           each group

        6. Interventions: Group ramazolam-alfentanil combination received 10 µg/kg alfentanil and
           0.3mg/kg ramazolam over 30 seconds, followed by an infusion of ramazolam at 0.2 to 1
           mg/kg/hr and alfentanil at 0 to 1ug/kg/min. In case of the sudden patient movement, and
           difficulty in maneuvering the endoscope, ramazolam 0.1mg/kg was used in the form of
           bolus, as rescue drugs, and alfentanil 5ug/kg when additional analgesia is needed.

           Group propofol-alfentanil combination received 10 µg/kg alfentanil and 1.5 to 2 mg/kg
           propofol over 30 seconds followed by an infusion of propofol at 2 to 6mg/kg/hr and
           alfentanil at 0 to 1ug/kg/min. In case of the sudden patient movement, and difficulty in
           maneuvering the endoscope,propofol 0.5mg/kg was used in the form of bolus, as rescue
           drugs, and alfentanil 5ug/kg when additional analgesia is needed.

        7. Outcome： Primary outcome： The occurrence of hypoxia, defined by any event of SpO2
           (oxygen saturation measured by pulse oximetry) < 90% of any duration.

           Secondary outcome： Number of events of hypoxia, defined as desaturation < 90%. The mean
           number of events during the procedure will be compared between the two groups.

           Lowest recorded SpO2 during the procedure. Requirement of minor airway manoeuvres: jaw
           lift/jaw thrust, nasopharyngeal airway insertion.

           Requirement of major airway manoeuvres: bag mask ventilation, endotracheal intubation.

           Total alfentanyl dose. The mean values (the doses in micrograms) during the procedure
           will be compared between the two groups.

           Requirement of antispasmodic agent. Proportion of patients requiring this medication
           will be compared between the two groups.

           Endoscope re-insertion rate. Rescued sedation: drugs dose. Total duration of procedure.
           Duration under sedation/anaesthesia. Successful completion of the procedure: Yes/No.
           Proportion of patients fulfilling this criterion will be compared between the two
           groups.

           Sensation of abdominal bloating: Y/N. Proportion of patients experiencing this adverse
           event will be compared between the two groups.

           Patients' satisfaction score on leaving recovery: 5 points numerical rating scale: Very
           satisfied (5), somewhat satisfied (4), neither satisfied nor dissatisfied (3), somewhat
           dissatisfied (2), very dissatisfied (1). Proportion of patients at a particular
           threshold will be compared between the two groups.

           The endoscopist assessed the ease of performing at the end of the procedure as
           I-satisfactory, II-difficult or III-impossible.

           QOR-15. Recovery time :The time to recovery based on Modified Aldrete score was noted
           every 5 minutes, starting from the time of endoscope removal . A score of 9 was
           considered as recovery and the patient was discharged to the ward.The estimated duration
           of the study:2-3 years.

           If the procure is expected more than 1 hour, the arterial blood gas (ABG) will be
           detected before and after the ERCP, and the serum Aβ1-40 will be also determined by the
           commercial kits.

        8. Adverse events:

           Incidence of hypertention, hypotension，tachycardia , bradycardia，nausea，vomiting, POD,
           Sensation of abdominal bloating, increased UAMY, The dosage of urapidil, ephedrine,
           atropine and esmolol during the observation period

        9. Safety consideration: ECG, HR, MAP, respiratory rate was monitored.

       10. Statistical analysis Mean and standard deviation values will be estimated for continuous
           outcomes while frequency and percentage will be computed for binary outcomes. 95%
           confidence intervals around the point estimate will be calculated where appropriate for
           the primary and secondary outcomes. Descriptive statistics will be used to present the
           results. P < 0.05 will be considered significant. Analyses will be intention-to-treat
           from randomisation. All randomised cases will be included in the analyses, regardless of
           missing data. As the data capture is only limited to a few hours after the intervention
           and the investigators are directly involved in the conduct of the study, we anticipate
           very few missing data. A subgroup analyses will be attempted (if feasible) for the high
           BMI and OSA groups combined.
    
  