
    
      Patients with Fontan physiology are at increased risk of developing hypotension during
      periods of illness or with anesthesia. These patients have changes in venous capacitance,
      compliance, and venomotor tone. When hypotension occurs, the approach to management requires
      a careful understanding of these changes and the selection of appropriate, efficacious
      vasoactive agents. Vasoconstrictive medications are frequently used to treat hypotension when
      patients are refractory to fluid resuscitation. However, most of these medications have an
      effect on both the systemic and pulmonary circulations, raising the vascular pressures of
      both circuits. However, these patients often do not tolerate abrupt increases in pulmonary
      arterial pressures or vascular resistance, and a low transpulmonary gradient is imperative to
      maintain cardiac output. The ideal agent would be one that raises systemic vascular pressure
      while having a minimal effect on the pulmonary circulation.

      One promising medication for treating hypotension in Fontan patients is vasopressin. One
      prior study evaluated the hemodynamic effect of vasopressin in pediatric patients with
      pulmonary hypertension. Compared to other vasopressor agents (phenylephrine, epinephrine),
      vasopressin increased systemic blood pressure with the least effect on pulmonary artery
      pressure. In a second study evaluating the use of vasopressin specifically for patients
      undergoing cardiac surgery for the creation of a Fontan, those who were treated with
      vasopressin as part of their postoperative management demonstrated lower transpulmonary
      gradients than those treated with placebo. Other studies have evaluated the use of
      vasopressin in Fontan patients for other clinical outcomes, such as decreasing postoperative
      chest tube output. On the basis of these studies, as well as our clinical experience managing
      these patients in the operating room, procedural suites, and in the intensive care unit, the
      investigator believes that vasopressin is not only safe but may be the preferred agent for
      this patient population.

      Although vasopressin has been studied extensively in the context of sepsis, post
      cardiopulmonary bypass, and other vasoplegic disease states, the use of vasopressin has not
      yet been studied in the general population of patients who have Fontan physiology. The
      investigator hopes to demonstrate the efficacy of vasopressin as a medication specifically
      for these patients, as one that can elevate systemic blood pressure without compromising
      cardiac output or having a deleterious effect on the pulmonary vasculature.
    
  