
    
      Since the 1990s, the amount of prescribed opioids has begun growing. According to the Center
      for Disease Control, more than 130 people die every day due to opioid overdose. Many medical
      and surgical specialities have devised various methods to decrease opioid use with adequate
      pain control. One notable method is preoperative administration of gabapentin. Gabapentin, a
      prescribed medication, is an anticonvulsant medication used to treat partial seizures,
      neuropathic pain (e.g.

      diabetic neuropathy, postherpetic neuralgia, and central neuropathic pain), hot flashes, and
      restless legs syndrome . Various surgical specialties such as otolaryngology, plastics,
      general surgery, obstetrics/gynecology have tested the efficacy of gabapentin in reducing
      postoperative opioid usage without compromising pain control and the result is promising.
      However, this study has not been done in oral and maxillofacial surgery. The objectives of
      the study is to determine if preoperative administration of gabapentin can decrease
      intraoperative and postoperative use of opioid and provide adequate pain control when used
      with non-opioid pain regimen.

      On the day of consultation visit, subjects will be screened and evaluated by oral and
      maxillofacial surgery residents. Those who meet the inclusion criteria will be enrolled in
      the study. They will then be randomly divided into following groups:

        -  Group 1a: 49 subjects undergoing wisdom teeth extraction will be receiving 600mg
           gabapentin PO preoperatively

        -  Group 1b: 49 subjects undergoing wisdom teeth extraction will be receiving placebo PO
           preoperatively.

      A subject then will be given a small bag that contains either a gabapentin pill or a placebo
      pill depending on which group that he or she is assigned to. The subject will be asked to
      take 600mg of gabapentin or a placebo pill 2 hours prior to their procedure (vs. current
      standard of care is no pre-medication). On the day of the procedure, they will be accompanied
      by a guardian or a family member to the clinic. The Procedure will be done by a senior or a
      chief level resident with supervision of an attending surgeon. Intraoperative opioid use will
      be recorded on a standardized anesthesia sheet. All cases will include IV sedation that
      involves a concoction of fentanyl, midazolam, propofol, ketamine, and dexamethasone. The
      medications will be given in boluses depending on their weight but not necessarily strictly
      kg-based. For example, fentanyl will be given between 25 -50mcg, midazolam 2.5-5mg, propofol
      10-40mg and ketamine 10-50mg. Local anesthesia with 2% lidocaine with 1:100,000 epinephrine
      will also be given after sedation. Additional doses of local anesthetic can be given if the
      patient experiences sharp pain. Additional doses of propofol and/or fentanyl can be given if
      the patient's systolic blood pressure increases by 10 mmHg or heart rate increases by 20 bpm
      acutely. All used anesthetics will be recorded. After the procedure, standard postoperative
      pain regimen will be prescribed including 28 tablets of ibuprofen 600mg PO q6h prn pain and
      12 tablets of Norco 5/325mg PO q6h prn pain with an instruction to take Norco only when a
      subject is in severe pain (pain level greater than 7 out of 10). To assess the severity of
      pain and its impact on functioning, scientists developed Brief Pain Inventory from which
      Modified Brief pain inventory (MBPI) was created to better fit the need for our research;
      MBPI will not only ask the severity of pain but also the number of analgesics taken and side
      effect profiles (e.g. nausea/vomiting, dizziness) at the following intervals, 4 hour, 8 hour,
      12 hour, 24, and 72 hour post-procedure. The patient is to turn in the MBPI form during their
      1 week postoperative follow up visit. If for any reason, the patient misses the follow up
      appointment, we will try to reschedule their visit within 5 days. If the patient does not
      show up at all, our members will find out the reason for the no show and record it for the
      publication purpose.
    
  