
    
      This feasibility study will be conducted in two parts.

      The first part is mainly designed to investigate the feasibility of performing ultra-deep
      sequencing of plasma derived circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) in individual patients with
      advanced solid tumors who are currently being treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors
      (ICIs). Patients' archival tumors will be requested and used for whole exome sequencing (WES)
      of tumor DNA. Blood samples at a single time point will be collected for ctDNA analysis and
      germ line DNA analysis (to study normal variants) using next generation sequencing.

      The second part is designed as a prospective research study in which patients will have tumor
      and blood samples collected at serial time points to investigate the clonal evolution of
      tumors under the selection pressure of ICIs. Patients will have image-guided fresh tumor core
      needle biopsy at a maximum of 3 time points:

        1. prior to commencement of ICIs, and

        2. when disease response to therapy is confirmed by standard radiology RECIST 1.1 criteria
           and/or immune related response criteria, and

        3. when radiological disease progression on therapy is confirmed by RECIST 1.1 criteria.

      Patients who have disease response to immunotherapy could have up to 3 fresh tumor biopsies
      (all 3 time points) when those who do not respond to therapy will only have one biopsy (1st
      time point). For patients who will have a mandatory on treatment biopsy as part of a separate
      clinical trial (within which they are receiving ICIs) at time points different from this
      study, investigators will request one extra core tumor material for research use within
      SPECIAL if it is feasible and safe judged by a staff radiologist. Blood samples for ctDNA
      analysis will be collected at commencement of treatment and every 6-12 weeks thereafter
      ideally coinciding with radiological tumor assessments whenever possible until radiological
      disease progression is confirmed using RECIST 1.1 criteria. Normal genomic DNA derived from
      peripheral mononuclear cells (PBMC) will be extracted from one tube of whole blood collected
      at baseline to study normal variants. Blood samples for studying changes in immune cells
      repertoire and immune related amino acids, peptides, proteins and their metabolites in
      peripheral circulation will be collected at baseline, 6-12 weeks after starting treatment
      coinciding with the 1st radiological tumor assessment and at the time of radiological disease
      progression. Imaging parameters for radiomic imaging analysis will be derived from patients'
      routine CT scans. Fresh tumor biopsies will be used for genomic profiling to study the
      tumors' mutation spectrum by WES and level of gene expressions. PBMC DNA will be analysed by
      WES to study normal variants. Mutation profiling of ctDNA will be performed using next
      generation DNA sequencing approaches.

      Genomic data derived from tumor, ctDNA and PBMC DNA analyses will be used to explore tumor
      clonal architecture and study clonal selection or tumor evolution under selection pressure
      induced by ICIs or other immunological therapies.

      Changes in radiomic imaging signatures during treatment with immune checkpoint inhibitors and
      their correlation with genomic signatures will also be examined.

      Using blood samples collected at baseline, at the time of 1st radiological tumor assessment
      and at the time of disease progression, dynamic changes in immune cells repertoire and immune
      related amino acids, peptides, proteins and their metabolites in the peripheral circulation
      of patients during treatment with ICIs will also be explored.
    
  