
    
      Caregiving places considerable burdens on family caregivers (FCG). While burden has been
      studied as a FCG outcome, it is also a predictor of other outcomes, including FCG quality of
      life (QoL). We have adapted a model of caregiver burden to hypothesize the various mechanisms
      by which addressing support needs may contribute to FCG QoL. In this model, support needs are
      closely associated with FCGs' perceived social support and preparedness for caregiving. These
      variables operate as (partial) mediators of the relationships between primary stressors,
      including patient functional dependence and symptom distress, and secondary appraisals, such
      as the perceived burden associated with caregiving, which, in turn influences FCGs QoL. The
      model further posits that FCGs' primary appraisal of patient caregiving needs (e.g., amount
      of care provided) is influenced by the functional dependence and symptom distress of the
      patient, and in turn influences perceived support, preparedness for caregiving, FCG burden,
      and, ultimately, FCG QoL. These variables are associated with a variety of demographic and
      health-related characteristics of the caregiver and patient.

      Within the context of this conceptual framework outlined above, the CSNAT intervention is
      viewed as a mediator of the relationships between primary stressors and appraisals and FCG
      QoL (primary outcome). Also, the CSNAT intervention would lead to enhanced social support,
      preparedness, and reduced caregiver burden.

      A clustered randomized control trial (RCT) design will be used to ascertain the effectiveness
      of the CSNAT as an intervention to improve the QoL of FCGs of patients receiving palliative
      care at home. Participating home care nurses will be randomized to one of two comparator
      groups (usual care and intervention) and the FCGs of their patients will be assigned to the
      corresponding comparator group. Data will additionally be collected over the same time frame
      and in the same manner from a non-randomized comparison usual care comparator group from a
      separate home care site where no nurses will be delivering the intervention, to help
      interpret the results (e.g., to determine the extent to which contamination may be have
      occurred). Update - August 31, 2015 - Due to low recruitment the non-randomized, comparison,
      usual care, comparator group has been discontinued.

      Update - December 22, 2016 - Due to home care workloads of participant nurses and home care
      visit schedules in some participating home care offices, delivery of the intervention will be
      done by a dedicated study nurse (in some offices only). In these offices, family caregivers
      will continue to be assigned based on the randomized group assignment of their home care
      nurse. The dedicated study nurse will meet separately with FCGs who are in the intervention
      group to deliver the CSNAT intervention. Information arising from the CSNAT about family
      caregivers' support needs will be communicated by the study nurse to the home care nurse so
      that the home care nurse can incorporate this into the home care plan for the patient and
      patient's family. In home care offices that are not part of this change in procedures, the
      home care nurses in the intervention group will continue to deliver the CSNAT intervention
      during home care visits as before.

      Our specific hypotheses are as follows:

        -  Hypothesis 1: The use of the CSNAT as a practice support tool intervention will lead to
           improved FCG QoL during the time prior to the patients' death and in bereavement.

        -  Hypothesis 2: The use of the CSNAT as a practice support tool intervention will
           contribute to the following secondary outcomes in FCGs during the time prior to the
           patient's death: enhanced perceived social support, improved preparedness to provide
           care and reduced caregiving burden.

        -  Hypothesis 3: CSNAT use during home care of patient before death will reduce grief
           symptoms during bereavement, among FCGs.

      In addition to the RCT, qualitative and quantitative research will be conducted to understand
      the process related to implementing the CSNAT intervention in palliative home care and to
      explain the treatment results. We will specifically address the following questions:

        -  How are the CSNAT support needs being documented and met by home care nurses?

        -  How do home care nurses experience the use of the CSNAT in their daily practice?

        -  How comfortable are FCGs speaking to home care nurses about their own personal needs?

        -  To what extent are the relationships in the hypothesized conceptual framework supported?

        -  What is the relative importance of different CSNAT support needs with respect to FCG QoL
           and health during the illness trajectory, and the presence of post-bereavement grief
           symptoms?
    
  