
    
      Hypothesis: High level of anxiety promotes remodeling of cardiac substrate via persistent
      inflammation, resulting in an increase in the prevalence of left atrial scar and
      non-pulmonary vein (non-PV) triggers in women with AF.

      Rationale: Anxiety is generally defined as a psycho-biological emotional state or reaction
      that consists of unpleasant feelings of tension, apprehension, nervousness, and worry, and
      activation of the autonomic nervous system. This disorder is typically more common in women
      than men. There is considerable evidence to suggest close interactions between anxiety and
      inflammation and inflammation and AF.

      Earlier studies have documented strong association between anxiety and inflammation as shown
      by high levels of inflammatory biomarkers such as C-reactive protein (CRP), total white blood
      cell (TWBC) count, fibrinogen and interleukin-6 in patients with anxiety. Chronic
      inflammation results in structural remodeling of the atrial architecture such as fibrotic
      changes that supports genesis and perpetuation of AF. In cardiac fibrosis, myocytes coupled
      with fibroblasts can undergo early depolarization resulting in increased ectopic beats and
      repetitive firing leading to the origin of non-pulmonary vein (non-PV) drivers. Left atrial
      scar is another known consequence of cardiac fibrosis. Therefore, it is prudent to
      hypothesize that high level of anxiety for prolonged period results in structural remodeling
      of cardiac substrates evidenced by increased prevalence of left atrial scar and non-PV
      triggers in female patients with paroxysmal and persistent AF.

      Scar and non-PV triggers are known independent predictors of arrhythmia recurrence in AF
      patients undergoing catheter ablation. Recurrences of AF, despite complete PV disconnection,
      strongly suggest an important possible role of these foci in serving as a source for the
      persistence of this arrhythmia. Altered conduction and barriers resulting from the atrial
      scar form the critical circuits for intra-atrial re-entry that promotes AF persistence.

      Recent progress in technology and knowledge have provided better understanding and allowed
      the electrophysiologists to improve on the ablation procedure in order to make it more safe
      and effective. However, there are still scores of unanswered questions in this relatively
      young research domain, one of which is if anxiety impacts cardiac substrate remodeling that
      potentially influences ablation-outcome. Also, of note, anxiety affects how patients perceive
      their illness, particularly for women, and influence healthcare utilization and economic
      burden. Therefore, if the role of anxiety would be ascertained, timely intervention of the
      same would lead to improvement in the success rate of the ablation therapy in females that
      highly dominate this subset of AF population.

      Study Design: This pilot study will prospectively enroll 152 consenting female patients
      undergoing catheter ablation for AF. Eligible patients will be enrolled after signing
      informed consent, approved by Institutional Review Board of the participating institution.
    
  