
    
      Physical activity has is considered as one of the most important health related aspects of
      the 21st century. In Norway, large epidemiological studies show that only about 30% of the
      adult population meet the physical activity recommendations of 150 minutes per week with
      moderate-to-vigorous intensity physical activity. Also, studies show that there are large
      dropout rates from lifestyle interventions, and that approximately 50% drop out from physical
      activity interventions within 6 months after start. One explanation for the dropout is
      performance of exercise with too vigorous intensities.

      Very vigorous intensity physical activity can be experienced as unpleasant. According to the
      dual-mode theory there are positive affective responses after low-to-moderate intensity
      physical activity, whereas vigorous intensity physical activity trigger negative affective
      responses which again can lead to reduced motivation for the exercise. Unfortunately, many of
      the studies performed on affective responses to exercise have used one session only. The
      studies who have examined changes in affective responses after series of exercise have used
      vigorous intensities above the anaerobic threshold, and it is therefore unknown whether
      similar affective responses occur in vigorous intensity aerobe exercise.

      The aim of this study is to examine acute affective responses during and after a series of
      exercise sessions with different intensities in young healthy adults.

      To examine this, a randomized controlled clinical trial with three different groups (moderate
      intensity training (MIT), high-intensity aerobic interval training (HAIT) and high-intensity
      sprint interval training (HIIT)) will be conducted. A power calculation showed need for
      recruitment of 30 participants. The sample will consist of healthy young adults. All
      participants will perform one VO2max test, and five sessions with the intensity they are
      randomized to. All six sessions (test + exercise sessions) will be conducted within two
      weeks.
    
  