
    
      In the U.S., 8% of all births occur between 34 0/7 and 36 6/7 weeks gestation and are
      regarded as late preterm birth. Compared to term newborns, late preterm newborns have a much
      higher risk of morbidity and mortality, in part because of difficulty establishing feeding
      and growth. Breastfeeding optimizes the nutrition of these infants by supporting growth and
      establishing a healthy intestinal microbiota. However, maternal breast milk production is
      often delayed after preterm birth, which can hamper optimal growth. When this occurs,
      clinicians may use formula to supplement breastfeeding. However, formula alters neonatal
      intestinal microbiota and can impede some of the benefits of a human milk diet. Donor milk
      from a certified milk bank could possibly be used instead of formula for supplementation
      prior to the onset of copious maternal milk production. However, the use of banked donor milk
      has never been studied in late preterm infants. The aim of this proposal is to report the
      effects of banked donor milk vs. formula on growth and on intestinal microbiota among late
      preterm, breastfeeding newborns who require additional nutrition before copious maternal milk
      is available. This study's investigators therefore propose a randomized, controlled trial
      enrolling late preterm newborns. Newborns will be randomly assigned either to breastfeed with
      additional formula feedings, or to breastfeed with additional donor milk feedings. The
      study's outcomes will be: (1) growth (rate of weight change), and (2) intestinal microbiota.
      If the study finds that temporary use of donor milk supports growth and maintains healthy
      intestinal microbiota until copious maternal milk becomes available, temporary use of donor
      milk might be a postnatal strategy to bolster neonatal nutrition and optimize nutritional
      support and growth for late preterm infants.
    
  