
    
      The study treatment sequence involves three stages, which are referred to as steps:

      Step 1- Support and Problem Solving (SPS)

      All trial participants receive SPS treatment in Step 1. Step 1 involves attending
      weekly-fortnightly SPS sessions over a six week period and the Week 4 and 6 visits will also
      include an interview with research staff who will assess the symptoms and mental state of
      participants. These assessments will enable research staff to determine whether the therapy
      has been effective in improving the participant's symptoms.

      Depending on how they respond to the six-week period of treatment in Step 1, participants are
      randomly assigned to a new treatment arm at the end of Step 1 as detailed below:

      Participants who improve with the SPS treatment they receive during Step 1, will be
      randomised to either monthly SPS treatment for up to one year OR to three-monthly
      appointments (Month 3, 6, 9 and 12) to monitor their mental state.

      Participants who do not improve with the SPS treatment they receive during Step 1 will be
      randomised to continue treatment in one of two groups in Step 2 as outlined below.

      Step 2- Support and Problem Solving (SPS) OR Cognitive Behavioural Case Management (CBCM)

      In Step 2, participants will receive either SPS OR Cognitive Behavioural Case Management for
      a period of 18 weeks. Participants will be interviewed at two time points across this step so
      that research staff can assess whether the therapy has helped improve their symptoms.

      Participants who improve with the treatment they receive in Step 2 will be randomised to
      receive either monthly SPS for a further six months OR to three-monthly appointments (Month
      9, 12) to monitor their mental state.

      Participants who do not improve with the treatment they receive in Step 2 will be randomised
      to one of two treatment groups in Step 3 as outlined below.

      Step 3 Cognitive Behavioural Case Management plus antidepressant medication OR Cognitive
      Behavioural Case Management plus placebo medication.

      Participants assigned to one of the two treatment groups in Step 3 will receive the
      corresponding treatment over a six-month period. Both treatment groups will involve: regular
      CBCM sessions; regular review by a clinician, as well as the assigned medication.

      Depending on which group participants are randomised to, they may either receive
      antidepressant medication OR placebo medication.

      If a participant does not improve, or deteriorates by 12 weeks into Step 3, they will be
      given a choice to: continue with the treatment regime already assigned to them; increase the
      dosage of their medication, or start a new medication. Upon their choosing, the medication at
      this stage may either be an antipsychotic medication OR omega-3 fatty acids ('fish oil'),
      taken in addition to the other treatment components of this step.

      The intervention aspect of this study covers a 12 month period. After completion of this
      intervention period, participants will also be invited to take part in two separate follow-up
      interviews with research staff, at both 18 months and 24 months.

      US Pilot Study:

      The University of California, Davis will oversee a pilot study for the implementation of the
      STEP model in the Early Diagnosis and Preventative Treatment (EDAPT) clinic at UC Davis in
      Sacramento, California. After giving informed consent, CHR patients and their families
      entering treatment in the EDAPT program will be offered participation in the staged
      intervention trial. CHR participants will be characterized with the Structured Interview for
      Prodromal Syndromes (SIPS) following standard procedures in the U.S. Similarly, defining risk
      based on 3 core syndromes that span analogous dimensions of symptom severity from attenuated
      to psychotic, a recent meta-analysis demonstrates that the SIPS reliably identifies youth at
      clinical high risk for psychosis at a rate comparable to the CAARMS, which is used in the
      main trial being conducted in the Orygen parent study. Thirty patients will be enrolled and
      followed through the protocol until 24 month follow up.The team will also harmonize CBT
      practice with the CBCM model used at Orygen. All outcome measures will parallel those used in
      the parent study at Orygen. UC Davis research staff will complete clinical and outcome
      assessments with CHR participants at study entry, 6, 12 and 24 months. Data analysis will
      also parallel those conducted in the parent study. However, the key measures will be
      acceptance and retention in the staged treatment.

      US Focus Groups:

      The University of California, San Francisco will design, conduct and analyze output from a
      series of focus groups to gather input from stakeholders regarding translation of STEP trial
      interventions to the US healthcare system. This will include identifying barriers and
      solutions to implementation of STEP trial interventions in the US context for CHR patients.
      Groups will include CA county mental health leadership, private insurance mental health
      leadership, mental health leadership at DHHS and the Center for Medicare/Medicaid Services,
      leadership from community-based organizations currently providing services for this
      population, consumers, and family members.
    
  