
    
      Background: Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are among the most commonly prescribed medications
      in the VHA, accounting for over 11 million 30-day prescriptions and nearly $50 million in
      medication costs annually. Though effective for treatment of acid-related disorders such as
      gastroesophageal reflux disease, PPIs have been associated with a number of potential harms
      in observational studies (e.g., dementia, chronic kidney disease, fractures), and increased
      mortality in Veterans. Nonetheless, PPIs continue to be used without an appropriate
      indication or for longer and at higher doses than necessary. Accordingly, VHA Pharmacy
      Benefits Management Services (PBM) will deploy RaPPID - a national Randomized PPI
      De-prescribing program - in Fiscal Year 2018 targeting patients for whom a short course of
      PPI is likely sufficient. This program will comprise activation of Clinical Pharmacy
      Specialists, provider education and academic detailing, and patient education. In partnership
      with PBM, the investigators propose to conduct an evaluation of this national program in a
      cluster-randomized design.

      Objectives: (1) assess the impact of the de-prescribing program on important clinical
      outcomes, and to understand how and why these outcomes were achieved or not achieved
      (outcomes and process evaluation); (2) assess the economic effects of the de-prescribing
      program (economic evaluation).

      Methods: The investigators will then assess the impact of RaPPID on PPI use (primary outcome)
      in a cluster randomized design (cluster = Veterans Integrated Service Network (VISN). The
      investigators will also assess a variety of unintended effects, including impact of reduced
      PPI use on upper GI symptoms and complications such as upper GI bleeding. Furthermore, the
      investigators will use process evaluation approaches to understand why and how the program
      was effective or ineffective in specific contexts. Finally, the investigators will use data
      from the outcomes evaluation of this proposal to estimate the budget impact of RaPPID, taking
      into account the impact of the program on VHA and non-VHA healthcare utilization.

      Impact: RaPPID will be among the largest concerted efforts at de-prescribing ever undertaken
      in VHA. Prospective evaluation of the program therefore presents a unique opportunity not
      only to enhance the program itself, but also to gain insights about how to reduce the use of
      low-value services more broadly, a key VHA priority for the coming decade. Importantly, the
      prospective, controlled study design the investigators propose will also allow us to make
      strong claims about whether PPIs cause the putative adverse effects to which they have been
      linked. Ultimately, this evaluation will provide not only valuable insight into the benefits
      and harms of a national effort to appropriately de-prescribe PPIs, but also broader lessons
      about how to effectively undertake other such interventions to de-implement entrenched
      clinical practices in the future.
    
  