
    
      Gait disorders are common in patients with multiple sclerosis (PwMS). Multidisciplinary
      in-patient rehabilitation conducted by specialized doctors, nurses and therapists can improve
      the ability to walk by tackling the problem with various approaches: by increasing strength
      in leg muscles, by improving balance, by increasing cardio- pulmonary fitness, by fitting
      walking aids, by reducing fatigue and cognitive deficits, by working out strategies to
      compensate for impairments, and by optimising medical treatment. The investigator's patients,
      who spend a lot of time (usually 2- 4 weeks) and effort for in-patient rehabilitation in
      Valens tell us, that this intensive therapy is usually effective and that their walking
      ability improves to a degree that is relevant in daily life. The scientific evidence for the
      effectiveness of in- patient rehabilitation is usually based on either clinical assessments
      of function (e.g. the 6 minute walking test) or on reports from PwMS, by using questionnaires
      e.g. about mobility or quality of life in daily life. Although clinical assessments provide
      important information about improvements of the functional capacity, they do not provide
      information about the impact of therapy on daily life. Patient reports, on the other hand,
      provide important information about the perceived impact in daily life, but the information
      is not objective. Objective information about the impact of rehabilitation on daily life is
      usually not available.

      The primary objective therefore is to observe the impact of in-patient rehabilitation on
      physical activity in daily life using miniature, wearable sensors, fixed on the shoes. These
      sensors record data about various aspects of walking. The information on the therapy effect
      on daily life can complement the clinical information and the patients' subjective report on
      therapy induced improvements.

      The secondary objective is the association of changes in physical activity, self-rated
      walking capacity, self-rated fatigue and self-rated health-related quality of life, wich will
      be analysed for disease severity of the participants.
    
  