
    
      Skull base has clinically unique importance:it is the anatomic junction of the neural and
      facial viscerocranium,supports human brain and supports that contains the neurovascular
      structures entering or exiting the skull,it divided into anterior,middle and posterior skull
      base.Skull base tumors are a type of tumor that grow in the area of several skulls behind the
      cranial cavity ,tumors most grow inside the skull base, and a few are formed outside because
      the tumor may originate from the base of skull or elsewhere in the body (metastatic).The
      incidence rate is 2 to 18 per 100,000 people per year; males and females are likely to have a
      proportional difference in the types of skull base tumors.

      Cerebellopontine angle (CPA) tumors are common skull base tumors in posterior skull base. CP
      angle located below the cerebrum, between the pons and the cerebellum and between the
      superior and inferior limbs of the cerebellopontine fissure, it is a V-shaped angular cleft.
      About 6%-10% of skull base tumors are in the cerebellopontine angle (CPA). 90% of tumors in
      this area(CPA) are vestibular schwannoma (acoustic neuromas), 3% are meningioma, and the rest
      are primary cholesteatoma (lipoma),facial nerve schwannoma ,angioma as well as arachnoid cyst
      etc..

      At present, computed tomography (CT) and nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can be used
      to detect and evaluate skull base lesions. When these tumors grow enough to compress the
      nerves around the brain, the areas where the tumor are pressed could cause some symptoms such
      as blurred vision, headache, dizziness and other specific symptoms that affect normal life.

      A common traditional treatment for skull base tumors is neurosurgery-craniotomy. However,
      after the operation, the brain may be injured with hematoma, and the instruments used are in
      contact with the brain. It is still inevitable that there will have complications of minor
      and major nerve damages, such as facial paralysis and trigeminal neuralgia, tinnitus, sports
      disorders (ataxia) and so on. If the damages are in serious situations, patients are also
      possible to be serious infected or in a vegetative state.

      Acupuncture has a unique effect on the treatment of the human nervous system. Acupuncture
      mainly aims to improve the complications of the surgery of Cerebellopontine angle tumors in
      skull base by eliminating blood stasis, clearing meridians, and strengthening the body.The
      researchers' selections of acupoints are distributed in Large Intestine,Stomach
      Meridian,Small Intestine Meridian,Triple Energizer Meridian and Gallbladder Meridian in body.

      In the past, some researchers used questionnaires for the quality of life of skull base tumor
      surgery, and also some researchers used questionnaires to evaluate the efficacy of
      acupuncture. The rationale of the study is to combine these three-the surgery of CP Angle
      tumor in skull base,acupuncture and questionnaires.Namely,the researchers use four
      questionnaires to evaluate the efficacy of acupuncture after surgery of Cerebellopontine
      Angle tumor in skull base.
    
  