
    
      This study grounds a financial incentives intervention in well-documented age-related changes
      in motivation. The investigators consider these motivational shifts through the lens of
      socioemotional selectivity theory (SST, Carstensen, 2006). According to SST, perceived time
      horizons influence motivation across the life span. When time is perceived as expansive
      (typical of younger adults), exploration and achievement are prioritized, but when time
      horizons narrow (typical of older adults), emotional meaning and satisfaction are
      prioritized. Previous research has shown that socioemotional goals may influence decisions
      about healthcare plans and the effectiveness of motivational messages to increase physical
      activity (Löckenhoff & Carstensen, 2007; Mikels et al., 2010; Notthoff & Carstensen, 2013).
      Drawing on the tenets of SST, individuals may be more motivated to engage in physical
      activity when doing so aligns with socioemotional goals. For example, older adults may find
      physical activity most appealing when it promotes emotional meaning and satisfaction; in
      contrast, younger adults may find physical activity most appealing when it promotes
      exploration and achievement.

      Recent work has shown that spending on others (termed "prosocial spending") can have greater
      emotional benefits than spending on oneself (Anik, Aknin, Norton, Dunn, & Quoidbach, 2013;
      Dunn, Aknin, & Norton, 2008). Extending this concept, the researchers posit that, in the
      context of financial incentives, earning for others may offer older adults a more emotionally
      meaningful alternative to individual financial incentives, which may, in turn, better support
      health behavior change for older adults. Because of the profound link between physical
      activity and risk for cardiovascular disease and stroke, and because previous research
      suggests that financial incentives are most effective for simple, well-defined, objectively
      measurable activities, the behavioral outcome of interest in this study focuses on walking
      measured by pedometer step counts (Scott & Schurer, 2008). In addition, because SST
      postulates specifically about motivational priorities in younger relative to older adults,
      the investigators recruited adult participants of all ages. The researchers designed this
      study to test the effectiveness of prosocial relative to individual financial incentives for
      increasing walking in older and younger adults. Reasoning from SST, the investigators
      hypothesize that younger adults will be relatively more motivated by incentives that produce
      personal benefits (i.e. individual financial incentives), but older adults will be relatively
      more affected when incentives were more emotionally meaningful (i.e. benefit another person
      or social cause). The investigators also predict that, when given the choice of incentive,
      older adults will be more likely to choose to earn for others rather than to earn for
      themselves, relative to younger adults. In addition, the investigators will also test the
      effects of prosocial relative to individual financial incentives on intrinsic motivation for
      physical activity and behavioral maintenance (maintaining increased steps) once incentives
      are removed.

      Community-residing adults aged 18 and older are recruited via advertisements on Internet
      bulletin boards and local newspapers to participate in a study that requires four visits to
      our laboratory and three weeks of pedometer wear in exchange for $50. Importantly,
      participants are unaware of the incentive component of this study. Once participants contact
      research staff to indicate their interest, they are phone screened for eligibility (see the
      eligibility criteria section of this entry).

      During the first in-lab session, after providing informed consent, participants respond to a
      series of questionnaires using Qualtrics survey software. Participants are provided with a
      pedometer, instructed on its use, and asked to wear it each day. One week later, participants
      return to complete the second study session. Participants complete questionnaires while
      pedometer steps are downloaded. Participants are randomly assigned within age group and
      gender to one of five possible incentive conditions (which can be found in the arms and
      interventions section of this entry). One week later, participants return to the lab for the
      third study session where they complete questionnaires while pedometer steps are downloaded.
      All participants are told their average daily steps from the previous week and how this
      average relates to the first week's average. Participants in incentivized conditions who
      increase steps are told how much they earned. Participants in the personal condition and
      choice participants who elect to keep the earnings receive a check for the amount of their
      earnings. Participants in the loved one and charity conditions and choice participants who
      elect to give their earnings to a loved one or charity witness the research staff write a
      check for the amount of their earnings to their selected loved one or charity and enclose the
      check along with a cover letter into an envelope to be mailed. Participants in the
      incentivized conditions who do not increase steps were told that they did not earn any money.
      All participants in incentivized conditions are reminded that the incentive portion of the
      study is complete and that they will not earn money by changing steps the final week of the
      study. One week later, participants complete the final study session. Participants complete
      questionnaires while pedometer steps are downloaded. All participants are told their average
      daily steps from the previous week and how this average relates to the second week's average.
      At the end of the session, participants are debriefed, paid, and thanked for their
      participation.
    
  