
    
      AIDS is a serious infectious disease caused by a new family of retrovirus which is spread
      primarily through sexual contact and administration of blood or blood products. Individuals
      who are infected with HIV could therefore benefit from therapy with an effective anti-AIDS
      virus agent. AZT and ddC have both been tested as antiviral agents and their potentially
      beneficial effects may be limited by time- and dose-dependent toxicity. A combination regimen
      using shorter courses of AZT and ddC might therefore be able to sustain treatment without
      producing toxicity. In addition, since the two drugs exhibit their major toxicity on
      different organ systems, cumulative or additive toxicity would not be expected.

      There are six study regimens. Four of these are alternating regimens: A 2-week cycle
      consisting of 1 week of AZT followed by 1 week of ddC and an 8-week cycle consisting of 4
      weeks of AZT followed by 4 weeks of ddC. All patients on alternating regimens will receive
      AZT alone at the standard dose orally every 4 hours for either 1 or 4 weeks. After the AZT is
      stopped, patients receive ddC orally every 4 hours for either 1 or 4 weeks, which completes a
      treatment cycle. One of two doses of ddC is studied in each alternating regimen. Both doses
      must be tested because the optimal dose cannot be inferred from tests that have already been
      done. AZT is administered first in the hope that AZT-mediated reduction of p24 antigen load
      may reduce the occurrence of acute ddC toxicity. Two intermittent regimens are also studied
      and are included to assess the contribution of each drug in the alternating regimens. One
      program consists of 1 week of AZT followed by 1 week of no drug. The other consists of 1 week
      of ddC followed by 1 week of no drug. Drug dosing continues for a total of 48 weeks unless
      toxicity develops. Patients who complete 48 weeks of therapy are followed for 4 additional
      weeks off therapy. Patients removed from study because of toxicity are followed for 4 weeks
      or until toxicity resolves. If study participants complete 48 weeks of therapy and meet
      criteria for efficacy, the study drug regimen may be continued for an additional 32 weeks. A
      4 week wash-out period off drug will not be required for patients continuing on study.
      AMENDED 09/24/90 Drug dosing will be discontinued as of 11/30/90.
    
  