
    
      Main study:

      The study design is a block randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre
      intervention study. A total of 120 hospitalized older adults, above 70 years, will be
      recruited consecutively from the medical departments of three Hospitals in the Capital Region
      of Denmark (n=40 each place).

      Participants will be randomized into two groups - one group receives protein-enriched,
      milk-based supplements and the other group receives iso-energetic placebo products. Both
      groups participate in the same standardized resistance training program, and will be blinded
      to the supplement content. One training session consists of three exercises of the lower
      extremities (3 sets of 10 repetitions, pursuing an intensity of 8-12 repetition maximum
      (RM)). While admitted, supervised resistance training is offered daily. After discharge, the
      participants are encouraged to perform the same program as self-training four times per
      week.To ensure progression (or regression if necessary) the participants receive follow-up
      home visits by a physiotherapist, and thus after discharge the participants are closely
      monitored. All participants, irrespective of allocation, will get a daily vitamin D
      supplement.

      The study duration for each participant starts while admitted to hospital and lasts until 12
      weeks after discharge. Endpoint assessments will be performed at baseline (> 72-h after
      admission to hospital), after discharge (> 72-h) and 12 weeks (± 2 days) after discharge. A
      few endpoints will be collected during follow-up (6 months post intervention). Data will be
      collected by study investigators blinded to the allocation of the participants.

      Sub-study: 'Validation of a portable bio-impedance analyzer in a population of older adults ≥
      70 years for the assessment of muscle mass and changes in muscle mass over time' A sub-study
      will be performed to investigate if the portable InBody-230 BIA correlate with DXA at single
      time points in 30 hospitalized older people ≥ 70 years, and to see if it is possible to track
      changes in LBM during the 12-week intervention. Total LBM, total fat mass, and percent LBM
      will be measured and compared as well as appendicular and trunk LBM. In addition, the
      reliability of the portable bio-impedance analyzer will be evaluated by assessing the degree
      of agreement between two subsequent measurements. In continuation of recruitment to the
      primary study, a subset of participants (n=30) will be asked if they want to participate in
      this sub-study, irrespective of their allocation in the main study. The measurements are
      going to be performed twice, while hospitalized and 12 weeks after discharge (± 5 days).

      Sub-study: 'Prevalence of sarcopenia and investigation of the relationship between
      nutritional status and the EWGSOP conceptual stages for sarcopenia in hospitalized older
      patients > 70 years'.

      The prevalence and classification of sarcopenia among Danish hospitalized older patients ≥ 70
      years old (n=120) will be evaluated, according to the EWGSOP definition (Hand-grip-strength,
      4-m gait speed, Bio-Impedance analysis). Also, examination of the relationship between
      measurements of nutritional status and the EWGSOP stages for sarcopenia (i.e. no sarcopenia,
      pre-sarcopenia, sarcopenia and severe sarcopenia) will be assessed at baseline. Nutritional
      status will be assessed according to BMI (< 18.5, 18.5-20.5, 20.5-25, > 25), Mini Nutritional
      Assessment (MNA) (no MN, risk of MN, MN), Malnutrition Universal Screening Tool (MUST) (low
      risk of MN, medium risk of MN, high risk of MN), and NRS-2002 (no MN, mild MN, moderate MN,
      severe MN)

      Results will be communicated to the general population and published in peer-reviewed
      journals.
    
  