
    
      1. Study Design: This will be an open-label, randomized control trial of concomitant
           massage therapy and escitalopram pharmacotherapy for the treatment of major depression
           in the elderly. All subjects who meet inclusion/exclusion criteria will receive
           escitalopram and also be randomized 1:1 (by computer) to Swedish massage or light touch.
           Escitalopram (5.0 mg/day, PO) will initially be administered for one week followed by an
           increase in dose to 10 mg/day for the remainder of the study; Massage or touch will be
           performed twice per week for 8 weeks. Every effort will be made to have non-consecutive
           massage/touch visits. The massage group will receive Swedish massage for 50 minutes
           twice per week. In the "touch" group, the massage therapist will provide gentle touch to
           the skin in the same distribution as that of the formal Swedish massage for 50 minutes
           twice per week. Every effort will be made to have one therapist perform all treatments.
           All assessments will be obtained prior to the first massage each week.

        2. Recruitment and Retention: Subjects will be recruited from our outpatient clinic,
           attendings, as well as by advertising on radio, television, newspaper and our web site.

        3. Treatment

             1. Massage: Standard Swedish massage therapy will be employed which includes the
                systematic manipulation of the soft tissues of the body. It is designed to relax
                muscles by applying pressure to them against deeper muscles and bones, and rubbing
                in the same direction as the flow of blood returning to the heart. A routine has
                been designed whereby the therapist massages different areas of the body in an
                orderly fashion for specified periods of time. For sham massage (light touch), the
                massage therapists will provide gentle touch to the skin in the same distribution
                and duration as that of the formal Swedish massage. As mentioned below, deviations
                from the structured massage or touch will be recorded in the massage therapist's
                diary.

             2. Quality control for screening and outcome questionnaires: Kappa co-efficients for
                diagnostic and inter-rater reliability will be determined at six-month intervals.
                We routinely maintain kappa values of at >0.85.

        4. Outcome Measures: Primary outcome measure for this study will be degree of depression as
           measured by HAM-D. The secondary outcome measures will include quality of life, HAM-A,
           Beck Depression Inventory. Raters will be blind to treatment cell and test results.

           Quality control for screening and outcome questionnaires: Kappa co-efficients for
           diagnostic and inter-rater reliability will be determined at six-month intervals. We
           routinely maintain kappa values of at >0.85.

        5. Statistical Analysis All entries will be blind-verified, and following data entry,
           results will be checked for obvious outliers and inconsistent values. No single person
           will have the responsibility for both entry and verification on a given form. Data on
           computer records will be identifiable by a unique coded identifier to permit matching of
           records longitudinally. Each record will be logged as it is obtained. An archival record
           of all data collected, which has passed the above-noted checks, will be maintained on a
           hard disk. A backup of the archival data will be saved on magnetic tape (DAT tape) and
           writable CD-ROM archive disks. This copy will be stored in a separate offsite cabinet to
           ensure the survival of data in case of a natural disaster. A full backup will be made
           weekly, and stored for at least three months. A CD-ROM backup will be made every three
           months.
    
  