
    
      There are three main research tasks for this project: 1) the identification of discriminant
      features of Doppler audio for patient classification, 2) the selection and training of
      classification algorithms, and 3) CWD audio data enrichment using physics-based models. The
      investigators will determine which discriminant features are optimal for patient
      classification from ultrasound Doppler audio.

      To this end, the investigators will employ signal features in the frequency domain such as
      bandwidth, peak frequency, mean power, mean frequency, and time harmonic distortion, among
      others.

      Furthermore, the investigators will investigate whether time domain features are necessary
      for accurate sound classification. Other studies have shown that specific features of audio
      waveforms can classify the data. The investigators will employ some of the most effective
      machine-learning algorithms for classification such as SVM, logistic regression, and Naïve
      Bayes, among others. The investigators will start with a binary classification problem in
      which individuals will be classified as healthy or unhealthy. Then, the investigators will
      move in complexity to multi-class classification problems in which individuals will be
      categorized into different groups according to defined abnormal arterial conditions. Data
      enrichment using physics-based models employing physiologically accurate finite element
      models of fluid flow in arteries to generate synthetic sound signals corresponding to various
      arterial conditions. Physics-based simulations would allow the investigators to produce a
      wealth of training data that can span many known arterial conditions. This capability can
      augment the classification accuracy and generalization of our algorithms, as clinical data
      may not be exhaustive enough to incorporate all the known arterial conditions. The
      investigators will study the performance of the trained algorithms on patient data. To this
      end, the investigators will partition the data into training and testing samples. The
      training samples will be used for training of the algorithms, while the testing set will be
      used to assess generalization capability. The investigators will compute misclassification
      rates for each algorithm as a metric for performance.
    
  