
    
      The study is looking at the use of a new vaccine against the HIV virus. There are two parts
      to the study. One part is open-label to assess the safety of this vaccine, since this will be
      the first time that it has been used in humans. The second part is to see how well, and for
      how long, the vaccine activates the immune system. But this trial is not looking at whether
      or not the vaccine is effective in terms of protection against HIV. It is just assessing
      whether and how well the immune system responds.

      Since this is the first time the vaccine has been used in humans, the safety will be assessed
      initially in healthy young adults. 10 participants aged 18-55 years will be given one of two
      different doses (0.2 and 1.0 mg) by injection into the arm muscle. There will be careful
      monitoring for any reactions to the vaccine.

      As long as there are no safety concerns, the second part of the study can then be started.
      This will see how well the immune system has been activated using different dose levels of
      the vaccine. About 60 participants aged 18-55 years will be given one of three doses
      schedules (0.2mg, 1.0mg of the new vaccine and 4.0mg of a conventional vaccine). Chance will
      determine which dose each individual is given. Participants are only blind to the dose of
      vaccine administered but laboratory technicians assessing the safety parameters and immune
      responses will be blinded. The vaccine is given by injection into the muscle of the upper
      arm. Two injections, four weeks apart, are needed for the first part of the trial. There are
      three vaccinations in part two of the trial. There are likely to be mild side-effects near to
      the injection site. There may also be more general side-effects such as headache, temperature
      and chills. Participants will be asked to record any symptoms in an online diary. In order to
      see how well the immune system is responding, participants will need to give blood samples at
      several time points. The vaccines are not made from HIV and cannot cause HIV infection.
      However, the vaccines are likely to cause participants to produce antibodies against HIV that
      are detected by the rapid HIV antibody tests that are used in routine testing and a test that
      detects and measures antibodies in the blood used for confirmation. It is recommended that
      participants have an up to date vaccination status for any required immunisations including
      authorised COVID-19 vaccines. Vaccination with licensed (including authorised COVID-19)
      vaccines should be avoided from 28 days before and after each injection .

      An independent steering committee will regularly review the information on safety and look at
      the immune responses to see which dose of the candidate vaccine could go forward to
      effectiveness testing in future trials. Before this study can start, the protocol describing
      the procedures and information to be provided to volunteers will be reviewed by the national
      drug authority and a multi-centre research ethics committee in the participating countries.
    
  