
    
      Surgical site infection (SSI) after spine surgery is a devastating complication. Spine SSIs
      occur in as many as 40,000 people each year, causing considerable disability and resulting in
      re-operative costs of over $100,000. Even with the use of standard perioperative infection
      prevention techniques, SSIs occur as often as 3-5% depending on the surveillance technique
      and time-window used, with widespread variability between practice sites and surgeons. A
      mainstay of SSI prevention is the timely administration of antibiotics, but one of the limits
      of intravenous antibiotic prophylaxis is that bone tissue concentrations of antibiotics are
      lower than blood levels. As a result, there has been increasing interest in the use of
      in-wound antibiotics (IWA), placed directly on the spine at the completion of surgery. IWAs
      have been supported by several observational studies with a recent systematic review
      suggesting an 84% decrease in SSI. However, most of these studies failed to address important
      confounding in the ways IWA were used and had variable follow-up. The only IWA randomized
      controlled trial (RCT), albeit underpowered failed to identify a protective effect, leading
      to uncertainty about the role of IWA. Because of the relative infrequency of SSI, variable
      windows of follow-up and high rates of confounding in prior studies of IWA a large scale
      trial of IWA with an appropriate follow-up period is needed to evaluate its effectiveness in
      spine surgery. Such a trial would be more feasible if randomization occurred at the level of
      hospital "cluster" (cRCT), to account for existing variation in practices regarding IWA use,
      variable rates of SSI, and use of other SSI prevention techniques.

      Several pilot and feasibility questions need to be addressed before a cRCT of IWA can be
      proposed. SSI can appear as long as a year after spine surgery and short follow-up time in
      prior studies may have undercounted events and may have failed to recognize SSIs that may
      have been potentially delayed in detection because of the IWA. For example, the rationale for
      surgeon use of IWA, antibiotic type, or dose is unclear, as is whether surgeons use IWA in a
      similar fashion across patients and sites and if this represents confounding for which
      researchers must account. It is also unclear if surgeon use of IWAs is related to knowledge
      about existing data, beliefs and attitudes that may be barriers or enablers to a trial that
      promotes greater use of IWAs. To address these issues and direct an eventual cRCT, the
      investigators will perform surveys of spine surgeons assessing knowledge, behaviors and
      attitudes about IWA.
    
  