
    
      The closed-loop delivery system is composed of an insulin pump, a continuous glucose sensor
      and a dosing algorithm that calculates the insulin dose to infuse based on sensor readings.
      Pramlintide is a drug and an analog of amylin, a hormone that is co-secreted with insulin in
      healthy individuals, and is deficient in people with type 1 diabetes. Co-injection of
      pramlintide with insulin at meal times improves glucose control in type 1 diabetes.

      Literature data suggests that the pharmacodynamics of regular insulin may better match the
      effect of pramlintide compared to the pharmacodynamics of fast-acting insulin. Moreover, the
      cost of regular insulin is significantly lower than fast-acting insulin. Therefore, if a
      similar (or better) glucose profile can be achieved with regular insulin-plus-pramlintide
      compared to fast-acting insulin-plus-pramlintide, then a co-formulation employing regular
      insulin should be prioritized.

      Therefore, in this protocol, we aim to assess the effect of the simultaneous, closed-loop,
      basal-bolus infusion of pramlintide with insulin at a fixed ratio in controlling glucose
      levels. In the first experimental arm, we propose to infuse pramlintide with fast-acting
      insulin. In the second experimental arm, pramlintide will be infused with regular insulin.
      The control arm will be fast-acting insulin-alone closed-loop system.

      The aim of the study is to assess the efficacy of the simultaneous, closed-loop, basal-bolus
      infusion of pramlintide with fast-acting insulin at a fixed ratio and pramlintide with
      regular insulin at a fixed ratio in controlling glucose levels compared to fast-acting
      insulin-alone closed-loop infusion.

      The investigators aim to conduct a randomized, three-way, crossover trial to compare the
      efficacy of 1) fast-acting insulin-plus-pramlintide closed-loop delivery, 2) regular
      insulin-plus-pramlintide closed-loop delivery, and 3) fast-acting insulin-alone closed-loop
      delivery in regulating glucose levels over a period of 24 hours in a study on adults in
      inpatient settings. Insulin (fast-acting and regular) and pramlintide are given with fixed
      ratio (6 µg of pramlintide for each unit of insulin).

      Before each 24-hour intervention visit, the participant's insulin therapy (basal rates and
      insulin-to-carbohydrate ratios) will be optimized for a minimum of 10 days, with a target of
      14 days.

      There will be a wash-out period of 0 to 42 days between the three intervention arms
      (termination of 24-hr intervention and start of next optimization period).

      The primary hypotheses are:

        1. During closed-loop control, the simultaneous basal-bolus infusion of pramlintide and
           fast-acting insulin improves glucose control compared to fast-acting insulin-alone
           infusion.

        2. During closed-loop control, the simultaneous basal-bolus infusion of pramlintide and
           regular insulin improves glucose control compared to fast-acting insulin-alone infusion.
    
  