
    
      STUDY DESIGN, TRIAL PROFILE, AND TIMELINE To achieve our research objectives, we will conduct
      a six-month, single-blinded (assessors), randomized trial. 75 community-dwelling older women
      with MCI will be randomly assigned to one of three experimental groups: 1) RT; 2) AT; or 3) S
      & R (Control). The study sample is restricted to women as the magnitude of response in
      cognition to exercise differs between sexes.

      METHODS Recruitment We will recruit seniors who are interested in a study of exercise and
      cognition through media such as newspaper ads, flyers, and posters in community and senior
      centres. Interested individuals be screened. The screening session will include the
      following: 1) MMSE ; 2) Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) ; and 4) Lawton and Brody
      Instrumental Activities of Daily Living Scale. Individual who meet the inclusion criteria
      will be invited to join the research study.

      Inclusion Criteria

        1. Community-dwelling senior women as the female to male ratio for dementia is 2:1;

        2. Aged 70 years and older;

        3. Subjective memory complaints as determined by interview;

        4. MMSE score > 24;

        5. Scored < 26 on the MoCA;

        6. Visual acuity of at least 20/40, with or without corrective lenses; and

        7. Physician approval for participation in an exercise program. Exclusion Criteria

      1) Diagnosed neurodegenerative disease (e.g., AD) and stroke; 2) Have clinically significant
      peripheral neuropathy or severe musculoskeletal or joint disease; 3) Diagnosed with a
      psychiatric condition; 4) Previously diagnosed with dementia of any type; Measurements We
      have extensive experience in using each of the following methods and instruments. All
      measures, unless otherwise indicated, will be assessed at each measurement session.

      General Screen and Descriptors (90 mins)

        1. General Health and Socioeconomic Status: General health and socioeconomic status will be
           ascertained by a questionnaire.

        2. Global Cognitive Function and Depression: Global cognitive function will be assessed
           using the MMSE. The Beck's Depression Inventory (BDI) will be administered. MCI Screen:
           There are no consensus criteria for the clinical classification of MCI. The MoCA will be
           used to screen participants for MCI. The MoCA is a brief screening tool for MCI with
           high sensitivity and specificity. It is a 30-point test covering eight cognitive domains
           and scores below 26 are considered to be abnormal. A bonus point is given to those with
           less than 12 years of education.

        3. Physical Activity Level: Physical activity, not including the study-assigned exercise
           classes, will be determined at baseline and throughout the six-month study period. We
           will administer the valid and reliable Physical Activities Scale for the Elderly (PASE)
           questionnaire monthly. Designed for those aged 65 years and older, participants use a
           12-item scale to self-report the average number of hours per day spent participating in
           leisure, household, and occupational physical activities over the previous seven-day
           period.

        4. IADLs: Participants will complete the Lawton and Brody Instrumental Activities of Daily
           Living Scale to screen for impaired IADLs. This scale subjectively assesses ability to
           telephone, shopping, food preparation, housekeeping, laundry, mode of transportation,
           responsibility for own medication, and ability to handle finances.

      Cognitive Performance Measures:

      Memory:

      We will assess item and relational memory using a computerized paradigm. We will also assess
      spatial memory and working memory (i.e., N-1 back) using computer paradigms. In all computer
      paradigms, we will record reaction time and accuracy. We will use the RAVLT to assess verbal
      memory.

      Executive Functions:

      We will assess three executive functions: 1) set shifting using the Trail Making Test (Part
      B) and a computerized paradigm of dual-task; 2) updating (i.e., working memory) using the
      verbal digits backward test and a computerized paradigm of N-back; and 3) response inhibition
      using the Stroop Colour-Word Test.

      Cortical Activation (60 mins): To accurately assess the effect of both AT and RT on cortical
      plasticity, we will collect pre- and post-intervention fMRI data from all participants (i.e.,
      AT, RT, and S & R).

      Muscular Strength: We will assess dominant quadriceps (isometric) strength by strain gauge to
      the nearest 0.5 kilogram.

      Six-Minute Walk (6 MWT): This is a walking test of physical status to assess general
      cardiovascular capacity in seniors 19. The total distance walked in meters in six minutes is
      recorded.

      Balance and Mobility: General balance and mobility will be assessed with the National
      Institute on Aging (NIA) Balance Scale.

      Everyday Problem Solving Ability will be assessed using Everyday Problems Test (EPT). The EPT
      is a research and assessment tool for measuring adults' ability to solve tasks of daily
      living that involve printed material. The focus of the measure is on assessing the adults'
      cognitive competence to reason and solve problems associated with daily living.

      Randomization After baseline measurement, participants will be randomized by computer
      generated random draw to one of the three experimental groups (AT, RT, and S & R) using
      www.randomization.com.

      Exercise Programs Resistance Training: The protocol for the RT program will be progressive
      and high-intensity with the aim of increasing muscle strength in the extremities and the
      trunk. Both a Keiser® Pressurized Air system (Keiser Corp.CA, US) and free weights will be
      used to provide the training stimulus. Participants will undergo a two-week familiarisation
      period with the equipment and the exercises. The exercises will consist of biceps curls,
      triceps extension, seated row, latissimus dorsi pull downs, mini-squats, mini-lunges,
      hamstring curls, and calf raises. The intensity of the training stimulus will initially be at
      50% to 60% of 1 repetition maximum (RM) as determined at week two, with a work range of two
      sets of 10-15 repetitions and progress to 75% to 85% of 1RM at a work range of six to eight
      repetitions (two sets) by week four. The training stimulus will be increased using the 7RM
      method, when two sets of 6-8 repetitions are completed with proper form and without
      discomfort. Squats and lunges will be performed initially with body weight; loading will be
      increased only when proper form is maintained for two sets of 10 repetitions. The number of
      sets completed and the load lifted for each exercise will be recorded for each participant at
      every class.

      Cardiovascular Training: The AT program will be an outdoor walking program. We will use three
      techniques to monitor exercise intensity. Each participant will: 1) wear a heart rate monitor
      and will be asked to work at 65% to 80% of her age specific target heart rate; 2)
      subjectively monitor the intensity of each workout using the Rating of Perceived Exertion.

      Stretch and Relax (Control): The S &R program will consist of stretching exercises, deep
      breathing, and relaxation techniques. There is no evidence that these exercises improve
      cognitive function. This group will serve to control for confounding variables such as
      physical training received by traveling to the community centre for twice-weekly classes,
      social interaction, and changes in lifestyle secondary to study participation.
    
  