
    
      Aggressive T-cell lymphomas (ATCLs), including peripheral T-cell lymphoma and T
      lymphoblastoid cell lymphoma/leukemia, represent 10% to 15% of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHLs)
      in adults(1). ATCLs show a worse prognosis than that of B-cell lymphomas. Myeloablative
      allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT) may be the only way to cure these patients,
      but the recurrence of the primary disease after transplantation is still an important
      prognostic factor (2). Optimizing the conditioning regimen is always the research hot topics
      in hematology fields. Polyclonal anti-thymocyte globulin (rabbit anti-thymocyte globulin,
      r-ATG) are currently used to prevent graft-versus -host(GVHD) disease in allogeneic stem cell
      transplantation, and also widely used for the prevention and treatment of acute rejection
      after solid organ transplant because of its strong immunomodulatory effects. ATG is used in
      allogeneic SCT for the prophylaxis of graft versus host disease by in vivo T cell depletion,
      including the complement-dependent cytotoxic response, antibody-dependent cell-mediated
      cytotoxicity, the opsonophagocytic role of phagocytic cells and induced apoptosis(3). But
      some scholars reported the ATG delayed immune reconstitution and hematologic reconstitution
      and leaded to the increase of the incidence of virus and fungal infections after
      transplantation. But it is often curable and does not affect the overall survival and quality
      of life of the patients (4). Because of its strong immune suppression and regulation, also on
      the basis of the above facts, ATG as GVHD prophylaxis is generally limited to the unrelated
      donor, or human leukocyte antigen（HLA）-mismatched related donor transplantation. But There
      are many issues still need to be studied. ATG has shown efficacy in preventing acute
      GVHD（aGVHD) in allo-SCT, but its efficacy in chronic GVHD (cGVHD) and long-term outcomes
      remains controversial. A systematic review and meta-analysis from Du k et al（5） reported that
      prophylactic use of ATG exerted a favorable effect in reducing cGVHD without survival
      impairment in a long term, although a higher relapse rate is a major threat.

      Does the ATG also have the killing effect on the tumor cells of the lymphatic system? The
      vitro studies have confirmed this point recently. Grüllich(6) et al and the investigators
      study(7) both found that ATG can inhibit the proliferation and induce high level of apoptosis
      in the human lymphoblastic cell lines, such as Jurkat, Daudi, DG-75 , and myeloblastic cell
      lines K562, HL-60, KG1, and U937. ATG also has pro-apoptotic activity against the majority of
      primary leukemia cells, particularly those cells from lymphatic origin. In addition, ATG will
      not result in apoptosis of normal hematopoietic cells. Low-dose ATG can also stimulate normal
      hematopoietic colony growth. Therefore, ATG may be used as anti-lymphocyte tumor
      bio-therapeutics (such as rituximab) to increase the role of chemo-radiotherapy in the
      conditioning regimen. And ATG can remove the residual tumor lesions, which reduced the rate
      of tumor recurrence after transplantation. Although the vitro studies have clarified the role
      of ATG on the tumor cells of the lymphatic system, but no relevant reports on the anti-tumor
      effect of ATG in allo-SCT have been published. Further clinical observation need to be
      conducted.

      As noted earlier, a higher relapse rate may be a major threat after ATG use（5）.In China, the
      conventional dose of 2.5mg/kg/day, 2-3 days of Thymoglobulin is commonly used as GVHD
      prophylaxis in the unrelated donor, or HLA-mismatched related donor transplantation but not
      in the HLA matched related donor transplantation (8). In order to observe the anti-tumor
      effect of this conditioning regimen in the aggressive T-cell lymphomas patients(including
      peripheral T-cell lymphoma and T lymphoblastoid cell lymphoma/leukemia, complete remission,
      partial remission, relapse after remission or refractory recurrent invasive patients), the
      investigators improved the drugs of conditioning regimen and increased the Thymoglobulin dose
      in the conditioning regimen for four days 10mg/kg total even in the HLA matched related donor
      transplantation. The purpose of this clinical trial is to reduce the incidence of GVHD at the
      same time does not increase the recurrence of the primary disease. The investigators expect
      that this ATG based conditioning regimen does play anti-tumor effect, reduce primary disease
      recurrence after transplantation, improve disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival
      rate (OS) , as well as reduce the incidence and severity of GVHD, but the incidence of
      infection need to be observed.
    
  