
    
      Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) is a subtype lacking estrogen receptor (ER),
      progesterone receptor (PR) and human epidermal growth factor receptor type 2 (HER2)
      amplification. TNBC accounts for 15-20% of all invasive breast cancer. Although PARP
      inhibitors and immunotherapy may play a role in the treatment of early TNBC, the mainstay of
      treatment for TNBC is cytotoxic chemotherapy. However, despite its sensitivity to
      chemotherapy, TNBC is still associated with a poor prognosis.

      TNBC is usually recommended for neoadjuvant therapy. The benefits of neoadjuvant therapy
      include reducing the size of the tumor to suit breast conserving surgery, avoiding axillary
      lymph node dissection, making inoperable tumors operable, and obtaining an in vivo evaluation
      of the tumor's chemosensitivity. Taxane- and anthracycline-based neoadjuvant regimens have
      become a standard treatment for TNBC, and patients have been proved to have better event-free
      survival (EFS) and overall survival (OS) who achieve a pathologic complete response (pCR)
      after neoadjuvant chemotherapy1.

      Carboplatin attack cancer cells by inducing double-stranded DNA breaks, and TNBC may be
      sensitive to carboplatin2. Previous studies have shown that adding carboplatin to neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy regimens significantly improved pCR rate in TNBC patients3, 4.

      Due to the long-term cardiotoxicity caused by anthracycline, several studies have explored
      the efficacy of neoadjuvant paclitaxel plus carboplatin regimens in TNBC and have achieved
      satisfactory pCR rates, but there are still controversies5. However, there is no study making
      comparisons between the combination of taxanes and carboplatin without anthracycline and the
      standard neoadjuvant regimens. Whether the combination of taxanes and carboplatin without
      anthracycline can achieve better efficacy while reducing adverse reactions still needs to be
      explored.

      The NeoCART study was designed to compare the efficacy and safety of docetaxel plus
      carboplatin with standard neoadjuvant chemotherapy in TNBC.
    
  