
    
      Background One-lung ventilation (OLV) is the foremost used technique of ventilation during
      thoracic procedures. Intraoperative lung separation can be managed by means of double-lumen
      endotracheal tube (DLT), bronchial blocker (BB), or nonintubated method. OLV is impeded by
      significant reduction in lung volume, decline in lung compliance at lateral decubital
      position, formation of intrapulmonary shunting and exposure of the dependent lung to
      ventilator-induced lung injury (VILI). In addition, patients receiving thoracic surgeries are
      more prone to developing acute lung injuries due to direct surgery-related trauma caused by
      instrumentation or manipulation of the lung tissues, hypoperfusion induced by hypoxic
      pulmonary vasoconstriction, and dysfunction of surfactant system. The non-dependent lung is
      injured by surgical manipulation and atelectrauma. Re-expansion of the collapsed
      non-dependent lung at the end of surgery inevitably results in systemic inflammatory response
      in the local and contralateral lungs, which in turn leads to biotrauma. Therefore, a
      significantly high pulmonary complication of up to 14-28.4% was reported in patients that
      received OLV surgery.

      In the recent two decades, there is a major paradigm shift for mechanical ventilator support
      during operation by the introduction of intraoperative lung protective ventilation
      strategies. Some of these changes include a low tidal volume (Vt), moderate levels of
      positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP), optimal driving pressure (∆P) and the appropriate
      use of lung recruitment maneuver. Intraoperative lung protective ventilation strategies have
      been shown to reduce post-operative pulmonary complications and improve overall clinical
      outcomes in intermediate and high-risk patients undergoing major abdominal surgery.
      Currently, however, there is a lack of clinical evidence in regard to appropriate
      protective-lung strategies during OLV. The optimal levels of intraoperative use of oxygen
      fraction, the ventilatory settings for volume and pressure variables during OLV and
      re-expansion phases for lung recruitment are debating. The main objective of this clinical
      study is to determine the optimal levels of volume-pressure dynamics during OLV and at the
      phase of recruitment of the independent lungs by achieving optimal lung compliance, gas
      exchange and hemodynamics.
    
  