
    
      20 participants will be recruited to a blinded observational study. Patients referred for
      pancreas kidney transplantation assessment will be provided information about the study. They
      will subsequently be approached at their initial assessment visit and informed consent will
      be taken.

      Participants will have standard clinical assessment which includes:

        1. Clinical history and examination

        2. 12 lead electrocardiogram (ECG)

        3. Chest X-ray (CXR)

        4. Myocardial perfusion imaging (MPS)

        5. If MPS imaging is suggestive of stress induced ischaemia, or severe left ventricular
           (LV) dysfunction, the participant will undergo coronary angiography as part of standard
           assessment protocol.

      In addition, study participants will undergo CPET testing. This will take place within 1 week
      of the standard peri-operative cardiac assessment. The results of this investigation will be
      recorded against a unique identifier on a secure Oxford University Hospital computer.
      Information about the study or participants' individual results will not normally be
      disclosed to the participant or clinical team, and so will not influence clinical management.
      However if, when the results are analysed, the research team note a CPET result that suggests
      a clear and significant impairment of functional reserve such that the participant should not
      be listed, this result will be disclosed to the individual and their medical team so that the
      information can be used in order to make the safest decision about transplant listing. There
      will be no further clinical visits but participants will consent to collection of their
      clinical data until 3 months post-transplant, or until they are removed from the waiting
      list.

      At the end of the study, the results of CPET testing will be correlated to measures from
      standard cardiac investigations and to peri-operative cardiac events.
    
  