
    
      The growing proportion of sensitized cardiac recipients presents an additional challenge to
      the transplant practitioner attempting to minimize the occurrence of antibody mediated
      rejection (AMR). Patients pre-exposed or "sensitized" to antigen exposing events (i.e.: blood
      transfusions, multiple pregnancies, prior organ transplantations, ventricular support
      devices) are more likely to both possess preformed and develop de-novo antibodies. Sensitized
      patients with panel reactive antibodies > 25% are at risk for increased mortality after heart
      transplantation.

      A central component of antibody-mediated cell injury is complement activation. The inhibition
      of terminal complement activation may be the missing link to decreasing possibly both
      complement-mediated AMR and cellular rejection (CR) by inhibiting both the inflammatory
      effects of both circulating antibodies and cytokine induced cell death.

      Eculizumab is a monoclonal antibody that specifically binds to complement protein C5 with
      high affinity, thereby inhibiting its cleavage to C5a and C5b and preventing the generation
      of the terminal complement complex C5b-9. By this mechanism, Eculizumab (Soliris®) inhibits
      terminal complement mediated intravascular hemolysis in paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria
      patients.

      This study is a non-randomized, open-label, investigator-initiated safety and efficacy trial
      investigating the de-novo use of Eculizumab alongside conventional therapy to prevent
      antibody mediated rejection. The duration of the study will include an open enrollment period
      and at least 12 months of follow-up (post-transplant). The trial will enroll a total of 10
      "sensitized" patients with a panel reactive antibody score greater than 70%, who are not
      previously or currently enrolled in another ongoing trial. The use of Eculizumab will be
      un-blinded to all study and research practitioner participants. A historical cohort of 10
      additional patients will also be utilized for comparison.
    
  