
    
      Cesarean section (CS) is the most frequent major abdominal surgery among women worldwide .
      Shoulder pain, is a common but mostly neglected consequence of caesarean section and little
      is known about this entity. The pain is described as sharp, deep and referred, usually begins
      intraoperatively and continue for 2-3 days after surgery.

      Although infant and maternal death rates have been decreased after CS, this procedure is not
      free of risks for mother and child. Compared with normal vaginal delivery (NVD), some CS
      complications include: more haemorrhage; increased postoperative pain; atelectasia; nausea;
      vomiting; risks for wound infection or wound opening and shoulder pain.

      Although spinal anaesthesia (SA) is a common technique for CS in the past decade, and there
      are many studies about CS complications, there are few studies about shoulder pain as one of
      CS complications. Kikuchi et al. reported that women undergoing cesarean section under
      compined spinal epidural anaethesia experience shoulder-tip pain with great frequency. Our
      study was planned and performed to investigate if pre-emptive Ketorolac would decrease the
      incidence of intraoperative shoulder pain and improve discomfort during CS.

      Sharp pain observed in these patients was experienced in the shoulder area or under the
      diaphragm. The pain was described as coming from deep within the shoulder, and in some, would
      seem to radiate from the right chest. The pain spread down the upper right arm and up the
      right neck in some, resulting in muscular tension and pain. The cause of this pain is
      postulated to sub-diaphragmatic air trapping, subdiaphragmatic clot or peritoneal irritation.
      This type of shoulder pain is reported commonly after laparoscopic surgery and it is reported
      that heat, massage and drinking hot water or hot tea with fresh lemon relieves this pain.
    
  