
    
      Untreated pain will also cause long term impact on newborns,Some scientists in foreign
      countries have done some research on rats, they found that if rats were exposed to pain for a
      long time, its nociception neural circuit's development will be harmed, and the pain
      threshold will be lowered. For newborns, untreated pain will cause hypalgesia when they are
      in puberty and hyperalgesia after adulthood. The experience of pain in infancy also affects
      the babies' later life after they grow up, it may cause emotional problems, minimal brain
      dysfunction, social intercourse defect and so on. So it is very important to find out useful
      interventions to decrease pain in newborns, considering the long term impact and side effect
      of medicine, it is seldom to use medical interventions to decrease pain. Non-pharmacological
      interventions become quite important. In foreign countries, there have been kinds of useful
      non-pharmacological interventions such as kangaroo care, breast-feeding, sucrose and
      non-nutritive sucking. While in China, there are massage, positioning, sucrose, music and
      kangaroo care that proved to be effective to decrease pain in newborns. The investigators
      find few reports about breastfeeding or non-nutritive sucking's effect of decreasing pain in
      term newborns. For breast-feeding, it includes the nursing mother who has consoling impact,
      hugging, attention transferring, taste, the breast milk contains tryptophane, which is the
      precursor of N-acetyl-5-O-T that can raise up the density of β-endorphin, β-endorphin has
      analgesic effect. For non-nutritive sucking, it also contains attention transferring. It is
      said that non-nutritive sucking can raise up the pain threshold through stimulating the oral
      tactile recipient, or promote the releasing of 5-HT that modulates pain. Non-nutritive
      sucking can also lower the sensitivity of peripheral nerves.
    
  