
    
      Early detection of rejection is a major focus of organ transplant care. The use of aggressive
      immunosuppressive therapy has been shown to alter the prognosis of heart transplant patients
      who have acute rejection1. There are many modalities utilized in the routine surveillance of
      heart transplant patients, each with limitations. Screening transthoracic echocardiography
      focusing on indices of systolic and diastolic dysfunction, along with regional wall
      abnormalities, has been shown to have poor sensitivity and does not effectively discriminate
      between patients with and without rejection. Newer echocardiographic parameters including
      myocardial performance or diastolic velocity indices may be a better means of detecting
      subtle changes in cardiac function in the setting of heart transplant, but these tools are
      most helpful after the insult caused by rejection has already occurred. Hemodynamic changes
      measured during heart catheterization have also been evaluated as a means of detecting
      rejection. Rosenthal et al found that although there were statistically significant
      differences between patients with higher or lower grades of rejection scores, heart
      catheterization did not permit effective discrimination of patients with moderate to severe
      rejection. Heart biomarkers, including c-reactive protein, brain natriuretic peptides, and
      troponin, have been studied as non-invasive measures of determining heart dysfunction or
      rejection. These surrogates are weakly associated with different rejection grades on biopsy
      and have a poor predictive capacity for biopsy-detected rejection3. Recently, microarray
      technology has been used to screen for genes expressed in heart allograft rejection using
      peripheral leukocytes from blood samples obtained at the time of endomyocardial biopsy. This
      technique was shown to have a high negative predictive value for the diagnosis of acute
      cellular rejection but it is unable to detect low grades of rejection4. Overall, these
      technologies are limited in the ability to consistently and accurately predict the presence
      of rejection and have low positive predictive values when compared to biopsy.

      The current gold standard in detection of rejection is the use of endomyocardial biopsy.
      Attaining these samples is invasive and long term repeated central venous access can be
      difficult. Risk of endomyocardial biopsy includes perforation leading to cardiac tamponade,
      arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, pneumothorax, hemothorax, and valvular
      regurgitation secondary to rupture of chordae or damage to valve leaflets themselves. There
      is variability in pathological interpretation of histologic grades, especially at higher
      grades of rejection due to the difficulty in interpretation of nodular infiltrates. The 2005
      revised ISHLT grading system has simplified the grading system of cellular rejection and now
      includes assessment of antibody mediated rejection. This may improve the utility of
      endomyocardial biopsy, but much controversy still exists on the method of grading rejection
      and its clinical implications. Thus, the development of a noninvasive, relatively inexpensive
      method that accurately predicts the presence of rejection is critical.
    
  