
    
      COVID 19 is a novel and severe disease. One of the problems is that the virus disturbs the
      lungs and cause water accumulation in lungs alveolus (ARDS). Water accumulation in pulmonary
      alveoli leads to fast deterioration and, eventually death. It is important to note that at an
      early stage of the disease, when the patient feels relatively good, fluid progressively
      accumulates into the lung.

      Today chest X-ray is the only practical way to check the degree of lung accumulation. Chest X
      ray is a cumbersome method and has a rotational burden. One of the disadvantages of the x-ray
      is that interpretation of x-ray results are operator dependent. Another disadvantage is the
      daily monitoring of lung fluids, which is expensive.

      Lung impedance technology allows simple lung fluid monitoring, and found to be effective in
      HF patients who suffers from the same problem, fluid accumulation in lungs. Lung fluid
      monitoring using lung impedance device may assist physicians to reveal fluid accumulation in
      lungs, and give better understanding of the severity of the situation. Moreover, better
      impedance values indicate improvement in patient's condition and also effectiveness of the
      treatment.

      The aim of the study is to prove the correlation between lung fluid assessed by impedance
      technique and x-ray examinations. To find correlation between lung fluid assessment by
      impedance and clinical parameters of COVID 19 patients.

      In a case that this correlation would be found high, then it will be possible to establish
      monitoring of lung fluid status of COVID 19 patients using lung impedance device, as a simple
      and reliable way to determine degree of patient's deterioration as it was proved for HF
      patients.

      The main question, is if a changes in lung fluid status assessed by impedance technique may
      indicate the need in artificial respiration before there is a drastic Deterioration in
      patient's condition.

      COVID 19 patients are admitted to Infectious Diseases Unit, will undergo examination using
      lung impedance device. The first value that has been measured will be set as BASAL.

      During hospitalization, each patient will undergo this examination twice a day until
      discharged.

      Changes in impedance values during admission will be evaluated as POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE
      PREDICTIVE values for clinical deterioration and improvement of COVID 19 patients and as a
      factor that predicts mechanical ventilation.

      The time between lung impedance started to decrease (expression of the lung fluids
      accumulation), and the need in mechanical ventilation will be measured.

      In a case that lung impedance would be found as a useful predictor of clinical condition in
      COVID 19 patients, the application for second stage of the study will be submitted to
      Helsinki Committee.

      On the second stage of the study is planning to use lung impedance values as guide for the
      decision about beginning mechanical ventilation of COVID 19 patients before critical
      deterioration.

      Each patient which is hospitalized in Infectious Diseases Unit of Hillel Yaffe Medical Center
      suitable for study.
    
  