
    
      METHOD DETAIL

        1. Pain Severity Assessment Pain assessment is a complex task with a number of goals,
           including determining the meaning of pain for the patient, understanding the causes as
           well as consequences of pain, and determining the effectiveness of pain management. The
           Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) is one of the most widely used measurement methods in pain
           measurement. GAS is a one-dimensional linear scale. It is easy to use, the results are
           reproducible, and it can be used in a wide variety of environments. VAS is a continuous
           scale consisting of a 10 cm (100 mm) horizontal or vertical line. While determining the
           pain intensity; (0 points) qualifies as "no pain" and (100 points on a 100 mm scale)
           "pain as bad as possible" or "worst pain imaginable". While calculating the pain
           severity score, the patient chooses the appropriate point from the 10 cm line. It
           indicates the presence of no pain on a scale of 100 mm (0-4 mm), mild pain (5-44 mm),
           moderate pain (45-74 mm), severe pain (75-100 mm).

        2. Posture Evaluation The postures of the subjects participating in the study will be
           evaluated by the standard posture analysis method. Round shoulder, anterior tilt,
           kyphosis, etc. postural disturbances will be recorded.

        3. Joint Range of Motion Assessment (ARA) Normal range of motion will be evaluated using an
           Electrogoniometer. In the sitting position, the flexion, extension, lateral flexion and
           rotation movements of the relevant region will be measured and recorded. Evaluations of
           joint movements will be made in 3 repetitions and the average value of these 3
           measurements will be determined by calculating.

        4. Muscular Strength Assessment Muscle strength of the neck flexor and extensor muscles
           will be measured using the Stabilizer (Chattanooga Stabilizer Group Inc., Hixson, TN),
           and Hand-Held Dynamometer.

        5. Assessment of Muscular Endurance Resistance measurements will be made on the extensor
           and flexor muscles of the neck in a stable position, in the supine and prone positions,
           respectively. While measuring the endurance of the extensor neck muscles, the patient's
           legs will be straight and his arms will be positioned around the head. Loads of 2 and 4
           kilograms will be applied for women and men, respectively. The test will be done by
           stretching the head just above the bed and lifting it up for as long (seconds) as
           possible. Endurance evaluation of the deep cervical flexor muscles will be started with
           the subject in the hooked position on the back and the hands in the free position on the
           abdomen. The case will be asked to raise his head slightly high enough for the index and
           middle finger of a hand to pass along with the instruction. After the patient is taught
           this position, a slight amount (30%) of craniocervical flexion will be requested from
           the beginning as if yes. While the subject is in this position, the hand support will be
           pulled slightly and the test will be started in this position. The time in which the
           craniocervical maintains the position while maintaining flexion will be recorded in
           seconds. The test will be terminated when the patient does one of the four situations
           stated below;

      1- In cases where the patient feels a lot of pain and states that he cannot continue 2- In
      cases where the patient does not feel any pain but endurance ends 3- If the physiotherapist
      determines that the patient has lost the craniocervical flexion position despite maintaining
      the position 4- If the physiotherapist observes that the subject lifts his head higher than
      it should be, the endurance test ends.

      The resistance of the case for 60 seconds will be considered sufficient for the termination
      of the endurance test.

      6.Muscular Shortness Assessment In order to determine the muscle shortness of individuals;
      Standard shortness will be assessed for the pectoral muscles and the adductor and internal
      rotator muscles.

      7. Kinesiophobia Assessment In evaluating the level of kinesiophobia, the 17-question "Tampa
      Kinesophobia Scale (TSI)" developed by Vlaeyen et al. and validated in Turkish by Tunca
      Yılmaz and her colleagues will be used. The higher the calculated score, the higher the
      person's fear of movement will be determined.

      8. Spouse Apology Assessment The Neck Disability Index (NDI) is the most widely used tool to
      measure perceived disability associated with neck pain. The Turkish version of the scale,
      made by Aslan et al. consists of 10 parts. The questionnaire includes parameters of pain
      intensity, self-care, lifting, reading, headaches, concentration, work, driving, sleep and
      activities of daily living. As a result of scoring; (0-4 points) means no disability, (5-14
      points) mild disability, (15-24 points) moderate disability, (25-34 points) severe disability
      and (35 points and above) total disability .

      9.Dynamic Balance Assessment

      Star Balance Test (YDT) will be used in dynamic balance assessment. Participants stand in the
      middle of a platform consisting of eight lines that extend at an angle of 45 ° to each other.
      During the test, the person should rest on one lower limb while reaching as far as possible
      along each of the eight lines with the other. 8 directions anterior (A), anterolateral (AL),
      lateral (L), posterolateral (PL), posterior (P), posteromedial (PM), medial (M) and
      anteromedial (AM). The person is asked to make a light touch on the determined lines and
      return the reaching leg to the center, and to stand with one leg in the center. Then the
      maximum distance reached is recorded. If it will be done with the left foot, it is requested
      to lie counterclockwise, if it will be done with the right foot, it is desired to lie in a
      clockwise direction. The following formula is used to calculate the star balance test score:

      YDT score = (Reaching distance / Leg length) * 100 .

      10. Static Balance Evaluation Static balance will be evaluated with the "One Leg Standing
      Test (TBÜD)". This test measures static balance and static standing ability. It also provides
      information about the fall risk of the person. The time starts when the person lifts one leg
      from the ground, and ends when he puts it on the ground. The total time is recorded by the
      clinician. If the person can keep one leg up for 30 seconds, the test is terminated. If the
      position can be maintained for less than 10 seconds, the person has an imbalance, and if it
      is maintained for less than 5 seconds, it can be interpreted that there is a risk of falling
      for the person.

      11. Dynamic Balance and Physical Performance Evaluation The "Timed Get Up and Go Test" will
      be used for dynamic balance and physical performance evaluation. In this test, the
      participant should get up without holding the arms of the standard chair in which he or she
      sits, and after 3 meters of walking, he must return to the chair without touching anything.

      12. Walking Speed Assessment The 10 meter walking test will be used to evaluate the walking
      speed. The person will be asked to walk 14 meters, but the first 2 and the last 2 meters will
      not be evaluated. It will be calculated in seconds in how long a person takes this distance
      while walking normally. The time will be recorded in meters / second (m / s), provided that
      the time starts when the person's foot is at the starting line of the 2nd meter and ends when
      the 12 meter line is crossed.

      13. Dual-Task Assessment The dual task will be evaluated motor-motor and motor-cognitively
      during walking. Participants will be subjected to 6 different walks. Participants will be
      given a clear explanation about the tests before the tests and will be informed about their
      comfort. Participants will be given a trial test only once before the test.

        -  10 m Walking Test (single duty)

        -  10 m Walking Test + The task of carrying 2 glasses of water on a standard tray without
           spilling the water in the glass (motor-motor dual duty)

        -  10 m Walking Test + A task of counting 6 from any two-digit number selected by the
           clinician during the test (motor-cognitive dual task)

        -  Timed Get Up and Go Test (single task)

        -  Timed Get Up and Go Test + The task of carrying 2 glasses of water on a standard tray
           without spilling the water in the glass (motor-motor dual duty)

        -  Timed Get Up and Go Test + The task of counting 6 from any two-digit number selected by
           the clinician during the test (motor-cognitive dual task)

      During the tests, single tasks will be included for reference. The completion times of the
      motor-motor and motor-cognitive dual tasks, which are evaluated 2 in 2 each with 4 different
      walking forms, will be recorded and the result will be reached. The following calculation
      method will be used for the result:

      Dual Mission Effect = (Single Mission Performance - Dual Mission Performance) / Single
      Mission Performance x 100
    
  