
    
      Introduction

      Self-criticism represents a crucial phenomenon in a variety of mental disorders1. Highly
      self-critical individuals show a poorly regulated threat emotional system and underdeveloped
      capacities for emotional regulation2,3. Self-criticism is considered a vulnerability risk
      factor for most psychopathological conditions. Several interventions aiming at increasing
      compassion as an antidote to self-criticism have been developed4. One of the most empirically
      validated is Compassion Focused Therapy (CFT, 5), which aims to increase acceptance and
      compassion for one's own suffering in order to generate a self-soothing response6.

      Compassion-focused imagery (CFI) is a key technique in CFT, which involves visualizing
      compassion towards others, or imagining people, places or objects directing compassion
      towards oneself7. Single trials of CFI have shown a reduction of negative affect, an increase
      in self-esteem, and physiological changes associated with the attenuation of threat-focused
      behaviors8-10. Regular CFI practice has increased self-compassion and reduced negative affect
      in clinical and non-clinical populations10-13. Despite these promising findings, CFI can
      create threat-focused responses in some individuals; however, these findings have been based
      on tasks involving receiving compassion from others.

      This study will explore two empirical questions:

        1. How do clinical participants initially respond to self-compassionate imagery in an
           initial trial? The investigators hypothesize that CFI and relaxation imagery would be
           associated with similar levels of HRV, and that both would be associated with higher HRV
           than during the control task (both in terms of group means and number of people showing
           clinically-significant changes). It is also hypothesized that some participants would
           show reliable increase in positive affect and reliable decrease in negative affect
           during CFI, but that others would show the opposite pattern (due to inhibitors of
           compassion).

        2. Do any threat responses reduce following repeated trials of self-compassionate imagery?
           It is hypothesized that the number of individuals responding negatively to CFI would
           decrease over time.

      Methods

      Participants will complete an initial screening questionnaire online that consists of reading
      the study information and completing informed consent, demographics questions, ODSIS14,
      OASIS15 and FSCRS16. Eligible participants will be invited to attend in-person sessions, in
      which physiological and self-report responses will be collected. Participants will be asked
      to avoid exercising, drinking alcohol/caffeine, smoking nicotine and eating during the two
      hours prior to each session, since these are possible confounds to HRV measurements.
      Participants will also be asked each session to confirm that they have not made any
      medication changes, in line with inclusion criteria. HRV will be measured by a research
      assistant whilst the participant engages in three 4-minute activities, always in the
      following order: (i) reading a local city culture magazine (control task), (ii) engaging in
      relaxation imagery involving walking through a forest or on a beach, and (iii) engaging in
      self-compassion imagery.

      Participants will be randomized to complete 3 or 4 trials using a 2:1 ratio. This was decided
      based upon the premise that more trials are helpful for answering the research questions
      regarding the impact of repeated trials, but also aiming to minimize dropout for a related
      study which explored the effects of psychotherapy which was offered following these 3-4
      trials.

      Although no study to date has explored the hypotheses of this study, the investigators have
      set a target sample of N=25 based upon other studies exploring effects of CFI on physiology,
      which have samples ranging from 22 to 25 participants and found significant between-group
      differences in physiological measures during CFI10,17.

      Data analysis

      The data will be uploaded to Open Science Framework. Paired sample t-tests will be used to
      explore differences in RMSSD HRV during the three tasks, and to test changes in positive and
      negative affect from pre- to post-CFI.

      To complement group-level analyses, the investigators will use reliable or
      clinically-significant change analyses of individuals. A reliable change index (RCI,18) will
      be calculated for positive and negative affect. Each participant´s change scores (calculated
      by subtracting pre-CFI affect from post-CFI affect for each trial) will be compared against
      the RCIs. The investigators will also calculate how many individuals show a
      clinically-significant HRV response, defined as 5ms change in RMSSD during the experimental
      task (CFI or relaxation) compared to the control task. THis value was based upon literature
      on the differences in baseline levels of HRV between healthy controls and patients with
      depression19,20. The number of positive and negative clinically-significant responses will be
      compared (i) between relaxation and compassion at trial 1 in order to compare effects of both
      tasks, and (ii) over 3-4 trials for both relaxation and for compassion, to evaluate whether
      repeated trials improved response to each task.

      Attrition and data loss

      Participants will be included if they complete at least one trial of the three tasks, since
      they can still inform the research questions focused on the initial trial data. Participants
      will be excluded if HRV data at trial 1 is not interpretable, as this is the primary outcome
      measure. Individual HRV measurements will be excluded from analysis if the participant
      reports any of the external threats to HRV data validity mentioned above (e.g. medication
      changes, high caffeine use, exercise)
    
  