
    
      Objectives: Illicit drug use affects tens of millions of Americans and costs nearly $200
      billion annually in health care costs and lost productivity. Cocaine dependence accounts for
      25% of reported lifetime drug dependence though few successfully abstain with treatment. For
      efforts toward positive long-term outcomes, it is imperative to identify risk factors of poor
      outcomes, specialized treatments, neural mechanisms that change with treatment, and
      predictive measures of treatment outcomes. Substance abusers are known to have dysregulation
      in cue reactivity, reward processing, executive control, and intrinsic network connectivity.
      Non-invasive brain stimulation (NIBS) has proven effective at reducing drug craving in
      nicotine, alcohol, and cocaine users. Here, intermittent theta-burst stimulation (iTBS), a
      type a NIBS, delivered to left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) is implemented to
      modulate substance abuse related circuit dysregulations and assess effectiveness of iTBS in
      promoting abstinence.

      Study population: Recruitment from the Baltimore, Maryland area will take place for this
      protocol. For the Pilot, 20 cocaine dependent (CD) individuals will be recruited. For the
      Clinical Trial, 50 healthy adults (HC) and 100 CD individuals will be recruited. All of the
      HC group will receive both active- and sham-iTBS in a within-subject crossover design. Half
      of the CD group will receive active-iTBS and half will receive sham-iTBS. The Clinical Trial
      groups will be matched on demographic measures (e.g., age, IQ, sex).

      Design: The Pilot is designed to be a tolerability pilot where iTBS parameters are assessed
      in CD participants. The first half of the Pilot participants will be inpatient (for initial
      close observations) and the second half will be outpatient (closely reflecting the clinical
      trial). Throughout the Pilot, clinical measures will be collected and participants closely
      monitored. The general outline for the Clinical Trial is to characterize the treatment cohort
      (vs. HC) and assess effectiveness of iTBS over the left dlPFC in reducing cocaine use. The
      iTBS intervention consists of 30 sessions over a 2-week (10 treatment days) period as an
      add-on to a treatment-as-usual, contingency management. Structural and functional magnetic
      resonance imaging, neural measures of cue reactivity, reward processing, executive control,
      and intrinsic network connectivity will be collected to identify differences between CD and
      HC participants at baseline. In CD participants, neural measures along with cocaine use will
      be tracked longitudinally to assess changes with treatment. Contingency management will
      continue for 13 weeks and a 3-month follow-up will be scheduled. The Clinical Trial includes
      39 visits.

      Outcome parameters: Two main comparisons are of interest. First, baseline differences in
      neural measures between CD and HC participants will be identified. CD participants are
      expected to show dysregulations in these functions, relative to HC participants. Second,
      neural plasticity related to these functions due to iTBS treatment and reduction in cocaine
      use will be measured. The active-iTBS intervention is expected to be effective in reducing
      cocaine use, relative to the sham-iTBS intervention. Normalization of circuit dysregulation
      is hypothesized to be associated with reduction of cocaine use. Overall, the current protocol
      is designed to test whether iTBS to left dlPFC is efficacious in reducing cocaine use.
    
  