
    
      Lung carcinoma will be the fifth death cause in the world in 2020. In Europe it causes more
      deaths than carcinoma of breast, colon and prostate combined so it is a public healthcare
      priority. Applying high throughput molecular analysis technologies to pharmacogenomics could
      improve lung carcinoma care strategies. The study hypothesis is that the determination of the
      genomic and proteomic profiles of non-small cell lung carcinoma patients will allow treatment
      targeting , improving treatment efficacy and tolerance.

      In order to carry out this study, the five thoracic oncology centers of the Rhône-Alpes
      region will collaborate with several INSERM (French national research institute) units and
      new biotechnology companies.

      The primary objective of this study is to correlate molecular genetic profile with response
      to chemotherapy in cases of primary chemotherapy treatment for non-small cell lung
      carcinomas.

      Biological samples will be collected before and during patient care to correlate clinical
      evolution (response and tolerance) with:

        -  circulating cell polymorphism profile

        -  proteomic profile

        -  genetic and epigenetic modifications of genes involved in DNA repair, drugs metabolism,
           apoptosis cell regulation mechanisms, and cell mobility and adhesion mechanisms.

      The main judgment criteria will be response to chemotherapy correlated with patient's
      biological profile.

      Second judgment criteria will be overall survival and hematology toxicity which will be
      evaluated each new cycle of chemotherapy.

      The second purpose of this study is to validate less invasive methods of sampling using
      blood, expectoration, urine, fixed biopsies and lungs tapping, as a substitute to the current
      reference (frozen tumor), which is out of reach in clinical examination.

      This will contribute to setting of a multicentric resources bank, to define targets for new
      drugs and to develop oligoarrays allowing adapted chemotherapies.

      Two previous studies (1800 and 500 patients respectively) have already been carried out, data
      and samples are available.

      For this study, 600 patients will be included over 3 years.
    
  