
    
      The proposed research builds on the established sensitivity of Hyperpolarized 129Xe MRI to
      obstructive and pulmonary vascular lung disease, features expected to represented in the
      Covid-19 cohort. It further incorporates a new understanding of the possible role of
      myocardial injury in these recovered patients by combining cutting-edge pulmonary and cardiac
      MRI.

      Although the initial presentation of patients with moderate to severe symptoms of COVID19
      infections is dominated by respiratory symptoms, 10% go on to develop persistent
      post-infection symptoms which are thought to have an inflammatory etiology. Evidence suggests
      that pathologic activation of the inflammasome persists beyond the acute initial presentation
      that contributes to the persistent disabling symptoms characterized as "long-haul COVID". For
      this trial, subjects will be eligible for enrollment if subjects are outpatients with a
      history of a laboratory-confirmed diagnosis of COVID-19 infection, and after 60 days or
      longer. The study team will accrual 13 subjects who continue to have respiratory symptoms
      (i.e., cough, shortness of breath, dyspnea on exertion). An additional 10 subjects engaged in
      competitive sports and diagnosed with COVID-19 will also be enrolled. These subjects can be
      asymptomatic or mildly to moderately. Although rare, cardiac impairment has been documented
      in <2% of these individuals. The study team knowledge, XeMRI has not yet been studied in this
      specific patient subset.

      Existing data highlight significant racial and ethnic disparities with historically
      underserved minority populations (i.e., Black, LatinX) suffering disproportionately higher
      infection rates and more severe illness compared to Whites. This is reflected by the
      population enrolled in the study team RedCAP database and biorepository. As such 30% of
      subjects enrolled will be required to be from underserved communities.
    
  