
    
      During the follicular phase of the normal menstrual cycle, luteinizing hormone (LH) pulse
      frequency decreases during sleep. These decreases may be important to support follicle
      stimulating hormone (FSH) synthesis and secretion. Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is
      associated with a persistently rapid gonadotropin hormone-releasing hormone (GnRH) pulse
      frequency, an abnormality that may account for many of the hormonal manifestations of PCOS.
      Although one prior study suggests that nocturnal LH frequency decreases slightly in PCOS,
      methodological issues limit interpretation. Our preliminary data suggest that nocturnal LH
      frequency does not decrease in untreated PCOS, but that nocturnal decreases of LH frequency
      are restored with androgen receptor blockade (flutamide) in women with PCOS. We have two
      hypotheses: (1) Prior to flutamide administration, sleep-associated slowing of LH pulse
      frequency is less pronounced in women with PCOS compared to that of normally-cycling women in
      the late follicular phase of the menstrual cycle; (2) After 4 weeks of flutamide
      administration, sleep-associated LH frequency reduction in women with PCOS is similar to that
      of normally-cycling women in the late follicular phase of the menstrual cycle. Women with
      PCOS and normally-cycling women will be studied. For each study participant, LH pulse
      frequency will be determined (from 1500 to 0700 h) after 4 weeks of flutamide and after 4
      weeks of placebo. Flutamide and placebo will be given in random order (i.e., cross-over
      study). Sleep will be formally evaluated. Flutamide will then be given for 4 weeks prior to
      reassessment of LH pulse frequency. LH pulse frequency will be analyzed by way of
      hierarchical mixed effect models. We will use statistical analyses to determine: (a) whether
      the wake vs. sleep difference in LH frequency is the same for PCOS and normal controls prior
      to flutamide, and (b) whether the mean wake vs. sleep difference in LH frequency is the same
      for the two groups after flutamide.
    
  