
    
      Spinal cord injury (SCI) may result in physical limitations such that receiving assistance
      from others is critical to maintaining health and facilitating full social integration. The
      assistance ranges from helping with basic daily activities such as bowel and bladder
      management, hygiene and dressing, to instrumental activities of daily living, including
      managing household finances, shopping, or transportation. The challenges that accompany a
      caregiving role may result in a caregiver's inability to balance responsibilities at home and
      in the workplace. In addition, there is a tendency for caregivers to neglect their own
      health, which may jeopardize the ability of the person with SCI to obtain the necessary care
      and support required for optimal independent functioning. Vulnerability and resilience to the
      ongoing stresses associated with caregiving for a loved one with SCI may be influenced by
      personal beliefs about the caregiver's capabilities for coping with them. People's belief
      about their capabilities for successfully performing tasks that affect their lives has been
      termed "self-efficacy".

      For family caregivers of individuals with SCI, self-efficacy beliefs are essential for coping
      with the stressors that are experienced in the caregiving role. Anxiety, depression, and a
      sense of "losing" one's own identity are frequently reported by family caregivers. However,
      there has been relatively little research regarding caregiving in SCI and even fewer
      treatment options to enhance self-efficacy for these caregivers. The proposed study involves
      a randomized clinical trial to examine the effect of an intervention specifically designed by
      and for family caregivers to help improve self-efficacy and reduce emotional distress
      associated with it. The goal of this project is to test a six-week manualized,
      cognitive-behaviorally based group educational intervention to improve family caregivers'
      self-efficacy beliefs and skills, improve their resilience to the ongoing stresses associated
      with caregiving, and enhance their overall quality of life with the potential added benefit
      of improving the quality of life for their family members with SCI. Investigators hypothesize
      that by providing family caregivers with this educational intervention, the intervention can
      improve their self-efficacy skills as well as general life satisfaction, and minimize
      depression, stress and anxiety associated with caregiving. The proposed intervention consists
      of weekly facilitator-led sessions for a total of 6 weeks and includes didactic presentations
      of 8 key principles, discussion topics and experiential exercises such as goal setting and
      problem solving with extensive group discussion. At the end of each session, tasks are
      assigned to participants to be completed outside the group prior to the next meeting. Session
      content is organized around concepts of identifying and building character strengths,
      cultivating positive emotion through focusing on gratitude and on the good in one's life,
      experientially engaging in pleasurable activities, and accomplishing personal goals. The
      innovation of the proposed intervention lies in its integration of positive psychotherapy
      concepts into structured group CBT to develop optimistic self-efficacy beliefs, thereby
      strengthening the caregiver's resilience to emotional distress, enhancing a sense of
      well-being in the caregiver which, in turn, may benefit the family member with SCI.
    
  