
    
      Cocaine, a powerful stimulant drug, is used by 2.2% of people aged 16-59 in England and each
      year about 150.000 people seek help for cocaine use disorder from the NHS or non-governmental
      organisations (NGO). There are currently no approved medication-assisted treatments or
      specific psychosocial interventions for CUD. General counselling is offered by the NHS and
      NGO addiction services, but this is not particularly effective.

      The transition from regular cocaine use to cocaine abuse is often marked by intense episodes
      (binges), which may last several days and are followed by a 'crash' with no or little use.
      For many people, repeated administration of cocaine over a short duration of time creates
      vivid episodic memories of euphoria which can inform future craving content. Craving or
      strong urges are a distinctive feature of CUD and are often reported as involuntary,
      distressing and uncontrollable.

      Research has demonstrated that craving experiences can be voluntarily evoked or elicited by
      conditioned drug cues in the environment and internal processes such mood or physical
      sensations. The associations between cues and use are established through classical and
      instrumental reward-based conditioning and are important for the development and maintenance
      of CUD. Enhanced attention to cocaine cues develops and remains heightened for at least six
      months into abstinence.

      Craving-related experiences are informed by memories of intense reward, physical sensations
      and include pro-drug beliefs, appraisals, expectancies and vivid mental imagery. Drug-imagery
      is often initially pleasurable and affectively charged and can motivate drug-seeking
      behaviour. If impeded or delayed, drug imagery highlights a deficit and can be experienced as
      distressing and intrusive. Treatment of intrusive images has been successful in various
      psychological disorders using imagery rescripting. Imagery rescripting has recently been used
      in memory-focused cognitive therapy to help reduce cocaine craving. Reducing intrusive
      image-induced negative affect through positive imagery is important for relieving
      psychological distress but there is also evidence that aversive imagery may reduce
      maladaptive approach behaviours.

      This will be a pragmatic, 4-week, 2x2, between-subjects, factorial randomised controlled
      trial. It will be conducted at a specialist NHS outpatient addictions clinic (Lorraine Hewitt
      House; LHH) operated by South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation trust (SLaM) and at the NIHR
      Wellcome Trust King's Clinical Research Facility (CRF) at King's College Hospital.

      Informed consenting adult participants will be randomised to one of four conditions:

        -  future-based (prospective) recovery-oriented imagery;

        -  future-based (prospective) cocaine-aversive imagery;

        -  past (autobiographical) recovery-oriented imagery; or

        -  past (autobiographical) cocaine-aversive imagery.

      Participants will undergo a craving induction procedure designed to elicit cue-induced
      craving. In response to elevated craving, participants will be asked to reduce their craving
      levels using a mental imagery intervention.

      Following the procedure in the research facility, participants will be given a digital audio
      player to take home. This will contain a recording of the imagery condition they are
      allocated to. Participants will be asked to listen to this recording each day during a 14-day
      follow-up, and ad libertatem when experiencing cocaine craving. After 14 days participants
      will be invited for a follow up conducted at the community addictions clinic.
    
  