
    
      Background: For metastatic cancer such as head and neck, lung and colorectal cancer, standard
      therapy comprises chemotherapy regimen partially in combination with monoclonal antibodies
      blocking the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) or the epidermal growth factor
      receptor (EGFR). When disease progression occurs during or after these treatment options have
      been applied, no established therapy is available and the clinical development of new
      strategies is warranted. Lenalidomide (Revlimid®) is a thalidomide derivative and belongs to
      the so-called ImiDs, a class of immunostimulatory molecules. IMiDs have profound effects on
      the immune system. Obviously, IMiDs are able to function as co-stimulatory molecule for
      mature T cells. In addition, IMiDs are able to mitigate the negative effects of CTLA-4
      signalling. On the molecular level, IMiDs induce phosphorylation of CD28, underlining the
      concept that they act as costimulatory signals during T cell activation. Furthermore, the
      induction of specific CTL responses by dendritic cells (DC) is enhanced and the activity of
      suppressive regulatory T cells (Treg) inhibited.

      In addition to their effects on cells of the adaptive immune system, IMiDs also target the
      innate immune response. Natural killer cells (NK) as well as natural killer T-cells (NKT) are
      activated by Immunomodulatory Drugs (IMiDs), and the effects of IMiDs on NK and NKT cells
      might further contribute to the immune-activating properties of ImiDs.

      Therefore the rationale of the combination of lenalidomide with a therapeutic IgG1 antibody
      such as cetuximab (Erbitux®) is based on the fact that several reports suggest a role of
      antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) as a mode of action of cetuximab.

      However, the exact definition of these anti-cancer mechanisms of lenalidomide alone and in
      combination with cetuximab in vivo require further investigation in early clinical trials.

      The goal of this phase I/II trial is to define the toxicity of the combination of
      lenalidomide and cetuximab and to study potential effects on the tumor and the immune system.

      Subjects meeting all inclusion criteria will be enrolled in cohorts of three patients to
      receive a single, oral dose of lenalidomide administered on Days 1-28 and intravenous (IV)
      infusions of cetuximab (400 mg/m2 first infusion only, then 250 mg/m2 subsequently)
      administered on Days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of each 28-day cycle.

      Prior to combination therapy, there will be a 21 day lead in treatment period with
      lenalidomide monotherapy (Days -21 to -1). Combination treatment will start at Day 1. Tumor
      biopsies will be taken before monotherapy lenalidomide treatment (between d-25 and -22) and
      between Day -3 and -1 (before starting cetuximab). A third tumor biopsy will be taken between
      Cycle 1 Day 21 and 28 after starting combination therapy. Cycles will be repeated every 28
      days. All subjects will continue on study drug until disease progression, unacceptable
      toxicity or treatment discontinuation for any other reason. The MTD of lenalidomide will be
      defined as the highest dose level at which no more than 1 out of 6 subjects experience a
      dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) during the first cycle of administration in combination with
      cetuximab. Safety measurements and analysis will be performed at each visit.
    
  