
    
      BACKGROUND

      Lung cancer (LC) is the leading cause of cancer deaths worldwide, are attributed about 13% of
      all new cases of cancer and accounts for 19.4% of deaths from malignancies. In Mexico, this
      cancer is also the leading cause of death in malignant neoplasias. One of the reasons
      attributable the high mortality from this disease is that most cases are detected in advanced
      stages and this depends prognosis and treatment. Within the classification of LC the most
      prevalent is the Non Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC); for which the considered first-line
      standard treatment is palliative cytotoxic chemotherapy, as the combination of carboplatin
      with paclitaxel and in the other hand one of the most recent combinations Carboplatin with
      Pemetrexed.

      Malnutrition may affect 80% of patients with advanced cancer and is associated with up to 20%
      of deaths, with an increased risk in the development of complications and mortality and can
      extend the hospital stay up to 90%, increasing the cost of treatment in a 35-75%. Similarly,
      in a previous study at INCan, the degree of malnutrition in patients with LC was associated
      with cytotoxic chemotherapy toxicity and poorer prognosis and poorer quality of life.
      Sarcopenia is also a phenomenon commonly observed in patients with LC, there has been a
      prevalence of 61% and 31% in men and women respectively.

      Carboplatin dose that is administered to the patient is calculated by the Calvert formula,
      this requires the calculation of glomerular filtration rate (GFR). There are various
      quantified and estimated methods to calculate GFR; however the validated and most commonly
      used is estimated by the Cockroft-Gault formulae. It is known that due to various factors,
      variables required for calculation (as creatinine) could be modify the result, may became
      unreliable, it is why it is important to consider changes in body composition of NSCLC
      patients with sarcopenia.

      HYPOTHESIS:

      Sarcopenia participants receive a 20% more dose of Carboplatin per Free Fat Mass (kg / mg)
      than those without sarcopenia.

      Sarcopenic patients, have more severe toxicity related to chemotherapy than those without
      sarcopenia.

      METHODOLOGY:

      NSCLC patients with advanced NSCLC (inoperable stage III or IV ) will be included.

      Clinicopathological baseline of patients such as age, sex, stage, ECOG, weight, height, body
      composition, Subjective Global Assessment, frequency of food consumption, albumin,
      hemoglobin, hematocrit, glomerular filtration rate, carboplatin administered dosage, quality
      of life, etc.

      A subsequent follow-up evaluation will be made after 1st and 2nd cycle of treatment to assess
      toxicity.
    
  