
    
      Before starting the study, patients will have a dietary pattern evaluation, physical exam,
      blood test, height, weight, hip, wrist, mid-arm and waist circumference measurements.

      Researchers will compare changes in weight, waist, hip, mid-arm and wrist size, and changes
      in the amount of vitamins, iron, and nutrients in the blood. Researchers will also measure
      the levels of some proteins that can be linked to ovarian tumors.

      Patients will be randomly picked (as in the toss of a coin) to be in one of two groups. One
      group will receive free of charge nutritional counseling for 6 months, while the second group
      will receive free of charge daily supplements . These supplements will be made up of a
      combination from fruits and vegetables (Juice Plus+). Patients will be asked to take two
      capsules (Juice Plus+) in the morning, and two capsules (Juice Plus+) along with a drink
      containing vitamins and minerals (Juice Plus+ Complete) in the evening for 6 months.

      All patients will have their eating patterns monitored for six months. Patients will come to
      the clinic at least every three months as part of their normal treatment schedule. Each visit
      will take 3 hours and will include a physical exam, blood tests, and anthropometric
      measurements (height, weight, waist, hip, mid-arm, and wrist circumferences). At some visits,
      dietary and quality of life assessments will also be done.

      With the exception of the first interview, nutritional counseling will be mostly done by a 30
      to 60 minute telephone call once a week for two months. Counseling will also be done once
      every other week for two months and then once a month for two months.

      Participation in this study will be stopped if patients have to start being fed by vein,
      patients get pregnant or begin breast feeding, patients have bowel obstruction, patients are
      diagnosed with a condition requiring a restricted diet, patients begin medication that is
      incompatible with a high fiber diet, or patients have severe side effects.

      This is an investigational study. A total of 50 patients will take part in this study.
    
  