
    
      Due to the demographic change with a significant increase in the older segment of the
      population, recent estimates in the United States suggest that the rate of TKR surgery will
      rise exponentially over the next decade. A similar trend is expected in Switzerland with a
      marked increase in the absolute number of TKR surgery. Today, patients waiting for TKR
      surgery in Switzerland are neither routinely participating in an active training program to
      reduce pain and improve function nor in an educational program to increase coping skills
      before surgery.

      The intervention group will receive neuromuscular training as well as 4 sessions of the Knee
      OA School. Both will be offered in group sessions separate from the control group.

      a) The neuromuscular training will take place under the supervision of an experienced
      physiotherapist, 2 sessions a week of 60 minutes each. The training program, based on
      neuromuscular and biomechanical principles, according to the possibilities of the patient.
      The training sessions consists of three parts: warming up (ergometer cycling), a circuit
      program, and cooling down (walking, stretching, mobility). The circuit program comprises four
      exercise circles with the key elements of core stability, postural function, functional
      alignment, lower extremity muscle strength, and functional exercises.

      b) The Knee School is an educational program and takes place in three group sessions and one
      individual follow-up session. Patients receive information about: anatomy and physiology of
      the knee (first group session); proposed physical activity and pain self-management (second
      group session); and the rehabilitation phase after surgery (third group session).

      The control group will receive the Knee School sessions without the neuromuscular PT separate
      from the intervention group to avoid interaction between the groups.
    
  