
    
      Background

      Heart rhythm disorders frequently occur in the general population and potentially have
      serious consequences. Atrial fibrillation, the most common atrial arrhythmia, can lead to
      intracardiac blood clot formation an subsequent embolisation. Esophageal electrocardiography
      (eECG) provides detailed information about the electrical activity of the atria. Due to the
      good signal quality, eECG is a promising technique for rhythm monitoring.

      Patients undergoing rhythm monitoring may also show signs of other cardiac diseases,
      particularly coronary artery disease (CAD) due to its high prevalence. It is therefore
      mandatory to define the ischemic changes in the esophageal ECG.

      In CAD atherosclerotic processes narrow the lumen of coronary arteries and may cause
      exercise-induced ischemia (stable CAD). More importantly, there is also the risk of plaque
      rupture and subsequent blood clot formation. This cascade can lead to total occlusion of the
      coronary vessel and myocardial infarction.

      Coronary angiography is used to determine the severity of coronary artery stenosis. This
      simple approach turned out to be useful in clinical routine. However, presence or absence of
      coronary collaterals is one of the reasons why coronary angiography alone may fail to define
      the clinical relevance of CAD. Collateral vessels as natural bypasses can grow and act as
      "backup" blood supply of the myocardial area at risk and can therefore reduce infarct size.
      The coronary wedge-pressure method is recognized as the scientific and clinical gold
      standard. Collateralization is an important confounder which also can "mask" ischemic changes
      on the ECG.

      The surface ECG of an important portion of patients undergoing arrhythmia screening also
      shows signs of myocardial ischemia due to CAD or left ventricular hypertrophy. As with the
      surface ECG, it is conceivable that ischemic changes occur in the eECG. The characterization
      of ischemia related changes in eECG is crucial in order to guarantee the proper
      classification of eECG events. To date, the characterization of such changes is not adequate
      in order to allow the reliable clinical interpretation of eECG changes.

      Objective

        -  To characterize changes in the esophageal ECG induced by myocardial ischemia due to
           short-time coronary occlusion.

        -  To determine the influence of coronary collateral vessels on these changes.

      Methods

      Patients referred for elective coronary angiography will be randomized to four groups:

        1. Patients undergoing temporary myocardial ischemia produced by a one-minute balloon
           occlusion of the proximal left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery.

        2. Patients undergoing temporary myocardial ischemia produced by a one-minute balloon
           occlusion of the proximal left circumflex artery.

        3. Patients undergoing temporary myocardial ischemia produced by a one-minute balloon
           occlusion of the proximal right coronary artery.

        4. Patients undergoing temporary ischemia produced by a one-minute occlusion of the target
           vessel (the vessel which shows a significant stenosis and accordingly requires a
           therapeutical intervention).

      During the occlusion, collateral flow indexes will be calculated. Simultaneously, surface
      ECG, esophageal ECG and intracoronary ECG will be registered.
    
  