
    
      End-stage renal disease (ESRD) is associated with multiple comorbidities such as
      cardiovascular disease, anemia, mineral and bone disorders, malnutrition, body wasting,
      muscle loss (sarcopenia), neurological problems and infections resulting in a poor survival.
      Important promoters of these obstacles are enhanced generation of reactive oxygen species
      (ROS), systemic inflammation, acquired immunodeficiency (9, 10) and an impaired glucose and
      insulin homeostasis (11).

      Systemic inflammation and oxidative stress in ESRD are induced by activation of the innate
      immune system involving monocytes, macrophages, granulocytes and cellular constituents
      (endothelial cell activation) as well as depletion of natural regulatory T cells that impairs
      their ability to suppress inflammation .The concomitant reduced humoral immunity is favored
      by depletion of antigen presenting dendritic cells, a lowered CD44/CD8 T cell ratio,
      depletion of naïve and central memory T cells, diffuse B cell lymphopenia and an impaired
      phagocytic ability of monocytes and PMNs (12).

      Insulin resistance (IR) participates in the pathogenesis of multiple metabolic and
      cardiovascular disturbances (13) and is an important factor of the accelerated muscle protein
      degradation in ESRD (14). Underlying mechanisms of IR are the metabolic inflammation, in
      particular elevated LPS levels.

      In the pathogenesis of the uremic syndrome the altered intestinal function seems to be an
      important contributor. While the normal gut microbiota plays a prominent role in the
      maintenance of health and disease prevention, changes of its composition is associated with
      numerous diseases such as obesity, type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disturbances and
      auto-immune diseases. In ESRD metabolic alterations of uremia results in quantitative and
      qualitative changes of its bacterial flora with an overgrowth of pathobionts (1). Due to
      concomitant disruption of the intestinal barrier function, noxious luminal products are
      translocated in the body's internal milieu (Fig.2). The passage includes whole bacteria
      (going into mesenteric lymph nodes), endotoxins/ lipoproteinlipase (LPS) (cell wall
      components of the bacteria) and other noxious luminal products which induce a persistent
      local (gut) and systemic inflammation.The process is intensified by the intestinal generation
      of several pro-inflammatory uremic toxins such as indoxyl sulfate, p-cresyl sulfate and
      trimethyamine-N-oxide (2).The accumulation of these compounds correlates with systemic
      inflammation, protein wasting and accelerated cardiovascular complications in hemodialysis
      patients (3).

      Short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) are produced in the colon and distal small intestine by
      anaerobic bacteria following fermentation of complex carbohydrates. The 3 major compounds are
      acetic acid, butyric and propionic acids. SCFA contribute to the health of the gut
      (microbiome and mucosa) and the host. They have been shown to exert anti-inflammatory,
      anti-cancer, antibacterial and antidiabetic effects. Lower values and an dysbiotic gut
      contribute to various diseases such colitis, type 2 diabetes, rheumatoid disease and multiple
      sclerosis. Supplementation of SCFA exerts anti-inflammatory actions both in intestinal
      epithelial cells (5) and in the cardiovascular system (6). They also positively influence
      auto- immune reactions /diseases (7, 8). In particular SCFA enhances formation of regulatory
      T cells in the colon which are critical for regulating intestinal inflammation (15). Also
      effector T cells such as Il-10 are implicated (16). Likewise SCFA are involved in the control
      of body weight and insulin sensitivity (17), cholesterol synthesis (18) and retardation of
      progressive CKD.

      In patients on maintenance hemodialysis (MHD) a diet with a high fiber content, which favors
      the intestinal SCFA formation (19), lowered the plasma levels of the colon-derived solutes
      indoxyl sulfate and possibly p-cresol sulfate (20) and reduced inflammation, cardiovascular
      diseases and all-cause mortality in CKD/ESRD patients (21). However, in ESRD consumption of a
      fiber rich diet is limited due to the risk of hyperpotassemia. In addition the frequent
      antibiotic therapy, application of phosphate binder or iron therapy alters the gut
      microbiome.

      The following mechanisms have been proposed for the actions of SCFA: the G-protein-coupled
      receptors GPR 41 and GPR 43 (the free fatty acid receptors FFAR 3 and 2 ), GPR 109a, Olfr78 ,
      the inhibition of histone deacetylases (HDAC) and stimulation of histone acetyltransferase
      (HAT) activity (22, 23).

      n this study we want to investigate in MHD patients whether a treatment with SCFA in form of
      sodium propionate (SP) modulates the systemic inflammation, insulin resistance and
      accumulation of intestinal uremic toxins. SP is chemically composed by a carboxylic acid
      moiety and a small hydrocarbon chain with three carbon atoms (black balls), two oxygen (red
      balls) and the white hydrogen atoms.

      SP is involved in most effects of the short chain fatty acids including inhibition of
      intestinal and hepatocyte lipid synthesis (24), lowering of fasting glycemia (25, 26) and
      protection against diet-induced obesity ( 27). SP also regulates colonic T-reg cell
      homeostasis (28) and exerts marked anti-inflammatory actions including intestinal epithelial
      cells and macrophages (29) as well as in neutrophils, colon cells and colon cultures (30). It
      improved experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (31) and experimental acute renal failure
      (32). In addition antibacterial effects were documented (33, 34).

      The patients under maintenance hemodialysis will receive the food additive sodium propionate
      with a daily intake of 2 x 500 mg in form of capsules (Propicum) for 12 weeks. The
      demographic information and the blood chemistry will be collected before the study, after 6,
      12 and 16 weeks of drug administration.

      The project will last for one year. The planned patient group should comprise of 15 patients
      on maintenance hemodialysis.
    
  