
    
      A. Objectives of Study

      The purpose of this study is to determine the impact of the Media-Smart Youth (MSY)
      curriculum on adolescent knowledge skills and behavioral intent in the areas of media
      analysis, nutrition, and physical activity. The study asks whether youth participating in the
      MSY curriculum 1) increase their skills in analyzing media messages; 2) increase their
      knowledge of the basic principles of healthful and nutritious foods and increase their skills
      and behavioral intent to make healthful food choices in real-life settings; and 3) increase
      their knowledge of the importance of daily physical activity in promoting health and increase
      their skills and behavioral intent to be more active in their daily lives.

      B. Study Design

      The evaluation will use a group randomization design, in which 18 after-school programs will
      be randomly assigned to either receive the MSY curriculum or serve as controls. Nine
      youth-serving agencies running pre-existing structured after-school programs in the
      Washington, DC metropolitan area will be solicited to participate in the evaluation. For each
      agency, two program sites will be selected with each pair of sites matched for socioeconomic
      status, race and ethnicity, all factors that may affect the program outcomes. The sites will
      then be randomly assigned to either the treatment or control group. During the implementation
      of the MSY curriculum at the treatment sites, participants in the control sites will receive
      after-school programming unrelated to MSY. Fifteen youth in each after-school program, or 270
      youth, will be recruited to participate in the study. Parental consent and youth assent will
      be obtained. At the end of the program implementation, program staff from the treatment and
      control sites will be offered training in implementing the MSY curriculum.

      C. Outcome Measures

      The MSY program outcomes on knowledge, skills and behavioral intent related to media
      analysis, nutrition, and physical activity will be measured using a paper-and-pencil
      self-administered questionnaire (SAQ). All 270 youth will complete the SAQ pretest before the
      start of the MSY curriculum. Following the completion of the curriculum, all 270 youth will
      complete the SAQ posttest. For the treatment of after-school participants, data collection is
      incorporated into the MSY curriculum delivery. Following implementation of the MSY
      curriculum, the treatment group facilitators will be interviewed to identify any
      modifications made to the ascribed curriculum. Program directors of the control groups will
      also be interviewed to determine the general content of the program(s) in which the control
      youth participated.
    
  