
    
      "Colistin" (the first breakdown product colistimethate sodium, also known as polymyxin E) is
      comprised of approximately 30 different polymyxins, with colistin A (polymyxin E1) and
      colistin B (polymyxin B) accounting for upwards of 85% of the mass. It is amphipathic, cannot
      be absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and is administered intramuscularly,
      intravenously (IV) or via inhalation. While approved for aerosolized use in the United
      Kingdom, and used in Europe for decades as such, aerosolized colistin is not FDA-approved in
      the United States. The intravenous formulation is approved for use in the U.S., but due to
      the age of the drug, it did not undergo rigorous studies of safety prior to FDA-approval.
      Thus, detailed pharmacokinetic data are limited and dosing is not standardized, although the
      maximum IV dose should not exceed 5mg/kg/day, divided into two to four equal doses. In the
      United Kingdom, the recommended dosing of nebulized colistin for adults is one million units
      (1MIU) twice daily. Despite the paucity of dosing and safety guidelines, aerosolized colistin
      is being prescribed regularly out of necessity given the emergence of multi-drug resistant
      organisms (MDROs). MDROs are strongly associated with nosocomial pneumonia and several
      strains are only susceptible to this older drug, thus there is an urgent need for
      clarification on the safe use of colistin, including in aerosolized form as this delivers a
      high concentration of drug directly to the infection site. This is a randomized, open-labeled
      Phase 1 trial of aerosolized and/or IV formulations of colistin as multiple doses over seven
      days. 39 healthy male and female subjects, 18-45 years of age will be admitted for an
      inpatient study with outpatient follow-up. The primary objective of this trial is to evaluate
      the safety and tolerability of multiple doses of aerosolized and intravenous colistimethate
      sodium separately or in combination in healthy adult subjects. The secondary objective of
      this trial is to determine the pharmacokinetics of multiple daily doses of aerosolized and
      intravenous colistimethate sodium separately or in combination in healthy adult subjects.
      Subjects will participate for up to 25 days plus a screening and a follow-up appointment. The
      duration of this study shall be for two years, including screening, study conduct (including
      scheduled SMC reviews), study follow-up and preparation of all reports.
    
  