
    
      Male circumcision is the most often performed operation in male children throughout the
      world. In the western world it is not accepted to perform this procedure without adequate
      analgesic support. Hence the dorsal penile nerve block (DPNB), first described in the 70ies
      of the 20th century, is one of the most frequently performed regional anesthetic procedures
      in both children and adults. There are several methods described in the literature, of which
      the one described by Dalens et al in 1989 nowadays is the most often quoted and most
      frequently performed method. The reported rate of insufficient analgesia by DPNB is higher
      than caudal block or penile ring wall infiltration. It is known from neuroanatomic studies,
      that the penis is innervated mostly, but not only by the dorsal penile nerve, a final branch
      of the pudendal nerve. A varying amount of the ventral penile skin, especially of the
      preputium and the frenulum, is innervated by fine end branches of the perineal nerve, which
      otherwise gives sensoric innervation to the scrotum and motor innervation to the
      bulbospongiosus muscle. An injection of local anesthetic underneath Buck's fascia is unable
      to reach the perineal nerve, which may be the explanation for these failures.

      In this study we compare two different techniques of performing the dorsal penile nerve block
      (DPNB): the technique according to Dalens, and a modification, where a small amount of the
      local anesthetic for the dorsal penile nerve block (DPNB) is withheld, and then injected
      subcutaneously at the ventral transition between the penis and the scrotum in the midline.
      The latter injection at the site of perineal innervation is a relic of the penile ring wall
      infiltration, which surely blocks all skin fibres of both the dorsal penile nerve and the
      perineal nerve.

      All patients included randomly receive either two injections at the dorsum penis according to
      Dalens' technique, or two injections at the dorsum penis according to Dalens' technique plus
      on subcutaneous injection in the ventral midline of the penis at the transition between the
      penis and the scrotum. The amount of local anesthetic (bupivacaine 0,75%, 0,2 ml/kg of body
      weight) and dosing of narcotics (Sevoflurane 2,2 Vol% end-expiratory gas in an oxygen-air
      mixture) is the same in both groups.
    
  