
    
      Research Aims:

      Aim 1: To evaluate the effectiveness of a pre-arrival, pre-departure trauma checklist on
      improving time to initiation of key clinical interventions in a simulated pediatric trauma
      scenario

      Aim 2: To evaluate the impact of a pre-arrival, pre-departure trauma checklist on completion
      of primary and secondary survey tasks as demonstrated by an Advanced Trauma Life Support
      (ATLS) performance tool.

      Aim 3: To evaluate the cognitive task load of a trauma checklist on emergency department
      physicians during a simulated trauma resuscitation scenario.

      Aim 4: To describe patterns of eye movement of a trauma team leader in a simulated scenario
      in relation to critical patient interventions and team communication.

      METHODS:

      POPULATION:

      Simulation scenarios will be run with multidisciplinary trauma teams recruited from the
      Alberta Children's Hospital. Each team will be comprised of a trauma team leader, second
      physician, three registered nurses and a respiratory therapist. Confederate actors will play
      the role of the medication nurse and respiratory therapist.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      This study utilizes a prospective, randomized controlled study design. The investigators
      propose a randomized control trial methodology with a control group representing standard
      practice to justify the change to adopt the method amongst clinical trauma teams.

      Participants recruited to partake in the study will be asked to perform as members of a
      pediatric trauma resuscitation team. Each team of healthcare providers will be randomized
      into one of two study arms. In the intervention arm, the participants will watch a 10-minute
      recorded educational video demonstrating the use of the trauma checklist prior to their
      simulation scenario. These teams will subsequently receive a copy of the checklist for use
      during their simulation scenario. In the control arm, teams will not receive a copy of the
      checklist for use. All simulated trauma resuscitations will be video recorded and reviewed.

      All teams will be asked to participate in a standardized 20-minute trauma resuscitation
      simulation scenario. This scenario will be followed by a 10-minute debriefing session
      facilitated by a simulation consultant. Following the trauma resuscitation scenario, and
      debriefing, the trauma team leader and bedside physician will be asked to complete the NASA
      Task Load Index (NASA-TLX) survey on cognitive workload. The data collected from this survey,
      will allow further insight into the impact on mental workload on participants with the use of
      a cognitive aid.

      In addition, the trauma team leader will be asked to wear an eye-tracking device during the
      simulation scenario. Eye movements are recorded using an eye tracking system. The system
      captures a scene view calibrated to the participant's perspective of the environment, and an
      eye view capturing the surface anatomy of the eye (i.e. pupil, iris, sclera, eyelids). The
      software processes eye and scene data to compute point of gaze data in the environment.
      Eye-tracking data will be collected and analyzed for development of future studies. In
      particular, the study investigators aim to describe patterns of eye tracking of a trauma team
      leader during periods of critical interventions and key team member communication within a
      simulated scenario.

      SAMPLE SIZE & STATISTICAL ANALYSIS:

      This study is a pilot study and the investigators will use team performance as unit of
      measure. In order to achieve a significant level of 0.05 and a power of 0.8, 12 teams per
      group allows us to detect a large effect size (d = 1.2). A 2-sample t-test is planned to
      detect the difference in time to initiation of key interventions between 2 groups. If the
      data does not fall with a normal distribution, the team will use the Wilcoxon rank sum test.

      POSSIBLE PROBLEMS & ANTICIPATED SOLUTIONS:

        1. Participants may have prior exposure to the trauma checklist: The Alberta Children's
           Hospital Trauma checklist has been available for use since July 2016. Physical copies
           are available in the trauma bay; however, the checklist was not formally introduced to
           the department staff with specific educational initiatives, demonstrations or rounds
           presentations. Less than 5 completed checklists have been submitted to the Trauma
           Committee for review. The success of checklist use is influenced by implementation and
           team culture. The investigators anticipate that participants will have minimal
           experience with checklist use.

        2. Imprecision of outcome measurements: Defining the exact timing of initiation and
           completion of clinical tasks by video review can be difficult and variable. The research
           team will determine standardized definitions for video reviewers. All video reviewers
           will undergo an hour long training session and assessment of their inter-rater
           reliability.

        3. Variability within the simulation scenario: A standardized simulation lab will be
           prepared. All simulations will be run by a study co-investigator and study coordinator.
           Confederate actors will undergo specific training and have tightly scripted roles.

      Confidentiality and Privacy Protection

      Informed and written consent to participate in this research study will be obtained from each
      team member before the start of each simulation scenario. All data will be stored on a
      password protected computer within a secured server that can only be accessed by research
      team members. Data will be destroyed after completion of the study.
    
  