
    
      During the COVID-19 pandemic a minority of children have presented to acute services with
      clinical features of a new syndrome known as Paediatric Inflammatory Multisystem Syndrome
      temporally associated with SARS-Cov-2 (PIMS-TS). This high inflammatory state, likely
      triggered by the virus, has overlapping features of Kawasaki's and Toxic Shock Syndrome.

      The focus of this study is to identify which children presenting with mild PIMS-TS symptoms
      will go on to develop severe disease requiring intensive care unit (ICU) admission. This is
      important as data suggests that early aggressive treatment with immunosuppression can lead to
      a relatively quick resolution in symptoms. The results of this study could allow clinicians
      to be selective in treating patients in whom the benefits of treatment outweigh the risks.

      Early data suggests a 'cytokine storm' is involved in the PIMS-TS disease process. This
      proposed observational study will investigate whether children presenting to the non-ICU
      setting with features of PIMS-TS have raised cytokine storm biomarkers and whether these may
      be used to predict which children go onto develop severe disease.

      The proposed study will include up to 15 hospitals across East of England. NHS clinical care
      teams will identify patients meeting the inclusion criteria and upload anonymised data into a
      secure web-based study database. Data will be retrieved for retrospective cases from 1st
      March 2020 and prospective data entered up until September 2021.

      One hundred children presenting to acute (non-ICU) paediatric services with symptoms of
      PIMS-TS during the study period will be included.

      The primary objective of the study is to describe the 'cytokine storm' biomarker profiles of
      children aged between 3 months to 16 years presenting with PIMS-TS to the non-ICU setting,
      focussing on those biomarkers which are readily accessible to district general hospitals
      (Pro-Beta Natriuretic peptide [BNP], ferritin, and CRP).

      The secondary aims of the study are to:

        1. Compare cytokine storm biomarker profiles of children who have a mild disease course to
           those who develop severe disease to identify whether there are any differences between
           these groups

        2. Evaluate the association between cytokine storm biomarker profiles and severe events

        3. Compare i) demographic characteristics (including pre-existing disease), and ii) other
           routine clinical investigations of children who have a mild disease course and those who
           develop severe disease to identify any differences between these 2 groups

        4. Evaluate the association between vaccination status and disease severity

        5. Compare cytokine storm biomarker profiles of children testing positive and those testing
           negative for SARS-CoV-2 via PCR on 2x nasopharyngeal swabs to identify any differences
           between these 2 groups.
    
  