
    
      Two Nasopharyngeal (NP) swabs will be collected from opposite nares by health care
      professionals at the POC from minimally 155 subjects enrolled at a minimum of 2 point-
      of-care (POC) clinical sites. One swab will be tested for the presence of SARS-CoV-2
      responsible for COVID -19 using antigen-based tests. A second swab will be placed in
      transport media and transferred to a laboratory for testing using a high sensitivity EUA
      real-time (RT) PCR assay as the comparator method and the Ct values used to determine
      positive or negative. The order of sample collection will be randomized. Minimally 35
      positive and 120 negative NP specimens are required.

      Two to 4 health care professional operators per site, with a range of education and training,
      at a point of care setting will perform a COVID-19 Rapid test assay utilizing the
      Instructions for Use and/or Quick Reference Instruction.

      Sample Population: Men and women, age 18 and older, with symptoms consistent with SARS-CoV-2
      infection (COVID-19).

      Outcome measures: 1) Sensitivity and specificity will be calculated for comparison of results
      between the Rapid test and the high sensitivity EUA real-time (RT) PCR assay comparator. 2)
      Evidence that a Health Care Professional (HCP) at Point of Care (POC) can safely and
      effectively utilize the Rapid test and the COVIDscanDX reader after reading the Instructions
      For Use (IFU) and/or brief instruction video.

      Antibody testing will be performed after PCR/antigen testing or after vaccination with and
      FDA EUA allowed SARS-CoV-2 vaccine. A finger-stick blood drop, nasopharyngeal swab or saliva
      sample in buffer is applied to a lateral flow test to measure either SARS-CoV-2 antigen or
      IgM and IgG antibodies either once or up to five times separated by a week for 35 days after
      vaccination. Follow-up tests may be performed to measure the longevity of the antibody
      response over time up to a year.
    
  