
    
      An ECG is a test that detects and records the electrical activity of the heart. As a
      diagnostic tool, it can detect and locate the source of heart problems, including heart
      attacks, irregular heart beats, cardiovascular disease, or other abnormalities of the heart.
      An ECG procedure involves attaching electrodes to the skin on the chest, arms, and legs while
      the electrodes detect electrical signals of the heart, and a machine displays the signals on
      a computer screen and graph paper. An ECG may be a beneficial way to detect cardiovascular
      disease because it is a low-cost and non-invasive test that is widely available in the
      clinical setting.

      This study will examine ECGs and other study data from participants in the Coronary Artery
      Risk Development in Young Adults (CARDIA) study. As ECG abnormalities typically begin to
      develop in young adults, the CARDIA participants will provide researchers with an excellent
      study population. As part of the CARDIA study, ECGs were obtained from participants at
      baseline, and Years 7 and 20. Study researchers will use state-of-the-art technology and
      standardized Minnesota Code and Novacode methods to electronically code participants' ECGs
      and accomplish the following: 1) assess the frequency of ECG abnormalities in young adults of
      different races; 2) examine potential risk factors for the development and progression of ECG
      abnormalities; 3) investigate the relationship between ECG abnormalities and other measures
      of heart disease; and 4) assess differences in the frequency and patterns of ECG
      abnormalities between different racial groups. Study researchers will also analyze additional
      CARDIA study data, including cardiovascular disease risk factors, measures of
      atherosclerosis, and echocardiographic ultrasound pictures of the heart.

      This research will provide important insights into the ways in which ECG abnormalities are
      associated with increased risk for cardiovascular disease and how the risk may differ between
      blacks and whites. Results from this study may ultimately lead to improvements in preventive
      strategies for cardiovascular disease in young adults.
    
  