
    
      Patient population: Consecutive burn patients admitted to participating burn ICUs who receive
      invasive ventilation, irrespective of severity of burn injury and/or presence of inhalation
      trauma are eligible for participation.

      Data collection: includes burn patients admitted within a period of three months. Demographic
      and baseline data are collected from the clinical files on the day of admission. If
      available, standard of care and clinical outcome parameters are collected daily until day 14,
      death or discharge from ICU, whatever comes first.

      Sample size: The primary objective is to determine (variations in) ventilation practice in
      burn patients in burn ICUs. Therefore, the sample size is based on the main secondary
      objective, which is to determine the association between the following ventilator settings:
      tidal volume, PEEP, FiO2 and mode; and outcome of burn patients. The investigators calculated
      the sample size for a multiple regression model: a sample size of at least 300 patients is
      required to have a power of 0.80, a significance level of 0.05, using an estimated effect
      size of 0.04, while using 4 independent variables in the model.

      Ethics Approval: National coordinators will be responsible for clarifying the need for ethics
      approval and applying for this where appropriate according to local policy. Centres will not
      be permitted to record data unless ethics approval or an equivalent waiver is in place. The
      investigators expect that in most, if not every participating country, a patient informed
      consent is not be required.

      Monitoring: Due to the observational nature of the study, a DSMB is not necessary.

      Organization: National co-ordinators will lead the project within individual nations and
      identify participating hospitals, translate study paperwork, distribute study paperwork and
      ensure necessary regulatory approvals are in place. They provide assistance to the
      participating clinical sites in trial management, record keeping and data management. Local
      coordinators in each site will supervise data collection and ensure adherence to Good
      Clinical Practice during the trial.
    
  