
    
      This study is a preliminary examination of the feasibility, acceptability, and effectiveness
      of a brief, one-session intervention for a diverse sample of young adults who report alcohol
      binge drinking or marijuana use in the past month. The proposed study will utilize a
      two-group pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) design. Participants will be randomized to
      one of two interventions conditions in a 1:1 distribution using a standard urn randomization
      technique stratified by gender and substances used in the past month only, alcohol AND
      marijuana). Participants will be randomized to either: 1) Narrative- based Therapeutic
      Assessment (NbTa) or 2) Health Education (HE) control condition.

      10.2 Recruiment Potential participants will be recruited using an IRB approved flyer posted
      at locations in the greater Houston area that are likely to be frequented by our target young
      adult population (e.g. college campuses, gyms, coffee shops, grocery stores, etc). Potential
      participants will also be recruited through online advertising, as well as through email and
      social media advertisements. Individuals that are interested in participating in the study
      will call the study phone number. Participants will also have the opportunity to contact the
      study via a secure email address.

      Upon arrival at the study site, the RA will greet the participant and begin the Informed
      Consent Process. The RA will provide the participant with a verbal and written overview of
      the study including aims, risks, compensations, and all study procedures. The RA will provide
      each potential participant with the opportunity to ask questions about the study. The RA will
      emphasize the voluntary nature of the study and tell participants that they may withdraw at
      any time during the study. Potential participants will be given as much time as needed to
      review the written (Informed Consent Document [ICD]) and will be given a copy for their
      records. The ICD will include the contact information of the PI as well as the UH IRB.
      Participants that agree to participate will sign the ICD and the RA will document the entire
      process. After Informed Consent has been obtained, the participant will be rescreened in
      order to verify that participants continue to meet inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Once eligibility has been re-established the RA will provide participants with a computer
      tablet that participants will be instructed to use to complete the study questionnaires. The
      questionnaires will be administered using Qualtrics and the data will be stored on a secure
      server with firewall and password protection maintained by the College of Education's Center
      for Information Technology in Education. While the participant completes the questionnaires
      on the tablet the RA will be available for questions or concerns. Participants will be
      instructed to complete the questionnaire to the best of their ability. Participants will also
      be told that if they do not feel comfortable with any questions, they may skip them.
      Participants will be offered bottled water and will be able to take bathroom breaks as needed
      during the assessment. A full list of measures is provided in Appendix 2 with the timepoint
      to be given. The Investigative team has conducted two pilot mock completions of the
      assessment battery and it takes approximately 1 to 1.5 hours to complete the baseline
      assessment and 30-45 minutes to complete the follow-up assessment. After completing the
      questionnaires, participants will complete two biological tests to confirm their
      self-reported substance use. First, participants will be asked to provide a urine sample. The
      RA will provide the participant with a collection cup and instructions for the participant to
      collect the sample. Participants will not be directly observed while providing the urine
      sample. The RA will wait outside of the bathroom with an nondescript collection bin. The
      urine sample cup is equipped with built-in tests for the thirteen most common substances used
      including alcohol, marijuana, and other drugs. The test cup will indicate a positive or
      negative result for each substance tested and the RA will document the result and discard the
      collection cup. The sealed cup containing the urine sample can be discarded in the restroom
      and is not considered a biohazard. It will not contain any identifying information on it and
      the test strips become unreadable within 20 minutes. Once the urine sample results are
      documented, the RA will collect a sample of expired carbon monoxide using a Bedfont Micro+
      Smokerlyzer®. This test measures the level of carbon monoxide, which is an indicator of
      combustible smoking including marijuana and tobacco use. The collection of this sample will
      involve participants taking a deep breath, holding it for 15 seconds, and exhaling into a
      handheld electronic device. The report will range from 0-500ppm, and the sensor is accurate
      by 1ppm. The RA will document the results on a CO test results form.

      After the two biological tests have been completed, the RA will schedule the participant's
      6-month follow-up visit. The RA will remind participants about the expected duration of the 6
      month Follow-Up Visit.

      Intervention The RA will then escort the participant to the interventionist's office and will
      introduce the participant and the interventionist to one another. Once the RA has left, the
      interventionist will open the presequenced randomization envelope and document the
      participant's study group. The interventionist will inform the participant of the group they
      have been randomized to. Participants randomized to the NbTa intervention condition will
      receive a 45-minute Narrative-Based Therapeutic Assessment intervention session. Those
      randomized to the Health Education control condition will receive a time-matched intervention
      session that will involve the viewing of health-related educational videos with a brief
      discussion. The investigative team has used the Health Education Intervention as a control
      group intervention in a previous trial of substance users (de Dios, Cano, Vaughan, Childress,
      McNeel, & Niaura, Under Review). All NbTa sessions will be audio/video recorded and this data
      will be stored on a secure password protected institutional server. The Health Education
      sessions will not be audio/video recorded. Participants may choose not to be audio/video
      recorded for any reason. The recordings are not a condition of participation. For the
      delivery of both interventions, manuals will be used to ensure standardization of
      intervention delivery as well as provide a basis for evaluating interventionist adherence.

      Upon completing the intervention session, participants will complete the SSSE to rate their
      satisfaction with the content of the session.
    
  