
    
      All the patients selected for study will have a detailed general examination including airway
      assessment, spine, and systemic examination .Patient will be kept nil-by-mouth for 6 to 8
      hours. Sedatives and hypnotics will be avoided in premedication as well as
      intraoperatively.All patients will be premedicated with antiemetic agent - Inj ondansetron(4
      mg). In O.T. patient will be preloaded with R.L. 10-15 mL/kg.Pre-operative parameters like
      pulse rate, respiratory rate, oxygen saturation and blood pressure will be noted.

      Procedure

      Spinal anaesthesia will be given with 25G Quinke's needle in sitting position. Under all
      aseptic precautions and depending upon the groups, respective agents will be injected
      intrathecally.That is Group BC15 will be given 2ml of hyperbaric bupivacaine 0.5%with 15 mcg
      clonidine intrathecally; Group BC30 will be given 2ml of hyperbaric bupivacaine 0.5% with 30
      mcg clonidine intrathecally;Group BC60 will be given 2ml of hyperbaric bupivacaine 0.5% with
      60 mcg clonidine intrathecally Group BF25 will be given 2ml of hyperbaric bupivacaine 0.5%
      with 25mcg of fentanyl intrathecally.Each group will have a total volume of 2.5 ml made by
      addition of Normal saline Both the patient and anesthesiologist will be blinded to the study
      solutions. Syringes will be prepared immediately before the spinal injection ensuring the
      volumes at 2.5ml by third person knowing the code to blind the Anaesthesiologist
      administering the drug and later on making the observations. Pulse and blood pressure will be
      measured every 5 minutes for first 30minutes and thereafter every 10 minutes.Sensory block
      will be tested by pinprick method. Degree of motor blockade will be assessed by modified
      Bromage scale. In the intraoperative period, patient will be closely monitored for pulse
      rate, respiratory rate, SpO2, blood pressure and blood loss.

        -  Any side effects such as nausea, vomiting, pain, shivering, pruritis, sedation
           hypotension, bradycardia,urinary retention and respiratory discomfort will be noted and
           treated with appropriate drugs. Inj oxytocin 10U will be added to R.L. after delivery of
           anterior shoulder. Residual sensory blockade will be monitored and its wearing off time
           will be noted(when sensation to pin-prick regresses by 2 dermatomal segments).

        -  Residual motor blockade will be monitored and its wearing off time will be noted(when
           patient starts to lift legs against gravity) Post operative analgesic drugs will be
           given when patient's VAS score reaches > 7. (this will be taken as the time of wearing
           off analgesia) and the time of injection of first analgesic drug.(Inj Voveran 75mg
           i.m.)will be noted.VAS involves us of a 10cm line on a piece of white paper and it
           represents patients opinion of degree of pain.It will be explained to all patients
           preoperatively that one end of the line i.e '0' marks "no pain" at all, while other end
           i.e '10' represents "worst pain" she ever felt. Patient will rate the degree of pain by
           making a mark on the scale. Thus the pain score will be obtained by measuring the
           distance from the '0' end to the indicated mark.

      Pain score 0-3 mild 3-7 moderate >7 severe The various data obtained, including different
      parameters measured at different time intervals, will be calculated and compared with
      baseline values within each group as well as with corresponding times among the groups, using
      appropriate test of significance. p value less than 0.05 will be taken as significant. The
      data will be presented by constructing various tables and graphs.
    
  