
    
      According to the National Council on Aging (1), in 2005, there were more than 10 million
      older Americans who were widowed (8.6 million women (43%) and 2.1 million men (14%) over the
      age of 65). These people are at risk for a debilitating reaction called Traumatic or
      Complicated Grief (CG: the term now used for this condition). Studies confirm that
      Complicated Grief can be reliably identified and occurs in about 10-20% of bereaved
      individuals. CG appears to carry much of the risk for negative outcomes of bereavement. CG
      can affect health status and influence decisions about personal health care. The risk of
      hypertension is 10 times greater among widowed subjects who meet consensus criteria for CG
      compared to those who do not, while subjects with CG are 17 times less likely to have visited
      a physician in the months since the death. Despite its high prevalence and significant
      morbidity, there are no proven efficacious treatments. The PI of this project developed a
      novel psychotherapy called Complicated Grief Treatment (CGT), and has now completed a study
      (MH60783) comprised of adults over age 18, that confirmed efficacy of this approach.
      Participants ≥ age 60 (n=29) were less likely to be employed and more likely to live alone.
      We observed better response to CGT than IPT, as in younger adults. However, confirmation of
      efficacy among seniors is important, since older people have different vulnerabilities and
      different problems in adjusting to grief than younger adults. We plan to conduct a randomized
      controlled study of CGT v IPT in individuals > 50 years of age who meet criteria for
      complicated grief and have no contraindications to study participation. Our specific aims
      are: 1) To compare results of 16 sessions of either CGT or standard IPT. We hypothesize that
      CGT will produce a higher response rate and shorter time to response than IPT, and that
      responders will show significantly greater reduction in associated symptoms and impairment
      than non-responders.
    
  