
    
      Anal fissure is an ulcer-like, longitudinal tear in the anal canal, most commonly located in
      the dorsal or ventral midline, and distal to the dentate line. Anal fissures constitute a
      common medical problem that affects sexes equally. The initiation of the fissure is most
      likely caused by the passage of hard stools that traumatizes the anal canal. Patients suffer
      from anal pain lasting up to several hours after defecation and rectal bleeding.3 Most acute
      anal fissures heal spontaneously, but a proportion progress into chronic fissures with
      symptoms beyond 8-12 weeks. There is no strict definition of a chronic anal fissure, but
      previously the presence of two of the following three symptoms has been used:

        1. Pain after defecation lasting for more than three months;

        2. presence of a sentinel anal tag; and

        3. Exposure of the horizontal fibres of the internal anal sphincter. The severe pain may be
           caused by a hypertonic contraction of the internal anal sphincter leading to ischemia.
           Treatment strategies have therefore aimed to relieve this hypertonia by surgical and
           non-operative approaches. Primary therapy is initiated with ointments such as Diltiazem
           and glyceryltrinitrat gels.

      A novel approach is the Levorag® Emulgel, an ointment classified as Medical Device class 1.
      According to the manufacturer (THD SpA, Italy) the effect of Levorag® Emulgel is mediated
      through the effects of myoxinol, a plant extract from the Hibiscus plant with a botox-like
      effects on the anal sphincter and carboxymethyl glucan, a natural yeast polysaccharide with
      immune stimulating properties. The effect of the widely used Diltiazem gel, is mediated
      through diltiazem hydrochloride, a calcium channel blocker that decreases the anal sphincter
      pressure.

      This is an interventional, randomized clinical trial including adult patients with chronic
      anal fissures referred directly to the Digestive Disease Center, Bispebjerg Hospital,
      University of Copenhagen, or referred to a private surgical practice in Copenhagen. Patients
      are randomized to 1) Diltiazem gel 2%, one application twice daily for 8 weeks, or 2)
      Levorag® Emulgel, one application twice daily for 8 weeks. In addition to the allocated
      treatment, all patients will be kept on standard care for anal fissure, including high-fibre
      diet proper hydration and laxatives.

      The primary endpoint is the rate of complete healing after 12 weeks. Secondary endpoints are
      complete healing after 8 weeks, incidence of adverse effects and efficacy on pain relief.
    
  