
    
      Objectives: Patients with frontal lobe lesions tend to grasp visually presented objects
      automatically and forcefully (forced grasping). Grasping of a milder form is seen in infants
      and the aged population. These facts suggest the presence of an inherent mechanism for
      suppressing the automatic tendency toward grasping in the healthy adult brain. Previous
      studies suggest that the parieto-frontal network, especially the lateral premotor cortex,
      play a role in the cognition of graspable objects and execution of reaching/grasping.
      Although the task of reaching/grasping in human beings has been studied mainly by
      neuroimaging techniques, its cognitive and executive aspects have not been clearly
      distinguished. Therefore, this project aims to elucidate the mechanisms underlying 'automatic
      grasping' in humans, focusing on the perceptive/cognitive aspect of the reaching/grasping
      movements.

      Study population and design: Pictures of graspable objects and non-graspable objects are
      visually presented to 45 healthy adult volunteers. Since this study aims to clarify the
      mechanism of the human brain for automatically recognizing graspable objects, part of this
      study will require no response task. Additionally, in order to assess how the automatic
      functions compare to overt mechanisms, an extra testing session will explore making overt
      judgments of the pictures.

      Outcome measures: The brain activations are investigated by event-related magnetic fields,
      which have high temporal resolution, and by event-related functional magnetic resonance
      imaging (fMRI), which has relatively high spatial resolution. It is expected that the lateral
      premotor cortex, in addition to the parietal cortex, is activated by the visual presentation
      of graspable objects at a shorter latency, and more strongly, as compared with non-graspable
      objects, even without any actual motor tasks to follow. Additionally, overt grasping of
      graspable objects will involve similar areas.
    
  