
    
      Myeloproliferative disorders (MPD) are rare malignant diseases of the bone marrow
      characterized by a proliferation of differentiated blood cells during a long time and a
      possible transformation in an acute leukaemia.

      The recent identification of a recurrent activating tyrosine kinase mutation V617F in the
      JAK2 gene provides a breakthrough in the understanding of the molecular mechanisms of these
      diseases. It can't explain nevertheless the phenotypic diversity of MPD and the occurrence of
      familial aggregations. The investigators have shown actually that the mutation V617F is a
      somatic one which is variably expressed among patients in the same family.Other somatic
      mutations and inherited factors, still unknown, may explain these discrepancies. JAK-STAT
      pathway has an essential role in non-CML MPD as was shown by the functional consequences of
      the V617F JAK2 mutation. Therefore, the investigators will focus our study on the genes
      encoding factors implicated in this signalling pathway. Two genetic approaches will be used:
      1-study of known polymorphisms (SNP) of theses genes involved in the JAK-STAT pathway;
      2-search of rare mutations located in specific regions (binding domain…) of candidate
      genes.The study is a national multicenter research based on the national network (55 centers)
      that the investigators have organized with the help of the French Society Of Hematology in
      1998. The investigators propose to include 120 families defined by the presence of at least 2
      cases of non CML MPD (WHO and PVSG criteria).The investigators have already collected 60
      families (affected cases and control subject); the other 60 will be included in the next two
      years. In each family, only the two patients with MPD and one control will be included ( all
      the subjects above 18 years old). Peripheral blood samples (35ml) and buccal swabs will be
      collected for each subject. Hematologists and ONCOGENETICIANS will include the families,
      collect all the clinical and biological data and perform the collection of biological
      material from each subject included in the study according to approved rules.All the data
      will be anonymously registered on Access data base. Hematological studies will be done in the
      Immuno-Hematological Laboratory in Saint ANTOINE. Genetic studies will be conducted in the
      Genetic Department of Saint ANTOINE Hospital now transferred to Pitie-Salpetriere Hospital in
      Paris. The genetic study will be based on the analysis of 120 unrelated familial SMP cases
      (randomised) and 120 controls. The investigators will study 10 genes involved in the JAK-STAT
      pathway ( cytokine receptors, Janus kinases, regulatory factors).The genotyping of SNPs,
      selected from HAPMAP and CGEMS databases will be performed by quantitative PCR. The
      investigators plan to analyze 50 SNPs per subject i.e. 24000 genotypes (duplicate points).
      The analysis will be based on the allelic frequency comparison in the two groups using a
      bilateral paired t-test; 120 pairs of subjects (case control) allow to detect a 0.6 deviation
      standard of allelic frequency between cases and controls (alpha = 5%, beta = 10%). The search
      for rare mutations will be done by genomic sequencing of particular regions in candidates
      genes in the 120 affected cases.
    
  