
    
      INTRODUCTION

      Pseudoexfoliation (PXF) is a pathology characterized by the accumulation of extracellular
      microfibrillar material in the anterior segment of the eye. It was first described by
      Lindberg in Finland in 1917 and is the most common identifiable cause of glaucoma. It is
      diagnosed clinically with the observation of a white-greyish fibrillar material mainly on the
      anterior surface of the lens, but also in the pupillary margin or other ocular tissues, as
      well as in other structures: blood vessels, skin, kidneys, heart, lungs or meninges, among
      others. It is considered a multifactorial disease that involves genetic and non-genetic
      factors and whose pathogenesis is based on the theory of microfibrillar elastosis, creating
      an excessive amount of pseudoexfoliative material that aggregates, deposits and increases
      resistance in the trabecular meshwork, with the consequent increase of intraocular pressure
      (IOP).

      According to the World Health Organization, glaucoma is the leading cause of irreversible
      blindness in the world. Pseudoexfoliative glaucoma (PXFG) is the second most frequent subtype
      of glaucoma, after primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). Its incidence increases progressively
      with age and the prevalence varies between countries, being estimated in the area under
      investigation around 6.5%, increasing to 28.3% in patients over 80 years. Its prognosis is
      more severe than in POAG, and the risk of developing glaucoma is between 5 and 10 times more
      frequent in eyes with PXF.

      The current medical management for PXFG is similar to POAG, beginning with medical therapy.
      Sometimes it can also be associated with laser treatment, trabeculoplasty, which is effective
      only in the short term. As the last step we resort to glaucoma surgery, trabeculectomy, or
      other filtering surgeries, which have a variable success rate, and although the efficacy is
      similar to those of POAG, complications are more frequent in this type of patients.

      There are multiple publications that have demonstrated the protective role of cataract
      surgery in the long-term development of glaucoma, especially in PXFG cases. It was also
      described a moderate reduction in IOP after phacoemulsification in PXF patients, but noted
      that there is still insufficient scientific evidence for more severe glaucoma or poor IOP
      control. This reduction in intraocular pressure seems to be maintained over time, even 7
      years after the extraction of the cataract.

      In addition, there is evidence that eyes with PXF benefit especially from cataract surgery
      and reduce the risk of glaucoma. Although cataract surgery in patients with PXF is a
      procedure with higher complication rates due to its smaller pupillary diameter and its
      greater zonular weakness, a lens surgery performed earlier (non-hypermature cataracts or
      scarce dilatations) could reduce possible intra- and post-operative complications. It has
      been reported that the highest incidence of complications appears in patients who show signs
      of zonular weakness, so this type of patients will not be included in this study in order to
      avoid possible relative complications. On the other hand, an increase in the incidence of
      complications has been reported in relation to later ages at the time of cataract surgery,
      therefore earlier surgery would imply a possible decrease in long-term complications with an
      improvement in the quality of life of patients.

      Regarding the studies mentioned on cataract and PXF surgery, investigators did not find
      references on the BCVA preoperative. The indication for cataract surgery is based on the
      presence of a surgical cataract without determining any visual acuity limit. The patients
      that are proposed to be included in the study are patients who present cataracts, with ages
      over 60 years and pseudoexfoliation and suffering from glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
      Investigators will limit the best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) to less than 0.7 (decimal
      scale) as long as there are visual symptoms due to the presence of the cataract, such as
      photophobia, difficulties in activities of daily living or driving, but with BVCA greater
      than or equal to 0.4 in order not to recruit mature cataracts and thereby reduce possible
      intra- and post-operative complications.

      In the experience in routine practice clinicians have seen patients with PXFG who have
      benefited from lens extraction while maintaining well-controlled IOP values over time. It is
      also part of the usual clinic to indicate surgery in patients with PXFG in which a
      mild-moderate IOP reduction can be achieve with a safer surgery than trabeculectomy. There is
      no randomized study or protocol that indicates when surgery is most effective or when it
      would be more beneficial for both, the patient and the health care system. Taking into
      account that they are patients who usually undergo this type of surgery, it seems necessary
      to carry out a randomized clinical study that allows us to objectify our hypothesis.

      Due to the severity of PXFG and its high prevalence in the environment under investigation,
      researchers propose this pilot study to evaluate the hypothesis that PXFG could be treated
      earlier with lens surgery and thereby change the course of the disease. Cataract surgery is
      an effective and safe procedure with great potential, since it is a simple intervention that
      can substantially improve the quality of life of patients and improve the control of
      intraocular pressure.

      TARGET POPULATION

      The study will be carried out with patients recruited from the public health care system
      (SERGAS) in the Ophthalmology Units of the Hospital University Complex of Ferrol and Santiago
      de Compostela

      RANDOMIZATION

      Patients will be randomized in two groups in equal proportion (1:1 ratio) by using opaque
      envelopes due to the small sample size to obtain the same proportion in both treatment
      groups.

      A. Medical Treatment Group B. Intervention group

      SAMPLE SIZE

      Calculation of the sample size is carried out to estimate the minimum number of participants
      needed to detect a significant statistical result, and it depends in part on the value of the
      standard deviation (SD). This SD is usually unknown. Clinical trials with few patients can
      provide imprecise estimates. In general, investigators should take into account the ability
      to evaluate and include patients and also consider the likelihood of specifying the effects
      of treatment.

      According to the papers published by Sim & Lewis and Hertzog, sample sizes between 24 and 50
      participants have been recommended for clinical feasibility studies. Consequently,
      researchers consider that a sample of between 40 and 50 patients can give a precise and
      concrete vision of the aims the investigators intend to achieve. It is based on the
      calculation of the confidence interval as 1.96 x √ (p x (1-p) / n), where p is the percentage
      that is expected to be seen, and n is the size of the sample. Investigators will therefore
      relate the sample size with a confidence interval of 95%.

      One of the aims of this RCT is to be able to estimate an SD that allow to calculate the
      sample size of a long-term multicentre randomized clinical trial, in addition to the
      participation, abandonment and compliance rate.

      MEASUREMENTS AND INTERVENTIONS

      Two ophthalmologists (SPB and MJVL), one per centre, will perform the lens extraction
      surgeries. A standardized surgical protocol will be agreed between both surgeons. The
      calculation of the biometric power will be made with an IOL Master (Carl Zeiss Meditec), and
      the formula SRK-T will be used. For eyes with less than 22 mm axial length, another
      additional formula, the Hoffer Q, will be used for comparative purposes. The refraction aim
      will depend on the eye.

      IOP measurement (primary outcome) will be masked by using a second observer to perform the
      IOP measurement.

      Goldman or Perkins applanation tonometer will be used to check IOP.

      Humphrey Perimeter (Threshold test strategy: SITA Standard 24-2) (Carl Zeiss Meditec) will be
      used for monitoring visual fields.

      The reliability of the visual field will be determined by: percentage of false negatives
      <15%, percentage of false positives <15% and percentage of loss of fixation <15%. The global
      indexes are numerical parameters that summarize the results of the visual fields. The most
      useful index is the MD (mean deviation) that represents the average difference between the
      normal sensitivity corrected by age, and the measurement of the threshold values at each
      point of the test.

      RNFL determinations will be carried out with the OCT Heidelberg (Heidelberg Engineering
      Spectralis®) and the "Glaucoma Module Premium Edition" program provides an analysis of the
      nerve fiber layer of the retina (RNFL) through an anatomical scan of the optic nerve head.

      The best-corrected visual acuity will be taken on the Snellen scale with the optotypes
      adjusted to the patient's focal distance.

      Pachymetry: It will be taken by ultrasonic pachymetry equipment, the gold standard.

      Biomicroscopy and funduscopy will be visualized by slit lamp.

      Quality of visual function: a quality of life questionnaire will be carried out, VFQ-25
      Visual Functioning Questionnaire 25 (NIE VFQ 25 National Eye Institute Visual Function
      Quality 25) before randomization and once the study is completed in order to objectify the
      improvements in the visual quality of patients after lens extraction.

      Cataract surgery is an outpatient procedure that does not require admission or hospital
      stays, as well as glaucoma filtering surgeries. Participants who undergo cataract extraction
      will sign a informed consent which is the same used in daily clinical practice, detailing the
      specific risks of PXF syndrome, in the same way that it has been carried out as an usual
      practice.

      Economic analysis. Cost-benefit analysis: this trial aims to evaluate the feasibility of a
      definitive randomized controlled trial (RCT) comparing PXFG medical treatment versus cataract
      extraction. The economic aspect serves as a tool to determine the most efficient therapeutic
      method at public health care system, taking into account the use of resources that include
      the costs of the interventions and the pharmacological cost. It is expected that the main
      cost factor of the cataract surgery group is itself and the components include staff,
      anesthesia, consumables in surgery and the costs of the intervention will be obtained from
      the costs of SERGAS. The cost derived from medical treatment will be originated mainly from
      eye drops. The costs of these drugs are public knowledge. Costs derived from other types of
      interventions, mainly glaucoma filtering surgery, will also be obtained from the budgets
      provided by SERGAS

      INTERVENTION DESCRIPTION

      Visit 1: Information. Proposal to participate in the study and signing the informed consent.
      Randomization

      Visit 2: Complete examination (BCVA, IOP, biomicroscopy, funduscopy, OCT NRFL). Pachymetry
      and first visual field test to be included in the pretreatment study. Questionnaire VFQ25.
      IOL master biometry.

      Visit 2: Intervention arm: Cataract surgery will be performed within 60 days of
      randomization. Postoperative visits will be done at first day, first week and at first month.

      Control visits: 3 visits will be schedule every 4 months until complete 12 months (complete
      examination will be performed) According to the individual requirements and at the
      ophthalmologist's decision, more visits may be made for better control and management of
      glaucoma.

      Last visit: Complete exploration, VFQ25 questionnaire and final visual field test.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

      Statistical analysis as well as the graphical results will be carried out with professional
      statistical software (SPSS). A descriptive analysis of the clinical variables will be carried
      out. The continuous variables will be expressed as mean and standard deviation and the
      categorical variables as number of cases and percentages.

      A single main statistical analysis will be carried out at the end of the trial when every
      follow-up has been completed. The results listed above will be compared between both groups
      (intervention group and control group) using linear models (analysis of covariance). The
      statistical significance will be adjusted to the level of 5% (p <0.05).

      The quality of life will be evaluated with visual function quality questionnaires (VFQ25) and
      the unit of analysis will be the participant / patient. The analysis of subgroups in terms of
      the main outcome (IOP) will be carried out according to the randomization group (intervention
      group / control group).

      SAFETY

      The possible complications related to cataract surgery will be the same as in standardized
      cataract surgeries for all other patients:

        -  Expulsive hemorrhage

        -  Endophthalmitis

        -  Opacity of the anterior and posterior capsule

        -  Damage of the posterior capsule

        -  Pseudophakic macular edema

        -  Retinal detachment

        -  Dislocation/luxation of the intraocular lens

      In addition, eyes with PXF present a higher risk of complications during cataract surgery
      such as zonular detachment, posterior capsule rupture or insufficient pupillary dilation, but
      also greater long-term risks such as opacification of the posterior capsule or subluxation of
      the lens complex. However, lens extraction in patients with early PXF may be safer and
      technically less difficult than in patients with more advanced PXF and cataracts, since less
      ultrasonic power is required for phacoemulsification, less manipulation during surgery, and
      less postoperative inflammation.

      One of the most frequent late postoperative complications is the dislocation of the IOL
      complex, and as described in the meta-analysis of Vázquez-Ferreiro et al there is no greater
      incidence of subluxations with time after surgery (average range 5.5-8.5 years), although it
      has been related to elderly patients at the time of cataract surgery or previous zonular
      weakness. Therefore, early surgery would mean a possible reduction in long-term
      complications.

      This type of patients is currently undergoing cataract surgery with the same indications as
      in cases in which there is no PXF as part of the clinical practice. The study aims to
      minimize the possible complications related to surgery, recruiting patients with a higher
      safety profile, excluding those patients who show signs of zonular weakness, pupil dilation
      less than 5mm or hypermature/mature cataracts.

      ETHICAL-LEGAL ASPECTS

      The development of the project will be carried out respecting the Declaration of Helsinki of
      the World Medical Association 1964 and successive ratifications on ethical principles for
      medical research in human beings; and the Oviedo Convention for the protection of human
      rights and the dignity of the human being with respect to the applications of Biology and
      Medicine, made on April 4, 1997, ratified by Spain on July 23, 1999 and successive updates.

      The researchers are familiar with the protocol and with the data collection. The essential
      documents will be maintained to demonstrate the validity of the study and the integrity of
      the collected data. The master files will be constituted at the beginning of the study, will
      be maintained during their realization and will be conserved according to the applicable
      regulations. The Research Ethics Committee (CEI) will review all relevant study documentation
      in order to safeguard the rights, safety and well being of patients. The study will only be
      carried out at the centre where the CEI authorization has been obtained.

      The researchers participating in this study agree that any clinical data collected from the
      subjects to be studied should be separated from the personal identification data,
      guaranteeing the confidentiality of the participants in the research and respecting the Law
      of Protection of Personal Data (Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13) and Royal Decree
      1720/2007, of December 21, which approves the Development Regulation of this law, Law
      41/2002, of November 14 (basic regulatory of the patient's autonomy and of rights and
      obligations in terms of information and clinical documentation), as well as Law 3/2001, of
      May 28 (regulating the informed consent and the clinical history of patients), Law 3/2005, of
      March 7, modification of Law 3/2001 and Decree 29/2009 of February 5, which regulates access
      to electronic medical records.

      The researchers will collect the clinical data of the patients to the study in the Data
      Collection Notebook (DCN). Each DCN will be coded, protecting the patient's identity. Only
      the research team and the health authorities, which have a duty to maintain confidentiality,
      will have access to all the data collected for the study and will keep the file that relates
      codes with identification data. Only information that can not be identified will be
      transmitted to third parties (the code file will not be sent, only the non-identifiable data
      will be sent). Once the study is finished, the data will be anonymized for future use,
      requesting express permission for this in the informed consent for the participants.

      ECONOMIC SUMMARY

      No financial support is required for the execution of this project, so the economic memory of
      this project is 0 euros. This study has not been funded, and neither patients nor researchers
      charge for participation in it.
    
  