
    
      Our central hypothesis is that tree nut allergic subjects with multiple tree nut allergies
      will experience both clinical desensitization and immunologic evidence of a shift towards
      tolerance induction to multiple tree nuts when treated with OIT to walnut protein alone. We
      will address our hypothesis through investigations focused on the following objectives:

      Objective #1: Examine the role of specific OIT to walnut protein in the induction of clinical
      desensitization to other tree nuts.

      Objective #2: Determine the role of specific OIT to walnut protein in the induction of
      clinical desensitization to walnut.

      Objective #3: Determine the change in tree nut specific immune parameters associated with OIT
      related to clinical desensitization and a shift towards oral tolerance.

      Primary Objective:

      To examine the effectiveness of walnut OIT on clinical desensitization to a second tree nut
      (designated "test tree nut") causing allergy when compared to placebo treatment. The primary
      outcome of this objective will be the change from baseline OFC in cumulative dose reached at
      the desensitization OFC to the test tree nut.

      Purpose and expectations:

      This objective is designed to test the feasibility and effectiveness of using walnut OIT to
      desensitize subjects with other tree nut allergy(s). We expect to demonstrate the
      effectiveness of walnut OIT by showing that subjects on walnut OIT will have negative
      double-blind placebo-controlled food challenges (DBPCFC) to a second tree nut following
      completion of a ~38 week course of walnut OIT. We also expect that compared to placebo OIT,
      walnut OIT will induce significant decreases in: 1) wheal (swelling) size from a skin prick
      test to a second tree nut, 2) serum-specific IgE to a second tree nut, and 3) adverse effects
      with accidental tree nut ingestion and 4) an increase in tree nut specific IgG4.

      The studies under Objective #1 will determine the feasibility of utilizing walnut OIT for
      tree nut allergic subjects. At present, strict dietary avoidance of food allergens and ready
      access to self-injectable epinephrine is the standard of care for food allergy. However, this
      method of care does not work well for all subjects with tree nut allergy. The ubiquity of
      tree nut containing foods makes the possibility of inadvertent ingestion great; moreover,
      children and adults are often in circumstances where epinephrine injection would prove
      logistically difficult. If, however, we can demonstrate that walnut OIT is effective in
      reducing life-threatening reactions for tree nut allergic individuals, the treatment would
      provide an immediate and feasible prevention option for averting potentially life-threatening
      reactions to accidental tree nut exposure (desensitization). Additionally, this treatment may
      also provide an avenue to cause tree nut allergic individuals to lose their allergic
      reactivity to tree nuts (tolerance).

      Secondary Objectives:

      Objective #2: Determine the role of specific OIT to walnut protein in the induction of
      clinical desensitization to walnut.

      Through Objective #2, we will determine the effectiveness of walnut OIT in the induction of
      clinical desensitization to walnut. Prior studies have demonstrated the ability to change the
      threshold of allergen needed to induce anaphylaxis to specific foods, including egg and
      peanut. We anticipate that walnut OIT will provide protection from anaphylaxis (i.e.,
      clinical desensitization) to walnut in subjects that have proven clinical reactivity to
      walnut protein. If walnut OIT proves to be effective in inducing desensitization, the
      treatment would provide a useful and feasible option for preventing life-threatening
      reactions that would be specific to walnut allergic subjects. Additionally, we may be able to
      induce clinical tolerance in a subset of walnut allergic subjects using this OIT approach.

      Objective #3: Determine the change in tree nut specific immune parameters associated with OIT
      related to clinical desensitization and a shift towards oral tolerance.

      Through Objective #3, we will seek to understand the molecular processes by which walnut OIT
      affects the immune system through evaluation of immune mechanisms in relationship to clinical
      findings of desensitization and/or tolerance. We will delineate the impact of walnut OIT on
      the subsequent cellular and humoral response to walnut protein by the following: 1) analysis
      of walnut and second tree nut specific IgE, IgG and IgG4 response, 2) characterization of
      allergen specific basophil activation, 3) characterization of mast cell responses through
      skin prick testing, and 4) analysis of specific T cell cytokine responses and regulatory T
      cell activation. We anticipate that the effect of walnut OIT will occur either by induction
      of regulatory T cells, conversion of T cells from an allergic (Th2) to a non-allergic (Th1)
      lymphocyte response (measured by cytokines, antibody levels, and skin prick test size), or a
      change in walnut-specific basophil activation.

      Our expectation is that the balance of immunoglobulin isotype response (IgE, IgG, and IgG4)
      is reflective of the antigen-specific immune response and will occur over time. We anticipate
      an increase in T regulatory specific cytokines, such as IL-10 and TGF-beta, that will
      parallel early clinical responses and that may indicate immune deviation toward tolerance.
      The conversion from Th2 to Th1 cytokine responses would have a similar clinical effect of
      making a subject less sensitive to tree nuts, but this would likely occur through an
      alternative mechanism or a mechanism combining T regulatory activation with other T cell
      changes. A change in basophil activation would indicate that subjects would be less sensitive
      to a specific tree nut, and we anticipate that response would be in parallel to the finding
      of clinical desensitization but may not indicate clinical tolerance development. Overall, we
      will assess these immune parameters over time and in conjunction with clinical levels of
      reactivity to determine which mechanism(s) is relevant for effective walnut OIT.

      STUDY DESIGN

      This walnut OIT study is a randomized, blinded, placebo controlled study based on previous
      experience at The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP) using OIT in food allergic
      subjects. CHOP will enroll 6 subjects (4 in the active treatment and 2 in the placebo
      treatment arms). Non-CHOP sites will enroll 24 subjects, making a total of 30 (20 in the
      active treatment and 10 in the placebo treatment arms) children and adults with walnut
      allergy and a second tree nut allergy. Subjects will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio into either
      an active treatment group (final dose 1500 mg walnut protein, n=20) or a placebo group
      (n=10). Subjects will undergo a one-day desensitization protocol designed to enable the
      subject to tolerate 6 mg of walnut protein or placebo (initial day escalation phase). After
      the initial escalation day achieving at least 1.5 mg and up to 6 mg of walnut protein or
      placebo, dosing build-up will occur every two weeks through dose 24 at 34 weeks. A
      maintenance dose will be given for 4 weeks followed by a 5 gram protein OFC to walnut and a 5
      gram protein OFC to a second tree nut (at ~38 weeks), after which the study will be
      unblinded. Placebo subjects that fail the OFC will be crossed over to active treatment and
      escalated as described to the 1500 mg target dose. All subjects will be followed for a total
      of 142 weeks on active treatment which will be followed by an OFC (both on and then off
      therapy) to walnut and the second tree nut at the end of long-term maintenance therapy.
      Subjects that have a reduction in serum specific IgE to <5kU/L to walnut and the test tree
      nut before 142 weeks will be eligible for a tolerance OFC.
    
  