
    
      Study Outline:

      Traditionally treatment planning for prostate Low-Dose-Rate (LDR) brachytherapy has relied on
      manual planning by an expert treatment planner. This process involves the planner selecting
      the location of 80-110 small, radioactive seeds within the prostate; the goal of this process
      is to maximize the amount of radiation delivered to the cancer while minimizing radiation to
      healthy tissues, all while making sure the seeds are implantable by the physician. Although
      this process is effective it is time-consuming (taking anywhere from 30 minutes to several
      hours to plan).

      Machine learning (ML), a form of statistical computation that relies on historical training
      information to adapt and predict novel solutions, has significant potential for improving the
      efficiency and uniformity of prostate LDR brachytherapy. The ability of this algorithm to
      mimic several features demonstrated by expert treatment plans has been difficult to perform
      using conventional computer algorithms and is a significant advantage. It is expected that by
      implementing an ML program in the planning workflow for prostate LDR brachytherapy it is
      possible to significantly decrease the planning time, while improving the uniformity of plan
      outcomes, and maintaining comparable quality to human planners.

      This study will evaluate whether a computer program based on machine learning (ML) can be
      used to maintain plan quality in prostate LDR brachytherapy that is not inferior to manual
      planning by a human expert. In addition, it is expected that planning time may decrease to
      only a few minutes using ML planning.

      What Will Happen:

      If you decide to participate in this study your first visit will involve an ultrasound study
      of your prostate to map out the treatment area. After your initial visit for ultrasound
      imaging nothing further is required on your part for the purposes of the study.

      Your images and treatment information will then be used to create a brachytherapy treatment
      plan by both a human planner, and one by an ML program. Only one treatment plan from one of
      these groups (a process known as randomization) will be used, your treating physician will
      not know where your plan came from (a process known as blinding). Your physician will examine
      the plans, grade its acceptability, and make modifications to it if needed. This final plan
      will be used to deliver your brachytherapy.

      Follow-Up Visits:

      You will have a follow-up study approximately 1 month after your brachytherapy treatment. The
      purpose of this study is to gauge how well your brachytherapy was delivered.

      For the follow-up study you will have a CT scan to show the area that was treated (the
      prostate gland). No further action is required on your part.

      Length of Study Participation:

      Your participation in this study will after your follow-up visit, approximately 1 month after
      your brachytherapy treatment.

      A total of 42 patients will be enrolled in this study from the Odette Cancer Centre.
    
  