
    
      Anxiety disorders are debilitating conditions that carry enormous individual, social and
      economic costs. For example, it has been estimated that lifelong persistent mental health
      problems cost the UK taxpayer £8.6 billion annually. Many mental health problems have their
      onset in the transitional period from adolescence to early adulthood, possibly a result of
      the complex and concurrent hormonal, genetic, brain maturational and social changes during
      this period. Research has shown that brain development and maturation extends well into the
      third decade of life and that brain activation patterns in late adolescence and early
      adulthood still differ significantly from mature adults. In the recent years, the microbiome
      has emerged as a new and important factor that may increase the mental health risk for an
      individual. The intestine and the brain are intimately connected via the gut-brain axis,
      which involves bidirectional communication via neural, endocrine and immune pathways.
      Research in both the human and animal models has also highlighted the important role that
      intestinal microbiota play in regulating the brain, subsequent behaviour, and particularly in
      anxiety-like behaviour. Most importantly, it has been shown that the period of adolescence
      may be a critical window during development where microbiota help fine-tune the gut-brain
      axis related to stress responses and anxiety.

      The research proposed here will investigate the role of the microbiota-gut-brain axis in
      brain development and mental health. Specifically, the researchers will investigate the
      effect of prebiotic intake on mental health and well-being in late adolescence/early
      adulthood, with a particular focus on cortical excitability and connectivity in the emotion
      regulation brain network.

      This research will extend previous research into gut-brain interactions into the final years
      of adolescence. The period of adolescence is not only important with regards to fine-tuning
      emotion regulation networks, but also, as has been shown in recent work, critical for
      establishing healthy gut-brain communication patterns. Specifically, here we will investigate
      how prebiotic intake (Galacto-oligosaccharides) for 4 weeks affects cognitive functioning,
      psychological well-being and the underlying brain networks in a sample of 120 female
      undergraduate students (aged 18-25 years). Specifically, the proposed research has two main
      aims:

        1. To investigate how prebiotic intake affects cortical excitability and plasticity, such
           as inhibitory GABA/ excitatory glutamate levels in key emotion regulation brain
           networks.

        2. To investigate how prebiotic intake affects psychological functioning and well-being, in
           particular with regards to anxiety and thought control abilities.

      120 participants will be divided into two group of 60 participants, groups will be matched
      for age, handedness and socio-economic status. At each testing time (Time 1, 2 and 3),
      participants in both groups will undergo comprehensive behavioural and psychological testing
      to establish baseline measures of cognitive functioning and psychological well-being (such as
      anxiety levels).

      Each participant will also be asked to collect a stool sample at home for 16s rRNA sequencing
      of the microbiome at both testing times. Group 1 will receive a daily dosage of GOS over 4
      weeks, whereas group 2 will receive a placebo over the same period. In addition, participants
      from either group will also participate in a brain imaging session to assess the effect of
      prebiotic supplement intake on the functional responsiveness of emotion regulation brain
      networks.

      For this study, The researchers predict that the intervention group will show improvements in
      behavioural and psychological variables related to emotion regulation and anxiety in
      comparison to the placebo group (Hypothesis 1). Predictions also expect to observe decreased
      excitability in core emotion regulation brain regions such as the amygdala and prefrontal
      cortex, as assessed via 1H-magnet resonance spectroscopy (Hypothesis 2).
    
  