
    
      The research questions for the present study series are as followed:

        1. How does the movement and morphology of BT muscle effect (BTME) differ between
           standardized, research injections into spastic and non-spastic lateral gastrocnemius
           muscle (LGM)?

        2. How does the movement and morphology of BTME differ between a standardized, research
           injection into spastic LGM versus an injection using the same dose in a 100% greater
           dilution?

        3. Is there a predictable BTME within a given muscle following lower extremity BT clinical
           injections based on clinical need?

      The two hypotheses are as followed:

      First, it is predicted that BT muscle effect (BTME) will be greater in normal muscle than in
      spastic muscle.

      Second, it is predicted that BTME will increase with increasing dilution.

      The standard BT injection will be an injection of 25 units of onobotulinumtoxinA (Botox®)
      diluted in 0.25cc of saline.

      The experimental BT injection will be an injection of 25 units of onobutilinumtoxinA (Botox®)
      diluted in 0.50cc of saline.

      The clinical BT injection will be an injection of up to 200 units of onobutilinumtoxinA
      (Botox®) to any clinically indicated muscle or combinations of muscle in the spastic leg.
      Dose, dilution, and site of injection will be determined by the PI and all parameters of each
      injection tracked for future reference.

      At baseline, subjects will receive research injections that are decided based on the research
      protocol. Given the very small dosage of the research BT injections, the investigators do not
      anticipate seeing any symptomatic effects in subjects. At 3 months following research
      injections, subjects will receive clinical injections that are decided based on their
      clinical need and are anticipated to result in clinical benefit for subjects. All subjects
      will have an MRI at baseline (MRIB), at 2M (months) following research injections (MRI2), and
      at 2M following clinical injections (MRI3).

      Experiment #1 - Pilot:

      The pilot experiment will be done to inform the study design for the subsequent experiments.

      For the pilot experiment, after a baseline MRI, 6 subjects will be randomized into three
      groups (N=2 in each group): standard injection in LGM, experimental injection in LGM, or
      experimental injection in medial gastrocnemius muscle (MGM). All 6 subjects will receive a
      standard injection to the non-spastic LGM. Subjects will undergo a second MRI 2 months after
      the research injections, which will be used to confirm the design of the subsequent
      experiments.

      If, for the data from the investigator's pilot study of N=6 subjects, the investigators find
      on MRI2 a similar appearance and volume of BTME (BTME volume +/- 20%) for both the LGM and
      MGM receiving the experimental injection and that the BTME is contained within each muscle,
      the investigators will have the option of proceeding with the within-subject design where
      each subject serves as his or her own control, receiving either the research or experimental
      injection in the spastic LGM and the alternative injection in the spastic MGM. If the
      within-subject design is used, 15 subjects will be recruited. If the BTME volumes for the LGM
      and MGM receiving the experimental injection are not within +/- 20% of each other, or the
      investigators see on the MRI that the BTME is not contained within each injected muscle, then
      a between subject design will be used where subjects will be randomized to receive either the
      experimental or standard injection to the spastic LGM and 25 subjects will be recruited.

      Subjects will receive clinical injections 3 months following the research injections and
      undergo a final MRI 2 months following clinical injections. Recruitment for the subsequent
      experiments will begin after data analysis from the second MRI in experiment #1 is complete.

      Experiment #2 (Effect of dilution, answer Research Question #1):

      If using a within-subject design, subjects will be randomized to receive a standard injection
      to either the LGM or MGM. The experimental injection will be delivered to the muscle not
      receiving the standard injection. If using a between-subjects design, subjects will be
      randomized to receive either a standardized injection in the LGM or an experimental injection
      in the LGM. On the same day of, but before the injection, the MRIB will be acquired. Using
      the localization schema proposed in the investigator's proof-of-concept study, the baseline
      scan will be used to determine the coordinates and depth of the injection into a given
      muscle. Two months (+/- 1 week) after the injection, subject will report for MRI2 and will be
      considered finished with Experiment #2. He/she will be scheduled for the "clinical" injection
      5 weeks (+/- 1 week) from that time, which will be evaluated in Experiment #4.

      Experiment #3 (spastic vs. non spastic muscle, answer Research Question #2):

      Experiment #3 will take place simultaneously and within the same subject population as
      Experiment #2. Regardless of whether a within- or between subject design is adopted in
      Experiment #2, all subjects will also receive a standard injection to the non-spastic LGM.
      The same technique using MRIB for muscle localization and the same protocol for obtaining
      MRI2 employed in Experiment #2 will be used for Experiment #3, at the same time points.
      Subjects will be scheduled for the "clinical" injection 5 weeks (+/- 1 week) from the time of
      MRI2, as mentioned under the description for Experiment #2.

      Experiment #4:

      As described previously, all subjects that participated in Experiments #2 and #3 will undergo
      a cycle of clinically-based BT injections to the spastic lower extremity no sooner than 3
      months after the research injections and about 1 month after MRI2. Potentially, any lower
      extremity muscle or combination of muscles may be injected based on clinical evaluation and
      need. The investigators reserve the right to limit the total dose of toxin injected to no
      more than 200 units of onobotulinumtoxinA. This would be a reasonable dose in clinical
      practice for the first cycle of lower extremity injections in a toxin-naive patient. All
      subjects will receive a third and final leg MRI3 2 months following the clinical injection,
      marking the end of this study approximately 5 months after the initial randomization in
      Experiment #2.
    
  