
    
      Superficial second degree burns are limited to the epidermis and superficial layer of the
      dermis and are expected to heal without the need of surgery if they are treated
      appropriately. Complications such as desiccation of the wound or infection may extend the
      depth of the injury and result in an increase in scarring or the requirement for excision of
      the burn and skin grafting. The MetroHealth Burn Center treats over 1500 patients a year for
      superficial second degree burns.

      Various methods are used from the conventional dressing methods using guaze to the methods
      that use biological materials such as skin from cadavers, pig's skin and artificial synthetic
      materials. Our present burn care involves initial superficial outpatient debridement of the
      burn wound and application of a dressing. This dressing consists of bacitracin applied to the
      burn wound and xeroform covered by cotton gauze and ace-wrap. The majority of our patients
      are unable to change this dressing by themselves and they either return to the burn center
      daily for wound care or we arrange for a visiting nurse.

      Polymem is a novel dressing which has been approved by the FDA for open wounds including
      burns.Polymem is a hydrophilic polyurethane membrane pad with a semi permeable polyurethane
      film backing. The pad contains a wound cleanser (F68 surfactant), a moisturizer (glycerin)
      and an absorb ing agent (super-absorbent polymem). The F86 surfactant is involved in
      dissolving the superficial necrotic layer of the burn and helps clean the burn site. Glycerin
      acts as a moisturizer and prevents the pad from sticking to the wound. The absorbing agent
      maintains the moisture of the wound which has been shown to increase wound healing. It also
      allows the dressing to remain on the wound for three days. Kim et al conducted a study of 44
      patients with second degree burns and demonstrated an increase in healing time, more comfort,
      and a decrease in dressing changes with the use of Polymem.
    
  