
    
      An 2009 R-21 pilot project developed a cognitive-behavioral treatment for alcohol use
      disorders that employs cellphone-based experience sampling (ES) to collect detailed patient
      data in near real-time, and uses those data to direct treatment for each patient based on
      his/her specific patterns of drinking and specific coping actions during actual high-risk
      situations. ES data included situations, thoughts and feelings antecedent to drinking
      episodes, and any use of coping skills. The object was to create a CB treatment that was more
      relevant for each patient and more effective than current treatments. In the initial study
      the Individualized Assessment and Treatment Program (IATP) yielded better drinking rates at
      posttreatment, and more adaptive changes in coping, than a conventional manualized CBT
      program. Moreover, changes in drinking were partly mediated by pre-to-posttreatment changes
      in coping with high-risk situations. Questions unanswered included:

        1. Because the pilot study only collected data pre- and posttreatment, with no follow-ups,
           it is not clear whether use of coping skills reduced drinking, or whether reduced
           drinking led to more adaptive coping.

        2. It was not known which coping skills or other factors drive outcomes in the long-term.

      To answer these and other questions the investigators proposed to enroll 207 patients in a
      full-scale trial of IATP with extended follow-ups to examine determinants of outcomes over
      time. IATP will be compared to a more conventional packaged CB treatment (PCBT), and to a
      Case Management Control condition (CaseM), in a dismantling design. In addition to coping, a
      number of other possible treatment mechanisms suggested by the literature will be examined,
      including motivation, self-efficacy, self-control, social support, alliance with the
      therapist, AA involvement, mindfulness, and utilization of other treatment services.

      By specifically training coping skills for use in high-risk for drinking situations, the
      investigators will be able to assess how skills per se contribute to initiation and long-term
      maintenance of behavior change. The use of ES during treatment will allow a determination of
      what patients are actually doing, in close to real time, to initiate and maintain their own
      sobriety. The use of ES in the follow-up period will allow the investigators to determine
      whether coping skills that were active in initiation of reduced drinking continue to be
      active in the long-term, as well as the extent to which other mechanisms may come into play.
      In this way investigators can develop a clearer picture of the processes that affect outcomes
      of CBT, and will enable clinicians to focus more precisely on the most relevant mechanisms of
      change. Comparing IATP with PCBT will test effects of tailoring skills. The use of CaseM will
      control for the general effects of study participation (i.e., "common factors"), especially
      therapist support. The study builds on pilot data and on procedures that have already been
      developed but not fully tested. This would be the first study to evaluate effects of
      treatment on actual behaviors and cognitions in high-risk situations as they occur.
    
  