
    
      Gut microbiome has been widely studied around the globe, and it is convinced that the gut
      microbiome plays an essential role in many human diseases. In a published review showed the
      presence of microbes in blood from a patient who suffered from non-communicable disease. The
      microbes present in dormant or not-immediately-culturable states as if blood is a 'sterile'
      environment. It was argued that the difficulty of culturing microbes from the blood was
      coming from the limited understanding of suitable growth/isolation media for the microbes to
      be cultured. This limitation can be overcome by the sequenced-based methods for detecting
      non-proliferating microbes. The presence of microbes in blood also can be observed by
      ultrastructural (microscopic) methods. Through the microscopic observations, it was
      witnessing the presence of coccus and bacillus shaped bacteria that present proximity to (Red
      Blood Cell) RBCs in sample blood patients with Alzheimer's or Parkinson's Disease. The
      presence of microbes in the places other than their normal location state by term
      'atopobiosis'. The presence of microbes in blood suspected as a result of translocation
      between the gut to the blood.

      Therefore, according to the current knowledge of microbiome association and the human
      diseases, we are eager to conduct a pilot project that gives a comprehensive picture of the
      association between the microbiome and uveitis disease partially non-infectious and
      idiopathic uveitis. We will investigate microbiome profiling in the intestinal and
      extra-intestinal of uveitis patients before and after treatment to see whether any alteration
      of microbial abundance at two distinct clinical conditions partially in uveitis patients with
      history of autoimmune disease (Behcet and Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada) and idiopathic uveitis.
      Another objective of this study is to explore any pathogenic microorganism that present in
      uveitis patients samples conducted by a sequenced-based method.
    
  