
    
      Anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) agents have been shown to be effective treatment for
      patients with active ankylosing spondylitis (arthritis of the spine) who have not responded
      to conventional therapy. Golimumab is a new anti-TNFa agent. This is a multicenter,
      randomized (patients are assigned different treatments based on chance), double-blind
      (neither the patient nor the physician knows whether drug or placebo is being taken, or at
      what dosage), placebo-controlled, parallel group study comparing safety and efficacy of
      golimumab 50mg, golimumab 100mg, and placebo subcutaneous (under the skin) injections
      administered every 4 weeks, in patients with active AS. The total duration of treatment is
      approximately 5 years. In the first portion of the study, some patients will be randomly
      assigned to receive placebo treatment through the Week 20 injection; others will be assigned
      to golimumab 50mg or golimumab 100mg groups through the Week 20 injection. There is an "early
      escape" at Week 16 in the study whereby patients who meet criteria for having little
      improvement in their AS symptoms will be switched to golimumab if they were on placebo, or
      have the golimumab dose increased if they were originally assigned to the golimumab 50mg
      group. At Week 24, the placebo group patients will switch to golimumab 50mg injections, and
      all patients will continue receiving in a blinded manner either 50 or 100mg golimumab
      injections every 4 weeks until the first 104 weeks of data are fully collected on all the
      patients (database lock). After this 104-week database lock, everyone will be unblinded to
      the golimumab dose, and continue to receive golimumab treatment through Week 252 as part of a
      long-term extension phase of the study, with options for adjusting concomitant AS medications
      and/or increasing the dose of golimumab. The study hypothesis is that golimumab will be more
      effective than placebo in treating the signs and symptoms of AS, as measured by the
      ASsessment in Ankylosing Spondlitis (ASAS) 20 response criteria . Golimumab 50mg, Golimumab
      100mg, or placebo injected under the skin every 4 weeks at Weeks 0, 4, 8, 12, 16, and 20,
      followed by injections of either Golimumab 50mg or Golimumab 100mg every 4 weeks for
      approximately 5 years total duration from the time of the first study agent injection.
    
  