
    
      -  Optional tumor biopsy will be obtained prior to Day 1 of CPI-0610 administration.

        -  CPI-0610 will be administered 200mg orally once a daily for 14 consecutive days followed
           by a 7-day break. The 14 days of CPI-0610 dosing and the 7-day break together constitute
           1 cycle of treatment. The dose will not be adjusted for body weight or body surface
           area.

        -  Patients should be instructed to take their daily dose at approximately the same time of
           day. Each dose should be taken with a glass of water and consumed over as short a time
           as possible-e.g., within 5 minutes. Patients should be instructed to swallow the tablet
           whole and to not chew or cut them.

        -  Doses may be taken either with or without food.

        -  If vomiting occurs during the course of treatment, then no re-dosing of the patient is
           allowed before the next scheduled dose.

        -  If the patient forgets to take his/her daily morning dose, then he/she should take
           CPI-0610 within 6 hours after the missed dose. If more than 6 hours have passed, then
           that day's dose should be omitted, and the patient should resume treatment with the next
           scheduled dose.

        -  Repeat optional tumor biopsy will be obtained on day 8 of CPI-0610 treatment.

      Toxicities and Dosing Delays/Dose Modifications During a cycle of treatment, CPI-0610 should
      continue to be administered as planned unless CTCAE grade 3-4 toxicities occur. In the case
      of CPI-0610-related neutropenia and/or thrombocytopenia, dosing as planned should continue as
      long as the ANC remains >0.5x109/L and the platelet count remains >25x109/L. Should either
      the ANC or platelet count fall below these values-become CTCAE grade 4-dosing with CPI-0610
      should be interrupted. CPI-0610 dosing within the planned 14 days of treatment should not be
      resumed until the ANC is >0.75x109/L and the platelet count is >50x109/L. In addition, dosing
      within the cycle of treatment should not be resumed if the interruption has resulted in the
      omission of more than 2 of the planned 14 days of dosing. If it is possible to resume dosing
      within the planned 14 days of treatment, no attempt should be made to make up the missed
      doses of CPI-0610. If more than 2 of the planned 14 days of therapy have been omitted, then
      treatment should be resumed only with a new cycle of treatment, if the ANC>1x109/L and the
      platelet count >75x109/L. In addition, all other toxicities considered to be related to
      CPI-0610 must have resolved to CTCAE grade 1 or baseline. If the patient fails to meet the
      above-cited criteria for retreatment, then initiation of the next cycle of treatment should
      be delayed by one week. Following the additional week of no treatment, the next cycle may
      begin if the patient's ANC is>1x109/L and the platelet count is >75x109/L. In addition, all
      other toxicities considered to be related to CPI-0610 must have resolved to CTCAE grade 1 or
      baseline. If there are more than 28 days between the start of one cycle and the start of the
      next, the patient will no longer receive CPI-0610 therapy unless the patient's MPNST is
      stable or responding to therapy. Then consideration may be given to resuming treatment at a
      lower dose level to be discussed with Sponsor and Institutional Review Board (IRB). When a
      reduction in dose of CPI-0610 is required, no re-escalation of dose will be permitted.

      Exceptions to the toxicity delay are CTCAE elevations in alkaline phosphatase and uric acid
      and <72 hours of grade 3 fatigue. When laboratory abnormalities form the basis of treatment
      decisions, they should be confirmed by repeated testing with a new blood sample or procedure.
      Optimal therapy for vomiting or diarrhea is based on physician preference with consideration
      of the prohibited medications listed in the appendix. G-CSF may be used to treat patients who
      have developed dose-limiting neutropenia, as per institutional guidelines, following
      discontinuation of CPI-0610 treatment. However, G-CSF may not be used during CPI-0610
      administration or during the treatment break. Patients should not have dose reductions of
      CPI-0610 unless a grade 3-4 toxicity occurs and retreatment is not possible within the 28 day
      period. Then the patient is withdrawn from study unless the patient's MPNST has responded or
      stable on therapy. Then consideration may be given to resuming treatment at a lower dose
      level to be discussed with Sponsor and IRB. When a reduction in the dose of CPI-0610 is
      required, no re-escalation of dose will be permitted. Patients whose treatment is interrupted
      or permanently discontinued because of toxicities must be followed until the toxicity
      resolves or stabilizes.
    
  