
    
      1. Primary Objectives

           • To examine acceptability, patterns of use, rates of adherence, safety , and measured
           levels of drug when high risk MSM are provided open-label TDF/FTC for PrEP in South
           Korea

        2. Secondary Objectives

             -  To evaluate HIV incidence among study participants

             -  To evaluate risk behavior and risk compensation among study participants

             -  To identify barriers and facilitators of PrEP among study participants

        3. Study design Prospective, open-label cohort study assessing PrEP delivery in tertiary
           hospital infectious diseases clinics in South Korea for 1 year

        4. Evaluation

             -  Baseline evaluation

                  1. HIV testing and the documentation of results are required to confirm that
                     patients do not have HIV infection when they start taking PrEP medications.
                     HIV Ag/anti HIV Ab combo assay should be performed before starting PrEP.
                     Negative result of HIV Ag/anti HIV Ab combo assay within 1 week should be
                     ascertained before PrEP initiation. Results from rapid test with oral specimen
                     or unreliable testing results cannot be acknowledged.

                  2. Renal function with estimated creatinine clearance (eCrCl) should be evaluated
                     before starting TDF/FTC. TDF/FTC can be prescribed for persons with eCrCl ≥60
                     ml/min. Any person with an eCrCl of <60 ml/min should not be prescribed PrEP
                     with TDF/FTC.

                  3. Testing for hepatitis B virus (HBsAg, HBsAb) and hepatitis C virus (HCV Ab)
                     should be performed before starting PrEP. Hepatitis B virus vaccination is
                     recommended for MSM without HBsAb.

                  4. Acute HIV infection must be excluded by symptom history, physical examinations
                     and appropriate HIV testing before PrEP is prescribed.

                  5. If HIV testing shows intermediate results, clinician should hold PrEP
                     initiation, make efforts to identify symptoms and signs of acute viral
                     infections, and do follow up HIV testing.

             -  Follow up and monitoring during PrEP

                  1. All persons receiving PrEP should be seen at 1 month since PrEP initiation and
                     at least every 3 months to assess side effects, adherence, and HIV acquisition
                     risk behaviors.

                  2. All persons receiving PrEP should be seen at least every 3 months to assess
                     for signs or symptoms of acute infection and repeat HIV testing (HIV Ag/anti
                     HIV Ab combo assay). If acute infection is suspected, HIV RNA testing should
                     be performed.

                  3. Confirmative HIV testing (western blot assay) and HIV RNA testing should be
                     performed for persons with positive results of screening assay (HIV Ag/anti
                     HIV Ab assay). Resistance testing should be performed for persons with
                     confirmed HIV infection during PrEP.

                  4. If acute HIV infection is suspected during PrEP, PrEP should be stopped,
                     combination antiretroviral therapy with TDF/FTC+boosted protease inhibitor
                     (darunavir/ritonavir) or TDF/FTC + dolutegravir should be prescribed.

                  5. All persons receiving PrEP should be seen at least every 3 months to monitor
                     eCrCl.

                  6. Sexually active persons receiving PrEP should be seen at least every 6 months
                     to conduct tests for sexually transmitted infections (i.e. syphilis,
                     gonorrhea, chlamydia).

                  7. Assessments of bone health are not routinely recommended before the initiation
                     of PrEP or for the monitoring of persons while taking PrEP. However,
                     assessment for bone health can be considered for any person who has a history
                     of pathologic fractures or who has significant risk factors for osteoporosis
                     mineral density PrEP.

                  8. All persons receiving PrEP should be seen at least 12 months to evaluate the
                     need to continue PrEP as a component of HIV prevention considering HIV
                     acquisition risk behavior, adherence, and so on.

        5. Measurement Baseline data will be collected 1 months before initiation of PrEP, and the
           date of initiation of PrEP.

      All persons receiving PrEP should be seen at 1 month since PrEP initiation and at least every
      3 months to assess side effects, adherence, and HIV acquisition risk behaviors. During every
      visits including screening visit, below measures are assessed.

        -  Diagnostic testing: HIV testing with a fourth generation HIV Ag/Ab test, HIV RNA assay,
           serologic test for syphilis using VDRL or RPR, screening for gonorrhoea and chlamydia
           using nucleic acid amplification test

        -  Sociodemographics and sexual behaviors: demographic and sexual behavioral data are
           collected by trained interviewers using standardized questionnaires including residence,
           living situation, employment, insurance status, income, housing/food instability, drug
           use, number of anal sex partners, episodes in the past 3 months, condom use, partner HIV
           serostatus, sexual position, etc.
    
  