
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the dose limiting toxicities and the recommended phase II dose of venetoclax
      in combination with daratumumab, bortezomib, and dexamethasone for patients with
      relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. (Phase I) II. To evaluate the safety of venetoclax
      (VEN) in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone (DVd). (Phase I) III. To compare
      efficacy of DVd-VEN versus DVd as measured by minimal residual disease negative rate after 8
      cycles of therapy. (Phase II) IV. To inform the role of t(11;14) as a biomarker in a
      subsequent evaluation of the regimen. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare rates of very good partial response between arms. II. To assess improvement in
      progression-free and overall survival with the addition of VEN.

      III. To evaluate the safety of VEN in combination with DVd and compare overall toxicity rates
      between arms.

      IV. To assess association of cycle 8 minimal residual disease (MRD) status with overall and
      progression-free survival.

      V. To estimate the impact of t(11;14) status on very good partial response, overall and
      progression-free survival.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To measure treatment exposure and adherence. II. To estimate time to progression with the
      addition of VEN. III. To measure MRD levels longitudinally and assess the kinetics of
      relapse. IV. To assess association of MRD status after 8 cycles with survival outcomes. V. To
      evaluate agreement and discordance between methods determining disease-free status.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of venetoclax followed by a phase II study.

      PHASE I:

      Patients receive daratumumab intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, and 15 of cycles 1-3 and on day
      1 of subsequent cycles, bortezomib subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 8, and 15 of cycles 1-8,
      dexamethasone orally (PO) on days 1, 8, and 15 of cycles 1-8, and venetoclax PO once daily
      (QD) on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM D: Patients receive venetoclax PO QD on days 1-21, daratumumab IV on days 1, 8, and 15 of
      cycles 1-3 and on day 1 of subsequent cycles, bortezomib SC on days 1, 8, and 15 of cycles
      1-8, and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, and 15 of cycles 1-8. Cycles repeat every 21 days in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM E: Patients receive daratumumab IV on days 1, 8, and 15 of cycles 1-3 and on day 1 of
      subsequent cycles, bortezomib SC on days 1, 8, and 15 of cycles 1-8, and dexamethasone PO on
      days 1, 8, and 15 of cycles 1-8. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 10 years.
    
  