
    
      Architecturally speaking, a smile comprises 60% of the weight of our face. Subconsciously, a
      smile has a visual impact on people appearance. Also statistically reveal that people place a
      high value on their smiles according to the American academy of cosmetic dentistry survey
      (AACD)2017. As the population becomes increasingly aware of the role teeth play in
      appearance, patients' expectations of aesthetics in contemporary dentistry are ever
      increasing. So practicing esthetic dentistry that is defined as reproducing natural looking
      teeth by creating perfect esthetic restorations has been for long time a strict challenge due
      to many materials' limitations impacting either shade integration or surface quality, and
      possibly colour stability.

      Tooth colour was the main reason for patient dissatisfaction in a survey concerned with
      esthetic appearance.(1) Thus accurate shade measurement together with proper communication of
      tooth colour is integral to a successful aesthetic outcome.(2) It is compulsory that
      clinicians understand the light interaction with tooth structures as well as the proper
      histo-anatomic principles for a better material and shade selection during direct and
      indirect restorative procedures. Tooth structures form a complex optical medium for light as
      it passes through enamel, dentino-enamel complex and dentin in terms of gradient between
      transparency (complete transmission of light) and opacification (complete reflection of
      light).(3)Furthermore, this behavior changes over the years, as tissues change in morphology
      and composition. Comprehension of dynamic aging of tooth structures is a key for success when
      selecting the proper value and chromaticity for restorative materials.(4,5) Thus clinicians
      and technicians should have sufficient training in tooth shade selection. For achieving
      excellent esthetic outcomes there are four main contributing variables: Dynamic Light
      Interaction, Histo-anatomical Features, Smilography and the 9 Elements of visual
      synthesis.(3) In the modern dental practice, restoring the optical features of the intact
      tooth presents a challenging task, due to the inherent translucent nature of enamel, the
      dentinoenamel complex (DEC) and dentin. Translucent materials offer a significant color
      measurement challenge since they interact with light in a far more complex manner than most
      other materials. The old traditional visual estimation approaches that solely employ the
      Munsell color model system based on hue, chroma, and value (H/C/V) dominating the dental
      market appear to be insufficient when assigning the relevant information among the dental
      team members (clinician/technician/patient).(6) In 1931 The Commission Internationale de
      l'Eclairage (CIE) defined a standard light source, developed a standard observer and enabled
      the calculation of tri-stimulus x, y, z values, which represent how the human visual system
      responds to a given colour and allows us to transform spectral energy data into meaningful
      colour data. It should be noted that the DE in the L*a*b* colour space indicates the degree
      of colour difference not the direction of the colour difference. It is frequently interpreted
      in dental literature that a DE of 1 is the 50:50 perceptibility threshold. The hues of
      natural teeth tend to be in the yellow to yelloworange range, determined mainly by the colour
      of dentine, with enamel playing only a minor role through scattering at wavelengths in the
      blue range.(7) Instruments for clinical shade matching include spectrophotometers,
      colourimeters and digital imaging systems.(8) It has been reported that VITA Easyshade has to
      be the most reliable instrument in both in vitro and in vivo circumstances.(2) It has been
      reported that dehydration of teeth can make them appear whiter by increasing enamel opacity
      when examined by The Easyshade as the light can no longer scatter from hydroxyapatite crystal
      to crystal.(6,10,11)The resulted loss of translucency on dehydration therefore causes more
      reflection masking the color of the underlying dentine and thus appears lighter. Russell et
      al.(12) applied a rubber dam to the anterior teeth of seven subjects and allowed the teeth to
      dehydrate for 15 min that was measured using a spectrophotometer and further three
      spectrophotometric measurements were taken at 10 min intervals after removal of rubber dam
      and tooth rehydration. It was noticed that tooth colour had become lighter and less saturated
      after dehydration and the colour of the teeth returned to their baseline values 20 min after
      removal of the rubber dam. Most dental procedures cause some dehydration of teeth.(13-16) It
      is recommended to record the shade of teeth at the begining of the appointment but there is
      insufficient evidence in the dental literature to support it.(14) Color mismatch between
      restoration and natural teeth is a common complaint resulting in remake of restorations and
      increased expense.(2) As most dental procedures lead to dehydration of teeth which can alter
      their shade and may lead to errors in shade matching. And in order to avoid unacceptable
      mismatch of color between natural teeth and dental restoration, it is important that the
      shade matching procedure is carried out at the beginning of the appointment. Thus the aim of
      this study was to investigate any change in tooth color resulting from dehydration resulted
      from rubber dam application and the time required for any change to return to baseline and to
      investigate the nature of change and areas of the teeth most affected.
    
  