
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine a tolerable dose of dubermatinib (TP-0903) monotherapy for
      relapsed/refractory patients with FLT3 acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

      II. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of TP-0903 with azacitidine in untreated
      unfit patients with FLT3 AML.

      III. To determine the complete remission (CR) or complete remission with partial hematologic
      recovery (CRh) rate following induction therapy with TP-0903 in relapsed/refractory patients
      or TP-0903 with azacitidine therapy in untreated unfit patients with FLT3 AML.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the toxicity profile of TP-0903 as a single agent and in combination with or
      azacitidine.

      II. To determine disease-free survival for patients achieving CR/CRh in each cohort.

      III. To determine overall survival for patients in each cohort. IV. To determine the
      proportion of patients who go to transplant.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To conduct pharmacokinetic studies of TP-0903 alone and in combination with azacitidine.

      II. To examine changes in circulating AXL, Gas6, FLT3 ligand, and other cytokines/chemokines
      by TP-0903.

      III. To determine the impact of TP-0903 on the inhibition of kinase signaling (AXL, FLT3,
      STAT5, AURKA), and metabolomics in AML cells.

      IV. To determine differentially expressed genes in bone marrow stromal cells and AML cells
      upon TP-0903 treatment.

      V. To examine sensitivity and resistance patterns associated with TP-0903 by genomic,
      epigenomic, and transcriptomic profiling.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase Ib, dose-escalation study of dubermatinib followed by a phase II
      study.

      (FLT3 AML WITH RELAPSED/REFRACTORY DISEASE):

      INDUCTION: Patients receive dubermatinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE: Patients with clinical or hematologic response and not transplant eligible may
      continue dubermatinib until loss of response/clinical benefit. Patients with clinical or
      hematologic response and transplant eligible may continue dubermatinib until one week prior
      to admission.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up followed every 3 months for up
      to 2 years from registration and then every 6 months for up to 5 years from registration.
    
  