
    
      Currently, no longitudinal data exist describing the metabolic and cardiac effects of
      SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) infection. This data is urgently needed to assist in care and promote
      recovery of COVID-19 patients worldwide, and elderly patients who are at higher risk due to
      increased age, pre-existing risk factors (frailty, sarcopenia, malnutrition), and co-morbid
      conditions. Further, new pathologies such as COVID-19-related cardiac dysfunction must be
      described and rapidly identified. Our innovative measurements will provide direct
      non-invasive assessments of the effect of COVID-19 infection on key measures including energy
      expenditure, substrate utilization, muscle mass, cardiac function, mitochondrial function,
      and body composition. In addition, we will be able to provide objective data on key recovery
      intervention requirements including energy/nutritional requirements, effects of nutrition and
      rehabilitation efforts on muscle mass and energy state, and recovery of cardiac, muscle
      function.

      Study Questions: We propose to evaluate longitudinal metabolic and cardiac pathophysiology in
      patients with COVID-19 to understand, guide and optimize our metabolic clinical care during
      acute hospitalization. Further, this data will be essential in providing objective data to
      guide physical recovery interventions including nutrition delivery and physical therapy to
      ensure functional recovery of COVID-19 patients.

      We hypothesize: 1) COVID-19 will lead to significant, EE/metabolic changes, systemic
      mitochondrial dysfunction, significant muscle wasting and loss of function throughout the
      course of illness and during recovery. We hypothesize metabolic needs will initially decrease
      in acute illness and subsequently increase as patients transition from the acute phase of
      COVID illness to recovery phases. This data will guide nutrition and metabolic/clinical care
      in all phases of COVID-19 care where, for example, over-and under-feeding may pose risk to
      patient outcome. We hypothesize loss of muscle mass and physical function occurring in
      COVID-19 will significantly affect nutritional/rehabilitative/recovery of function/QoL needs
      and requires addressing to personalize care to optimize clinical and functional recovery
      efforts in older COVID-19 patients.

      We believe longitudinal detailed indirect calorimetry with the innovative new Q-NRG device,
      cardiac assessment, body composition, and muscle and ultrasound measures in COVID-19 patients
      will play a key role in understanding and treating COVID-19 infection by providing objective
      data on the metabolic, cardiac, volume/fluid status, and nutrition needs of COVID-19 patients
      to the bedside clinician. This will increase our understanding of the pathophysiology of
      COVID-19 and the ability of clinical teams to optimize care and patient outcomes. These
      urgently needed data will lead to key advances in the clinical care of COVID-19 patients
      worldwide.
    
  