
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if the 1-year overall survival rate of patients age >= 60 with FLT3-ITD AML
      treated with a sorafenib (sorafenib tosylate) containing induction and post-remission therapy
      is significantly higher than the historical 1-year overall survival rate of similar patients
      who were not treated with sorafenib.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the rates of complete remission (CR), CR with incomplete count recovery
      (CRi), and cytogenetic complete remission (CCyR) to induction chemotherapy.

      II. To determine the overall survival, event-free survival, and remission duration in
      patients treated on this study.

      III. To describe the frequency and severity of adverse events for patients treated on this
      study.

      IV. To describe the interaction of pre-treatment disease and patient characteristics
      including morphology, cytogenetics, immunophenotype, molecular genetic features, white blood
      cell (WBC) count and hemogram, and performance status on clinical outcomes.

      V. To assess FLT3 ligand concentrations and FLT3 plasma inhibitory activity during treatment
      and determine the relationship to clinical outcomes. (Cancer and Leukemia Group B [CALGB]
      21003) VI. To describe the interaction of FLT3 mutation type (tyrosine kinase domain [TKD]
      vs. ITD) and allelic ratio on clinical outcomes. (CALGB 21003) VII. To characterize geriatric
      assessment measures in the context of a treatment trial for AML defined by: the observed
      distribution and number of missing values for each measurement. (CALGB 361006) VIII. To
      identify specific geriatric assessment measures which are independently associated with
      overall survival (OS), 30-day treatment-related mortality and key quality of life outcomes
      (number of days hospitalized, number of oncology clinic visits, admission to a nursing
      facility) in patients receiving induction chemotherapy for AML. (CALGB 361006) IX. To explore
      the impact of induction chemotherapy on physical, cognitive, psychosocial factors. (CALGB
      361006)

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive daunorubicin hydrochloride intravenously (IV) on days
      1-3, cytarabine IV continuously on days 1-7, and sorafenib tosylate orally (PO) twice daily
      (BID) on days 1-7. Patients then undergo a bone marrow aspirate or biopsy on day 14.

      Patients with persistent disease undergo a second remission induction therapy comprising
      daunorubicin hydrochloride IV on days 1-2, cytarabine IV continuously on days 1-5, and
      sorafenib tosylate PO BID on days 1-7. Patients who achieve complete response (CR)* proceed
      to consolidation therapy.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients** receive cytarabine IV over 3 hours on days 1-5 and
      sorafenib tosylate PO BID on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with continued CR proceed
      to maintenance therapy.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive sorafenib tosylate PO BID on days 1-28. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *Patients who achieve CR and who are eligible for hematopoietic stem cell transplant
      (HSCT) are encouraged to enroll in Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) 100103. Patients in CR
      who are unable or unwilling to undergo HSCT receive two cycles of remission consolidation
      therapy.

      NOTE: ** Patients in CR/complete remission with incomplete count recovery (CRi) who are
      unable or unwilling to complete remission consolidation therapy may proceed directly to
      maintenance therapy after consulting with the CALGB study chair.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 2 months for 2 years, every
      3 months for 2 years, and then yearly for a maximum of 10 years.
    
  