
    
      The development of a malignant pleural effusion (MPE) can be a consequence of metastatic
      spread of any cancer, but most commonly lung, breast and gynecological cancers or from
      primary pleural neoplasms (e.g., mesothelioma). The presence of MPE represents incurable
      disease and median survival ranges from 3 to 12 months from first presentation.
      Breathlessness is a common and debilitating symptom reported by this patient group and
      interventions are aimed at managing symptoms for optimal quality of life.

      Breathlessness and other symptoms that result from MPE are likely to limit a person's ability
      to be physically active. Activity behaviours encompasses physical activity behaviour (i.e.,
      low intensity physical activity and moderate-to-vigorous physical activity) and sedentary
      behaviour (i.e., sitting or reclining activities low in energy expenditure) accumulated
      during waking hours. Performance status measures are routinely used in cancer populations and
      are largely based on self-reported activity behaviors. While performance status is a reliable
      predictor of survival in patients with MPE, such measures are subjective, broad and
      significantly, can differ between patients and clinicians. Measures of performance status may
      fail to detect small, but meaningful changes in activity behaviours. Objective assessment of
      activity behaviours using accelerometers could provide a more reliable and sensitive method
      to assess physical activity and sedentary behaviour, particularly in advanced cancer
      populations. Objective assessment of activity behaviours using accelerometers has been
      demonstrated to accurately measure physical activity when compared to oxygen consumption.
      Triaxial accelerometry is considered the most accurate assessment for physical activity in
      chronic disease populations.

      Preliminary research in patients with MPE indicates that patients have very low activity
      levels. Participants with MPE spent more that 70% of waking hours sedentary (i.e., activities
      of very low energy expenditure, sitting or lying down). Those patients with MPE with the best
      performance status and longest survival were significantly more active and less sedentary
      than those with a poor performance status and limited survival. However, these preliminary
      results require replication. Further, it is not yet known if activity behaviours are
      associated with quality of life or symptoms such as dyspnea in this patient population.
      Evidence from other cancer survivor populations suggests that activity behaviours are linked
      to quality of life and symptoms. In patients with breast, colorectal, lung and ovarian
      cancer, those that are more physically active report better quality of life. In patients with
      lung cancer, symptoms such as breathlessness and fatigue appear to be associated with lower
      physical activity levels.
    
  