
    
      The investigators aimed to study the effects and safety of 20mg intravenous HBB for the
      shortening of labor in both prima- and multigravid women.The study designed as a double
      blind, randomized, controlled trial comparing the two groups of intervention; Intravenous 20
      mg (1mL) Hyoscine-N-Butylbromide (HBB) versus placebo (1mL saline) in both primigravid and
      multigravid women.Singleton, vertex presentation at term (gestational age range; 37-41weeks)
      primigravid and multigravid women without any chronic and pregnancy-induced diseases were
      included to the study. The investigators excluded the cases with premature rupture of
      membranes, preeclampsia, eclampsia, placental abruption, placenta previa, abnormal placental
      attachment, twin pregnancy, non- cephalic presentations, previous uterine surgery and
      cephalopelvic disproportion.Randomization was done by using cards .The women were allocated
      into two groups by using a sealed enveloped system.A yellow and a red card were placed
      separately in each sealed envelope. The syringes containing the drug and placebo were
      prepared by the investigational pharmacy staff and labeled with a yellow or red sticker on
      it. Each syringe contained either 1ml(20mg) of Hyoscine-N-Butylbromide (HBB) (MOLIT
      ampule,Adeko, Turkey) or 1 ml of normal saline solution (placebo) in which both of the
      liquids are colorless. The participants, nurses and doctors were all blinded to syringes. The
      patients were asked to pick up one envelope in order and the color of the card was
      corresponding to the sticker's color on the syringe.Nurses applied the selected color labeled
      syringe to each patient. Participants received the contents of the syringe as a single dose,
      given intravenously (IV).

      A partogram was drawn and vaginal examinations recorded in every 2 hours.The active phase of
      labor was defined as 4 cm cervical dilatation and 50% cervical effacement in the presence of
      regular uterine contractions (2-3 contractions in every 10 minutes). The drug was given only
      once when the active phase was achieved. Iatrogenic amniotomy was performed for women who did
      not have a spontaneous rupture of membrane at the time when the cervical ripening was 8 cm.
      The duration of labor during the first, second and third stages, oxytocin induction,
      iatrogenic amniotomy, pre- and postpartum haemoglobin levels, birth weight and APGAR scores
      were recorded. Neonatal APGAR scores were determined 1 and 5 minutes after birth.
    
  