
    
      Patients with persistent symptoms of cerebrospinal-fluid leakage (positional headache,
      photophobia, nausea and vomiting, clear drainage from the wound, fluctuant subcutaneous
      wound) after a primary repair should be considered for revision surgery to avoid potentially
      serious complications including CSF (cerebro spinal fluid) fistula formation.

      In a recent retrospective case series of 42 patients Radcliff et al. reported an increase in
      medical complications including pneumonia and wound infections associated with prolonged bed
      rest Current literature does not provide prospective nor retrospective evidence on the
      influence of early mobilization on complications or reoperation rate after ID (incidental
      durotomy).

      Prolonged bed rest is widely accepted and frequently applied after ID. Contrarily, current
      literature provides supporting retrospective evidence that prolonged bed rest may not be
      required after watertight closure of dural tears.

      The purpose of this study is to further investigate the impact of prolonged bed rest on the
      need for early reoperation following primary repair of an ID after lumbar spinal surgery. The
      primary endpoint of this study is the difference in reoperation rate between the two study
      groups to further investigate if either one or the other postoperative mobilisation regimen
      provides a significant benefit in terms of persistent dural leakage.

      This study is designed as an unblinded, prospective randomised cohort trial. The treatment
      arms consist of either strict prolonged bed rest for 48 hours or immediate postoperative
      mobilisation. Patients are going to be randomised into either treatment arm after
      intraoperative verification of ID. Randomization into either treatment arm is going to be
      performed in a consecutive alternating manner. The according mobilisation regimen is going to
      be prescribed by the surgeon performing the index procedure immediately after wound closure
      as a standard option in the institutions proprietary hospital information system. Symptoms of
      persisting liquor leakage are going to be assessed by Investigator. Additional confirmation
      via MRI scan is routinely performed if persistent leakage is suspected and revision surgery
      is planned. For Patients with symptoms of persisting dural leakage after a 48 hours course of
      early mobilization a course of 24 hours of bed rest will be administered before revision
      surgery is scheduled.

      Various case series, as well as large pro- and retrospective studies have been published
      describing incidence, intraoperative management as well as long- and short term outcome of
      ID. In addition, current literature provides retrospective evidence and small case series
      considering benefit and adverse events of prolonged bed rest after primarily recognised and
      repaired ID. To our knowledge this is the first prospective randomised trial to further
      investigate the impact of immediate mobilisation on the incidence of persistent cerebrospinal
      leakage.
    
  