
    
      Obesity is associated with a constellation of cardiometabolic abnormalities (including
      insulin resistance, elevated blood pressure and dyslipidemia) that are risk factors for
      diabetes and cardiovascular disease. However, not all people experience the typical
      "complications" associated with obesity. Approximately 25% of obese people are protected from
      the adverse metabolic effects of excess fat accumulation and are considered
      metabolically-normal, based on their normal response to insulin. The mechanisms responsible
      for the development of insulin resistance and cardiometabolic complications in some, but not
      all, obese persons are unknown.

      In people that do develop the typical "complications" associated with obesity weight loss has
      profound therapeutic effects. Currently, there are three distinctly different types of diets
      that have demonstrated considerable benefits in improving cardiometabolic health in both lean
      and obese people: 1) a Mediterranean diet, 2) a low-carbohydrate, ketogenic diet, and 3) a
      plant-based, very-low-fat diet. However, there is considerable inter-individual variability
      in body weight loss among people in response to any given diet, and it is not known why some
      people lose more weight with one diet than another. The mechanisms responsible for the
      different weight and metabolic responses to specific types of diets and the independent
      effects of weight loss and dietary macronutrient composition on cardiometabolic health are
      unclear.

      The overarching goal of this project is therefore to fill these gaps in knowledge by
      conducting a careful cross-sectional characterization of metabolically normal lean,
      metabolically normal obese and metabolically abnormal obese individuals to compare body
      composition, body fat distribution, the plasma metabolome, systemic and adipose tissue
      inflammation and immune system function, adipose tissue and muscle biological function, the
      gut microbiome, the brain's structure, cognitive function and central reward mechanisms, and
      taste sensation between groups. . Metabolically abnormal obese participants will then be
      randomized to follow a Mediterranean, a low-carbohydrate ketogenic or a plant-based,
      very-low-fat diet to examine the different effects of these diets on the above outcomes with
      the purpose to determine the beneficial or potentially harmful effects of these different
      diets.
    
  