
    
      The purpose of the present study is to evaluate the rate of full treatment-free molecular
      remission in a selected population of CML-CP patients treated with nilotinib at half the
      standard dose during a consolidation period of 12 months, followed by complete therapy
      cessation.

      The study is made up of 4 phases:

        -  Screening (week -4 - week 0)

        -  Nilotinib consolidation (week 0 - week 48)

        -  Nilotinib treatment-free remission (TFR) phase (week 48 - week 144)

        -  Follow up phase Patients fulfilling this protocol-specific definition of sustained deep
           molecular response (DMR) and all other inclusion/exclusion criteria will start the
           consolidation phase of the study.

      During Nilotinib consolidation (week 0 - week 48) period, patients will be treated with
      nilotinib 300 mg QD. At the end or during the consolidation period, patients will proceed as
      follows:

        -  Patients with sustained DMR at the end of the consolidation phase will enter the
           tretament-free remission (TFR) phase and nilotinib will be discontinued.

        -  Patients with loss of major molecular response (MMR) at any time during the
           consolidation phase will enter the follow-up phase and will return to the standard
           nilotinib administration regimen (nilotinib 300 mg BID) until the end of the trial (week
           144). Loss of MMR is defined as breakpoint cluster region--c-abl oncogene 1 (BCR-ABL)
           >0.1% international scale assessed in a single blood sample and will mandate
           reinitiation of nilotinib treatment at 300 mg BID within 5 weeks after the collection of
           the blood sample demonstrating loss of MMR.

        -  Patients with more than MMR, but without meeting the definition of sustained DMR, will
           remain in the consolidation phase and will be treated with nilotinib 300 mg QD until the
           end of the trial (week 144).

      During the TFR phase, BCR-ABL levels will be monitored every month for the first year at
      weeks 52, 56, 60, 64, 68, 72, 76, 80, 84, 88, 92, 96 and then every three months until the
      end of the study at weeks 108, 120, 132 and 144 (end of study) or whenever clinically
      indicated at the discretion of the investigator. The primary objective will be evaluated at
      week 96. During the TFR phase, loss of MMR will cause reinitiation of nilotinib treatment at
      300 mg BID.

      Follow up phase for patients who were discontinued from the trial, starting from the date of
      trial discontinuation up to the end of the trial (144 week), and for patients with loss of
      MMR at any time during the study.

      Patients discontinued from the treatment for any reason will be followed for survival
      information every 3 months until week 144.

      All patients still on study treatment at the end of the study will be transitioned to
      prescription nilotinib.
    
  