
    
      Rationale: Pelvic organ prolapse is highly prevalent in the female population. The incidence
      of pelvic organ prolapse increases with age, so the longer life expectancy of women may cause
      pelvic organ prolapse to become an even more major health issue. The recurrence rate of
      pelvic organ prolapse after surgical treatment is high. The recurrence rate of the anterior
      vaginal wall prolapse after an anterior colporrhaphy is 30%-45%. The posterior vaginal wall
      prolapse recurrence rate after a posterior colporrhaphy is 12-25%. This emphasizes the
      clinical need for improvement of the surgical techniques currently used. Placement of a mesh
      aims at reducing the recurrence rate (2-11%).

      Objective: To compare the clinical and cost effectiveness of the Tension free Vaginal Mesh +
      Monocryl (Prolift+M) with the standard vaginal prolapse surgery (i.e. fascial placation). A
      secondary objective is to track the post-operative and long-term complications of both
      procedures. A third objective is to evaluate recovery after surgery.

      Study design: a prospective, multicentre, randomized, non-blinded study between Tension free
      Vaginal Mesh + Monocryl (Prolift+MTM) and standard vaginal prolapse surgery (i.e. fascial
      placation).

      Study population: women with a primary pelvic organ prolapse of the anterior and/or posterior
      compartment POP stage II or more, in the age of 45 years or older.

      Intervention (if applicable): Prolapse surgery with tension free vaginal mesh + Monocryl
      (Prolift + M) versus conventional vaginal prolapse surgery.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The main outcome is the percentage of patients with
      objective anatomical success (POP stage < 2) after 24 months. As secondary outcome the
      subjective improvement in quality of life will be measured by generic (EQ-5D,PGI-I) and
      disease-specific (UDI, DDI, IIQ and PFDI20) quality of life instrument. Sexual functioning
      will be measured by generic (FSFI) and disease specific (PISQ12) questionnaires.
      Complications will be monitored with special notice for pain (Mc Gill pain questionnaire)
      Recovery will be measured with the Recovery index 10. The economical endpoint is short term
      (2 year) incremental cost-effectiveness in terms of costs per additional year free of
      prolapse and costs per QALY gained.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Burden associated with participation: complete a disease specific Quality of
      life questionnaire 4 times, complete a recovery index questionnaire 3 times. Visit the
      hospital 4 times after the surgery (this is 2 times more often than patients not
      participating in the study). Since subjects are selected from subjects already agreeing to
      complete a surgical procedure, the additional risks of participation in this study are low.
      These risks include tissue erosion (vaginal, rectal or bladder), vaginal pain/dyspareunia.
    
  