
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To study the use of ibrutinib starting between day 60 and day 90 after allogeneic
      hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT) until 12 months post hematopoietic cell transplant to
      improve the progression-free survival (PFS) at 12 months post hematopoietic cell transplant
      by 25% compared to historical controls.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To increase the incidence of successful outcome (defined as lack of requirement of second
      line therapy for acute graft-versus-host disease, lack of National Institutes of Health [NIH]
      severe chronic graft-versus-host disease, lack of progression or relapse of chronic
      lymphocytic leukemia/mantle cell lymphoma [MCL], lack of death from disease or non-relapse
      causes) to at least 60% at 1 year post hematopoietic cell transplant. (Cohort A) II. To study
      the safety and tolerability of ibrutinib post hematopoietic cell transplant in patients with
      non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and Hodgkin lymphoma. (Cohort A and B combined) III. To study the
      incidence of grade 3-4 acute graft-versus-host disease in the first 6 months post
      hematopoietic cell transplant in patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma and Hodgkin lymphoma.
      (Cohort A and B combined) IV. To study the incidence of second line therapy (systemic only)
      for acute graft-versus-host disease in the first 6 months post hematopoietic cell transplant
      in patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma and Hodgkin lymphoma. (Cohort A and B combined) V. To
      study the incidence of recurrent acute graft-versus-host disease in the first 6 months post
      hematopoietic cell transplant in patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma and Hodgkin lymphoma.
      (Cohort A and B combined) VI. To study the incidence and severity of chronic
      graft-versus-host disease in the first 12 months post hematopoietic cell transplant in
      patients with not-Hodgkin lymphoma and Hodgkin lymphoma. (Cohort A and B combined) VII. To
      study the incidence of lung involvement with graft-versus-host disease in the first 12 months
      post hematopoietic cell transplant in patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma and Hodgkin
      lymphoma. (Cohort A and B combined) VIII. To study the incidence of sclerotic skin chronic
      graft-versus-host disease in the first 12 months post hematopoietic cell transplant in
      patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma and Hodgkin lymphoma. (Cohort A and B combined) IX. To
      study the incidence of infectious deaths not related to graft-versus-host disease in patients
      with non-Hodgkin and Hodgkin lymphoma. (Cohort A and B combined)

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To study the association of minimal residual disease (MRD) as detected by immunoglobulin
      heavy chain (IgH) sequencing prior to starting ibrutinib and compare to post ibrutinib at
      month 6, 9 and 12 after HCT. (Cohort A)

      II. To study the impact of onset of new acute or chronic graft-versus-host disease on minimal
      residual disease. (Cohort A)

      III. To study the association of T-cell clonality by T cell receptor (TCR) Vb sequencing
      prior to starting ibrutinib and compare to post ibrutinib at month 6, 9 and 12 after
      hematopoietic cell transplant. (Cohort A)

      IV. To study the impact of onset of new acute or chronic graft-versus-host disease on T cell
      receptor sequencing. (Cohort A)

      V. To study the association of B cell receptor signaling pathways and immune function with
      response by single cell mass cytometry prior to starting ibrutinib and compare to post
      ibrutinib at month 6, 9 and 12 after hematopoietic cell transplant. (Cohort A)

      VI. To study the association of single cell mass cytometry that investigates B cell receptor
      signaling and its association with new acute or chronic graft-versus-host disease on B-cell
      receptor (BCR) signaling. (Cohort A)

      OUTLINE:

      Beginning between 60-90 days post donor stem cell transplant, patients receive ibrutinib
      orally (PO) once daily (QD) until 1 year post donor stem cell transplant in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of treatment, patients are followed up for 1 year.
    
  