
    
      We will assess PIF prospectively in maternal serum throughout viable pregnancy in order to
      assess its performance characteristics in predicting viability. More than 250 pregnancies
      after IVF will be studied as control patients. This PIF longitudinal pregnancy follow up will
      be compared to those observed for women at risk of pregnancy complications, those with
      previous such pregnancy.

      One objective will be also to define PIF as a biomarker of pregnancy outcome. Then, we will
      also assess PIF levels in the maternal serum of women with pregnancy complications like
      miscarriage, preeclampsia, placenta accreta, preterm birth and intrauterine fetal growth
      restriction.

      Our objective is to evaluate PIF maternal serum level in index pregnancy for women with
      previous pregnancy complications (miscarriage, preeclampsia, intrauterine fetal growth
      restriction, preterm birth) as listed above and consider at risk pregnancy complication
      recurrence. Data will be compared with control women (spontaneous pregnancy, singleton
      gestations, no medical treatment, normal delivery) and pregnant women with SET or MET after
      IVF.

      Prospectively, we will include all patients with a previous pregnancy complications and 100
      control women and 200 women after IVF cycles, over 36 months.

      PIF assessment will be performed using specific antibody marked with a fluorescent dye, in
      Luminex® reader.

      - PIF predictive value on pregnancy prognosis For all women, 5 routine blood draws will be
      conducted. The first one will occur after SET or MET (multiple embryo transfer) in women
      conceived via IVF and resulting in a successful ongoing pregnancy. Specifically, PIF levels
      in maternal serum will be evaluated 5 weeks after embryo transfer. In women with a history of
      previous pregnancy complication and control ones, a maternal blood draw will be obtained upon
      diagnosis of pregnancy, in the first trimester. The remainder of the blood draws (three per
      patient) will be obtained at the time of routine antenatal blood draws (typically 10-13 weeks
      for first trimester screening 15-20 weeks for MSAFP assessment; 24-28 wks for glucose
      screening and complete blood count).

      If a complication will occur, a sixth blood draw will be done at the diagnosis time.

      Definitions:

      Preeclampsia is defined as hypertension (sustained elevations in systolic BP to at least 140
      mmHg and/or in diastolic BP to at least 90 mmHg for at least 6 hours) in association with
      proteinuria (300 mg/24 hours) or concentration of at least 30 mg/dl (at least 1+ on dipstick)
      in at least 2 random urine samples collected at least 6 hours apart.

      Intrauterine fetal growth restriction defined as a birth weight ≤10% percentile for
      gestational age, unrelated to malformations, karyotype abnormalities, obvious fetal
      infections or uterine malformations. IUGR will be ascertained from hospital records related
      to the current pregnancy.

      Miscarriage, or fetal loss, is defined as the spontaneous loss of pregnancy prior to 20 weeks
      gestation, and recurrent pregnancy loss is defined as 2 or more failed pregnancies
      (documented by ultrasound or histological exam). Unexplained fetal death is defined as death
      ≥ 20 wks gestation unrelated to major malformations, karyotype abnormalities, maternal or
      fetal infections, maternal uterine or cervical malformations. Fetal death will be ascertained
      from hospital records related to the current pregnancy. The research nurse will complete a
      fetal death form, which will include information on autopsy results (if available), maternal
      serologies, toxicologies, maternal/fetal infections, uterine and cervical malformations,
      fetal/ placental karyotypes, isoimmunization.

      Placenta accreta is defined as the direct apposition of placental villi to the myometrium.
      Placenta accreta is classified according to the degree to which the myometrium is penetrated
      by placental villi (KhongTY. J ClinPathol. 2008 Dec;61(12):1243-6).

      Preterm birth is defined as a spontaneous birth occurring before 37 completed weeks of
      gestation, and at or after 20 weeks of gestation.

      Methodology All women will be fully informed and a written consent to participate in the
      study will be duly obtained.

      Maternal serum retrieval

      Maternal serum will be collected during routine blood draw:

        -  at 5 weeks after embryo transfer for pregnant women after IVF, and for women with
           previous pregnancy complication upon the diagnosis of pregnancy in the first trimester
           (P1)

        -  at first trimester screening 10-13 wks (P2)

        -  at second trimester analyte screening, 15-20 wks (P3)

        -  at screening for diabetes, and anemia assessment 24-28 wks (P4)

        -  at admission for labor and delivery (P5)

        -  at pregnancy complication diagnosis (P6) PIF level evaluation As previously described
           Analysis Correlate PIF levels in maternal serum with pregnancy complications. Results of
           PIF detection on maternal serum will be correlated to pregnancy outcome, and pregnancy
           complications. Evolution of PIF level during pregnancy will be also evaluated. Controls
           will be matched for parity, multiple gestation and gestational age of blood draw (+/-
           2wks).

      Statistical analysis plan components, (no template provided) URC Paris Ile de France Ouest As
      pregnancy complications occurred in 25% of cases, patient number has been estimated to be
      1350. 350 pregnancy complications will occur during the study.

      The sample size will provide a 5% precision for a 30% event occurrence with a 5% standard
      deviation.
    
  