
    
      Objectives: The primary purpose of this study is to understand the feasibility and
      acceptability of a shared medical appointment for patients with chronic pain called Pain
      SMART (Shared Medical Appointments to Refocus Treatment).

      Intervention: The overall goal of Pain SMART is to increase the use of evidenced-based pain
      management strategies including pain self-management and other non-pharmacological pain
      management approaches. Pain SMART is a brief one-visit shared medical appointment delivered
      by primary care team members (e.g., primary care providers) and a behavioral health
      specialist (e.g., a clinical health psychologist). Pain SMART uses motivational interviewing
      to enhance effective and mutually rewarding communication among providers and Veterans to
      increase pain self-management, including uptake of non-pharmacological approaches to pain
      management, to ultimately enhance quality of care and Veteran functioning.

      Study Participants: Primary care providers/staff will be recruited to participate in Pain
      SMART visits as shared medical appointment facilitators. Additionally, up to 80 veterans with
      chronic pain will be recruited.

      Research Design: This study is a randomized pilot study in which Veteran participants are
      randomized to attend Pain SMART or to a minimally enhanced usual care condition (i.e.,
      receive an educational brochure via mail). Veteran participants will be randomized in equal
      numbers to both conditions. Data collected from Veteran participants at baseline and three
      months following baseline; data will also be collected from primary care participants
      regarding their experience with Pain SMART. Data collection will include quantitative
      measures (e.g., information regarding pain and pain management approaches used) and
      qualitative measures (e.g., interviews about participants' experiences with Pain SMART).
    
  