
    
      Out of all personality disorders, BPD is one of the most life-threatening and psychological
      distressful due the symptomatic manifestation of impulsive behavior along with emotional,
      interpersonal and self-image instability. Suicidality and Non-Suicidal Self-Injury (NSSI)
      rates in this population are extremely high, and worrying for the families and mental health
      professionals. Over the last decades, BPD has obtained broad attention and many psychological
      treatments have been proposed to deal with its main symptoms. Although some treatments have
      been proven to be empirically effective in some domains, clearly not all experienced symptoms
      are successfully targeted, and some cases seem not to be helped even when treated by the more
      efficacious approaches. Perhaps, the explanatory models from which these psychotherapies
      emerge could have underestimated important aspects such as personal dilemmas.

      Cognitive conflict has been defined and conceptualized by different psychological
      orientations, but only a few have included this phenomenon as an influential factor in the
      understanding of the origin and nature of psychological disorders and their psychotherapy
      proposals. Those that have considered inner conflicts have mainly focused on theoretical
      based dilemmas the academics would perceive relevant or common instead of exploring potential
      ideographic conflicts patients may have.

      Being a disorder that is noticeably characterized by identity disturbances, finding relevant
      unresolved cognitive conflicts regarding self and others in these patients is expected.
      Addressing these issues could be potentially useful to further develop an explanatory model
      for this disorder as well as to increase therapeutic resources to help with these unattended
      potential necessities.

      The central aim of this research is to assess cognitive conflicts in BPD diagnosed
      individuals to determine their role in the explanatory model of this disorder. These findings
      would permit the consideration of adapting a dilemma-focused intervention module which could
      complement existing treatments for these patients. In addition, exploring other
      characteristics of self-construction and the construction of others that are assessed with
      the RGT would be of interest. The specific objectives of this study are:

        1. To test the hypothesis that patients with BPD present more cognitive conflicts (i.e.,
           implicative dilemmas and dilemmatic constructs) than a general population sample.

        2. To explore the content of cognitive conflicts in patients with BPD.

        3. To examine whether presence and/or frequency of cognitive conflicts is associated with
           severity of emotional symptoms in BPD patients.

        4. To explore whether the presence and number of cognitive conflicts has any capacity to
           predict treatment outcome.

        5. To examine the relevance of other aspects of the construction of the self and others to
           explain the psychological functioning of patients with a BPD diagnosis.

      The hypothesis of this study are:

        1. The percentage of participants with implicative dilemmas and/or dilemmatic constructs
           will be superior in the group of patients diagnosed with BPD compared to a control group
           (community sample).

        2. The number of implicative dilemmas and/or dilemmatic constructs will be higher in the
           BPD group than in the control group.

        3. Presence and higher number of cognitive conflicts will be associated with greater levels
           of general clinical symptomatology (such as depression, anxiety, etc.).

        4. Presence and higher number of individual cognitive conflicts will predict poor treatment
           outcome one year after the initial assessment.

      For exploratory purposes, the content of implicative dilemmas and dilemmatic constructs will
      be studied, as well as the differences with the control group regarding self-construction
      measures (self-ideal discrepancy, self-others discrepancy, ideal-others discrepancy) and
      other characteristics of the construction system (interpersonal cognitive differentiation and
      polarization) and its association with other clinical and sociodemographic variables.
    
  