
    
      This will be a prospective randomized control trial with a recruitment goal of 220 patients.
      One hundred and ten (110) patients will have undergone a split thickness skin graft (STSG) to
      reconstruct the fibula free flap (FFF) donor site and another one hundred and ten (110)
      patients will be for those with a radial forearm free flap (RFFF) donor site. This is
      anticipated to be a 5 year study.

      Patients will be recruited in clinic. The study will be discussed at their pre-surgery
      evaluation visit and patients will be provided with a copy of the consent form to take home
      to discuss whether or not they wish to proceed with the study. On the day of the surgery,
      should the patients decide on joining the study, they will be consented and asked to fill out
      pre-surgery surveys. These surveys are the quality of life 36 item short form survey (SF 36)
      and a Rosenberg self-esteem survey.

      Participants will be randomized to either the standard or the experimental group and this
      information will be placed in an opaque envelope attached to the consent. Participants then
      undergo surgery and receive routine post-operative care as per standard of care. After
      surgery on post operative day 1, one of the co-investigators will open the envelope which
      will reveal whether the participant is to have the cast and bolster for 5-7 days or 10-14
      days. Participants who have their casts and bolsters on for 5-7 days will have them removed
      before discharge and those who are assigned to the longer group will have them taken off in
      clinic at their first post-operative visit.

      At their one month follow up appointment, a picture will be taken of the donor site.
      Participants will also be asked to fill out a quality of life 36 item short form survey (SF
      36) and a Rosenberg self-esteem survey directly on Redcap. Participants do not have to make
      extra trips to the physician's office. These pictures and surveys will be administered at
      their routine office visits. At 3 month, the participant will receive the same surveys again
      by mail or email, per their preference. Once they have completed these surveys at 3 months,
      they will have completed their portion of the study.

      The investigators will then analyze the skin graft pictures on Adobe Photoshop. All of the
      photos of the grafts will be de-identified and the people analyzing the pictures will be
      blinded. They will estimate the percentage of the graft that has healed well or "take"
    
  