
    
      DESIGN AND APPROVAL This observational study was conducted between January 1, 2008, and
      December 31, 2017, after approval from the institutional review board (Ethics Committee of
      the La Fe University and Polytechnic Hospital (number) Valencia, using data from the Spanish
      Anaesthesia and Reanimation Incident Reporting System (SENSAR) to retrieve the medication
      related patient safety incidents. The methodology followed the recommendations of the
      Strengthening the Reporting of Observational studies in Epidemiology (STROBE) statement. The
      Standards for Quality Improvement Reporting Excellence (SQUIRE) were used to write the
      manuscript.

      FRAMEWORK (study setting) All the data analysed in this study was obtained from SENSAR, which
      is a national, multi centre incident notification system focusing on the perioperative
      environment. Until December 2017, it included 104 hospitals in Spain and Chile. The
      incorporation of hospitals into the network was gradual and progressive since its inception
      in 2008. Voluntarily, anonymously and on a non-punitive basis, anaesthesiologists, resident
      doctors in training and anaesthesia and resuscitation nurses can communicate any security
      incident using a web form accessed with a generic key for each assigned centre, ensuring the
      anonymity of the communicator. In this database, the communication is recorded in a
      structured form together with a free text for the detailed description of the incident. In
      each hospital there is a group of professionals in charge of the anonymous and confidential
      analysis of the incidents based on the London Protocol (*+*), which proposes measures to
      avoid the repetition of incidents and gives feedback to the notifiers.

      The investigators define patient safety incident as any event or circumstance in which there
      could be, or has been, unnecessary harm caused to a patient (*).

      During the analysis process, the incidents reported are classified according to the type of
      incident through a classification adapted to the perioperative environment. Adverse Events
      that are not preventable are also included in the researchers classification (annex).

      STUDY POPULATION (Subjects) (Data collection) (Observers) The study population consisted of
      communications and analysis of the SENSAR database between January 1, 2008 and December 31,
      2017. The investigators selected incidents classified as medication incidents from the
      structured information included in the database at the time of notification and subsequent
      analysis of the incident. In incidents for which there was no classification of type of
      incident, two authors (ER and YS) individually reviewed each case with the reading of the
      free texts of the form in search of incidents related to medication. The discrepancies
      between the two observers were resolved by a third author (DA).

      STUDY VARIABLES For the descriptive analysis of the incidents, the investigators used the
      following categorical variables: type of medication incident, moment in which the incident
      occurred, drug group involved, and morbidity generated. Regarding the independent variables,
      the type of medication incident was classified by omission of the administration of the drug,
      the administration of expired products, the mistake in the selection of drug, recommendation,
      concentration or points of administration; the moment in which the incident occurred in the
      prescription, preparation, dispensing, administration or monitoring of the drug, following
      SENSAR's own classification, adapted to the perioperative environment. For the analysis of
      the drugs involved, the investigators used their own classification (Table 1).

      For the dependent variable, morbidity caused by the incident, the researchers used the WHO
      taxonomy that orders the morbidity degrees in the following categories: no harm, minor
      morbidity, intermediate morbidity, major morbidity and death (*).

      STATISTICAL METHODS. The researchers use the statistical software, "R", version 3.4.1, to
      perform the analysis of the sample obtaining, in absolute numbers and percentages, the
      frequency with which the different types of reported incidents have occurred. To determine
      the existence of a population-level relationship between the different independent variables
      used and the damage produced in the patient, the researchers used the Kruskal-Wallis
      non-parametric test with a level of significance of 5%. The result of this test will be
      expressed with the obtained contrast statistic and its p-value. To identify the factors that
      best estimate the risk of producing different degrees of morbidity in the patient, the
      investigators generated a multiple ordinal logistic regression model. The effects presented
      in this case will be the estimator, the standard error, the "odds ratio", the confidence
      intervals at 95% and the p-value for a significance of 5%.
    
  