
    
      This will be a 2-group, parallel, placebo-controlled, double blind study. Regular, nicotine
      dependent individuals with ADHD will receive NRT pretreatment for 2 weeks prior to an
      identified quit date.At the quit date, subjects will be randomized into one of two groups.

        -  The first group will begin treatment for 1 week with LDX 30 mg and then will be titrated
           up to 50mg and 70mg if tolerated. Subjects will continue on the highest tolerated dose
           until the 4th week. Concurrently subjects will receive transdermal NRT, 21 mg at week
           one, 14 mg at week 2 and 7 mg at weeks 3 and 4.

        -  The second group will receive matching placebo and transdermal NRT after the quit date.

      Participants will attend a total of 16 visits over a period of 7-11 weeks. The primary
      outcome measure for this study will be the proportion of individuals in each group who report
      4 weeks continuous smoking abstinence verified by both Carbon Monoxide (CO) levels and
      salivary cotinine, measured at Visit 5. It is hypothesized that the group co-treated with LDX
      will have a significantly higher proportion of individuals who remain abstinent across the 4
      weeks measured every other day.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Aged 18-50 years

        -  Meet DSM-IV criteria (Diagnostic and Statistical manual of mental Disorders Version 4)
           for ADHD, any subtype; assessed using the Conners Adult ADHD Interview for DSM (CAADID)

        -  Meet DSM-IV criteria for nicotine dependence as verified by afternoon expired CO levels
           of >15 parts per million (PPM) and self-report of smoking >10 cigarettes/day

        -  Free from major medical problems and deemed healthy by the study physician

        -  Not currently receiving medication for ADHD or other psychiatric disorders. If a patient
           is screened as is currently receiving medication for ADHD, they may be enrolled,
           provided they washout of their current medication for an appropriate length of time.

        -  No contraindications for treatment with either LDX or transdermal nicotine

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  DSM-IV Axis I or Axis II disorders that require additional pharmacological treatment or
           otherwise would interfere with participation in the present study

        -  History of known cardiovascular disease, clinically significant hypertension, or other
           cardiovascular risk factors which, in the opinion of the study physician, would
           contraindicate treatment

        -  BMI (Body Mass Index) > 35
    
  