
    
      The intubation of the trachea is a crucial procedure in anaesthesia and emergency medicine,
      therefore it is considered as one of the core competences in these disciplines. Novices in
      the field need to learn intubation fast and without harming patients to ensure a patent
      airway if needed.

      According to the European Union of Medical Specialists (U.E.M.S., 1050 Brussels, BE), every
      anaesthesiologist has to master different techniques for the airway management. One is the
      fiberoptic intubation in awake or asleep patients, to manage a difficult airway. For further
      training, these core competences need to be extended during the career, from level A (has
      knowledge) to level D (teaches or supervises others). As the intubation with flexible
      fiberoptic scopes is the gold standard for the management of a known difficult airway, the
      investigators want to compare this to a new technique. The use of flexible scopes do not
      guarantee easy intubation in every difficult airway situation and intubation sometimes is
      difficult to achieve and requires high proficiency (unability to steer, unability to overcome
      an anatomical obstacle). Various approaches were introduced by the medical device industry to
      overcome that problem. One new device is a rigid video stylet with a flexible tip (Karl Storz
      C-MAC VS), which is an advancement of the older rigid scope "Bonfils" (Karl Storz).

      Intubation training with the Bonfils stylet has been shown to require about 20 consecutive
      tracheal intubations by novices to reach expert time. Learning curves for fiberoptic
      intubations seem to be similar, but a greater variance was observed. A study of the
      investigators research-group (unpublished data, KEK 247/09), comparing learning curves
      between the rigid fiberoptic Bonfils and the semi-rigid fiberoptic SensaScope suggested a 90%
      success rate for intubation within 60 seconds after about 15 trials (Bonfils) and 20 trials
      (SensaScope). In comparison, there is no validated data for the use of rigid scopes with
      flexible tips, as these tool are very new.

      Video stylets are tools originally designed for difficult airway management as well. The
      C-MAC VS combines rigid and semi-rigid abilities. Intubation seems to become very easy. But
      yet, there is no data available which proves that assumption. Thus the study wants to
      evaluate if intubation success and time is superior with the C-MAC Video Scope compared to
      the difficult intubation gold standard, the intubation with a standard flexible fiberoptic
      scope.
    
  