
    
      Rational of the study: There are arguments to think that the closure of macular holes can be
      obtained without a strict positioning under certain conditions, i.e. hole size ≤ 400 µm, if
      the patient avoids the position laid down on the back. In order to be able to confirm these
      observations, it is necessary to make a randomized study with an adequate number of patients.

      Main Aim of the study: To show that the percentage of success (anatomical closure confirmed
      by OCT) is not lower in the group without positioning.

      Tested Hypothesis: The absence of strict positioning is "at least as effective" on the
      success of the surgery of small macular holes as the imposition of a strict positioning.

      Primary outcome: Frequency of the successes defined by anatomical closing.

      Secondary objectives: To show the non inferiority of the technique without positioning by the
      following variables: - ETDRS visual acuity in the third postoperative month. - Progression of
      cataract - Frequency of the complications.

      Design of the study: Randomized multicentric study, in parallel groups, open, with individual
      benefit for the patient.

      Number of subjects and duration of the study: 68 patients, divided into two parallel groups,
      of more than 18 years, presenting a hole ≤ 400 µm, will be included and followed over a
      period of 3 months. The estimated total duration of the study is 27 months.

      Data analysis: In the case of this equivalence clinical trial the margin of non inferiority
      was fixed at 15%. The secondary criteria will consequently be analyzed.

      Expected results: To show that the success rate of the surgery of the idiopathic macular
      holes of 400 µm or less is not decreased by the replacement of a strict positioning
      (face-down 22h/24) by a simple instruction of avoiding the position laid down on the back,
      thus avoiding the patients this painful part of the treatment and allowing a reduction in the
      duration of hospitalization and consequently a reduction in the cost of the treatment.
    
  