
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess progression-free survival on each arm of combination targeted therapy (CTT)
      compared to that of bevacizumab alone.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the significance of changes in tumor size over early time points as a predictor
      of progression-free survival (PFS).

      II. To quantify the number and percent of patients who have stable disease at 6 months of
      therapy (failure to progress) in each treatment arm of CTT in patients with metastatic renal
      cell carcinoma (RCC).

      III. To evaluate the safety of each treatment arm of combination targeted therapy (CTT) in
      patients with metastatic RCC.

      IV. To assess overall survival in each arm of the study. V. To assess the objective response
      rate in each treatment arm of CTT in patients with metastatic RCC.

      VI. To assess pathology, angiogenesis histology and to assess activation status of mitogen
      activated protein (MAP) kinase and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2)
      pathways and relate to clinical outcome.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To analyze the pharmacokinetic and pharmacogenetic properties of sorafenib (sorafenib
      tosylate) including angiogenesis, monooxygenases polymorphisms and multi-drug resistance
      (MDR).

      II. To relate changes in tumor perfusion and vascular permeability on serial dynamic
      contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to clinical outcome and radiologic
      regression detected by other standard methods.

      III. To assess the potential of dynamic contrast-enhanced (DCE)-MRI imaging as a biomarker
      for response to therapy and/or as a prognostic indicator of disease progression.

      IV. To assess site readiness and ability in acquiring DCE-MRI data. V. To determine the
      relationship between tumor and blood biomarkers and clinical outcomes of patients treated
      with the combination of targeted agents.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive bevacizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15.

      ARM B: Patients receive temsirolimus IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and
      bevacizumab as in Arm A.

      ARM C: Patients receive bevacizumab as in Arm A and sorafenib tosylate orally (PO) twice
      daily (BID) on days 1-5, 8-12, 15-19, and 22-26.

      ARM D: Patients receive sorafenib tosylate PO BID on days 1-28 and temsirolimus as in Arm B.

      In all arms, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 5 years.
    
  