
    
      Background: The incidence of adenocarcinoma of the esophagus is rapidly increasing, resulting
      in 480 000 newly diagnosed patients annually in the world1. Surgery remains the cornerstone
      of therapy for curable esophageal cancer (EC) patients. After the esophagectomy, the stomach
      is most commonly used to restore continuity of the upper gastro-intestinal tract. The
      esophagogastric anastomosis is prone to serious complications such as anastomotic leakage
      (AL), fistula, bleeding, and stricture. The reported incidence of AL after esophagectomy
      ranges from 5%-20% 2-6. The AL associated mortality ranges from 18-40% compared with an
      overall in-hospital mortality of 4-6% 2, 7, 8. The main cause of AL is tissue hypoxia, which
      results from impaired perfusion of the pedicle stomach graft. Clinical judgment is unreliable
      in determining anastomotic perfusion. Therefore, an objective, validated, and reproducible
      method to evaluate tissue perfusion at the anastomotic site is urgently needed. Near infrared
      fluorescent (NIRF) perfusion imaging using indocyanine green (ICG) is an emerging modality
      based on excitation and resulting fluorescence in the near-infrared range (λ = 700-900 nm).

      Aims:

        -  To perform intraoperative ICG based NIRF angiography of the stomach graft during
           minimally invasive esophagectomy in EC patients, and to calculate tissue blood flow and
           volume using curve analysis and advanced compartmental modeling;

        -  To validate imaging based perfusion parameters by comparison with hemodynamic
           parameters, blood and tissue expression of hypoxia induced markers, and tissue
           mitochondrial respiration rate

        -  To evaluate the ability of NIRF based perfusion measurement to predict anastomotic
           leakage.

      Methods: Patients (N=70) with resectable EC will be recruited to undergo minimally invasive
      Ivor Lewis esophagectomy according to the current standard of care. ICG based angiography
      will be performed after creation of the stomach graft and after thoracic pull-up of the
      graft. Dynamic digital images will be obtained starting immediately after intravenous bolus
      administration of 0.5 mg/kg of ICG. The resulting images will be subjected to curve analysis
      (time to peak, washout time) and to compartmental analysis based on the AATH kinetic model
      (adiabatic approximation to tissue homogeneity, which allows to calculate blood flow, blood
      volume, vascular heterogeneity, and vascular leakage). The calculated perfusion parameters
      will be compared to intraoperative hemodynamic data (PiCCO catheter) to evaluate how patient
      hemodynamics affect graft perfusion. To verify whether graft perfusion truly represents
      tissue oxygenation, perfusion parameters will be compared with systemic lactate as well as
      serosal lactate from the stomach graft. In addition, perfusion parameters will be compared to
      tissue expression of hypoxia related markers and mitochondrial chain respiratory rate as
      measured in tissue samples from the stomach graft.

      Finally, the ability of functional, histological, and cellular perfusion and oxygenation
      parameters to predict anastomotic leakage and postoperative morbidity in general will be
      evaluated using the appropriate univariate and multivariate statistical analyses.

      Relevance: The results of this project may lead to a novel, reproducible, and minimally
      invasive method to objectively assess perioperative anastomotic perfusion during EC surgery.
      Such a tool may help to reduce the incidence of AL and its associated severe morbidity and
      mortality
    
  