
    
      A total of 30-150 patients or more between the ages of 6 and 15 years old with diagnosis of
      ADHD according to the DSM-IV and on current treatment with stimulants recruited from CAOS-MMC
      and the Developmental Center will be evaluated by a child psychiatrist or a resident under
      supervision of a child psychiatrist to make sure that the diagnosis is correct. Every child
      will have a Conners rating scale filled out by the parents and teachers on admission to the
      study. The evaluators will also fill out a Clinical Global Impression scale (CGI).

      The patients will be divided in 2 groups. One group of 15 children will be randomized to
      continue taking the usual dose of stimulants plus placebo (corn oil), which will be given to
      the patients by MMC's pharmacy.

      A second group of 15 patients will be randomized to receive the usual dose of stimulant plus
      Lovaza (prescription Omega-3 fatty acids) at a dose of 1800 mg daily.

      Both groups will be initially treated for a period of 8 weeks. The patients will be
      re-evaluated by the investigators on week 2, 4, 6 and 8 of the study and on each evaluation
      the parents and teachers will fill out a Conners rating scale.

      The ratings of the Conners rating scales filled for each patient will be analyzed and
      compared to the initial evaluation after week 8. The evaluators will also do a CGI score for
      every visit.

      Patients that improve will be taken off the stimulants and will continue further treatment
      with the adjunctive therapy for a total of 4 more weeks, during this period of time they will
      be re-evaluated on weeks 9, 10 and 12 and Conners scales will also be filled out by the
      parents.

      Patients who do not improve will be switched to the opposite treatment modality and will be
      evaluated on weeks 9, 10 and 12 also having Conners scales filled out by their parents. If
      any of the patients in this group improve after the switch, they will be taken off stimulants
      and they will be evaluated on weeks 13, 14 and 16 of the study arm.

      The study will be supported by GlaxoSmithKline. This pharmaceutical company will provide the
      capsules and the placebo.
    
  