
    
      Postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) is the leading cause of maternal death. Tranexamic acid (TA)
      (Exacyl® Sanofi France), an antifibrinolytic drug, reduces bleeding and transfusion need in
      major surgery and trauma (1). In ongoing PPH following vaginal delivery (2), a high dose of
      TA decreased the volume and duration of PPH, the transfusion need and the maternal morbidity,
      while early fibrinolysis was inhibited (3). Prophylactic use of TA limited the postoperative
      bleeding in elective non hemorrhagic caesarean section (CS). (1, 4) TA efficiency in the
      hemorrhagic caesarean context has not been previously published.

      TA doses range vary from 2,5 to 100 mg/kg and side effects were observed with the largest
      doses.(1,4) Pharmacokinetics old data concerned non hemorrhagic patients.(1) WOMAN ongoing
      international trial using a one gram dose have a mortality reduction objective.(5) The
      optimal dose for ongoing caesarean PPH has to be determined.

      Aim of the study:

      The aim of the multicenter randomized double blind placebo control therapeutic and
      pharmaco-biological dose ranging study TRACES is to measure the effect on blood loss
      reduction of a single intravenous infusion of two doses regimens of TA administered at the
      onset of an active PPH (>800mL) during elective or non-emergent CS and to correlate this
      clinical effect with the biological effect of fibrinolysis inhibition and the pharmacodynamic
      measure of TA uterine bleeding and venous blood concentration.

      Statistical method:

      The sample size computation is based on the expected difference between the placebo group and
      the low dose. On the base of EXADELI trial results, the investigators calculated that a total
      of 342 subjects (114 per group) is required, For the main objective, the blood loss volume
      measured in each experimental group (low dose and high dose) will be compared to that of the
      placebo group by using an analysis of covariance adjusted for baseline blood loss volume. In
      cases of non-normal distribution, relative blood loss volume will be calculated and compared
      using a Mann-Whitney U test. Analyses will be done on an intention-to-treat basis and all
      statistical tests will be performed with a 2-tailed alpha risk of 0.05. The sample size
      computation for the pharmaco-biological substudy have been calculated regarding the
      inhibition of fibrinolysis (D Dimers increase between 30 and 120 minutes negative or null
      (EXADELI trial 11)). The NNS for this substudy is 48 patients in each of the 3 hemorrhagic
      groups and 48 patients in the reference non-hemorrhagic group for a total of 192 patients.
      These substudy hemorrhagic patients will be selected from the experimental groups as the
      first 144 patients for which the TA concentration and plasmin peak specific sampling will be
      completed regarding the blood collection and congelation organisation in each center.

      Expected research benefit:

      The project is aimed to answer for a current clinical practice question: Timing and dose of
      TA to reduce blood loss and maternal morbidity due to active hemorrhage during CS in order to
      determine the optimal and minimal TA dose to obtain the better efficacy and the limitations
      of side-effects.
    
  