
    
      There are multiple evidence-based practices (EBPs) to treat autism spectrum disorder (ASD),
      yet the gap from when EBPs are developed to when they reach community settings is 17 years.
      EBPs are consistently underused in community settings despite their well-studied
      effectiveness. One such EBP for treating ASD in young children is parent-mediated
      intervention.

      Consultation is one method of supporting implementation that involves providing clinicians
      with support and feedback from intervention experts. For this study, consultation on an
      evidence-based parent-mediated intervention, Project ImPACT, will be the focus. Understanding
      the active ingredients that go into consultation is important to understand how consultation
      works so that it can be tailored to best meet the needs of community settings. This
      single-case experimental design (SCED) will manipulate three potential ingredients of
      consultation: feedback on taped sessions, case support, and skill rehearsal.

      Groups of 3-5 providers per agency will be given 2 weeks to complete a 6-hour self-directed
      online tutorial on Project ImPACT utilized regularly by Project ImPACT consultants. Next,
      each agency will be randomly assigned to baselines lasting 3-6 weeks, followed by 4 weeks of
      each consultation component (total of 12 weeks). All agencies will receive consultation. The
      order of the consultation components will be randomized using a random number generator such
      that each agency has an equal chance of receiving one of the predetermined permutations of
      phases (e.g., equally as likely to be randomized to ABCD order as ADBC order). Across each
      phase, providers will record one session per week with their enrolled family and submit it
      via a HIPAA-compliant Drop-box link. Providers will complete weekly online questionnaires on
      implementation outcomes, with time reserved during consultation sessions to complete them.
      After consultation, providers will submit a final recorded session and questionnaire 8-weeks
      post-consultation. Caregivers will complete a measure of social communication for their child
      via online questionnaire at baseline, twice during consultation, and after 8 weeks
      post-consultation.

      The feedback phase will involve the consultant and peers responding to the 5-minute clips of
      recorded telehealth sessions with praise and constructive feedback. The case support phase
      will be a time for the consultant and peers to assist in any challenges faced; for example,
      this could include issues with telehealth, caregiver coaching, or family/child needs. The
      skill rehearsal phase will allow for consultees to practice their clinical skills via role
      play.

      This study will have 4 aims:

      Specific Aim 1: Identify the potential active ingredients of the consultation model by
      evaluating its effects on providers' treatment adherence and parent-mediated intervention
      competence. The investigators predict that the feedback component will improve adherence and
      competence over and above improvements from the case support and skill rehearsal components.

      Specific Aim 2: Examine the relative feasibility, acceptability, and appropriateness of each
      consultation component using a SCED component analysis. Feasibility is the extent to which a
      practice can be successfully carried out within a setting. Acceptability is the extent to
      which a practice is agreeable and satisfactory. Appropriateness is the perceived fit or
      relevance of a practice to address a problem. The investigators predict that providers will
      perceive the case support component to be the most feasible, acceptable, and appropriate of
      all components.

      Specific Aim 3: Examine the effects of the consultation model on case penetration and the
      feasibility, acceptability, and appropriateness of the EBP (Project ImPACT). The
      investigators predict case penetration (i.e., total number of Project ImPACT cases on a
      provider's caseload divided by the total number of eligible clients) and EBP feasibility,
      acceptability, and appropriateness to increase over time.

      Exploratory Aim 4: Demonstrate associated social communication outcomes for Medicaid-enrolled
      children with ASD from baseline to post-consultation. Given that consultation leads to
      improved adherence and child outcomes and Project ImPACT results in improved child social
      communication outcomes, the investigators predict that our consultation model will be
      associated with improvements in child social communication skills.
    
  