
    
      Background:

      Identification and measurement of fetal heart tracings throughout pregnancy and labor is
      crucial to the well-being of the fetus. Non reassuring fetal heart rate is one of the most
      common indications for operative vaginal delivery or cesarean section. Therefore, management
      of labor requires reliable and accurate information about fetal heart rate.

      In most normal spontaneous labors, fetal heart rate is characterized by the baseline heart
      rate (from 110 to 160 beats per minute), variability (beat to beat changes) and periodic
      changes (accelerations or decelerations). In each stage of labor the tracing may have
      different characteristics, with variable decelerations much more common at the end of the
      second stage of labor.

      Objective:

      To Show non inferiority of the EUM to the fetal doppler and scalp electrode by comparing the
      reliability and accuracy of the EUM versus fetal doppler compared to scalp electrode in the
      same patients.

      METHODS The current method for detecting fetal heart rate is fetal Doppler, which is
      routinely used in practically all labors, is based on the Doppler technology of detecting
      heart valves motion and blood velocity. The fetal Doppler transducer is placed on the abdomen
      of the parturient and is susceptible to positional changes of the parturient. Moreover, among
      obese gravidas, fetal heart rate tracings via external fetal Doppler may be difficult to
      achieve.

      Another method for monitoring fetal heart rate is the scalp electrode which is attached to
      the fetal scalp and records the heart rate patterns. This method is invasive and can be used
      only after the amniotic membranes are ruptured.

      Monitoring with scalp electrode is superior to the fetal Doppler as it is direct and
      non-affected by maternal position. However, it is an invasive method and may contribute to
      the development fever during or after labor.
    
  