
    
      Inclusion Criteria Minor criteria includes

        -  respiratory rate > 30 bpm at admission;

        -  ratio of PaO2 to fraction of inspired oxygen (PaO2:FIO2 ) < 250;

        -  chest radiograph showing bilateral involvement or multilobar involvement;

        -  systolic blood pressure < 90 mm Hg; or

        -  diastolic blood pressure < 60 mm Hg. Major criteria includes

        -  Requirement of MV;

        -  Increase in the size of opacities on chest radiograph of 50% or more at 48 hours;

        -  Requirement of vasopressors for more than 4 hours; or

        -  Serum creatinine 2 mg/dl or more.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Children;

        -  Nosocomial pneumonia;

        -  Hospitalisation within the previous 14 days;

        -  Severe immunosuppression (chronic use of systemic steroids);

        -  Non-steroid immunosuppressive treatment or HIV);

        -  Chronic chest disease; , tuberculosis, aspiration or obstructive pneumonia;

        -  Congestive heart failure (cerebrovascular stroke);

        -  Chronic renal or hepatic disease;

        -  Acute burn injury;

        -  Malignancy;

        -  Pregnancy; and

        -  Major gastrointestinal bleed within 3 months of the current hospitalization

      Study Outcome The end-points of the study were improvement in PaO2:FIO2 (PaO2:FIO2 > 300 or
      ≥100 increase from study entry) and sepsis related organ failure assessment, (SOFA) score by
      day 8 and the development of delayed septic shock.

      The adopted SOFA score (up to 6 points) was proposed by Vincent et al., [21]. The number of
      MV-free days was defined as the number of days after ventilation was discontinued up to study
      day 8. Shock was defined as requirement of vasopressors. ARDS was defined by consensus
      criteria.

      All the patients were subjected to

        1. Routine laboratory screen, including CBC, RBS, serum urea and creatinine, liver enzymes,
           serum billirubin and coagulation profiles;

        2. Chest X ray on at least on admission and at day 8;

        3. ABG at least once daily to detect PaO2:FIO2;

        4. CRP daily from day 1 to 8 and

        5. Evaluation of SOFA score daily
    
  