
    
      Hyperinsulinaemic hypoglycemia after bariatric surgery. Overweight and obesity are an
      increasing health problem globally and in the Netherlands, about 15% of the population in the
      Netherlands is obese. Obesity is associated with increased risk of morbidity, such as
      cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes (T2D). Weight loss is the most important
      intervention in obese patients, reducing obesity related morbidity and increasing life
      expectancy. Non-invasive weight loss interventions such as diet, lifestyle or medication only
      have a moderate effect which is short lived. Weight reducing surgery, i.e. bariatric surgery,
      is the only intervention that leads to persistent weight loss and is superior above
      conventional treatment. The most performed and preferred bariatric surgery is Roux-en-Y
      Gastric Bypass (RYGB), which is a food restrictive and malabsorptive procedure. Besides
      weight loss, metabolic improvement in T2D patients is an additional result after RYGB.

      A frequent late complication of RYGB is the dumping syndrome and a rare late complication is
      hyperinsulinaemic hypoglycemia (HH). Reported incidences of dumping syndrome range from 20 to
      70% of the patients. Dumping is a condition where food enters the small bowel too rapidly and
      can be divided into early and late dumping. Early dumping is due to rapid gastric emptying
      and comprises intestinal and vasomotor symptoms within minutes after food ingestion. Late
      dumping occurs 1 to 3 hours after a meal and the symptoms are partly caused by hypoglycemia.

      Reported incidences of HH range from 0.2 to 1% after RYGB and is observed after gastric
      bypass procedures only. In HH plasma glucose concentrations reach values below 50 mg/dL (2.8
      mmol/L) and adrenergic and neuroglucopenic symptoms occur, often occurring after a meal.
      After a meal or glucose challenge an early large glucose peak followed by an insulin peak is
      observed in HH patients. Additionally, an increased postprandial GLP1 level compared to RYGB
      controls without HH was observed. Low plasma glucose levels are also found in asymptomatic
      patients after RYGB in 30 to 50% of the patients.

      The underlying mechanism of HH is not completely understood and several potential causes have
      been proposed, including, 1) An inappropriate increase of beta cell mass and function, that
      is persisting despite the increased insulin sensitivity after RYGB, 2) late dumping syndrome,
      i.e. an inappropriate insulin secretion following rapid food entry into the small intestine,
      3) an inappropriate counter-regulatory glucagon response and 4) post-RYGB an increase in the
      incretin secretion (GLP1 and GIP).

      Besides stimulation of the postprandial insulin secretion, GLP1 may induce beta cell
      hypertrophy or an increase in the number of beta cells by inhibiting apoptosis and increasing
      replication. Nesidioblastosis (beta cell hypertrophy, islet hyperplasia and increased beta
      cell mass) is associated with HH after RYGB in some cases, however, nesidioblastosis was not
      found in these patients and an overexpression of GLP1-receptors in individual islets was not
      found.

      Proposed treatment options for HH after RYGB include diet therapy with a low-carbohydrate
      diet, drug therapy to inhibit carbohydrate digestion (acarbose) or to inhibit insulin
      secretion by beta cells (e.g. diaxozide, octreotide, pasireotide) or surgical treatment by a
      reconstruction of the gastric bypass or by a partial pancreatectomy. The effectiveness of
      these therapies vary among patients, we expect that the effectiveness of different treatments
      depends on the underlying cause of HH.

      The different possible underlying mechanisms and different types of treatment suggest diverse
      causes of HH. In order to increase the insight in these causes and to be able to determine
      the best treatment for each patient in the future, the underlying cause(s) will be examined
      first in this study. In previous studies that assessed beta cell mass, only only pathological
      assessment of pancreas specimens was performed, because in vivo assessment was impossible.
      The control group was determined from patients undergoing a (partial) pancreatectomy for
      other diseases or post-mortem. However, ideally the control group would consist of patients
      who have had RYGB as well, without developing HH.

      Recently, it became possible to assess beta cell mass in vivo by SPECT and PET imaging. In
      this study it is examined if this imaging technique can detect an increase in beta cell mass
      in patients suffering from persisting HH after RYGB. For this purpose we will compare beta
      cell mass in patients with and without HH after RYGB. Additionally, beta cell function and
      postprandial incretin responses will be determined in these subjects.

      The results of this pilot study may lead to improved diagnostics and treatment options for
      persisting HH in bariatric patients in future.

      Imaging of beta cells in vivo by GLP-1 receptor imaging by PET For specific non-invasive
      imaging of beta cells, investogators have developed a highly beta cell-specific radiolabeled
      exendin-based GLP-1 (glucagon-like peptide-1) analog which, after radiolabeling, can
      non-invasively be detected in the human body. GLP-1 is an incretin hormone that specifically
      binds to beta cells and is responsible for post-prandial insulin-secretion. Its specificity
      for beta cells has been shown and a linear correlation of the beta cell mass and the signal
      obtained with this tracer has been established.

      GLP-1R imaging has been shown to be suitable for imaging of insulin producing pancreatic
      neuroendocrine tumours (IPPNET). Furthermore, the feasibility of visualization of
      transplanted beta cells with GLP-1R imaging has been shown by imaging of autologous islets
      transplanted into muscle.
    
  