
    
      Children and adolescents with SLE represent 15% of all SLE patients. Children with SLE suffer
      high morbidity that affects many organ systems, reduces their quality of life, and shortens
      their lifespan. As more children with SLE survive into adulthood, atherosclerotic
      cardiovascular disease has emerged as a major concern. SLE is a significant risk factor for
      myocardial infarction and death in young premenopausal women with SLE, even after controlling
      for traditional cardiovascular risk factors. Acceleration of atherogenesis in SLE most likely
      reflects SLE-associated vascular immune and inflammatory changes.

      Although limited, the data on cardiovascular and lipid abnormalities in children with SLE
      implicate atherosclerosis as an important cause of long-term morbidity and mortality. The
      3-hydroxy-3-methlglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase inhibitors, or statins, reduce
      mortality and morbidity from atherosclerosis in adults and have intrinsic anti-inflammatory
      and immune modulatory properties. These anti-inflammatory and immune modulatory activities
      may have particular benefit in the prevention and treatment of atherosclerosis in SLE. This
      trial will evaluate atorvastatin in children with SLE in the largest cohort of pediatric SLE
      patients ever studied prospectively.

      Children in this study will be randomized to receive either atorvastatin or a placebo. All
      children will be followed for 3 years, during which they will have 15 study visits. Study
      visits will generally last 2 hours and will include medical interview, medication review and
      pill count, physical examination, and blood and urine tests. Cardiovascular-specific outcome
      measures will include assessments of high sensitivity CRP; fasting lipid profile;
      homocysteine level; apolipoprotein A, B1, and Lp(a); carotid intima media thickness (IMT);
      and tensor diffusion/MRI.
    
  