
    
      The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of a 12-week resistance training (RT)
      program on body composition, risk factors for metabolic syndrome (MetS), and inflammatory
      biomarkers in older adult women. For the selection of the sample all participants completed a
      health history and we adopted the following inclusion criteria: 60 years old or more,
      physically independent, free from cardiac or orthopedic dysfunction, not receiving hormonal
      replacement therapy, and not performing any regular physical exercise more than once a week
      in the six months preceding the beginning of the investigation. Participants passed a
      diagnostic graded exercise stress test with a 12-lead electrocardiogram, reviewed by a
      cardiologist, and were released with no restrictions for participation in this investigation.
      Written informed consent was obtained from all participants after being provided with a
      detailed description of investigation procedures. This investigation was conducted according
      to the Declaration of Helsinki and approved by the local University Ethics Committee. The
      investigation was carried out over a period of 18 weeks, with 12 weeks dedicated to the RT
      program and 6 weeks allocated for measurements. Anthropometric, one repetition maximum tests
      (1RM), body composition, blood pressure (BP), dietary intake and blood sample measurements
      were performed in weeks 1-3, and 16-18. It was also evaluated the Z-score risk for metabolic
      syndrome, which was based on the risk factors for metabolic syndrome. A supervised
      progressive RT program was performed between weeks 4-15 by the training group. The CG did not
      perform any type of physical exercise during this period. The RT training program was based
      on recommendations for RT in an older population. All participants were personally supervised
      by physical education professionals with substantial RT experience. The sessions were
      performed 3 times per week on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. The RT program was performed
      in the following order: chest press, horizontal leg press, seated row, knee extension,
      preacher curl (free weights), leg curl, triceps pushdown, and seated calf raise. Participants
      of the TG performed 3 sets of 10-15 repetition maximums. Participants were afforded a 1 to 2
      min rest interval between sets and 2 to 3 min between each exercise. The training load was
      consistent with the prescribed number of repetitions for the three sets of each exercise.
      Instructors adjusted the loads of each exercise according to the subject's ability and
      improvements in exercise capacity throughout the investigation in order to ensure that the
      subjects were exercising with as much resistance as possible while maintaining proper
      exercise technique.
    
  