
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the overall survival between evaluable patients who were randomized to receive
      regorafenib followed by anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody therapy compared to those that receive
      anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody followed by regorafenib.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the first progression free survival (PFS1) of patients between evaluable
      patients who were randomized to receive regorafenib followed by anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody
      therapy compared to those that receive anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody followed by regorafenib
      II. To compare the second progression free survival (PFS2) of patients between evaluable
      patients who were randomized to receive regorafenib followed by anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody
      therapy compared to those that receive anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody followed by regorafenib.

      III. To compare the sequential treatment progression free survival (stPFS) of patients
      between evaluable patients who were randomized to receive regorafenib followed by anti-EGFR
      monoclonal antibody therapy compared to those that receive anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody
      followed by regorafenib.

      IV. To assess the frequency and severity of adverse events between evaluable patients who
      were randomized to receive regorafenib followed by anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody therapy
      compared to those that receive anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody followed by regorafenib.

      V. To compare the objective response rate (ORR), while on initial treatment, between
      evaluable patients who were randomized to receive regorafenib followed by anti-EGFR
      monoclonal antibody therapy compared to those that receive anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody
      followed by regorafenib VI. To compare the objective response rate (ORR), while on sequential
      treatment, between evaluable patients who were randomized to receive regorafenib followed by
      anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody therapy compared to those that receive anti-EGFR monoclonal
      antibody prior to regorafenib.

      CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess plasma pharmacodynamics biomarkers of response and resistance to therapy.

      II. To explore any correlation between tissue and blood based biomarkers and clinical
      outcomes.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive regorafenib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Cycles repeat
      every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Per the
      treating physician's discretion, patients who experience disease progression may initiate a
      treatment regimen consisting of cetuximab or panitumumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90
      minutes on days 1 and 15. Patients may also receive irinotecan IV on days 1 and 15 as
      determined by the study doctor. Cycles repeat every 28 days until disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive cetuximab or panitumumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15.
      Patients may also receive irinotecan IV on days 1 and 15 as determined by the study doctor.
      Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Per the treating physician's discretion, patients who experience disease progression may
      initiate a treatment regimen consisting of regorafenib PO QD on days 1-21. Cycles repeat
      every 28 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, and then every 3
      months for up to 3 years after randomization.
    
  