
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common persistent arrhythmia, prevalent in about 6% of
      the population over 65 years of age. AF reduces the quality of life and increases mortality.
      AF is particularly common in combination with mitral valve disease, but is also detected in
      about 5% of patients with aortic valve and coronary artery disease. Surgical treatment of AF
      with the Cox-maze III operation was developed by J. Cox during the 80ies. The aim of the
      operation is to block spread of irregular electrical activity by creating lines of isolation
      in the atrial musculature. The operation achieves sinus rhythm in over 90% in selected
      patients. Nevertheless the method was only used in few heart surgical centres, because it is
      complex and time consuming.In recent years alternative energy sources have been developed to
      create isolating lines without cutting the tissue and thus making ablation treatment easier.
      Bipolar radiofrequency ablation is special because the energy is delivered feedback
      controlled until transmurality is achieved. This is a prerequisite for a good result and
      makes using the equipment safer.

      Since the development of the Cox-maze procedure, our knowledge of atrial fibrillation and its
      treatment has increased considerably. There is a consensus that the posterior part of the
      left atrium and in particular the pulmonary veins are an important target for treatment.
      Surgical ablation with alternative energy sources is a new method under continued development
      and evaluation.

      The optimal ablation treatment is unknown. A balance between invasiveness and achieving sinus
      rhythm in as many as possible has to be found. Creating numerous ablation lines in both atria
      is time consuming and leads probably to an increased need for permanent pacemaker
      implantation and reduced contractility of the atrial tissue. On the other hand can a simple
      bipolar ablation of pulmonary veins performed easily, but this is probably an insufficient
      treatment for most patients. In the protocol a new method using solely bipolar ablation for
      creation of several ablation lines in the left atrium is described.

      The study is a prospective multi-centre study to investigate the effect of a new bipolar
      ablation strategy of the left atrium in patients with paroxysmal or permanent AF over time.
    
  