
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess the feasibility of conducting a 12-week preference option randomized exercise
      intervention program in breast cancer survivors.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess the adherence rate of each of the three 12-week intervention programs by breast
      cancer survivors in a randomized treatment arm and a patient preference arm.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine how cardiovascular fitness, body composition, behavior change, biomarkers of
      mitochondrial function, quality of life (QoL), symptoms of autonomic regulation, cognitive
      function, and biomarkers of adrenergic stress, inflammation, and immunosuppression are
      affected by a 12-week physical activity program completed by breast cancer survivors.

      II. To compare differences in these outcomes among breast cancer survivors who complete a
      home-based walking program, a home-based Zumba program in either a video game format or a
      workout DVD (or streamed content) format, a supervised high intensity interval training
      program, and a wait-list control group.

      OUTLINE: Participants are randomized into 1 of 4 arms.

      ARM I: Participants wear Fitbit, receive home-based DVD containing instructions to warm-up
      and cool-down, and walk 10000 steps per day over 12 weeks in order to achieve the 150 minutes
      per week of moderate intensity exercise. Participants also undergo resistance training by
      watching the illustration video and completing 6 total blocks of 2-week per block exercise
      using the Thera-BandR exercise bands.

      ARM II: Participants wear Fitbit and receive a XBOX system and the video game to strive for
      at least 3 50-minute medium or high intensity classes per week over 12 weeks. Participants
      may also take 20-minute classes or a mixture of 50- and 20-minute classes to meet the target.
      Participants undergo resistance training as in Arm I.

      ARM III: Participants wear Fitbit and attend supervised High Intensity Interval Training
      (HIIT) exercise sessions 3 days per week over 12 weeks. Participants undergo resistance
      training as in Arm I.

      ARM IV: Participants wear Fitbit and continue their usual physical activity over 12 weeks.

      After completion of study intervention, participants are followed up at 2 weeks and 1 month.
    
  