
    
      Preoperatively: informed consent will be obtained by a member of this study. The patients
      will be screened for inclusion/exclusion criteria on day of procedure, and then the
      participants will be randomized to one of three groups.

      Intraoperatively: The anesthesia team involved with care of patient in the operating room
      will provide routine anesthesia care during the cesarean section including neuraxial
      anesthesia with intrathecal bupivacaine and morphine.

      After completion of the procedure, the patients will receive bilateral TAP block procedure
      while still in OR. All blocks will include 20mL of 0.5% ropivacaine, and the patients will be
      randomly assigned a specific dose of dexamethasone at 0mg (given normal saline as control),
      2mg, or 4mg. The resident or attending physician supervising the block will be investigators
      of the study, and they along with the residents performing the blocks will be blinded to the
      amount of dexamethasone in the injectate.

      Postoperatively: The patients will then be monitored in the PACU for approximately 30-60
      minutes and then subsequently monitored on an inpatient floor. Pain scores, time until first
      opioid dose, total opioid requirement will be assessed and recorded. In PACU, these will be
      recorded every 15-30 minutes. On the inpatient floor, these will be recorded every 6 hours.

      Pain scores, average pain scores in first 48 hours, total opioid consumption, time until
      first opioid use, and PONV medication requirement will also be recorded. These will be
      recorded by review of the electronic medical record.

      Satisfaction scores and estimation of TAP block duration will be assessed and recorded by
      anesthesia personnel approximately 48 hours post-operatively; these will be subjective
      evaluations recorded between 24-38 hours postoperatively. The patients will be asked to
      estimate how long they felt the block lasted. For satisfaction scores, patients will rate
      their satisfaction subjectively on a scale of 1-10.

      Statistical Analysis: all demographic and clinical variables with continuous measures will be
      expressed as means and standard deviations; categorical factors will be expressed as
      proportions. For non-normal data, the medians and inter quartile ranges will be displayed.
      The distribution of the continuous factors will be examined using the Kolmogorov-Smirnov
      test. For data that are normally distributed, one-way ANOVA will be used to compare groups of
      data. For data that are not normally distributed, the Kruskal-Wallis test will be used for
      comparisons. Chi-square and Fisher's exact tests will be used to analyze categorical data.
      For all comparisons, a value of p < 0.05 will be considered statistically significant.

      Statistical analyses will be performed using SAS for Windows, version 9.2. One-way ANOVA (or
      the Kruskal-Wallis test, as appropriate) will be used to compare duration of TAP block for
      the three groups. Linear regression will also be used to test the relationship between
      duration of block and dexamethasone dose, while controlling for relevant clinical and
      demographic variables.

      One-way ANOVA (or the Kruskal-Wallis test) will be used to compare the groups on
      post-operative pain scores, opioid requirements, and patient satisfaction scores.

      Statistical Power and Sample Size Estimates: Approximately 69 subjects (23 per group) are
      expected to be enrolled in this study. Given this sample size and assuming that the average
      duration of TAP block is 18 hours for the control group, 22 hours for the 2 mg of
      dexamethasone group, and 24 hours for the 4 mg of dexamethasone group, this study will have
      approximately 80.9% power to detect a difference in block duration, assuming a common
      standard deviation of 6 hours. If the variability in block time is smaller than 6 hours, this
      study will have greater power.
    
  