
    
      Chronic hepatitis C (HCV) is a serious chronic condition in the United States affecting
      millions of people and is the cause of rates of hepatocellular carcinoma recently doubling in
      the US. Treatment of hepatitis C is proven to be an effective secondary prevention of liver
      cancer. Current standard antiviral treatments exclude 70-80% of hepatitis C patients from
      therapies due to intolerable side effects. Our laboratory efforts identified a potential
      novel approach to hepatitis C treatment and hepatocellular carcinoma prevention with
      Quercetin, a heat shock protein inhibitor.

      This is a Phase I study evaluating the safety and tolerability of Quercetin in hepatitis C
      patients who have contraindications to standard antiviral treatment (both treatment naïve
      patients who decline standard therapy, patients who previously had standard treatments with
      relapse, as well as those who had intolerable side effects previously). The investigators
      recently demonstrated that the flavonoid Quercetin inhibits hepatitis C viral production in
      tissue culture, at least partially through its inhibition of heat shock protein expression.
      This represents a novel mechanism for treating hepatitis C infection. Quercetin also has low
      toxicity. These promising characteristics motivate the proposed Phase I study. Patients will
      be recruited through the UCLA Pfleger Liver Institute and treated on an outpatient basis.
      Toxicity will be closely monitored and reported. Viral load response will be evaluated as a
      secondary endpoint. The anticipated total number of patients enrolled in the trial will be
      20. All patients will be followed for 8 months after taking this first dose of study
      medication. Patients exhibiting a viral load response will have extended follow-up, ranging
      from a total follow-up of 12-24 months, to determine persistence of this response.
    
  