
    
      Study subjects will be identified from the pool of candidates for SCS therapy affiliated
      with, or referred to, the clinical sites. Subjects will participate in this investigational
      plan that includes entry criteria evaluation, Baseline assessments, trial stimulation phase,
      and post-trial assessment. Subjects with a successful Trial Phase will receive a permanent
      implant of an Implantable Pulse Generator (IPG) and leads, and undergo 12 months of
      stimulation delivery with assessments at 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months Post-Permanent Device
      Activation.

      Subjects who sign the informed consent will undergo evaluations to determine eligibility for
      the study based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Baseline assessments will also
      include measures for pain, disability, functioning, medication use, quality of life,
      depression and sleep.

      Implantation and use of the Senza System will follow the Nevro Physician's Manual and
      supporting Manuals. Subjects will undergo a Trial Phase lasting up to 14 days to determine
      his/her response to SCS therapy. Following the Trial Phase with external device stimulation,
      subjects will be assessed for their pain, and those who have a successful Trial Phase will be
      eligible to proceed to permanent implantation of a SCS system.

      Following permanent device implant, the IPG will be "activated" and thus, stimulation
      delivered on an ongoing basis for 12 months. At 1 month and 9 months following Post-Permanent
      Device Activation, assessments of pain and adverse events will be made. At 3, 6, and 12
      months Post-Permanent Device Activation, subjects will be assessed for pain and adverse
      events as well as disability, functioning, medication use, quality of life, depression and
      sleep. Patient Global Impression of Change, Clinician Global Impression of Change and subject
      satisfaction will be recorded at 3 and 12 months Post-Permanent Device Activation.
    
  