
    
      Rationale: For lung cancer patients that receive thoracic irradiation, cardiac toxicity was
      not considered to play a role, because it was expected to occur many years after treatment.
      However, recently several studies have shown higher death rates for lung cancer patients
      receiving higher cardiac doses, possibly due to cardiac toxicity. Most knowledge on cardiac
      toxicity that is available, is based on patients that receive conventionally fractionated
      radiation treatment, where the heart receives a relatively low dose of radiation. For
      patients that receive stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT), which gives high fraction
      doses, the heart may receive peak doses of radiation, especially for centrally located lung
      tumours. This type of therapy is standard of care for early stage lung cancer patients, with
      very high local control that is similar to surgically treated patients. In order to improve
      the radiation treatment for these early stage lung cancer patients, detailed knowledge on
      cardiac toxicity in these patients is necessary.

      Objective: the investigators aim to optimize the radiation treatment of early stage lung
      cancer patients. To reach that goal, detailed understanding is needed of the type of toxicity
      and the location on the heart of these toxicities for patients who receive high fraction
      doses. These have not been measured in this category of patients before, therefore our
      primary research question is: is it possible to measure changes in cardiac condition 3 or 12
      months after radiotherapy, with respect to cardiac arrhythmias, tissue fibrosis, hemodynamic
      function change and pericarditis? Our secondary research question is: is it possible to
      measure local fibrosis and correlate this to local dose? The third research question is: is
      it possible to measure early cardiac morphology changes during the course of the irradiation?
      Study design: Twenty five patients with early stage lung cancer who are treated with SBRT
      will be enrolled in an observational prospective cohort study and treated following standard
      clinical practice on a cone-beam or MR guided linear accelerator (Linac). Condition of the
      heart will be examined before treatment using ECG, cardiac MRI with added T1- and T2-mapping,
      echocardiography and blood biomarkers. These tests will be repeated 3 and 12 months after
      treatment.

      Study population: 25 patients (stage IA-IIB) with a tumour in close proximity to the heart
      (edge of tumour <3cm from the heart) will be included.

      Intervention (if applicable): not applicable Main study parameters/endpoints: It will be
      investigated 1) if changes in cardiac condition (cardiac arrhythmias, fibrosis, hemodynamic
      function change and pericarditis) can be visualised and quantified. A negative change of more
      than 5% between pre-and post-treatment measurements is considered toxicity. 2) If local
      fibrosis is associated to local dose, 3) if morphology changes are visible during treatment.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: The patient will have 3 sessions with several diagnostic tests: ECGs, cardiac
      MRIs, echocardiography and blood sampling, and will fill out 3 questionnaires. Limited side
      effects of these tests are expected. Cardiac tests will be evaluated by a cardiologist and
      dedicated radiologist and reported to the radiation oncologist who will inform the patient
      and refer to the cardiologist if needed. The burden for these patients will be, next to the
      time spent for the diagnostic tests and travel time; an intravenous blood sampling and
      administration of MRI contrast agent. The additional time spent for diagnostic tests per
      session are: echo (30 min), ECG (5 min), vena puncture (5 min) and MRI (45 min) + time in the
      waiting room. Filling out the 3 questionnaires will take 15 min each. The possible benefit
      for the patient is the extensive cardiac screening. Should a problem come to light, the
      patient will be referred to the cardiologist.

      Results from this patient cohort are directly relatable to all early stage NSCLC who are
      treated with SBRT, and possibly oesophageal cancer patients as well. Should this study show
      that cardiac dose causes cardiac toxicity in this time frame, the aim should be to improve
      treatment for all patients who are comparable. Ergo, patients who receive cardiac dose
      because of their tumour location, and who are generally unfit for surgery because of their
      physical condition (early stage NSCLC patients and oesophageal cancer patients).
    
  