
    
      Severe aplastic anemia (SAA) is a life-threatening bone marrow failure characterized by
      pancytopenia and a hypocellular marrow. Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation is curative in
      younger patients, but older age and/or lack of a suitable donor have limited application of
      this procedure. As an alternative to transplant, immunosuppressive treatment (IST) has
      provided durable remissions and similar long term survival. Approximately 2/3 of patients who
      receive IST with horse anti-thymocyte globulin (h-ATG) and cyclosporine (CsA) have blood
      count recovery, but 25-30% do not respond and 30-40% will relapse. A likely explanation for
      partial recovery and relapse is incomplete elimination of auto-reactive T cells and
      insufficient stem cell reserve.

      Thrombopoietin (TPO) is a key regulator of hematopoietic stem cell renewal and survival. To
      improve the hematologic response rate, our group assessed the addition of eltrombopag (EPAG),
      a synthetic mimetic of TPO, to IST in treatment na(SqrRoot) ve SAA. This combination achieved
      a higher complete response rate to about 50% and an overall response rate to 80%, both
      superior to historic controls. This regimen received FDA approval in November 2018. Combined
      therapy is now being tested in a European randomized study. Furthermore, protocols have been
      developed internationally to determine whether EPAG and CsA, without ATG, are sufficient to
      improve blood counts, in countries where ATG is not available.

      The long-term complications, relapse and clonal evolution, were no worse with the addition of
      EPAG than in our historical cohort, but still remain a problem. Clonal evolution occurs in
      10-15% of patients and is defined as development of myelodysplastic syndrome or acute myeloid
      leukemia with characteristic cytogenetic abnormalities of aneuploidy, especially monosomy 7
      or deletion 7q. There are no predictive tools to identify patients at higher risk for either
      of these two long term events.

      Because SAA is a rare disease, treatment has been recommended to take place at a specialized
      center. However, delays in reaching such centers and initiating therapy are common. From
      current understanding of the disease, immune destruction of cells is ongoing during this
      period, likely impacting on both short and long term outcomes. We propose early initiation of
      lower dose CsA (2mg/kg/day) and EPAG to decrease ongoing immune destruction and stimulate
      HSPC while awaiting full work up and transfer to the Clinical Center (CC).

      The aim of this study is to test feasibility and safety of initiating oral therapy before
      arriving to the NIH, based on diagnostic tests performed by local physicians and
      interpretation from experts here. Treatment will be initiated remotely but under complete
      guidance and supervision of the research team at the Hematology Branch. All patients except
      the ones who achieve complete response will receive standard three drug regimen upon
      completion of work up here at the CC. Primary endpoint of the study will be to assess
      feasibility and safety as a composite measure of misdiagnosis, noncompliance with the regimen
      or failure to establish care at the Clinical Center within 8 weeks of initiating treatment,
      and TRSAE (treatment related serious adverse events). Initial treatment period of 8 weeks may
      be extended in special circumstances. Secondary endpoints are response rates at landmark time
      points, relapse, overall survival, and clonal evolution.
    
  