
    
      The overriding purpose of this study is to develop and test an intervention for reducing
      substance use and risky sexual behaviors among youth involved in juvenile drug court.
      Juvenile drug court provides an excellent setting in which to pursue the key study objectives
      by providing access to a well identified high risk population. Second, in addition to
      frequent judicial oversight, juvenile drug courts include several features that can enhance
      intervention effectiveness, sustainability, and potential for adoption. In addition, the fact
      that all juvenile drug courts have community-based treatment components and that such courts
      have been disseminated nationwide suggests the possibility of eventual widespread adoption if
      the proposed intervention is effective. The proposed intervention integrates evidence-based
      protocols for contingency management (CM) for substance abusing youth and family engagement
      strategies, with an evidence-informed family systems intervention for sexual risk originally
      developed to address substance use and sexual risk behaviors in HIV+ youth. These three
      interventions will be integrated into an efficient intervention that, if effective, can be
      amenable to adoption by juvenile drug courts. Following protocol development and beta
      testing, 160 drug court youth and their families will be randomized to the experimental
      intervention condition (Risk Reduction Therapy for Adolescents or "RRTA") versus Drug Court
      with Community Services (DC) conditions. Key outcomes will be assessed through 18-months
      post-baseline using a multi-method approach that will include assessment of substance use,
      risky sexual behaviors, criminal behavior, and participation in HIV counseling and testing
      services. Specific aims include: 1: Adapt existing intervention and training protocols into a
      single, efficient RRTA intervention, beta test this RRTA protocol with four youth in juvenile
      drug court and their families, and revise treatment and research protocols accordingly; 2:
      Conduct a randomized trial with 160 youth in juvenile drug court and their families to
      examine youth-level intervention effects (i.e., on substance use, sexual risk behavior, HIV
      counseling and testing, delinquent behavior) in comparison to DC through 18- months post
      referral and assess intervention fidelity. 3. If results suggest a positive RRTA treatment
      effect, revise the intervention and training protocols in preparation for an effectiveness
      study and extended follow-up study. Importantly, the proposed study will (1) consider the
      multiple levels of influence on juvenile drug use, criminal justice involvement, and HIV risk
      behaviors, (2) integrate a drug abuse and HIV prevention intervention for youth in the
      criminal justice system with drug-related offenses, (3) address health disparities by
      targeting a primarily minority population of youth, and (4) increase referrals to HIV testing
      and counseling of drug court-involved youth. This study is designed to reduce HIV risk by
      addressing the potent interaction of drug use and risky sexual behaviors in drug court youth
      with evidence-based treatment components to maximize the likelihood of reversing these
      youths' adverse behavioral trajectories.
    
  