
    
      Despite recent scientific advances in prevention of mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT),
      substantial donor investment, and national commitments to PMTCT program roll-out, pediatric
      HIV/AIDS remains a largely uncontrolled epidemic. Unless some intervention is undertaken,
      more than half of children who become HIV-infected will die by their second birthday. Yet in
      sub-Saharan Africa, the majority of infected children die without ever having confirmation of
      their HIV status, having never had the chance to begin life-saving antiretroviral therapy
      (ART). Recognizing the need to provide children with greater access to care, the World Health
      Organization (WHO) has advised countries that at least 10% of patients receiving ART should
      be children. However, most programs fall well short of this target.

      Unlike diagnosis in adults, definitive diagnosis of HIV in children less than 18 months of
      age requires virologic testing. Maternal IgG antibodies cross the placenta into the fetal
      circulation through pregnancy and are also secreted in breast milk. As infants may retain
      these maternal antibodies for up to 18 months after birth, conventional HIV antibody tests
      are of limited use in determining positive infection status. Instead it is necessary to
      directly identify HIV infection using a virologic method, typically polymerase chain reaction
      (PCR) testing to detect viral DNA or RNA.

      PCR testing is expensive and, in most developing countries, available only through specialty
      laboratories. Because PCR testing is more complex than other common HIV laboratory assays
      (e.g. CD4+ cell counting), it requires technicians with considerably more training and
      technical skill, involves longer sample preparation time, and can be considerably more costly
      than other diagnostic tests. Thus, most countries with large populations of HIV-infected
      children have extremely limited capacity to carry out PCR testing. Even where PCR is
      available, pediatric HIV diagnosis may remain difficult in breastfeeding populations because
      infants are at continued risk of infection until breastfeeding is completely stopped. A
      negative PCR test during breastfeeding does not guarantee that the infant will remain
      uninfected. The alternative - serial testing for HIV infection - would result in an
      exponential increase in cost.

      Indeed, a convincing argument can be made that rather than monitoring HIV-exposed
      breastfeeding children for HIV infection, it may be more appropriate to simply monitor for
      treatment eligibility, followed by a definitive antibody test at 15-18 months or a few months
      after breastfeeding has stopped. Those children who meet criteria for treatment could be
      commenced on ART; those who do not would continue to undergo periodic screening until they
      were weaned and old enough to have a final (definitive) antibody test. For HIV-exposed
      infants without access to HIV PCR testing - the vast majority in Africa - development of such
      an algorithm would have the obvious benefit of providing reliable evaluation for treatment
      eligibility in the first 18 months of life. Even in settings where HIV PCR testing is
      available - but may be limited - the introduction of such algorithms could reduce the volume
      of HIV PCR tests required at a programmatic level, and thus lead to substantial cost-savings.

      The overall goal of this protocol is to develop and evaluate a set of non-virologic
      diagnostic algorithms that can be used to monitor HIV-exposed children of unknown infection
      status for treatment eligibility during the first 12 weeks of life, with validation of our
      model among HIV-exposed children up to 12 months of age. We will evaluate the performance of
      different algorithms in two separate but common scenarios in Africa: (1) where infant PCR
      testing is not available, and (2) where infant PCR may be available, but poorly accessible
      due to cost and resource considerations. Although DNA PCR testing has become available in
      Zambia, only three sites currently provide this type of testing and capacity may be limited
      for country-wide screening. Our study was designed to determine HIV infection and
      antiretroviral therapy (ART) eligibility using more commonly used "non-virologic" tests, such
      as CD4, CD8, HIV antibody, total lymphocyte count, hemoglobin, and clinical staging. Previous
      studies have demonstrated that these indicators by themselves do not perform well in the
      absence of DNA PCR testing. In this exploratory study, we hypothesize that combinations of
      these tests - in formalized algorithms - can yield high performance and be used in rural
      settings where reliable DNA PCR services are not yet available or remain limited.
    
  