
    
      The outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID 19) caused by severe acute respiratory
      syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection was first reported in Wuhan, China, in 31
      December 2019 and was declared as a global health emergency on 30 January 2020. Currently,
      there are no definitive vaccine, therapeutic antibody, or antiviral drug countermeasures
      currently authorized by the FDA for prevention or treatment of mild to moderate COVID-19
      disease.

      Famotidine is a histamine-2 receptor antagonist, widely available over-the-counter and at low
      cost, does not interact with other medications and is safely used for suppression of gastric
      acid production. This makes it a candidate medication for an ambulatory setting to alleviate
      the symptoms and shorten the symptomatic period in this population. In a case series of 10
      patients with COVID-19 who self-medicated with oral famotidine, significant improvement of
      symptoms was associated with famotidine use after 24-48 hours. These effects were noted in
      patients who mostly took doses of 80mg three times daily suggesting that famotidine's action
      is either through its main known high affinity target, the histamine type 2 receptor or
      through combined inhibition of histamine receptors. Famotidine may work through reduction of
      H2R signaling on monocytes with a resulting reduction of cytokine release.

      The working hypothesis is that famotidine will be superior to placebo in reducing disease
      related symptoms in non-hospitalized COVID-19 patients with mild or moderate disease.
      Patients will be monitored for the duration of the study, as well as be asked to record the
      severity of their symptoms through a daily questionnaire. Current standard of care (SOC) for
      patients with mild to moderate COVID-19 in the outpatient setting is to assess risk for
      severe disease and determine the need for an in-person visit, thromboprophylaxis and
      adjustment of home medication regimen. If the SOC for COVID-19 patients in the outpatient
      setting changes during the course of the study, a request will be submitted to modify
      sections of the protocol.
    
  