
    
      BACKGROUND Cardiac troponins are sensitive markers for myocardial injury in ACS and even a
      minor elevation of cardiac troponins is associated with an increased risk for future adverse
      coronary events. However, a detectable troponin release occurs only in a part of patients
      admitted with ACS. The clinical outcomes and further prognosis of patients with ACS with
      absent TnT release vary widely, and the identification of potential high-risk patients with
      troponin negative ACS still remains a major problem in clinical routine. Therefore, the aim
      of this study is focused on identifying new biomarkers for risk stratification.

      Omega- 3 Index: The value of the Omega-3 Index as a prognostic marker in the acute coronary
      syndromes is still under investigation.

      Vitamin D deficiency is positively correlated with cardiovascular risk and N-3
      polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA's) may reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease. Vitamin D
      can either be ingested, or created in the skin on exposure to sun, whereas PUFA's are largely
      incorporated through the diet. Vitamin D deficiency in humans is increasing and its levels
      are influenced by the color of the skin, geographical location, latitude, altitude, season
      and daytime.

      In addition to Vitamin D, several studies have shown that, N-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids
      (PUFA's), also have a positive impact on the cardiovascular system. PUFA's are not
      sufficiently synthesized in the body and are incorporated through the diet. These essential
      fatty acids are found almost exclusively in oily fish, and have been shown to have a positive
      impact on several cardiovascular risk factors.

      Fish, a source of both Vitamin D and omega-3, is frequently consumed by the costal population
      of Norway, and is less preferred by the inland beef-consuming population in Northern
      Argentina. The subtropical location and altitude of Salta, Argentina, is associated with a
      higher exposure to sun in comparison to the temperate location of Norway. The uptake of
      Vitamin D in the costal population of Norway may essentially be through the diet, whereas sun
      exposure may be the essential source of Vitamin D in the Northern Argentinean population.

      By investigating the correlation between omega-3 and Vitamin D, we may better understand the
      nutritional impact on Vitamin D and its correlation with n-3 PUFA's.

      B-type natriuretic peptide: B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) is a counter-regulatory peptide
      hormone predominantly synthesized in the ventricular myocardium. BNP is released into the
      circulation in response to ventricular dilatation and pressure overload, and reflects
      ventricular wall stress and tissue hypoxia rather than cell injury per se. It is a well known
      marker of left ventricular dysfunction and heart failure (HF), and it provides prognostic
      information beyond and above left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) in patients with an
      acute coronary syndrome (ACS). This marker of neurohormonal activation and inflammation plays
      a pivotal role across the spectrum of ACS, including patients with ST-elevation myocardial
      infarction (MI) and non ST-elevation ACS (NSTE-ACS). Previous studies have demonstrated that
      BNP measured in the first days after the onset of symptoms independently predicts mortality,
      HF, and new MI in this patient population. Elevated natriuretic peptides at presentation have
      been shown to identify patients with ACS who are at higher risk of death and HF, and it adds
      information to that provided by the troponins. However, in a low-risk population the
      association between elevated BNP and survival is attenuated when adjustment is made for
      echocardiographic variables (in addition to clinical covariates), as shown by Wang and
      colleagues. In addition, they did not find any association between baseline BNP and the risk
      of coronary heart disease (CHD).

      High-sensitive C-reactive protein (hsCRP): C-reactive protein (CRP) is an acute-phase
      reactant that is produced in response to acute injury, infection or other inflammation
      stimuli. It is a marker for underlying systemic inflammation and plays an important role in
      the initiation and propagation of atherosclerosis and ultimately to plaque rupture and the
      ensuing thrombotic complication. Elevated levels of CRP were first reported in patients
      hospitalized with NSTE-ACS in the early 1990s. Through the use of appropriate high-sensitive
      assays, it has been possible to investigate the relationship between plasma CRP levels that
      previously were considered to be normal and cardiovascular disease (CVD). Nevertheless, it is
      still under debate which markers should be preferred for risk prediction. It has been
      suggested that the combined evaluation of BNP and CRP may yield incremental prognostic
      information in the risk stratification of patients with ACS, and their combined use has been
      shown to improve long-term risk prediction of mortality in patients with stable CHD. To our
      knowledge, there are limited data available that directly compare these two markers in a
      prospective manner in an unselected patient population presenting to the emergency department
      (ED) with chest pain. In addition, their role in risk stratification in patients with ACS is
      still under evaluation, and therefore additional investigations are necessary.

      STUDY DESIGN This prospective regional multicenter observational non-invasive trial includes
      982 men and women admitted with chest pain and potential ACS at nine hopitals in Salta,
      Argentina between November 2005 and November 2008. Blood samples were collected immediately
      following admission. Patients were stratified according to peak troponin T (TnT) release
      following admission; i.e. 1) patients with an admission TnT exceeding 0.01 ng/mL, and 2)
      patients with a TnT level below 0.01 ng/mL.

      Assessment of a history of previous MI, angina pectoris (AP), congestive heart failure (CHF),
      diabetes mellitus and arterial hypertension was based on hospital records and personal
      interview. Electrocardiographic findings at admission were classified according to the
      presence of ST segment changes.

      Written informed consent was obtained from all patients. Survival status, date and cause of
      death and clinical data were obtained by telephone interview and hospital journal reports at
      4 predefined time points (30 days, 6, 12 and 24 months) during the two year follow-up period.
      In case of incapacity to provide information, the general practitioner or nursery home were
      contacted for relevant data. Hospital journals were searched for confirmation of reported
      data.

      DATA OWNERSHIP AND PUBLICATION OF RESULTS. The ARRA-RACS Steering Committee has the ownership
      of all data registered in the ARRA-RACS database, and any use of these data including the
      preparation and publication of scientific reports must be approved by the Steering Committee.
      Scientific articles will be published by ARRA-RACS investigators or by authors mentioned by
      name. The author sequence should be approved by the Steering Committee and based upon
      contribution. Incentives to involve articles as part of a doctoral thesis should be
      encouraged. All collaborators in the study will be mentioned by name in an Appendix section
      of the main article from the study. The results will be published in peer-reviewed scientific
      journals and in magazines for the general public.
    
  