
    
      Background: Prolonged mechanical ventilation (MV> 7 days) is required in less than 10% of
      patients after cardiovascular surgery but it is associated with high morbidity and mortality.

      Several studies conducted in critically ill patients suggested that early percutaneous
      tracheotomy compared with delayed tracheotomy decreases the length of ventilator dependence
      and improves outcome. To date, no randomized trial has tested these possible benefits in
      critically ill patients after cardiac surgery.

      Study objectives: A randomized trial has been designed to determine whether early
      tracheostomy (day 4 after cardiac surgery) in patients still on MV would reduce the number of
      days under MV, measured by the evaluation of ventilator-free days (VFDs). Secondary
      objectives are the reduction of mortality, reduction of ICU and hospital length of stay.
      Evaluation of organ failure evolution, infectious complications, sedation needs, patient
      comfort and outcome at 3 months will be also considered.

      Study hypothesis: The trial will be consider positive if early tracheotomy increases the
      number VFDs of at least 7 days (mean) evaluated on day 60 after randomisation.

      Methods :

      Trial : randomized, open, controlled, monocentric Inclusion criteria: see columns below
      Exclusion criteria: see columns below Randomization: will use a computerised system on day 4
      after cardiac surgery Procedures: see columns below Recorded data: demographic
      characteristics, pre, per and postoperative parameters.

      From randomization until ICU discharge (or day 60), a daily chart will be completed.

      Judgment criteria: see columns below Sample size and statistical analysis: using Wilcoxon
      bilateral test with an alpha risk of 5% and a power of 80%, we calculated that 108 patients
      in each arm would be needed.

      Statistical analyses will use standard tests to compare population of the two arms.
    
  