
    
      1. Specific Aim of the study

           Aim 1: How does maternal behavior change communication (BCC) on healthy eating affect
           knowledge on child feeding, child feeding behavior, and nutritional status of the child?
           o Does BCC lead to changes in knowledge about healthy child-feeding and child-feeding
           behaviors?

           o Does the changes in child-feeding behaviors due to BCC lead to improvements in
           nutritional status among young children measured by height-for-age and
           weight-for-height?

           Aim 2: How do food vouchers affect food consumption and nutritional status?

             -  Do vouchers lead to increased food consumption and dietary diversity?

             -  Do vouchers crowd out private spending on food?

             -  Does the increased food intake due to food vouchers lead to improvements in
                nutritional status among young children measured by height-for-age and
                weight-for-height?

           Aim 3: How does increased accessibility affect food consumption, child-feeding behavior
           and nutritional status?

             -  By sending petty traders of various food items to randomly selected markets with
                limited access to diverse food groups, the investigators hypothesize that increased
                accessibility to diverse food items will lead to increased food consumption and
                dietary diversity.

             -  Is there complementarity between accessibility and BCC or vouchers?

           Aim 4: Is there complementarity between BCC and food voucher? • The investigators will
           test whether there is a complementarity between BCC and food vouchers, as those
           receiving the BCC would make more informed decisions on food consumption.

           Aim 5: Are there peer effects in nutrition education and corresponding behavior change?

           o Within treatment groups: As low food diversity is in part due to eating norms in the
           community, the investigators will test to what extent peer effects within the treatment
           group will play a role in reinforcing nutritional knowledge and in changing household's
           food consumption decisions.

           o Outside the treatment groups (spillovers): The investigators hypothesize that mothers
           receiving BCC will affect eating behaviors of other household members and/or friends.

           Aim 6: How do variations in the prices of healthy food impact demand?

           o The investigators hypothesize that offering lower price options of healthy but
           expensive food such as meat would increase the demand for that food.

           o What are the price elasticity of demand for important food items? What is the maximum
           price households are willing to pay-i.e., the stoppage rule-for healthy food items?

           Aim 7: Is there additional impact of paternal and maternal nutrition BCC sessions on
           complementary feeding practice compared to maternal nutrition BCC sessions alone?

           o There will be greater improvement in complementary feeding practices when fathers are
           engaged in nutrition BCC sessions. Increased fathers' support on purchasing expensive
           but nutritious food items and household labor will facilitate the changes.

           Aim 8: Is there differential impact of voucher transfer on complementary feeding
           practices depending on recipient's gender?

           o The investigators will compare the effect of giving vouchers to fathers with giving
           vouchers to mothers on complementary feeding practices, food consumption of household,
           and health-related outcomes.

        2. Detailed intervention component

           2.1 Maternal behavior change communication

           BCC will be delivered in groups of six through weekly sessions for a duration of 4
           months. Key gaps in knowledge and barriers identified through formative studies are also
           addressed in the BCC modules.

           2.2 Paternal behavior change communication

           Materials will be delivered in groups of 6 through weekly sessions for the duration of 3
           months.

           2.3 Food vouchers

           Food vouchers are transferred monthly at the Project Office in Holeta. Eligible
           participants will receive 200 ETB, estimated around US$10. The length of the voucher
           scheme will be 6 months. Voucher recipient's gender will be randomly selected within
           group 3, 4 and 5 to assess whether there is any differential impact on complementary
           feeding practices depending on the gender of voucher recipients.

           2.4 Access to healthy food

           For a random half of the treated and control groups, petty traders with diverse food
           items to their localities will be sent to increase accessibility. This is taking into
           consideration that some mothers, especially rural residents, have access a limited set
           of food items in the markets that they usually visit, lacking dairy products, meat,
           green leafy vegetables, and diverse fruits. To bridge this accessibility gap, petty
           traders will be sent to some selected markets with dairy products, meat, and various
           fruits and vegetables.

           2.5 Price variation of healthy foods

           The investigators will introduce variation in the prices of healthy foods that are sold
           through petty traders to estimate the impact of price on demand. Price variations will
           take the form of 10%, 20%, or 30% discounts. While price will be varied by each petty
           trader every time, average food prices over the 6-month intervention period will be the
           same among all petty traders.

        3. Quality assurance plan

           o Baseline and follow up data will be collected through mobile-survey to minimize
           errors. Commcare software will be used to build mobile survey. Data collected through
           mobile survey will be checked for errors and missing data on a daily basis.

             -  For some variables, predefined rule will be applied within Commcare software using
                data validation tools as the data are collected to prevent avoidable errors.

             -  Principle investigator and co-investigators will take turn and monitor the field
                site during data collection stage (both baseline and follow up) and during early
                intervention stage to ensure data quality.

             -  Baseline survey data will be compared to demographic and health survey data to
                assess the accuracy, completeness and representativeness of the data. However, for
                most variables, there are no external data sources to compare.

             -  Data dictionary not relevant

             -  For variable with missing data above 5%, the variable won't be used as control
                variables. For main outcome of interest, data will be checked for errors and
                missing data on a daily basis. The investigators will revisit the study participant
                to minimize missing data.

        4. Standard Operating Procedures to address registry operations and analysis activities

           4.1 Patient recruitment

           The selection of the households that will be eligible to receive interventions will take
           place using the census data of Holeta and Ejere that was collected in 2016. To minimize
           potential contamination, control and treatment groups will be randomized at garee
           (village) level. Upon consent to participate in the study, mothers living in same garee
           will form a group to receive BCC education for mothers, and eligible spouse/partner of
           the participating mother will be recruited to form a group separately from mother to
           receive BCC for fathers.

           4.2 Consent process

           Women will be recruited from home visits by AFF's enumerators assigned to this study.
           Women will be approached by an AFF's enumerator from the study to see if they are
           interested in participating. All women in their reproductive age (18-40) will be
           informed about the details of the survey and asked to participate in the survey with the
           consent form. Enumerators will read all out the consent form before asking for
           signature. If they accept, enumerators will conduct the baseline survey, which consists
           of demographic and socioeconomic information.

           4.3 Survey data collection

           When eligible participants are identified, AFF enumerators will meet the participants at
           the health posts.

           4.4 Sample size assessment

           Minimum detectable difference for the cluster-randomized controlled trial was
           calculated. Intra-cluster coefficient was calculated using 2011 DHS data for HAZ, WHZ
           and child dietary diversity score (DDS). Minimum detectable difference was estimated
           with statistical significance of 0.05 and power of 0.8. Six mother-child pair per
           cluster was decided on the study area's estimates of birth rates, 50 numbers of clusters
           available for each arm. 10% attrition was assumed. Details of power calculation for main
           outcomes of interest are shown below.

           Detectable difference

           • DDS: 0.30 (Mean 1.5, SD 1.05, ICC 0.10)

             -  HAZ: 0.51 (Mean -1.56, SD 1.75, ICC 0.12)

             -  WHZ: 0.42 (Mean -0.80, SD 1.44, ICC 0.11)

           4.5 Statistical analysis

           • Estimation of treatment effects

           In this section, the investigators outline the basic estimation approach to measuring
           the effect of the treatments on various outcomes. Our basic treatment effects
           specification estimates the following equation:

           y= β₀ + β₁BCC + β₂Voucher+ β₃BCC&Voucher+ β₄X+ ε where y is the outcome of interest.
           BCC, Voucher, and BCC&Voucher are dummy variables equal to 1 if the participant was
           randomly assigned to the BCC, voucher group, or the BCC and voucher villages,
           respectively, and 0 otherwise. β₁, β₂ and β₃ represent the effect of being assigned to
           the specific treatment arm. X is a vector of individual's characteristics including
           demographic variables (e.g., age, marital status, birth order, and household size) and
           socioeconomic status (e.g., level of education, employment status/history, and household
           income and asset). ε is an error term. The outcome variable, y, include mother's
           nutritional knowledge score, household food and non-food expenditures, child's dietary
           diversity score and FCS, and child's height-for-age (HAZ) and weight-for-height Z scores
           (WHZ).

           To assess the gender-related impacts of engaging fathers in the BCC program, the
           investigators estimate the following equation:

           y= β₀ + β₁MotherBCC+ β₂BothBCC+ β₃MotherBCC&Voucher+ β₄BothBCC&Voucher+ β₅X+ ε where
           MotherBCC, BothBCC, MotherBCC&Voucher and BothBCC&Voucher are dummy variables equal to 1
           if the household was randomly assigned to the mother BCC, mother and father BCC, mother
           BCC and voucher, or mother and father BCC and voucher villages, respectively, and 0
           otherwise. β₁, β₂, β₃ and β₄ represent the treatment effects.

           To assess the differential impacts of randomly giving vouchers to mothers or fathers, a
           dummy variable representing the sex of the voucher recipient will be interacted with the
           voucher treatment assignment variable. Further, the investigators will implement the
           same analysis with a restricted sample by excluding BCC only villages.

           The investigators also have random variation in the accessibility to certain food items
           in the markets, as a random half of the participants are provided access to additional
           goods in the markets. To analyse the effect of increased accessibility on household
           expenditures and nutritional outcomes, the investigators estimate the following
           equation:

           y =α₀+α₁Access+α₂X+α₃P+ ε Where Access is a dummy variable equal to 1 if petty traders
           are randomly assigned to markets in village provide lacking food items such as meat,
           dairy products, and fruits and vegetables. P is a vector of food prices in village.

           Finally, the investigators use network data to estimate whether the treatment also
           influenced the outcomes of peers of the participants. The extent of such peer effects or
           information spillovers can be estimated with the following specification:

           y =α₀+α₁Peer+α₂X+ ε Where y is the outcome of interest for individual i with child less
           than four months of age or in pregnancy at the time of baseline survey. Peer is a dummy
           variable equal to 1 if respondent has a peer in cluster who is assigned to BCC or BCC
           and voucher treatment group.
    
  