
    
      Study Design The methodological approach includes a 3-arm trial of MB-College (i.e.,
      standard-dose vs. low-dose) vs. enhanced usual care waitlist control, with n=100 per arm

      All research assessments will take place digitally using Qualtrics, LLC (Provo, UT, USA)
      survey management tool. Participants will be sent secure links via email that can be accessed
      with their participant identification number. The MBC classes will be offered online via Zoom
      by a trained and certified MBC instructor.

      Baseline assessment links will be sent to all enrolled participants and completed within four
      weeks of the start of the interventions. A single follow-up survey, "the three month follow
      up" will occur at least one day after and up to five weeks after the end of the intervention
      (i.e. the Week 8 class). Staff will prioritize having participants complete the surveys
      within the first three weeks of the assessment window, but will allow for participants to
      complete up to five weeks after. Additionally, the study will accept online survey completed
      outside the official follow up window if needed.

      The total length of involvement for study participants will be around 3-4 months from the
      time of enrollment to the time of the final research assessment. The study interventions last
      9 weeks and take place in the first two months for individuals in the standard-dose and
      low-dose intervention arms.

      Participant Recruitment:

      Participants will be recruited to participate in MBC primarily online using the following
      methods: (a) electronic distribution of the MBC advertisement cards via social media, such as
      Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, etc.; (b) emails sent to student listservs and through academic
      social networks;.(c) word of mouth through graduates of the MBC program and university staff
      interested in supporting the study; and (d) online information sessions offered by course
      instructor prior to the start of class.

      Inclusion of women and minority groups - efforts will be made to recruit both women and
      minority students by intentionally advertising for the study in locations where said
      populations congregate/have a presence. Randomized groups will attempt to be balanced on
      gender, race-ethnicity, and level of education.

      Screening Process Online Screening: Those who express interest in the study will complete an
      online screening assessment and availability form. Those who screen eligible based on the
      anonymous online screening (part 1 of 2) will be given the informed consent form online to
      read over and complete followed by an availability and contact form (part 2 of 2).

      Informed Consent Informed consent will be administered and collected using digital forms
      through Qualtrics, LLC (Provo, UT, USA) from interested students who have screened eligible
      based on the anonymous online screener (part 1 or 2). The digital signature and informed
      consent document will be kept on file in a secure locations separate from participant data.

      Randomization Process Participants will be randomly assigned to one of three groups: (1) the
      standard-dose MBC group; (2) the low-dose MBC group; or (3) the health education control
      group. A covariate adaptive randomization process will be used, balancing groups based on
      gender, race-ethnicity, and level of education.

      Assessment Overview:

      The following participant assessments will be administered to study participants:

        1. Baseline Assessments -online baseline assessment will be completed within the four weeks
           leading up to the start of the online interventions.

        2. 3-Month Follow Up Assessments - following the end of the nine-week interventions,
           participants will complete online follow up assessments similar to the assessments given
           at baseline.

      Measures Descriptions:

        1. Demographics: age, race/ethnicity, socioeconomic status, education, sexual orientation
           and gender orientation, student status, and employment.

        2. Childhood socioeconomic status: retrospective reporting of parents' education, based on
           standardized questionnaires used in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC)
           study.

        3. Treatment expectancy: 6-item Credibility/ Expectancy questionnaire.

        4. Depressive symptomatology: Assessed using Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression
           Scale Revised (CESD-R). The CESD survey has been used extensively in the epidemiologic
           literature to assess depressive symptomatology. The scale was updated to the CESD-R by
           Van Dam et al., which allows diagnosable criteria similar to Diagnostic and Statistical
           Manual (DSM) of Mental Disorders.

        5. Anxiety: Assessed using the validated Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7-item (GAD-7) scale.

        6. Adverse Childhood Experiences: Measured using the standardized Childhood Trauma
           Questionnaire (CTQ) and the Childhood Experiences of Care and Abuse Inventory neglect
           subscale.

        7. Medication use: Assessed directly from participants' medication bottles and self-report
           using standardized forms, including medication name, dose, frequency of use, and reason
           of use.

        8. Substance use: questions taken from the National College Health Assessment II.

        9. Alcohol consumption: additional self-report standardized questions assessing current
           alcohol consumption taken from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance Survey (BRFSS).8

       10. Physical Activity: Self-report physical activity is assessed using the International
           Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ).

       11. Fruit and Vegetable Consumption: self-report standardized questions assessing current
           fruit and vegetable consumption taken from Harvard Food Frequency Questionnaire modified
           to 3-items.

       12. Sleep: Sleep quality and duration is assessed using the validated Pittsburgh Sleep
           Quality Index (PSQI).

       13. Mindfulness: Assessed using the validated Five Facet Mindfulness Questionnaire Short
           Form 15-items.

       14. Perceived stress: Assessed using the validated 14-item Perceived Stress Scale.

       15. Interoceptive awareness: Assessed using the validated Multidimensional Assessment of
           Interoceptive Awareness (MAIA-2).

       16. Loneliness: Assessed using the validated R-UCLA Loneliness Scale.

       17. Global Health: individual physical, mental and social health are measured using the
           validated NIH PROMIS Global Health v1.2 scale and PROMIS-29+2.

       18. Mindfulness attendance and practice questions will be administered to intervention group
           participants at the time of the 3 month follow up to get at mindfulness exposure and
           dose.

       19. Ecological Momentary Assessment-Stress: assessed using 3-item scale developed by
           Creswell et al 2019.

      Withdrawal during intervention Some amount of dropout during the study is anticipated, and
      therefore investigators may decide to over enroll in the waitlist group to account for this
      expected issue. If a participant in the intervention group decides to withdraw from the study
      during the MB-College course, they will be invited to still take part in the follow up
      assessments.

      Confidentiality Randomly generated participant identification numbers will be assigned to
      students who consent to data collection. All questionnaires and tasks will be completed under
      the assigned participant identification numbers. Consent forms and personal identifiable
      information will be kept separate and securely away from participant identification numbers
      in a secure digital file on closed network servers.

      Blinding All study staff will be blinded to the participant treatment allocation with the
      exception of the instructor and staff member coordinating participants within each course.
      All staff monitoring participant assessments and survey completion will be blinded to the
      participant treatment allocation to promote equipoise. Data analyses will be performed by a
      statistician blinded to treatment allocation type. The data manager will be able to break
      blinding if needed for safety. Circumstances for breaking the blind would be a large number
      of adverse experiences (>10% of enrolled participants reporting AEs rated as severe or life
      threatening) taking place in one or more study group.

      Acceptability Assessed via acceptability ratings using the validated Client Satisfaction
      Questionnaire (Cronbach's alpha=0.93), class attendance rates (proportion of eligible
      participants who complete MB-College, missing no more than 3 classes) and the Net Promoter
      Score.

      Feasibility Assessed via (a) participant recruitment rates, (b) participant retention rates,
      and (c) treatment fidelity assessments, via delivery of treatment per protocol (assessed via
      percent adherence of instructors to curriculum guide module), receipt of treatment (assessed
      by class attendance), and enactment of treatment skills (assessed by home practice
      completion, mindfulness levels).

      Ecological Momentary Assessments:

      A 3-item customized measure of stress will be administered using time contingent ecological
      momentary assessments. SMS will be administered using Qualtrics SMS service sent to
      participants' personal phones. The numbers will be loaded into Qualtrics de-identified using
      participant ID numbers. The SMS messaging will be 1 way with participants completing the
      survey through a mobile link. The survey will be sent at baseline and follow-up assessments
      every day for 1 week 4 times per day between 10:00 am and 11:00 pm. The survey as well as
      assessment schedule were tested in a randomized controlled trials (n=153) and the researchers
      who conducted the study advised on the implementation for this pilot study.

      Fidelity Monitoring:

      Intervention fidelity will be ensured by (1) rigorous, program specific training for the
      instructor with feedback, (2) recording of all sessions with a 10% quality audit reviewed
      with instructor after each cohort, (3) monitoring participant attendance, home practice of
      treatment skills, and understanding of skills, and (4) a comprehensive mixed methods approach
      (e.g. daily practice logs) for understanding of treatment enactment.

      Follow-up visits Follow-up surveys will be digitally distributed and completed within the
      pre-defined assessment windows previously outlined. Questionnaires and assessments
      administered at 3-months follow-up are identical to those administered at baseline with the
      exception that questionnaires for which the answers should not change or be informative (age,
      race/ethnicity, education, childhood socioeconomic status) are not given at follow-ups. In
      addition, adverse events are monitored and documented at each of the follow-up periods as
      well as throughout the duration of an individual's study involvement.
    
  