
    
      Purpose: The purpose of this study is to document the efficacy of sertraline (Zoloft) in the
      treatment of depression (major depressive disorder) after TBI, including the impact on
      quality of life. Researchers will also explore the effects of sertraline on anxiety
      disorders, which often accompany post-TBI depression.

      Background: Major depression is experienced by many more people after TBI than prior to
      injury and more often than in people without a brain injury. Many studies have also shown
      that this higher than 'normal' incidence looms for many years post TBI. Major depression is
      associated with a variety of negative outcomes, including poorer functioning in basic
      activities, reduced employment, elevated divorce rate, reduced social and recreational
      activity and increased sexual dysfunction.

      Need for Research: Of the current drug treatments for major depression, sertraline and
      similar drugs (known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or selective serotonin
      reuptake inhibitor (SSRIs)) have few side effects in people who have experienced a brain
      injury and have been shown to be effective in people with no known brain injury. However,
      information on the impact of SSRIs on post-TBI depression, based on randomized, double-blind
      studies, is unavailable.

      Current Research Activity: Approximately 50 men and women volunteers who are post TBI and
      currently diagnosed with major depressive disorder are being randomly assigned to a 12-week
      period of taking Zoloft or a placebo. Over the period of study, participants will have the
      severity of their depressive symptoms assessed (as well as their symptoms of anxiety); a
      simple measure of the volunteer's perceived quality of life will be implemented prior to the
      study and at its termination. It is hypothesized that sertraline will reduce the symptoms of
      depression and anxiety and will increase the person's perceived quality of life to a
      significantly greater extent than will the placebo.
    
  