
    
      Scientific context :

      In France, cervical cancer screening is based on a cervical smear every three years for women
      aged 25 to 30 years, and on a High-Risk HPV (HR-HPV) detection test every five years for
      women aged 30 to 65 years. One of the main concerns in France is poor attendance to this
      screening program. Among non-attendee women, older women (> 50 years old) and women of
      unfavourable socio-economic conditions are the most represented groups. This observation led
      French Health Authorities to implement population-based organized cervical cancer screening
      (DO CCU) starting in 2019. The Departments of Hérault and Aude are among those in Occitanie
      region (south of France) with the lowest participation to cervical cancer screening. In 2017,
      a group composed of academics, health professionals, the Regional Center for Cancer Screening
      in Occitanie and the Association for Breast Cancer Screening in Montpellier-Hérault organized
      a preliminary study based on a self-questionnaire showing high acceptability of vaginal
      self-sampling by women aged 25 to 65 years, particularly for women older than 50 years.

      The aim of this interventional research is to increase women's participation to cervical
      cancer screening and to identify psycho-social determinants associated with screening
      observance. For this purpose, the integrative model of change (Attitude Social Influence
      Self-efficacy Mode - ASE model) from Vries et al. (2013) seems an interesting model to better
      understand behavioural changes regarding participation to cervical cancer screening using the
      proposed strategy.

      Research hypothesis:

      The project is a proximity-incentive strategy complementary to DO CCU based on direct
      proposal by a trained mid-wife of a vaginal self-sample device for HR-HPV testing to
      non-attendee women while attending health care centers. Our hypothesis is that contacting
      under-screened women directly and proposing them a self-sample device to be used at home
      along with information on cervical cancer, will increase their participation to cervical
      cancer screening. Secondary hypotheses are that 1) motivational determinants of ASE and
      contextual opportunities are associated with the realization of vaginal self-sampling 2) and
      that vaginal self-sampling is an efficient strategy for cervical cancer screening (i.e.
      number of self-sampling performed and sent to the laboratory, and number of follow-up for
      women with a positive HR-HPV DNA test among women who accepted the self-sample device).

      Intervention description:

      Women aged 50 to 65 years with no cervical smear or no gynecological examination for more
      than three years will be recruited in two sites: in a mobile unit for breast cancer screening
      implemented in the whole Department of Hérault and in a Medical and Social Care located in a
      particularly deprived area of Aude (Limoux-Quillan). Non attendee-women will be proposed a
      vaginal self-sample device (Evalyn® brush) to perform at home and send back by mail to the
      laboratory of the Hospital of Montpellier, which will perform HR-HPV testing using the Cobas
      4800 HPV DNA detection test. Women with positive HR-HPV DNA test will be asked to perfom a
      cervical smear and completion of follow-up will be monitored.

      During recruitment, women will complete a questionnaire with the help of a midwife on their
      socio-economic environment, motivational determinants and on their willingness to perform the
      vaginal self-sample. These data will be analyzed according to their participation to the
      proposed screening strategy. In addition, semi-directive interviews will be conducted in a
      sub-group of women (45 women for each site) to identify the barriers and levers of screening
      participation.

      The number of women to be recruited (i.e. non-attendee women aged 50 to 65 years, who
      accepted the vaginal self-sample device among those to whom it has been proposed) is 300 for
      each site.

      The total estimated duration of the project is 48 months, based on 12 months for preparation
      of the questionnaires, study subject approvals package and staff recruitment and training, 24
      months for women's recruitment, 12 months for follow-up of women with positive HR-HPV DNA
      test, for data analysis and final report.

      Expected Health public impact are (a) an increase in participation to cervical cancer
      screening of women aged 50 to 65 years in the Departments of Hérault and Aude (b) the
      development of a proximity-incentive strategy to increase cervical cancer screening within
      vulnerable populations and populations with limited access to health care in those
      Departments (c) the identification of psycho social determinants involved in cervical cancer
      screening attendance (i.e. motivational factors, self-efficacy) (d) the construction of a
      regional network of professionals involved in cervical cancer screening, including health
      professionals, field teams, committee-based associations and researchers (e) the development
      of hypotheses and models for future transferability of this intervention to other Departments
      of the Occitanie Region as a complement of the national DO CCU program.
    
  