
    
      This investigation is a multicenter trial involving severely burned patients. The design will
      be a 1:1 randomized control study comparing the rehabilitation intervention described below
      to current standard care in severely burned patients. This study will take place in multiple
      U.S. burn centers and involve adult (18 years and older) burn patient with ≥15% total body
      surface area (TBSA) burn who will undergo a skin graft procedure. The local burn surgeon will
      direct all medical and surgical treatment. The treating physician will make all clinical
      decisions regarding the patient.

      Study Groups

      Standard therapy (ST) group

      Patients in the ST group will receive routine burn therapy care with no specific prescription
      of activities or frequency/duration of therapy. Burn therapy will begin when the patient has
      been medically cleared by the treating physician to begin burn therapy and when the patient
      undergoes surgery, therapy will halt and resume as is typical for the participating site. All
      burn therapy procedures will be according to what is customary and typical for the burn
      center. Standard therapy practices will be documented with a pre-study interview with
      clinicians at each participating site. Standard burn therapy typically includes interventions
      such as range of motion, positioning, splinting, exercise, mobilization and pressure therapy.
      The amount of time and types of ST interventions will be documented at the end of each
      session daily. Any missed or interrupted treatment time will also be documented. Post
      discharge home program will include what would normally be included at discharge.

      Active therapy (STAT) intervention group

      Patients randomized to receive STAT therapy will receive an intensive, quantifiable,
      activity-based protocol emphasizing four of the most active components of therapy:
      mobilization, strength training, aerobic training and functional training. The STAT protocol
      guidelines are described below. As with the ST group, STAT therapy will begin when the
      patient has been medically cleared by the treating physician to begin burn therapy. STAT will
      not be provided for any given therapy session that the patient demonstrates any of the
      contraindicated safety parameters defined in Table 2. When the patient undergoes surgery, the
      STAT protocol will be held for the day of surgery and will resume post-operative day #1
      whenever possible. The STAT protocol will be implemented 30-45 minutes per day, 5 days/ per
      week when possible throughout the patient's care from admission until the patient is
      discharged from acute care with a target treatment minimum of 150 minutes per week. Over the
      course of a week, all four activities in the STAT protocol should be implemented when
      possible. Multiple activities can be addressed within one session or single activities over
      multiple days.
    
  