
    
      Objectives. We completed a single-site pilot project to develop and evaluate Progressive
      Tinnitus Management (PTM). PTM takes into account the fact that most Veterans who complain of
      tinnitus do not require extensive intervention. The method thus is "progressive" in that a
      hierarchical approach is used to provide clinical services only to the degree needed by
      individual patients. Preliminary analyses of our pilot data provide evidence that PTM is an
      effective and efficient means of providing tinnitus management services to Veterans.
      Importantly, The Veterans Affairs (VA) Audiology and Speech Pathology Program Office has
      identified PTM as a standardized method of tinnitus management for use at all VA medical
      centers. It is essential to more definitively evaluate PTM for routine application at VA
      medical centers. Accordingly, the specific aim of this study was to conduct a randomized
      clinical trial at multiple VA medical centers to evaluate the effectiveness and clinical
      utility of PTM as compared to Wait List Control.

      Plan. The 3-year study was based at the VA National Center for Rehabilitative Auditory
      Research (NCRAR), and PTM was implemented and evaluated in a randomized clinical trial at the
      Memphis VA Medical Center and at the VA Connecticut Healthcare System (West Haven). During
      months 0-6: (a) All clinical materials for conducting PTM were modified (especially with the
      addition of Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy - CBT); (b) training materials were developed (the
      web-based PTM training program for VA audiologists was updated; PTM training will be
      developed for VA psychologists); (c) by random selection, five audiologists (two in Memphis,
      three in West Haven) were identified to conduct PTM and five (two in Memphis, three in West
      Haven) were identified to conduct usual care; (d) the five PTM audiologists (the West Haven
      study psychologist developed the training). By month 7, the randomized clinical trial was
      implemented at the two VA sites and continued through year 3.

      Methods. Prior to conducting the clinical trial, PTM was modified to incorporate critical
      components of CBT at all levels of intervention so as to address the psychological effects of
      tinnitus. Qualifying Veteran subjects (n=150 at each site) were randomized into either PTM or
      Wait List Control. Self-perceived tinnitus handicap was evaluated pre- and post-intervention
      for each subject using the Tinnitus Handicap Inventory. The five audiologists and two
      psychologists who participate in this study were interviewed to determine their level of
      satisfaction with the PTM protocol to which they are assigned. Evaluation of the program will
      determine its efficacy, and will identify areas of needed improvement.

      Relevance to VA's Mission. Although tinnitus is the second most common service-connected
      disability, most VA medical centers do not provide comprehensive clinical services for
      Veterans suffering from tinnitus. This study extends our current work, which has focused on
      the development of a comprehensive tinnitus management protocol that can be implemented
      efficiently in VA hospitals. Further development of PTM has the potential of providing needed
      tinnitus services to Veterans across the country for a relatively small cost and with minimal
      impact on individual VA hospitals.
    
  