
    
      This study will allow the investigators to evaluate the efficacy of an adaptive stimulation
      paradigm in deep brain stimulation (DBS) to treat motor-related behaviours and motor skill
      learning in Parkinson's disease (PD). Parkinson's disease patients will be implanted
      unilaterally or bilaterally with a totally internalized bidirectional neural interface,
      Medtronic Summit RC+S.

      While current DBS therapy improves motor symptoms of PD, it does not address problems with
      acquiring additional motor skills (i.e. adapting gait patterns to avoid falls)) in PD,
      therefore, limiting benefits of physical rehabilitation programs aimed at improving mobility.
      Motor skill learning is critical in acquiring any new behaviors related to motor function.
      The overall objective is to identify personalized electrophysiological signatures of motor
      skill learning in PD patients and use adaptive control algorithms to enhance these
      signatures. The study will discover new ways to rehabilitate the disease brain circuits using
      adaptive neuromodulation.

      In a small, double-blinded trial, ten patients with idiopathic PD and motor fluctuations will
      be implanted with unilateral or bilateral RC+S devices, each connected to a standard
      quadripolar DBS lead implanted in the basal ganglia, along with a 4-contact paddle type
      electrode placed subdurally over the motor cortex. The investigators will compare the overall
      efficacy of closed-loop and open-loop paradigms in terms of behavioral performance
      improvements in validated motor skill learning tasks and measurements from wearable devices.
      During this chronic adaptive DBS phase, adaptive DBS and open-loop stimulation settings will
      be randomized for 30-day periods and motor skill and gait related measurements will be
      obtained from a combination of computerized motor tasks and wearable devices that track
      movement kinematics. Patients will participate in daily, if possible, motor learning and gait
      tasks at home with triggered stimulation settings and recordings.

      The investigators expect to successfully develop a prototype adaptive DBS algorithm based on
      cortical and / or basal ganglia LFPs (local field potentials). The investigators hypothesize
      that an adaptive paradigm will provide improvements in motor skilled learning compared to the
      conventional, open-loop paradigm, in which stimulation parameters remain constant until
      changed by the patient or clinician using an external programmer.
    
  