
    
      Selection of Vaccination age group

      -It is well acknowledged that preadolescent or adolescent girls before their sexual debut
      will benefit the most from HPV vaccination. According to our previous study conducted in year
      2007, the median age of sexual debut in Xinjiang was 17 years old (95% CI: 14-21). Data on
      the age of sexual debut in the other two identified regions is not available and we made an
      approximate estimation according to our data previously collected from other parts of
      China.From these data, we don't see an obvious time trend of sexual debut age from other
      parts of China and the majority of girls became sexually active after 15 years old. We thus
      suggest coverage of 13-15 years old girls for HPV vaccination in our identified regions.

      Goal of this Program

      -The purpose of this program is to implement and evaluate what it takes to establish and
      operate a public health program on cervical cancer prevention by vaccination and early
      detection treatment program in resource restricted selected autonomous regions of China. The
      learnings on how to implement such projects and the costing of the interventions and program
      will be useful for national policy planners and regional authorities when they consider
      future health priorities and allocation of resources.

      Objectives

      The objectives of the pilot program are to:

        1. Develop a communication and education program on cervical cancer for families in the
           target area and try to deliver the message of 'Vaccinate the daughters and screen the
           mothers' to curb cervical cancer.

        2. Develop a China specific model for cervical cancer prevention through HPV vaccination
           and HPV DNA test ( careHPV).

        3. Capacitate the health facilities in the selected counties in each region to conduct HPV
           vaccination, screen for cervical cancer and treat precancerous lesions and cervical
           cancer.

        4. Develop a referral system for advanced cases of cervical cancer that cannot be treated
           at lower level facilities

        5. Develop training guidelines and supportive management systems for all levels of the
           health care system and cost all interventions for policy purposes.
    
  