
    
      Social anxiety (SA) disorder is a relatively widespread emotional disorder which is
      associated with considerable impairment in social, educational, and occupational functioning
      (Kessler et al., 2005). This condition is characterized by a debilitating preoccupation with
      the evaluation of the self by others, ultimately leading to excessive fear and avoidance of
      interpersonal encounters. As opposed to healthy individuals who typically process social
      feedback in a positively biased manner, Individuals with high levels of SA tend to evaluate
      the feedback conveyed by others negatively. Such biases have a profound contribution to the
      maintenance of social-related concerns (Clark & Wells, 1995).

      Thus, the overreaching goal of this research is to provide a neuropsychological account of
      biased processing of social feedback evident in SA. To meet this goal, participants varying
      in their level of SA are asked to deliver a speech and evaluate it before and after receiving
      social feedback during an fMRI scan. Additional structural and resting-state fMRI scans, as
      well as physiological and psychological measures, are obtained throughout the experiment in
      order to explain individual differences in processing of feedback. fMRI tasks probing basic
      neuropsychological processes include a self-referential paradigm, wherein participants judge
      if different traits varying in valence and social domain (power vs. affiliation) are
      descriptive of them; a reward vs. punishment task, in which participants can win or lose
      money; and an emotional reactivity task, in which participants view faces with different
      emotional expressions.

      The long-term goal of this study is to better delineate both neurobiological and
      psychological models of SA, as well as to help in directing future neuromodulation-based
      treatments of mood and anxiety disorders.
    
  