
    
      Lower limb amputation (LLA) resulting from trauma or non-traumatic causes is a life altering
      and often debilitating event that negatively affects many aspects of a person's life, such as
      their ability to move around the home and community, their physical and mental health.
      Persons with lower-limb amputation face challenges with activities of daily living and have
      noted psychosocial issues stemming from poor body image as well as issues of chronic pain
      from phantom limb syndrome. Further, mortality rates are known to be extremely high,
      estimated at ~25% at 30 days post amputation and nearly 50% by one year. As the number of LLA
      continues to rise, this will ultimately lead to an increased demand for services and
      subsequent greater financial impact to the healthcare system. There are several factors that
      influence outcomes post-amputation but walking with a prosthesis has been noted to be a
      central factor influencing quality of life. For instance, greater participation in social
      experiences is positively associated with mobility outcomes, such as walking distance.

      The increasing number of adults requiring care post-amputation is reflected by the large
      volume of amputee patients receiving care at Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre's St. John's
      Rehab (SJR) campus and Sunnybrook's Centre for Independent Living (SCIL). SJR is a tertiary
      rehabilitation centre with a dedicated in-patient and out-patient amputee care program, and
      SCIL provides amputee care and prosthetic service at Sunnybrook's Bayview campus. The
      increased number of LLA creates a high demand for prosthetists as they need to meet with each
      patient several times to fit them. Due to staffing constraints, there are often delays in
      prosthetic fitting. With current technologies, it takes one to two weeks from the time
      Sunnybrook patients are cast and measured until they are fit with their prosthesis. This
      delay leads to increased rehab length of stay, cost and decreased rehab efficiency.

      While a number of companies and individuals are beginning to explore the use of 3Dprinting
      for mobility prosthetics, few of them have clinical experience beyond a few cases. There are,
      however, three groups working actively in this space. Vorum Inc., TechMed3D, and Standard
      Cyborg. All of these are software companies, which are building scanning and design solutions
      for use in prosthetics. None offers a full single site solution that also includes the
      printing of definitive devices. Nia Technologies (http://niatech.org/), the technology
      partner on this project, has developed a full software/hardware tool-chain for prosthetics
      and has carried out clinical trials at four hospital sites in three developing world
      countries with pediatric transtibial amputees. For instance, in 2016-2017, Nia worked with
      clinical partners in Cambodia, Tanzania, and Uganda to study the efficacy and value of 3D
      PrintAbility to orthopaedic workshops, clinicians, and patients in low-resource countries.
      The innovation is that the use of Nia technologies enables a 3D model of the residual limb,
      thereby eliminating the need to use plaster casting and other time consuming processes to
      manufacture and fit the device. As a result, this technology has the potential to cut time
      from the assessment to fitting from about 5 days to less than 1.5 days for a prosthetic leg.
      Preliminary results indicate that the resulting devices were as effective and well-tolerated
      by patients as traditionally manufactured prostheses. In addition, the use of 3D printing can
      build on the skills and expertise of physicians and prosthetists since it allows them to
      minimize time on manual production and maximize time on decisions about device design, fit,
      and patient care. The innovation being developed in this project leverages Nia's existing
      work, but focuses it on a specific in-need patient base, namely transtibial amputee rehab
      adult patients in developed world rehabilitation clinics. This clinical context and patient
      base is different from the developing world sites where this tool-chain was previously
      tested. Successful implementation requires adaptation of Nia's tool-chain to support the
      workflow of clinical staff in adult rehab contexts including physiatrists, physical
      therapists, and prosthetists.

      Patients with a unilateral transtibial amputation (N=20) that are currently in-or
      out-patients at Sunnybrook - St. John's Rehab (SJR) will be recruited to participate in the
      evaluation aspect of this quality improvement project. Participants who agree to participate
      in the quality improvement initiative will be asked by the clinical member within their
      circle of care to ask if they would be willing to participate in the evaluation aspect
      collecting data on patient outcomes. Once the participant agrees to be contacted by the
      research coordinator, they will be given an overview of the study and undergo the informed
      consent process (Appendix A). The participants will be given one day to provide their consent
      since the fitting process for a prosthetic starts early in the rehabilitation process. Once
      consent is received, the participants will receive a 3D printed prosthetic to wear. They will
      then rate their satisfaction and comfort. Data regarding time and associated cost differences
      will also be collected.
    
  