
    
      Methodology:

      Design:

      Prospective, randomized study used to detect early incidence of HCC in patients taking
      Sofosbuvir and Daclatasvir to treat HCV.

      Patients will be recruited from the National Hepatology and Tropical Medicine Research
      Institute (NHTMRI)

      Duration of study:

      24 weeks from starting the DAAs

      Methods:

      Patients will go through examination and lab. Workup three times in this study:

        -  FIRST time:

             -  Before starting antiviral therapy, all included patients will undergo through
                physical examination, lab workup including HCV-RNA quantitative, fasting plasma
                glucose or HbA1C if diabetic, serum creatinine, CBC, AST, ALT, prothrombin
                Concentration or INR, total bilirubin, serum albumin, Pregnancy test ( Ladies in
                child bearing period), AFP as a marker of HCC.

             -  Included patients will also undergo through diagnostic procedures as Abdominal
                ultrasonography and ECG (men >40, women>50).

        -  Second time:

             -  At the end of antiviral therapy (12 weeks), virological response to therapy will be
                assessed by quantitative HCV RNA detection, using PCR.

             -  Patients will lab workup including , fasting plasma glucose or HbA1C if diabetic,
                serum creatinine, CBC, AST, ALT, prothrombin Concentration or INR, total bilirubin,
                serum albumin, AFP as a marker of HCC.

             -  The abdominal ultrasonography will be repeated any suspected focal lesion of the
                liver will be evaluated with triphasic CT scan or MRI to assess the occurrence or
                the recurrence of HCC.

        -  Third and last time:

             -  At 24 weeks ( Patients will be off treatment for the previous 12 weeks) ,
                virological response to therapy will be assessed by quantitative HCV RNA detection,
                using PCR.

             -  Patients will lab workup including, fasting plasma glucose or HbA1C if diabetic,
                serum creatinine, CBC, AST, ALT, prothrombin Concentration or INR, total bilirubin,
                serum albumin, AFP as a marker of HCC.

             -  The abdominal ultrasonography will be repeated any suspected focal lesion of the
                liver will be evaluated with triphasic CT scan or MRI to assess the occurrence or
                the recurrence of HCC.
    
  