
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare overall survival of patients with selected stage IIIB or stage IV non-small cell
           lung cancer treated with concurrent vs sequential paclitaxel, carboplatin, and
           cetuximab.

      Secondary

        -  Compare response rates (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial) in patients
           treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Correlate epidermal growth factor receptor polymorphisms and downstream biomarkers with
           response to cetuximab in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      arms.

        -  Arm I (concurrent cetuximab): Patients receive cetuximab IV over 1 hour (over 2 hours on
           day 1 of course 1 only) on days 1, 8, and 15 and paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and
           carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for a total of
           4 courses (12 weeks) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
           Beginning on week 13, patients receive single-agent cetuximab IV over 1 hour once weekly
           in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II (sequential cetuximab): Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and
           carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for a total of
           4 courses (12 weeks) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
           Beginning on week 13, patients receive single-agent cetuximab IV over 1 hour (over 2
           hours on week 13 only) once weekly in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 180 patients (90 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 9 months.
    
  