
    
      Objective 1: Using established study data from our previous study (Multimodality imaging
      Assessment of Pacing InTervention in Heart Failure Heart Failure or MAPIT HF) define
      characteristics of the "optimal myocardial target" that maximally yields clinical response to
      CRT.

      Objective 2: Using established MAPIT-HF study data identify whether alternate coronary venous
      pathways to "optimal myocardial targets" exists in clinical non-responders.

      Objective 3: Evaluate the feasibility of guiding the delivery of CRT leads to "optimal
      myocardial targets" through the use of an interactive, 3D "integrated cardiac model" of
      coronary vein anatomy, myocardial scar and mechanical dyssynchrony.

      Currently there is no standard definition for response to CRT. Of importance is that measures
      of clinical response appear to be incongruent with echocardiographic parameters of reverse
      remodeling following CRT. The primary endpoint of clinical response will be an improvement in
      Left ventricular end systolic volume (LVESV) by ≥ 15% at 3 months following CRT, as validated
      in prior studies. Secondary clinical endpoints will also be evaluated; 1) Improvement in
      ejection fraction ≥ 5 percentage points, 2) Improvement in 6-minute hall walk ≥ 30 meters or
      ≥ 10%, 3) Improvement in NYHA (New York Heart Association) functional class by 1, or Specific
      Activity Score by 1, and 4) Improvement in Quality of Life (Minnesota Living with Heart
      Failure) by 10 points.

      Our hypothesis is that a single 3D dataset can be developed from multiple MRI datasets for
      the simultaneous display of coronary venous anatomy, myocardial scar, and mechanical
      dyssynchrony, the latter being derived from tagged MRI data. The investigators hypothesize
      that the availability of this 3D model during fluoroscopic CRT lead placement will result in
      improved rates of lead tip delivery to "optimal myocardial targets" and improved clinical
      response. Our specific hypotheses of Project 2 are as follows;

        1. The generation of an integrated cardiac model of venous anatomy, myocardial scar and
           dyssynchrony is feasible using multiple MRI-derived datasets.

        2. The availability of this interactive 3D cardiac model during fluoroscopic CRT lead
           delivery will increase the occurrence of CRT lead tips being delivered to "optimal
           myocardial segments" when compared to historic control data within the MAPIT-HF study
           cohort.
    
  