
    
      Stroke is one of the largest public health challenges worldwide. Its societal impact is
      expected to further increase in the coming decades due to the aging of population.
      Importantly, stroke is a heterogeneous disease comprising various subtypes with distinct
      mechanisms. The variability of individual risks demands that more specifically targeted and
      better personalised approaches are developed to tailor stroke prevention for particular
      stroke types and individual patients.

      Intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH) is a particularly severe type of stroke affecting 10-15% of
      all stroke patients. Importantly, ICH carries even higher mortality and more severe
      disability than other stroke types. While mechanisms of ICH and ischaemic stroke are
      distinct, many risk factors are shared and patients are often at increased risk of both
      ischaemic stroke and ICH.

      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is also a growing epidemic in aging populations and a major cause of
      ischaemic stroke due to thrombus formation in the heart migrating to and occluding
      intracerebral arteries. At least 20% of ICH survivors also suffer from AF and are, thus, at
      particularly high risk of ischaemic stroke. While ischaemic stroke in AF patients in general
      can be much more effectively prevented with oral anticoagulation than with antiplatelet
      agents (APA) concerns about ICH recurrence in ICH survivors are a major barrier for
      anticoagulation. The best approach to stroke prevention in ICH patients with AF is presently
      unknown. Current clinical guidelines, which are largely based on retrospective observational
      studies investigating anticoagulation with vitamin K antagonists (VKA), either recommend
      considering anticoagulation only in patients with non-lobar location of ICH or, in the
      absence of evidence from randomised controlled trials, refrain from making any
      recommendations at all. Anticoagulation with direct oral anticoagulants (DOAC) has proven
      efficacy and safety for stroke prevention in AF. DOACs may be a better alternative to VKA
      particularly in ICH patients because DOACs were associated with a 50% lower risk of ICH than
      VKA in previous clinical trials of stroke prevention in AF. However, patients with previous
      ICH were excluded from these trials.

      Although thousands of ICH survivors with AF every year worldwide need effective prevention of
      another stroke, the best antithrombotic therapy for these patients is currently unknown.
      PRESTIGE-AF will be the first sufficiently powered randomised controlled trial aiming to
      resolve the dilemma of stroke prevention in this challenging high-risk patient population.
      Specifically, it will answer the question whether DOAC with their well-documented lower risk
      of intracranial haemorrhagic complications, compared to VKA, provide both a more effective
      and an equally safe option for stroke prevention in patients with ICH and AF compared to no
      anticoagulant. Findings of the Study are expected to change management guidelines and future
      prevention research for ICH survivors with AF.

      PREvention of STroke in Intracerebral haemorrhaGE survivors (PRESTIGE-AF) will test whether
      preventive therapy with DOACs (intervention group) reduce the rate of ischaemic stroke
      (superiority) compared to no anticoagulation (control group) without unacceptably increasing
      the risk of recurrent ICH (non-inferiority) in patients with AF and a previous ICH within 6
      months before enrolment.

      The Research Question is:

      Does preventive therapy with Direct Oral Anticoagulants (intervention group) reduce the rate
      of ischaemic stroke (superiority) compared to no anticoagulation (control group) without
      unacceptably increasing the risk of recurrent Intracerebral haemorrhage (non-inferiority) in
      patients with atrial fibrillation and a previous intracerebral haemorrhage within 6 months
      before enrolment.

      The Objectives of the study are:

      The main objective is to perform a randomised controlled trial to resolve the long-standing
      management dilemma of antithrombotic stroke prevention in intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH)
      survivors with comorbid atrial fibrillation (AF). Specifically, it will address the question
      whether direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs, intervention) provide a more effective option for
      prevention of ischaemic stroke and an equally safe option in terms of recurrence of ICH for
      antithrombotic stroke prevention in survivors of recent ICH compared to no anticoagulation
      (i.e. no antithrombotic therapy or antiplatelet therapy at Principal Investigator´s
      discretion).

      The secondary Study objectives are:

        -  To examine the effect of anticoagulation with DOAC versus no anticoagulation on major
           cardiovascular outcomes and mortality in ICH patient with AF

        -  To compare the effect of DOACs versus no anticoagulation on major systemic and
           intracranial bleeding in this Study population

        -  To examine the effect of DOACs versus no anticoagulation on net clinical benefit in ICH
           patients with AF

      The exploratory objectives are:

      • To explore the impact of DOAC vs. no anticoagulation on quality of life, cognition and
      psychological morbidity in patients with ICH and AF over time Study Design: PRESTIGE-AF is a
      phase 3b investigator-led, multicentre, parallel group, prospective randomised, open, blinded
      end-point assessment (PROBE) clinical trial comparing DOACs (interventional arm) against no
      anticoagulation (control arm) in patients with a recent ICH and comorbid AF.

      Randomisation will occur in a 1:1 ratio. Participants will be stratified according to two
      factors: lobar and non-lobar location of ICH and sex. Choice and dose of DOAC treatment as
      well as the use of concomitant medication during the study treatment will be at the Principal
      Investigator´s discretion within the spectrum of licensed doses labelled for stroke
      prevention in AF patients in Europe following the Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC).
      The control group will receive no anticoagulant but the use of an antiplatelet agent is at
      the Principal Investigator´s discretion who will use their clinical judgment to initiate (or
      not) an antiplatelet drug of their choice.

      Baseline assessment will include capturing Participant's demographics, clinical
      characteristics, vital signs, medical history, and concomitant diseases as well as
      documentation of AF (previous history or newly detected). Results of routine diagnostic tests
      before Study enrolment will be also collected using an electronic case report form. The
      routine brain imaging data performed after the ICH and before Study enrolment will also be
      collected at baseline.

      After randomisation, Participants will be followed-up in person at various time points (1, 6,
      12, 24, 36 months) for up to 3 years. At each visit, outcome events and adverse events will
      be captured.
    
  