
    
      This study consists of a community-based and hospital-based components. The community-based
      study is a prospective two-arm cluster randomized controlled trial and will be implemented in
      16 clusters of 1000 people located in the most central neighborhood (called "mohalla") of a
      Union Council. Minimum required sample size is 7120 in each group, which requires 890
      subjects in each of the 16 clusters. Calculations are based on achieving 80% power to detect
      a difference between the group proportions of 20% from the baseline.

      For the hospital component, four major hospitals will be randomized to receive operations and
      clinical capacity building on management of heat emergencies. The hospital sample size is
      limited by the availability of hospitals and their uneven distribution which are not linked
      to union councils in the district.

      The primary outcome in the investigators' study is the frequency of emergency admissions to
      the hospital with all-cause mortality as a secondary outcome.

      A community-based and hospital-based protocols and training materials will be developed and
      will serve as the intervention in this study. These will focus on education about recognizing
      the signs of symptoms of heat-related illness and proper response and treatment based on
      local resources.

      Data collection will be done at baselines and post-intervention. In the community data on
      demographics and household characteristics will be collected. Additionally, data on deaths in
      households will be collected. Changes in knowledge, attitudes, and practices will be measured
      using a Knowledge, Attitudes, and Practices (KAP) survey pre- and post-intervention.

      In the hospital, data collection will focus on emergency department admissions, visits,
      mortality, and heat index. Changes in physician knowledge will be measures with a KAP survey
      pre- and post-intervention.
    
  