
    
      IBS has a worldwide prevalence around 11% and is characterized by chronic or recurrent
      abdominal pain associated with altered bowel habits. Abnormalities within the brain-gut axis,
      visceral hypersensitivity, and dysfunction of the autonomic nervous system are important
      components contributing to the pathophysiology of IBS. Despite recent advances in medical
      therapies for IBS, a significant subgroup of patients fails to experience satisfactory relief
      of abdominal pain. Given evidence of anti-inflammatory and anti-nociceptive components of
      vagal nerve pathways, peripheral field stimulation of the vagus nerve may help reduce
      abdominal pain in patients with IBS.

      Percutaneous electrical nerve field stimulation (PENFS) administered via the IB-Stim device
      (Innovative Health Solutions, Versailles, IN, USA) has been shown to be efficacious in
      adolescent patients with abdominal-pain-related functional GI disorders, including IBS. This
      device uses discontinuous frequencies of stimulation to target central pain pathways through
      branches of cranial nerves V, VII, IX, and X that innervate the external ear and project to
      certain brainstem nuclei, including the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS). The NTS then acts
      as a relay station to other brain areas involved in pain modulation and autonomic control,
      including the rostral ventral medulla, locus coeruleus, hypothalamus, and amygdala. In
      adolescent studies, PENFS was associated with a greater reduction in worst abdominal pain and
      composite abdominal pain scores from baseline as well as compared with a sham device after
      three weeks of treatment. These effects were sustained over an extended follow-up period with
      minimal to no side effects. In addition, a greater proportion of adolescents in the PENFS arm
      achieved at least a 30% reduction in worst abdominal pain scores from baseline after 3 weeks
      of treatment.

      The IB-Stim is the first device to be approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for
      the treatment of functional abdominal pain in adolescents aged 11-18 with IBS. However, the
      efficacy of PENFS in adults with IBS is not currently known. This study is a double-blind,
      randomized, sham-controlled pilot study evaluating the efficacy of PENFS using IB-Stim for
      the treatment of IBS symptoms in adult patients with IBS.
    
  