
    
      Hypochondriasis is one of the most difficult psychiatric disorders to treat. People with
      hypochondriasis believe that real or imagined physical symptoms are signs of serious
      illnesses, despite medical reassurance and other evidence to the contrary. Symptoms of the
      disorder include a preoccupation with fear of an illness; a persistent fear of having a
      serious illness, despite medical reassurance; and misinterpretation of symptoms. Some
      individuals with hypochondriasis recognize that their fear of having a serious illness may be
      excessive, unreasonable, or unfounded. Episodes of hypochondriasis usually last from months
      to years, with equally long periods of remission. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) and the
      antidepressant drug fluoxetine (FLX) have both been shown to be effective treatments for
      hypochondriasis. However, the relative efficacy of a combined approach has yet to be
      determined. This study will compare the effectiveness of cognitive behavioral therapy,
      antidepressant medication, and a combination of the two for treating hypochondriasis.

      Participants in this double-blind study will first report to the study site for two sessions
      to determine eligibility for participation. Eligible individuals will then be randomly
      assigned to receive one of the following four treatments for 12 weeks: CBT only; FLX only;
      CBT plus FLX; or a placebo pill. All participants receiving medication will also receive
      supportive therapy. Treatment response will be assessed at Week 12, and participants who have
      shown improvement will continue in the study for an additional 12 weeks. Participants who
      have not responded to treatment will be removed from the study and will receive open
      treatment. Participants assigned to receive medication or placebo will take medication once
      daily for the full 24 weeks. Participants assigned to CBT only or CBT plus FLX will receive
      CBT weekly for the first 8 weeks, then biweekly until Week 12, and then monthly until week
      24. Outcomes will be assessed at study visits at Weeks 6, 12, 24, and 48, and over the phone
      at Week 36.
    
  