
    
      The goal of this K01 application is to develop and pilot test an individually tailored,
      pre-visit health communication intervention targeting HPV-VH parents. The partnering clinic
      is Meharry Medical College Pediatric Group (MMC Pediatrics), a safety-net clinic serving
      primarily publicly-insured and uninsured patients. The study has three specific aims.

      Aim 1. To develop a tailored, health communication intervention targeting HPV-VH parents
      prior to clinic visits. The tailored intervention will be delivered to VH parents via mobile
      phones. Investigators will draft initial content based on the Theory of Reasoned Action and
      Health Belief Model, previous VH research,14 and preliminary data. Then semi-structured
      interviews will be conducted with 25-30 VH parents who previously declined the HPV vaccine
      and 10 physicians to elicit feedback on draft content. Qualitative data will be collected and
      analyzed iteratively, informing successive modifications to the intervention to cover a range
      of potential concerns for VH parents, enhance message relevance, and refine the intervention
      delivery process. Next, investigators will work with MMC Pediatrics to develop and refine the
      study protocol. Investigators will pre-test and get feedback on the protocol from 16 VH
      parents and 3 physicians to maximize acceptance and feasibility.

      Aim 2. Conduct a pilot study of the intervention and study protocol to demonstrate
      feasibility for the future full-scale randomized control trial (RCT). Based on Aim 1,
      investigators will conduct a small, pilot RCT with 70 VH parents with scheduled clinic
      visits. Feasibility indicators are recruitment rates, retention rates, and ability to
      ascertain patients' post-visit HPV vaccine status in the clinical record. VHealth software
      will be used to extract information from the EHR to identify potentially eligible patients
      with a previous HPV vaccine refusal and to determine the whether an HPV vaccine dose was
      received during the scheduled visit.

      Aim 3. Examine acceptability of the intervention and protocol among parents and providers.
      Parents participating in the pilot study will complete a post-visit survey to measure
      acceptability of the intervention and protocol, provider trust/rapport, and satisfaction with
      provider-patient communication. In addition, investigators will conduct semi-structured
      debriefing interviews with a subset of 20-30 parents and 3 providers to gather qualitative
      data about their experiences (e.g., unforeseen problems and barriers) and their perceptions
      of acceptability of the intervention and protocol (e.g., ease of use, content, graphics). The
      findings will be used identify needs for any additional modifications to the intervention and
      protocol prior to the RCT.
    
  