
    
      Patients with MRSaB have primary therapeutic failure rates of 40-50% and high mortality rate
      of 10-50% when treated with the recommended standard antimicrobial therapy. (Sharp) local
      data for MRSaB for 2014 shows an all-cause mortality rate of 29%. Recent studies have been
      published that utilize the predictive biomarker, IL-10, aiding the understanding for the wide
      variability in mortality. Further studies are needed to elucidate the clinical relevance of
      utilizing IL-10 levels to optimize MRSaB management and whether or not patient outcomes are
      enhanced.

      Under current standard treatment strategies, vancomycin 15 mg/kg IVPB every 12 hrs following
      a 30 mg/kg IVPB loading dose is the first line of antibiotic therapy initiated with known or
      suspected MRSaB. Only when patients have showed an unsatisfactory clinical response such as
      prolonged bacteremia and/or continued clinical signs of uncontrolled infection are more
      potent/aggressive and more expensive antibiotic choices considered in most cases. Even the
      time for consideration of such a switch is a matter of controversy, with current MRSA
      treatment guidelines recommending a switch after 7-days of failure.

      Several recent studies have shown that an elevated IL-10 level is an independent risk factor
      of mortality. In animal models, it has been shown that the bacterial cell wall of
      Staphylococcus aureus stimulates the production of IL-10. A small study by Rose et al. showed
      that this observation is consistent in humans. In another study, the authors concluded that
      elevated IL-10 at the time of presentation is a predictive value of mortality in patients
      with MRSaB4. In addition, the authors concluded that IL-10 may serve as a biomarker for very
      early risk stratification, with selection of standard therapy for low-risk patients and more
      potent, expensive, and cumbersome antibiotic therapies reserved for the high-risk patients.
      Furthermore, it is postulated that treating high risk patients with aggressive/intensified
      therapy earlier may improve economic and microbiological outcomes, such as a decreased length
      of treatment, decreased time in the Intensive Care Unit, decreased length of stay in the
      hospital, and decreased duration of bacteremia.

      The aim in this study is to compare the outcomes for patients with elevated IL-10 levels (≥ 8
      pg/mL) when treated with standard antibiotic therapy versus early aggressive therapy for the
      treatment of MRSaB. Aggressive therapy is defined in study to be daptomycin (6-8mg/kg/day)
      with ceftaroline (600 mg q8hr).
    
  