
    
      A detailed description about the procedure of this clinical trial will be available on an
      open access study protocol document or paper upon request.

      Some more details about therapists, supervision during treatment phase, implementation
      checking and research team, is offered below.

      Participating therapists were chosen based on a rigorous criterion focused on excellence in
      the adherence to the EFT model. There therapists also had to meet the following
      prerequisites: (1) Meet all legal requirements necessary to practice therapy in the country
      and region in which the therapist is located (licensure, insurance, etc.); (2) Have a video
      recording device; (3) Have completed the Externship, Core Skills and at least 10 hours of EFT
      supervision by the 1st of June, 2019; (4) Have experience applying the EFT model in couples
      therapy; and (5) be a licensed therapist or actively participating in case supervision.
      Additionally, candidates for participating therapists must send a video of at least 20
      minutes of a session of actual couples therapy recorded in the last three months, to the
      principal investigator (MR-G) with their application. The couple in the recording was asked
      for their consent to have this video be reviewed by two supervisors who are participating in
      the study. Each video was shared through a secure channel with Martiño Rodríguez, who then
      sent said video to two EFT certified therapists and/or supervisors from a list of six
      therapists provided by Samuel Jinich, PhD and Certified EFT Trainer. Each evaluator submitted
      their evaluation independently to the principle investigator. In the event that a discrepancy
      arose, a third evaluation was sought from a separate evaluator. In some cases, a second video
      was requested to resolve doubts regarding a candidate's suitability. A total of 26 therapists
      sent in an application to participate, of those 11 applications were considered insufficient,
      and 15 met the requirements of the evaluation. This application and evaluation process took
      place between January and September, 2019.

      All sessions will be videotaped and/or audio-taped for supervision and research purposes.

      Supervision of the therapy process will be offered biweekly, in an individual meeting (one
      therapist, one supervisor) of one hour. Participating supervisors are required to speak
      Spanish and to certified as a supervisor by the International Center for Excellence in
      Emotionally Focused Therapy; Ottawa, Canada (ICEEFT), or to be certified by ICEEFT as a
      therapist and actively be in the process of becoming an ICEEFT certified supervisor.

      In order to ensure the therapists in this study are implementing EFT faithfully, two
      different procedures will be carried out. First, during the supervision meetings with
      participating therapists, the supervisor will review video recording segments of therapy to
      determine if EFT is being conducted with adherence to the model. Second, once the study ends,
      two independent raters will be asked to rate at least 5 sessions of each therapist's taped
      sessions to ensure that at least 80% of the therapists' interventions can be coded as
      adherent to the model.

      The research team, with their relevant experience, includes the following individuals:
      Martiño Rodriguez-Gonzalez, Ph.D. (Principal Investigator, Certified Couple Therapist in
      Spain and Researcher at the Institute for Culture and Society (ICS), Universidad de Navarra,
      Spain), Shayne Anderson, Ph.D., (Co-Principal investigator; Associate Professor at the
      Brigham Young University (BYU), USA, and Psychotherapist at the BYU Comprehensive Clinic,
      USA), Marie-France Lafontaine, Ph.D., (Director of the Couple Research Laboratory, Full
      Professor at the University of Ottawa and a certified psychologist in Ontario and Quebec,
      Canada), Paul Greenman, Ph.D. (Full Professor and Chair of the Department of Psychoeducation
      and Psychology at the Université du Québec en Outaouais, and a certified psychologist in
      Ontario and Québec, Canada), Alfonso Osorio, Ph.D. (Associate Professor at the School of
      Education and Psychology and researcher at the Institute for Culture and Society, ICS,
      Universidad de Navarra, Spain), Jonathan Sandberg, Ph.D. (Full Professor School of Family
      Life at the Brigham Young University, USA), Jokin de Irala, PhD. (Associate Professor at the
      School of Medicine and Principal Investigator of the Research group "Educación de la
      afectividad y de la sexualidad humana" (EASH) at the Institute for Culture and Society, ICS,
      Universidad de Navarra, Spain), Patrick Steffen, Ph.D. (Full Professor in the Psychology
      Department at the Brigham Young University, USA), María Calatrava, Ph.D. (Researcher at the
      Institute for Culture and Society, ICS, Universidad de Navarra, Spain), Maria del Pilar
      Martínez, PhD. (Full Professor at the School of Social sciences, Department of Psychology,
      Universidad Pontificia Comillas, Madrid, Spain).
    
  