
    
      Adverse childhood events, including physical and sexual abuse, can cause significant distress
      for those affected, during both childhood and adulthood. Childhood abuse appears to increase
      the risk of a number of negative outcomes later in life, including psychiatric disorders,
      substance abuse, and HIV and sexually transmitted infections. Previous research has
      consistently found an association between childhood sexual abuse and greater rates of adult
      sexual risk behavior. However, improved understanding of how childhood sexual abuse relates
      to adult sexual risk behavior is needed. The Information-Motivation-Behavioral Skills and
      Traumagenic Dynamics models are theories used to investigate determinants of sexual behavior
      and effects of childhood abuse. Using these models to examine the relationship between
      childhood sexual abuse and adult sexual risk behavior may help in creating effective sexual
      risk reduction interventions for women abused during childhood. This study will evaluate
      whether childhood experiences are related to current sexual behavior of adult women. The
      study will also evaluate which theory, the Information-Motivation-Behavioral Skills model or
      the Traumagenic Dynamics model, better mediates the relationship between childhood sexual
      abuse and adult sexual risk behavior.

      Participation in this study will include one study visit. Participants will first complete a
      45-minute computerized survey that includes questions about childhood experiences; family
      environment; current health and behavior; attitudes, knowledge, and thoughts about sex and
      relationships; control over life circumstances; and substance use. Participants will then
      engage in two brief role plays in which they will either make a request of their partner or
      must stand up for themselves. For the last part of the visit, participants will be asked
      questions about condoms and condom use and will be asked to place a condom on a model used in
      the clinic.
    
  