
    
      The rapidly rising incidence of gestational diabetes mellitus in overweight/obese pregnant
      women demands that an effective diet strategy be developed due to the high risk of fetal
      overgrowth, which places the newborn at increased risk for childhood obesity and metabolic
      syndrome. However, the lack of adequate controlled randomized clinical trials for treatment
      of gestational diabetes with diet has resulted in consensus panels abandoning any specific
      diet recommendation. If effective, diet therapy has the potential to avoid the high costs of
      medical treatment and intensified fetal monitoring for this growing population. Although a
      low carbohydrate diet has historically been advocated to decrease glucose excursions after
      meals, carbohydrate has typically been replaced by higher fat which has been shown in animal
      and non-human primate data to promote insulin resistance, glucose intolerance, and liver fat
      deposition in the offspring. In fact, recent human data suggest that high maternal
      triglycerides and free fatty acids, variables sensitive to dietary manipulation, may be at
      least as important as glucose in contributing to excess fetal growth and infant adiposity.
      Preliminary data based on an R21, show that compared to a conventional lower-carbohydrate
      (higher in fat) diet, providing a higher complex carbohydrate (lower fat) diet effectively
      blunts postprandial glucose and improves fasting glucose and insulin after 6-7 weeks, with
      less adiposity in the newborn. The investigators global hypothesis is that compared to 8
      weeks of a low-carbohydrate/higher fat diet, a higher complex carbohydrate/lower fat diet
      will blunt maternal post-prandial free fatty acids and improve insulin resistance. Improved
      insulin sensitivity will reduce fetal over-nutrition by decreasing substrate availability and
      down-regulating placental nutrient transporters, thereby reducing neonatal adiposity (primary
      outcome).This proposal builds on the investigators R21 study, which is the first randomized
      clinical trial to provide all meals from the time of gestational diabetes diagnosis
      throughout the remainder of pregnancy. The aims of this randomized trial are to compare the
      effects of an 8-wk isocaloric higher complex carbohydrate/lower fat diet (60%
      carbohydrate/25% fat) vs. a conventional low-carbohydrate (higher fat)(40% carbohydrate/45%
      fat) diet on maternal insulin resistance, placental nutrient transporters, and neonatal fat
      development. Innovative approaches by the investigators skilled multidisciplinary team
      include: maternal insulin resistance systemically (oral glucose tolerance Index) and locally
      (adipose tissue lipolysis); intestinal microbiome (transferred to the newborn); and neonatal
      intrahepatic fat (magnetic resonance spectroscopy). Persistence of neonatal adiposity is
      relevant to understanding obesity risk in these infants. As the investigators pilot data
      suggest infant microbiome and breast milk composition impact fat accrual after birth, the
      investigators will follow the infants through 1-yr of life accounting for these variables.
      Identifying a diet for gestational diabetes that can effectively alter maternal/fetal
      metabolism in late pregnancy when fetal growth accelerates is critical to reducing short- and
      long-term metabolic risk in this growing cohort of mothers and infants. The study results
      could lead to a paradigm shift for diet therapy in gestational diabetes, with potential
      widespread application to pregnancies affected by obesity alone.
    
  