
    
      ?La Familia! extends collaboration between the North Carolina Farmworkers' Project (NCFP), a
      grassroots community based organization, and environmental health researchers at Wake Forest
      University School of Medicine to evaluate a Lay Health Advisor (LHA) model to reduce
      pesticide exposure among farmworker families. The proposed research builds on PACE,
      Preventing Agricultural Chemical Exposure among North Carolina Farmworkers (R21 ES08739), a
      highly successful workplace intervention to reduce migrant and seasonal farmworker pesticide
      exposure. With ?La Familia!, the PACE focus shifts to exposure of farmworker families,
      particularly children, and expands work with the North Carolina farmworker community to
      workers in the western region of the state. ?La Familia!'s specific aims are to: (1) document
      and assess farmworker knowledge, beliefs and perceptions of pesticide exposure of all family
      members, particularly as they relate to exposure of children; (2) identify pathways for
      environmental exposure of farmworker children to pesticides; (3) develop, implement, and
      evaluate a culturally appropriate LHA intervention to reduce pesticide exposure of children
      (aged 18-48 mo) in farmworker homes; and (4) compile and disseminate the final intervention
      program to other farmworker communities and farmworker service providers. A model of
      community participation will be implemented throughout the 5 project years. Formative
      research (in-depth interviews; pathway exposure assessment) will be completed in Years 1 and
      2. Using the formative results in a PRECEDE-PROCEED framework, the content and format of the
      LHA intervention will be developed in Year 2. This intervention (and a revision) will be
      evaluated in Years 3 and 4 using a group randomized design. End-points will include change in
      knowledge of pesticide exposure routes for children and ways to reduce their exposure; change
      in exposure-related behaviors; and changes in household dust levels. In the final year,
      support will continue for the LHA program as part of the process of NCFP developing its
      health outreach mission in western NC., while the results of the project are disseminated to
      regional and national farmworker groups, to those providing health care to farmworkers, and
      in the research literature.
    
  