
    
      The NRC n250 study is an open, one-group, open-ended cohort study, which will include
      participants from 10 different countries. The study will be coordinated by national contact
      points from each of the participating countries.

      The NRC cohort study will start early 2015 and continue developing from that moment on.
      Recruitment will start immediately after approval of the study protocol in the country where
      it has been submitted. The Participant Information Form, which contains the complete research
      protocol as developed by the consortium partners, is available online via the NRC website.
      This way, potential participants can make an informed decision on whether or not they want to
      participate.

      The NRC n250 study will provide a dataset from 250 individuals, including food intake,
      microbiome composition, oral glucose tolerance tests, a series of plasma (bio)chemistry
      outcomes, plasma and urine metabolome and DNA damage, together with anthropometrics and life
      style questionnaires.

      Since the aim is to build up a powerful open access cohort, there is no end-date defined for
      this study. The collected data will be used for various analyses on food intake, biomarkers
      for food intake and/or health and/or disease, and health/disease related measurements.

      The research questions that will be answered with this cohort are largely not known yet,
      since it is not known which data will become available. A NRC Scientific committee is
      established to judge whether or not the data in the cohort may be used for answering the
      proposed research questions. This Scientific committee consists of the principal
      investigators of the individual participating countries.

      The Scientific committee is the entity that views all proposals (new studies, research
      questions) and decides whether or not it is in line with aim of NRC as well as ethics as well
      as scientifically robust. Approval for proposals can be obtained by positive response from a
      majority of the members (quality and ethics of proposals).

      Institutions/companies that obtain data for a specific proposal, are only allowed to use the
      data for that specific purpose.

      The NRC cohort also aims to serve as a platform to validate specific questionnaires
      (including food intake) or additional measurements (that are within scope of the NRC
      objectives). For offering an additional measurement or questionnaire to participants for
      health parameters that are already included in the protocols, also a request for approval
      should be filed to the scientific committee. The scientific committee will then decide (based
      on a positive response of the majority of the committee) if this measurement or questionnaire
      may be added. A request for data analysis with these new measures or questionnaires, other
      than validation purposes, has to be filed separately. If a request for approval is granted,
      participants still have the opportunity to opt out their data for use for this purpose.

      For research questions that require additional measurements for health parameters that are
      not yet included in the protocol, amendments will be submitted to the Dutch Medical Research
      and Ethics Committee (MREC).
    
  