
    
      The CARMEN-AF registry intends to achieve a national sample of non-valvular AF in male and
      female patients older than 18 years through the participation of every state of Mexico. Thus,
      a wide geographical distribution will allow comparing health care quality between different
      geographical areas in which the patients are attended (Northwest, North, Center, Mexico City,
      East and Southeast).

      Besides, to guarantee this national representation, the principle health institutions are
      planned to participate, the public and the private ones.

      Primary objectives:

      To know the current state of thromboprophylaxis in non-valvular Atrial Fibrillation (AF) in
      Mexico.

      To evaluate the therapeutic behavior according to the Clinical Practice Guidelines (CPG) at
      baseline and one year follow-up, with an educational strategy to increase the adherence.

      Secondary objectives:

      To identify the characteristics of oral anticoagulants current use in Mexico.

      To analyze the efficiency of anticoagulation with vitamin K antagonists and the new oral
      anticoagulants, at baseline and one year follow-up.

      Descriptive statistics:

      For each group of variables the following descriptive statistics will be obtained:

      In continuous variables: mean, standard deviation (SD), standard error, confidence interval
      (CI) 95%, minimum, percentile 25, median, percentile75, maximum, n and number of lost data.

      In categorical variables: % from total column, n in each category. Lost data will be treated
      as a new category.

      Ethical aspects:

      Every investigator should fulfil the study according with the principles of the Helsinki
      declaration.

      Copies of the Helsinki Declaration and its subsequent amendments will be provided under
      specific request or can be obtained through the World Medical Association website
      (http://www.wma.net/en/30publications /10policies/b3/index.html).

      The study should be developed in accordance with the protocol and the procedures that ensure
      the standards of Good Clinical Practice (GCP) compliance (1996).

      The study will be conducted in accordance with the guidelines for Good Epidemiological
      Practice.

      Risk-benefit assessment for the research subjects:

      Patients included in the study are not subject to experimental considerations.

      Information sheet and informed consent form:

      As this study represents a longitudinal observational registry that does not imply
      therapeutic change, no informed consent form is contemplated.
    
  