
    
      Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) is the third leading cause of death by cancer worldwide, being
      responsible for nearly 700,000 deaths in 2012. Liver transplantation (LT) provides the best
      results as a curative treatment for patients with early-stage HCC. Other curative treatment
      strategies for early stages HCC include resection and ablation. However, the recurrence rates
      are higher than LT. Due to organ shortage, better criteria for recipient selection are
      necessary. The first widely accepted criteria for graft allocation in HCC patients is the
      so-called Milan Criteria (MC): single HCC nodule ≤ 5 cm or 3 nodules all ≤ 3 cm, achieving a
      4-y survival of 85%. Recently, MC is seen as too restrictive, its inclusion preventing
      patients who might have better survival following LT when compared to other therapies.
      Reluctant to have sizing-only criteria, the University of Toronto, since 2004, has applied
      the so-called Extended Toronto Criteria (ETC) to LT, which offers transplant to patients with
      any size and any number of tumors provide they do not have systemic cancer-related symptoms,
      extrahepatic disease, vascular invasion or poorly differentiated tumors. A recent prospective
      study conducted at University Health Network (UHN) has shown 5-years survival rates of 68%
      when ECT are applied. Recent studies have demonstrated the need to use, besides the lesion
      size, variables which can predict the biological behavior of the tumor.

      Currently, important treatment decisions, like the selection of patients for transplantation,
      are made on crude, static tumour characteristics such as the size and number of lesions, but
      do not reflect other aspects of tumour biology. To date, pre-transplantation percutaneous
      biopsy is the best strategy to assess tumor differentiation and, consequently, tumor
      biological behavior. However, HCC is a very complex disease. Microscopic and molecular
      analyses have demonstrated a highly heterogeneous degree of cell differentiation. Patients
      with more than one tumor may have two or three degrees of cell differentiation between the
      tumors. Even within a single HCC nodule, more than one clonal mutations can be present. To
      date, there is not a precise method to determinate the degree of differentiation of each
      patient's disease and percutaneous core biopsy, an invasive method, is the best estimative
      the investigators can reach.

      Since it is impossible to precisely determine the degree of differentiation of HCC with one
      single tissue sample, the use of imaging becomes necessary. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
      and enhanced computed tomography (CT) are extensively validated as staging methods for HCC.
      The use of 18F-Fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) Positron Emission Tomography/Magnetic Resonance
      Imaging (PET/MRI) is still underevaluated in the field of HCC. However, previous studies have
      demonstrated that 18F-FDG PET/CT may have role in assessing the HCC tumoral differentiation
      and predict survival after LT. There is no investigation on use of 18F-FDG PET/MRI as a tool
      to predict biological behavior in HCC.

      Recently, the Pugh Lab has developed a circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) sequencing assay that
      combines a hybrid-capture method with a novel bioinformatics algorithm to enable full-length
      sequence analysis of all exons in genes of interest or any other arbitrary genomic region,
      rather than mutation hotspots13. With the availability of these technologies in our group,
      the investigators next sought to determine whether these methods were applicable to HCC
      patients, gathering two innovative tools in transplant patients' care.
    
  