
    
      Introduction Spinal anesthesia is the technique of choice for elective cesarean delivery.
      During spinal anesthesia for cesarean delivery, maternal hypotension is a major complication
      with the incidence up to 60-70%. Prolonged hypotension leads to decreased utero-placental
      blood flow and fetal acidosis. Vasopressors such as ephedrine, phenylephrine, and
      norepinephrine are therefore commonly recommended to reduce the incidence of
      hypotension.Phenylephrine is currently the first-choice vasopressor for prevention and
      treatment of maternal hypotension during spinal anesthesia for cesarean delivery (CD).

      phenylephrine in this context has been questioned, owing to its propensity to increase
      afterload, reduce maternal heart rate, and reduce cardiac output. A recent studies indicated
      that norepinephrine infusion or bolus during spinal anesthesia for cesarean delivery was
      associated with greater heart rate and cardiac output compared with phenylephrine. Other
      studies also showed that norepinephrine could act as an alternative to phenylephrine without
      adverse outcomes.Because it is a potent α-adrenergic agonist with some β-adrenergic effect
      and, therefore, should not have a tendency to reduce heart rate and cardiac output as much as
      phenylephrine.

      The use of norepinephrine to prevent and treat hypotension during CD is new and data in the
      literature are scarce. Although treatment of hypotension during spinal anesthesia is listed
      by the manufacturer as an indication for the use of norepinephrine, there is limited
      information available for its use for this purpose in the literature and few reports of its
      use in obstetric patients.

      Carvalho and Dyer suggested that more investigations of norepinephrine using simpler methods
      of delivery than computer-controlled systems are required. Such studies are now emerging.

      Anesthetic technique:

      Patients will fast overnight and no premedication will be administered. On the day of surgery
      in the operating room, intravenous (IV) access will be obtained with an 18 gauge IV cannula
      in an upper limb vein and an infusion of lactated Ringer's (LR) solution of 10 ml/kg will be
      started as a bolus immediately preceding and with the intrathecal injection, followed by a
      maintenance rate of 15-30 ml/minute to keep the vein open until delivery of the fetus.
      Infusion bags will be suspended approximately 1.5 meter above the mid-point of the top
      surface of the operating table, and the fluid will be administered through a wide-bore
      administration set with the clamp fully opened.

      All patients will be monitored by standard routine monitoring which includes a 5-lead
      electrocardiography, a non-invasive blood pressure, pulse oximetry. A baseline systolic blood
      pressure (SBP), mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR) will be measured and
      recorded in the sitting position by averaging 3 readings taken 1 minute apart using an
      automated device for noninvasive blood pressure assessment and pulse oximetry (or
      electrocardiography). All measurements will be continuously recorded until the end of surgery
      and to avoid possible influence on the measurements, the monitoring module will be placed on
      the other arm of IV cannula. Spinal anesthesia will be performed with the patient in the
      sitting position, using a 25-gauge Quincke needle after full aseptic precautions. After skin
      infiltration with lidocaine 2% (w/v), spinal needle will be inserted at what will be
      estimated to be the L3 to L4 or L4 to L5 vertebral interspace. After confirmation of free
      flow of cerebrospinal fluid, intrathecal injection using 0.5% hyperbaric bupivacaine 2.2-2.5
      ml mixed with preservative-free fentanyl 15 µg will be injected over 15 seconds, as per our
      standard practice to achieve surgical anesthesia. The patient will be then positioned supine,
      with left uterine displacement using a wedge under the right hip. Oxygen 3 L/min via nasal
      prongs or 5 L/min via mask, if the oxygen saturation fell below 95%. Block level will be
      assessed by pinprick with a 23 G needle and controlled within T4-6.

      Immediately after intrathecal injection, the study medications will be started at 1 ml/kg/h
      using an infusion pump and injected for 30 seconds for bolus. A rescue bolus of 10 µg
      norepinephrine or 15 mg ephedrine will be used to treat hypotension. The study protocol will
      be continued until the end of surgery. After delivery, intravenous oxytocin of 15 U will be
      administered by slow infusion.

      The time interval between blood pressure readings will be 1 minute, therefore the maximum
      frequency of administration of norepinephrine will be every minute. Hypotension will be
      defined as a SBP < 80% of the baseline value, in which case the treatment will be deemed a
      failure, and the anesthesiologist in charge will revert to the standard practice ephedrine 5
      mg/mL. Hypertension will be defined as a SBP > 120% of the baseline value, in which case the
      study solution will be held until the SBP will be less than baseline and a vasodilator
      (nitroglycerin) can be given if necessary. Bradycardia will be defined as a heart rate < 50
      bpm and can be treated with anticholinergics (0.6 mg atropine) if necessary. Decision to
      treat will be at the discretion of the anesthesiologist. All patients with sensory block
      levels lower than T6 at 20 minutes were to be considered a dropout.

      Use of norepinephrine after completion of the study period will be at the discretion of the
      attending anesthesiologist, otherwise ephedrine 5 mg/mL will be used, as per standard
      practice. Upon delivery, a segment of the umbilical cord will be collected for assessment of
      blood gases in both the umbilical artery and umbilical vein. Hemodynamic values including
      SBP, MBP, DBP and HR will be recorded at the following timepoints: baseline, after 3 minutes,
      5 minutes, 10 minutes, 15 minutes, 20 minutes (± 30 minutes), delivery of fetus, oxytocin
      administration and end of surgery. Norepinephrine consumption before delivery and during the
      surgery will be recorded. Adverse effects including shivering, headache, restlessness,
      pruritus and peripheral vascular constriction will be recorded. In addition, neonatal
      outcomes including umbilical venous blood gases and Apgar scores at 1 and 5 min will be
      recorded by the attending pediatrician, who will be unaware of the vasopressor used

      Statistical analysis:

      For Sample size calculation MedCalc Statistical Software version 18 (MedCalc Software bvba,
      Ostend, Belgium; http://www.medcalc.org; 2018) is used. According to previous studies showing
      that incidence of hypotension among norepinephrine bolus 15% is while it is 31% among
      norepinephrine infusion. So, a sample size of 144 patients per group will be required to
      detect a difference of 16% with allocation ratio 1, two-sided α error of 0.05 and 90% power.
      To compensate for possible dropouts or excluded cases, the authors will include 150 patients
      in each group with total sample size of 300 patients. Statistical analysis will be performed
      using SPSS version 24.0 (IBM, Armonk, NY, USA). Data will be tested for normality using the
      Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Continuous variables are presented as mean ± standard deviation (SD)
      or median (interquartile range) as appropriate and categorical variables are presented as
      number of patients (%). Parametric continuous variables will be analyzed by unpaired t-test
      and non-parametric continuous variables will be analyzed by Mann-Whitney U test. For
      categorical variables, the Chi-square (X2) test or Fisher's exact test will be used as
      appropriate. Two-tailed p values of 0.05 will be considered statistically significant.
    
  