
    
      CORINTH is a multi center trial with a single arm. Patients will be recruited into 3
      successive cohorts followed by an expansion of the final cohort. For each cohort the first
      dose of Pembrolizumab will be given at an earlier time point during the chemo-radiation
      (CRT).

      Pemrolizumab will be given as an IV infusion every 21 days, and a total of 8 infusions per
      patient at 200mg per infusion. The first dose of Pemrolizumab will be given at the following
      times:

      COHORT 1: beginning at Week 5 day 1 of CRT schedule COHORT 2: beginning at Week 3 day 1 of
      CRT schedule COHORT 3: beginning at Week 1 day 1 of CRT schedule** Cohort 2 will be dependent
      on a Safety Review Committee (SRC) recommendation. If the SRC are concerned about toxicity in
      Cohort 1 but not sufficiently to stop the study, they are able to recommend that Cohort 2 can
      change to commence pembrolizumab at week 4. If the SRC are concerned about toxicity in Cohort
      2 but not sufficiently to stop the study, they are able to recommend that Cohort 3 can change
      to commence pembrolizumab at week 2.

      Potential participants will be under the care of a consultant who specializes in the
      treatment of anal cancer and the patient will have been identified as requiring CRT treatment
      for their anal cancer. They will be assessed for eligibility before being consented and
      allocated to the current cohort. # Patients will be monitored for Adverse Events which will
      be assessed according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.03.
      Treatment guidelines are given for any immune related or infusion related events. Adverse
      Event review will take place weekly during CRT and at every Pembrolizumab visit as well as
      key time during follow up.

      Patient reported outcomes will be assessed using the European Organisation for Research and
      Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) tool during CRT, pembrolizumab treatment and follow up. Patients
      will be followed up for 12 months.
    
  