
    
      Despite the fact that ibuprofen appears to minimize the renal side effects seen following
      bolus indomethacin, other concerns regarding both short and long-term safety remain.
      Indomethacin, on the other hand, has been used to treat premature neonates for many years.
      Other than transient vasoconstrictive effects, no significant toxicity has been noted. Thus,
      if we were to be able to eliminate the differential renal effects, indomethacin would remain,
      for many, the therapy of choice for the premature neonate with a persistent PDA. We
      hypothesized that continuous administration of indomethacin would provide this option.
      Ibuprofen therapy has not, to date, been compared with indomethacin administered by
      continuous infusion. Hence, in the current study we attempted to determine whether continuous
      indomethacin administration could potentially offer the same advantages as ibuprofen in
      treating PDA, specifically in terms of mitigation of renal side effects. Specifically, our
      primary objective was to show no differences in urine output and/or in serum creatinine
      between the treatment groups. As a secondary objective, we aimed to show no other potentially
      vascular-mediated clinical differences, eg. Necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC), intraventricular
      hemorrhage (IVH), retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) and on bilirubin albumin binding between
      the groups.

      B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) is released by ventricular myocytes in response to
      ventricular volume load. It, in turn, mediates vasodilation, natriuresis and diuresis. Serum
      BNP levels have been shown to be clinically useful in differentiating between respiratory and
      cardiac disease, in monitoring heart failure therapies and in serving as early diagnostic
      biomarkers of ductal patency in premature neonates. As secondary objectives we intend to
      determine whether a decrease in BNP levels would be an equally reliable indicator of
      therapeutic efficacy in infants treated with ibuprofen as with indomethacin.In addition we
      will look at comparative effects on other vascular beds which might mediate long term side
      effects described above.
    
  