
    
      The myopic CNV is a neovascularization starting from the choroid and growing into the space
      between choroid and retina, based on pathological myopia (severe myopia). Choroidal
      neovascularization secondary to pathological myopia (mCNV) is the most common cause of severe
      visual impairment in myopic patients younger than 50 years old.1 As untreated subretinal
      fibrovascular membranes cause rapid damage to the photoreceptors, timely treatment is
      required in view of poor spontaneous prognosis.1

      Metamorphopsia is the first functional impairment which occurs in mCNV - visual acuity loss
      and scotoma follow later. The Amsler Grid, a qualitative paper test developed the swiss
      ophthalmologist Marc Amsler (1891 - 1968), is a square-shaped grid used to detect or monitor
      metamorphopsia or scotoma involving the central visual field in various disorders of the
      macula and optic nerve head11.

      Myopic CNV patients use the Amsler Grid as a home monitoring device for qualitative detection
      of metamorphopsia by checking the grid regularly11. Due to subretinal scarring in mCNV
      interpretation is often difficult and early changes cannot be detected and quantified. Until
      now there are no quantitative measurements for mCNV monitoring in clinical use.

      Recently, two devices to detect and monitor metamorphopsia using smart phones and PCs,
      respectively, have been developed for use in choroidal neovascularization in age-related
      macular degeneration.5,6

        -  Alleye® Test Alleye® Test is a mobile medical software application indicated for the
           detection and characterization of metamorphopsia. For the mean Alleye score (±standard
           deviation (SD) deviations of dots from an ideal line are calculated for each eye.5

        -  AMD-A Metamorphopsia Detector® Is based on the Amsler grid. The software uses the
           concept of a negative image: a distorted image can be straightened by moving the mouse.
           Degree and dimension of distorted lines or scotoma are transformed into indices.6

      This study was designed to find out whether these metamorphopsia applications are suitable
      for patients with mCNV and to find out if mCNV patients can benefit for a quicker detecting
      of the metamorphopsia.

      Therefore, the aim of this study is to detect metamorphopsia and verify correlations of
      different indexes with disease activity or not, measured in Optical Cohorence Tomography
      (OCT), best corrected visual Acuity (BCVA), Vision related quality of life questionnaire
      (NEI-VFY-25) and quantify severity of metamophopsia.
    
  