
    
      The purpose of the study is to determine if ULTRAPREP is equal to or better than the
      conventional methods of preoperative skin antisepsis (the technique of cleansing the skin to
      help prevent infection) in surgical cases. The study will also help determine if ULTRAPREP
      will decrease the total amount of time in the operating room. The study will focus on whether
      or not using ULTRAPREP provides better patient flow and patient safety while improving a
      surgical staff's workload and workflow. The study includes 2 study arms:

      Study Arm #1: the conventional method (or standard of care) will use an accepted skin
      disinfectant solution with ChloraPrep (70% isopropyl alcohol and 2% chlorhexidine). The
      solution is "painted" on the patient's skin using a sponge on a stick. The application time
      is with this method is 3 minutes plus 3 minutes for solution to evaporate. This is a
      widely-accepted method used in ORs. The preparation process is performed by surgical staff in
      the OR prior to surgery.

      Study Arm #2: using ULTRAPREP bag containing ChloraPrep (70% isopropyl alcohol and 2%
      chlorhexidine). The bag will be placed on the patient's lower extremity in the holding area.
      The lower extremity will be scrubbed for 3 minutes. Once the patient is transferred to the
      OR, the solution will be suctioned out of the bag and the bag removed from the lower
      extremity to allow the solution to evaporate, this process take 3 minutes. the patient is
      then draped for surgery.

      This study consists of 57 patients in each arm.

      Sterile culture swabs will be taken from toenail beds and between toes or from fingernail
      beds and between fingers, depending on surgery site. The cultures will be taken preoperative
      before any disinfecting has begun and just before patient extremity is draped (after allowing
      3 minutes for alcohol in disinfectant to evaporate). These sterile swabs will be taken to the
      lab for aliquot culturing to yield 6 pitre dishes for each swab. The CFUs (colony forming
      units) from each pitre dish will be counted and analyzed at 48 and 72 hours. A comparison
      will be made using the cultures in Arm 1 and Arm 2 to determine if the parameters of the
      study has been met.
    
  