
    
      The specific aim of this proposal is to conduct a four-year randomized controlled clinical
      trial to test the efficacy of an integrated program of collaborative care as compared to
      usual care in improving the process and outcomes of care for older adults with dementia in a
      primary care setting. The program involves three primary components: (1) A comprehensive
      screening and diagnosis program in which all older adults aged 65 and older from Wishard's
      Community Health Centers will be screened for dementia. Patients with evidence of dementia
      will receive further evaluation to determine an explicit diagnosis. Roudebush VA Medical
      Center patients aged 65 and older with a diagnosis of dementia will receive further
      evaluation to determine an explicit diagnosis. (2) A multidisciplinary team approach to care
      for patients with dementia. This care will be coordinated through a geriatric nurse
      practitioner or a clinical nurse specialist working in the primary care clinic. The team
      includes primary care and specialist physicians, psychologist, other health care workers, and
      relevant social service agencies working to adhere to recommended standards of care for
      primary care patients with dementia. (3) A proactive longitudinal tracking program in which
      objective measures of process and outcomes of care are fed back to the collaborative care
      team so that appropriate changes in the course of therapy can be undertaken.

      Although authoritative guidelines for the care of patients with Alzheimer Disease and related
      disorders have been published, there are no clinical trials that test the impact of close
      adherence to these guidelines on the outcomes of care for a group of vulnerable older adults
      in an urban primary care setting. We are hypothesizing that patients with dementia and their
      caregivers who are exposed to this program will: (1) be more likely to receive the emerging
      standard of care for dementia, including an explicit diagnosis of dementia and an appropriate
      level of evaluation, education, and management; (2) be less impaired by psychopathology and
      behavior disturbances; (3) be less functionally impaired at 1-year and 2-year follow-up.
    
  