
    
      This pilot study is a randomized controlled trial of incentive schemes delivered through a
      novel internet-based platform to promote walking in older adults. The four arms consist of
      the following: financial incentives, peer network, combined arm (financial incentive & peer
      network), and control.

      Participation in the study will last approximately 26 weeks, including the 2-week run-in
      period, 4-month intervention period, and 2-month follow-up period.

      The primary goals of the study are:

        1. To test the effects of financial incentives on older adults uptake and retention of
           increased levels of walking.

           Hypothesis1a: Participants receiving financial incentives will increase their number of
           steps per day more than participants not receiving financial incentives.

        2. To test the effects of connection to a new peer network on older adults uptake and
           retention of increased levels of walking.

           Hypothesis 2a: Participants connected to a new peer network of other participants will
           increase their number of steps per day more than participants not connected to a new
           network.

           Hypothesis 2b: Participants connected to a new peer network of other participants will
           retain increases in their number of steps per day more than participants not connected
           to a new network.

        3. To test the combined effects of financial incentives and peer networks on older adults'
           uptake and retention of increased levels of walking.

           Hypothesis 3a: Participants who receive financial incentives and are connected to a peer
           network will increase their number of steps per day more than participants who are only
           connected to a peer network.

           Hypothesis 3b: Participants who receive financial incentives and are connected to a peer
           network will more effectively maintain increases in number of steps per day as compared
           with participants who only receive financial incentives.

        4. To develop internet, text and email messaging, and pedometer-internet interface
           technologies to build peer networks and provide regular feedback to subjects.

      Hypothesis 4: The study platform will provide an effective mechanism for subject recruitment,
      data collection, communication and regular feedback.
    
  