
    
      Cancer survivors often suffer from prolonged and persistent symptom clusters that can
      include: pain, stress, depression, fatigue, and insomnia; symptoms that have each been
      associated with inflammation. The number of cancer survivors in the United States is expected
      to triple by the year 2030. Thus, there is a compelling need to develop and refine effective
      methods to promote high quality cancer survivorship. Dysregulation of autonomic function is a
      key pathophysiological 'common denominator' whereby many cancer-related symptoms likely
      converge. Heart rate variability (HRV) is a valid, noninvasive measure of autonomic function
      with established pathological and psychophysiological attributes. Reduced HRV is a known
      mortality risk factor, and about 80% of advanced cancer patients exhibit autonomic
      dysregulation. Cancer survivors with reduced HRV have increased mortality risk relative to
      those with normal HRV. HRV biofeedback (HRV-B) is an interactive procedure whereby patients
      learn to increase HRV and restore autonomic balance. HRV coherence refers to a state of
      optimum HRV rhythm that produces physiological entrainment of HRV, respiration, and the
      baroreflex. With HRV coherence, consecutive inter-beat intervals cycle from maximum to
      minimum and back to maximum over a period of about 10 seconds, which is associated with
      increased parasympathetic and decreased sympathetic tone, and a heightened state of
      well-being including improved affect, cognition, and executive function. Previous research
      suggests that HRV-B interventions may be useful for reducing symptoms of: chronic pain,
      anxiety, depression, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), heart disease, and insomnia.
      HRV-B thus represents a promising complementary, nonpharmacological therapy that merits
      examination for relief of chronic pain and related symptoms among cancer survivors.
    
  