
    
      Background

      Surgical site infection (SSI) is a serious complication to orthopaedic surgery, resulting in
      re-operation and prolonged recovery (1, 2)

      To prevent SSI, prophylactic methods have been introduced as part of procedure in many types
      of surgery. Prophylactic strategies such as preoperative disinfection using chlorhexidine or
      iodine solutions with alcohol have been shown to decrease the number of skin bacteria prior
      to surgical incision or intravenous catheter insertion. (3-7). Creating a completely aseptic
      environment for the duration of surgery is however impossible, due to the inability of
      preoperative disinfection to completely sterilize the skin, combined with re-colonization of
      the patients endogenous flora from hair follicles, sebaceous glands and sweat glands.(6) (8,
      9)

      The use of self-adhesive plastic drapes was introduced to prevent contamination of the
      surgical site due to re-colonizing skin flora, by blocking the translocation of bacteria from
      the skin adjacent to the surgical site into the surgical wound. Self-adhesive plastic
      incision drapes are in this way designed to work as a barrier, containing skin flora during
      surgery.

      These types of drapes have however been found to be inferior in preventing bacterial SSI,
      compared to newer drape types that incorporates an antiseptic iodine-complex into the drape
      adhesive, facing the skin (10, 11) This outcome might be explained by a drape-induced
      "greenhouse effect" supported by evidence of increased bacterial colonization-rate with the
      intraoperative use of non-iodine self-adhesive plastic drapes (12, 13). This effect may be a
      result of relative occlusion of the skin leading to an increase in skin hydration.(14) This
      increase in bacterial growth has never been demonstrated in iodine impregnated self-adhesive
      incision drapes (IIAD) and has been contradicted in studies reporting a reduction in
      re-colonization rate of skin bacteria on the abdomen when IIAD was compared to no draping and
      non-iodine drapes while other authors reported decrease in surgical wound contamination when
      IIAD was used preoperatively in abdominal surgery (3, 15)

      Regardless of the superiority of IIAD to non-iodine drapes, it has recently been concluded by
      a meta-analysis, that the use of IIAD does not reduce SSI incidence compared to no draping
      (10). This conclusion has been criticized for being due to type 2 error resulting from the
      relatively low rate of SSI in clean surgery (16) The review does, however, contain minimal
      data from the use of IIAD in orthopaedic surgery. The transferability of its conclusions to
      an orthopaedic setting is therefore questionable.

      Skin flora, predominately staphylococci, is the primary course of SSI in orthopaedic surgery
      (17, 18) and has also been shown to constitute the majority of the recolonizing species on
      the skin (8, 19).

      IIAD has therefore become a part of standard preoperative procedure in many orthopaedic
      surgical setting in the hospitals of Southern Denmark, including Odense University Hospital
      and Svendborg Hospital. This decision may be justified by in-vitro studies concluding marked
      bactericidal effect of IIAD on a broad range of bacterial species, especially staphylococci.
      (16) The bactericidal effect of IIAD has also been evaluated in-vivo in hip surgery, where
      bactericidal effect and significant reduction in wound contamination was reported when IIAD
      was applied 24 hours prior to skin sampling (20). The bactericidal effect has however not
      been evaluated when IIAD is applied at the surgical start prior to incision, as is normal
      practice in orthopaedic surgery.

      Re-colonization of skin bacteria following disinfection has been shown to occur completely or
      partially within 7 days when the skin is disinfected with a chlorhexidine or iodine solution
      and covered with a polyurethane dressing, not containing antimicrobials.(21-24)
      Re-colonization may however already be detectable within few hours following disinfection.
      This has however not been associated with a significant increase in SSI rates.(3, 13) It is
      worth noting that some evidence suggests that skin preparation solutions containing
      chlorhexidine, may reside on the skin and provide residual antiseptic action on its own.
      (25-27)

      IIAD has not been shown to improve the incidence of SSI in non-orthopaedic surgery and some
      retrospective evidence suggest similar findings in hip surgery (28). It is therefore of great
      relevance to shine further light on the effect of IIAD in an orthopaedic surgical setting.

      Motivation

      Iodine impregnated self-adhesive plastic drapes have been used in many types of surgery for
      years. Despite of this, its use has not been proven to decrease the incidence of SSI.

      SSI resulting in intraarticular infections with skin bacteria is a well-known and serious
      complication to orthopaedic surgery. The evaluation of prophylactic measures such as IIAD is
      therefore desperately needed. In spite is this, orthopaedic surgery is poorly represented in
      the current literature on the subject.

      It is the goal of our study to add to the knowledge on the effect of the use of IIAD on
      dermal bacterial growth in an orthopaedic surgical setting.

      Objectives

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the effects of intraoperative application of
      iodine impregnated self-adhesive drapes on the bacterial quantity (colony forming units) of
      the skin in patients scheduled for total knee replacement surgery (TKA). We wish to
      investigate if intraoperative draping with an IIAD increases re-colonization with skin
      microbes compared to no drape use during simulated TKA surgery. Primary outcome is microbial
      quantity, while secondary outcome is identification of viable organisms on the skin. The
      hypothesis is that IIAD increases re-colonization of skin microbes compared to no drape use.

      Method

      Study design

      The study is designed as an experimental randomized controlled trial performed in a parallel
      setting. Patients will serve as their own control and allocation ratio is therefore equal.

      Participants

      Patients are recruited in a prospective manner through the outpatient clinic for
      osteoarthritis of the knee, Odense University Hospital. The attending physician screens
      patients for participation.

      Patients are eligible for inclusion if they are scheduled for total knee replacement surgery
      through Odense University Hospital. Reasons for exclusion are listed below.

      Sample size

      A difference in bacterial quantity of a factor 10 (1.0 log10) between intervention and
      control group is judged to be of clinical significance in the development of SSI. To detect a
      difference of 1.0 log in bacterial quantity with a power level of 80%, a significance level
      of 5% and a standard deviation 1.0 log10, a sample size of 16 knees in each group is
      required, necessitating the inclusion of 16 patients . To recruit this number of patients, an
      inclusion period of 6 months is anticipated.

      Randomization

      Knee allocation to the draping vs. non-draping group will be randomized. Randomization
      ensures that difference in bacterial flora between the patients knees has minimal effect on
      outcome. Potential allocation bias is minimized.

      In this study the allocation will be assigned using envelopes containing numbered paper
      sheets. The quality of the envelopes is assessed to ensure that allocation cannot be
      determined without opening the envelopes. 30 envelopes will be prepared, determining
      allocation. An external party will prepare the envelopes.

      Even numbers allocates the participant to draping of the right knee, while odd numbers
      allocate to left-side draping. The envelopes will contain even quantity of even and odd
      numbers.

      We do not suspect that knowledge of knee allocation is important for study outcome. It is
      therefore not deemed necessary to blind participants or researchers from the intervention.

      Intervention

      The procedure will take place in the surgical section of the orthopaedic ward of Odense
      University hospital. Patients are greeted and asked to change to local patient clothing.

      Patients are positioned supine in a standard operating theatre, with active laminar flow and
      surgical lamps . An operating drape will be set up at the level of the patient's waist to
      ensure minimal contamination by the patients breathing. Both knees are disinfected using a
      curcumin coloured solution of 0,5% chlorhexidine in 96% ethanol applied in a painting motion
      in 2 sessions of 10 seconds separated by a 30 second drying period. The disinfected area is
      then left to completely dry. Disinfection is followed by standard covering of the areas
      adjacent to the surgical site using surgical drapes. One knee is subsequently draped with an
      iodine plastic adhesive drape (Ioban 2), while the other knee is left uncovered. Application
      of the drape is done in accordance with 3M guidelines.(11) If the participant has long hair
      on the legs, these are trimmed using electrical clippers prior to the intervention. The
      patient is then asked to remain supine on the operating table for 75 minutes. Following
      disinfection and subsequent draping of both knees, the operating table is placed the
      beach-chair position and the patient is offered a pillow to support their knees. This is
      placed under the surgical drapes. The beach-chair position minimizes the discomfort of having
      to stay supine by elevating the patient's head and ensuring some flexion of the knees. The
      patient is allowed to move their legs in a controlled manner, so as not to contaminate the
      contralateral knee. Both knees must be moved equally to ensure equal stress on the skin of
      the sampling site during intervention. The patient´s torso is covered with a "Bair Hugger"
      blanket to prevent hypothermia.

      The researcher and nurse will be wearing hairnet, sterile operation garments, sterile gloves
      and facemask during disinfection and application of draping. The project nurse, with
      experience in applying the draping, will do so in conformity with standard hospital
      procedure.

      Skin sampling

      Many methods of bacteriological skin sampling have been used in earlier studies. Since the
      outcome of this study is to compare mean bacterial quantity, we decide to use a modified
      version of the cup-scrub technique/cylinder sampling method, which is a standard method for
      testing preoperative skin preparation.(21, 29, 30)

      This method samples the skin using a cylinder restricting the area of sampling to a small
      area covered by the drape. 1 ml of the sampling solution is applied to the sampling cylinder.
      The sample site is then rubbed with moderate pressure in an even grid formation with at
      sterile, plastic inoculation loop for 1 minute. After rubbing, the sampling solution is
      collected in a sterile test tube using a sterile pipette. The sampling process is then
      repeated, yielding another sample, which is pooled with the former.

      By using two scrubs instead of one, the percentage of organisms removed from the sample site
      is increased, while scrubbing the cutaneous surface appears to be a vital part of the
      sampling process. Even though the majority of organisms are located on or near the surface of
      the skin, some have adherent properties, while others are situated in deeper parts of the
      horny layer and hair follicles. This might explain why washing of the sample site without
      scrubbing is inferior to the scrub-method, only yielding under half of the organisms sampled
      by scrubbing (30). The efficiency of this method has been evaluated by other authors and is
      seen as an appropriate approach to skin sampling when the goal is to evaluate both
      superficial and resident/"hidden" flora.(5, 6, 31)

      We acknowledge that sampling of skin bacteria will only yield a fraction of the total flora
      due to the relative inaccessibility of the deep residing flora. (6)

      Skin samples are taken bilaterally from the distal anterior thigh prior to disinfection to
      assess normal bacterial quantity. Following disinfection and complete evaporation of any
      alcohols, baseline samples will be taken from both knees in order to document equal bacterial
      quantity prior to draping. After the duration of the intervention (75 minutes),
      post-intervention samples will be taken from the no-drape knee, followed by opening of the
      Ioban draping over he sampling areas using sterile a scissor and surgical forceps. The skin
      is then sampled. Samples will be taken from a suprapatellar skin area, corresponding to the
      skin covering the borders of the quadriceps femoris muscle tendon and from an infrapatellar
      area of skin covering borders of the patellar ligament. These areas correspond to the skin
      bordering the incision line of the medial para-patellar approach commonly used in TKA
      surgery. The precise area for sampling in these regions is chosen at sampling time to enable
      minimal leakage between the skin and the sampling cylinder.

      3 plates containing 5% blood agar are placed on a table in a distance of maximum 1 m from the
      knees. These plates will be uncovered and open to inoculation by the microorganisms in the
      air of the operating theatre at the start of the intervention time of 75 minutes following
      draping. The plates are covered at the end of the intervention, following final knee
      sampling. An unused sample of the sampling fluid is plated in duplicate and will serve as a
      negative control.

      The same researcher will perform all sampling, thereby ensuring consistency in the sampling
      routine. A nurse aids in the sampling process. The control knee will be sampled first to
      prevent pre-sampling contamination of the contralateral knee, when the self-adhesive draping
      is removed.

      The researcher and nurse will be wearing hairnet, sterile operation garments, sterile gloves
      and a facemask during sampling.

      Sample solution and neutralizer system

      The skin is sampled using a sampling solution consisting of phosphate buffer solution (PBS)
      containing 10% polysorbate 80 (Tween 80), 1% lecithin, 0,5% Sodium thiosulfate pentahydrate
      and 0,1% Triton-x 100 with pH adjusted to 7,9. (21, 32-35)

      The neutralizer system is to be validated in accordance to the American Society for Testing
      and Materials (ASTM) standard E-1054-08 "Standard test methods for evaluation of
      in-activators of antimicrobial agents" using Staph. epidermidis as the challenge organism
      with an exposure time of 30 minutes.

      Sample handling

      Following sampling, pooled samples are immediately plated in the operating theater. This
      ensures optimal bacterial viability in the presence of triton-x and carry-over contamination
      of the skin antiseptics, which has been shown to inhibit bacterial growth even in very small
      concentrations(33, 36-38). A validation study on properties of the sampling fluid showed no
      inhibition of microorganism growth when plating was performed within 30 minutes of sampling.

      Inoculated plates are then transported to the microbiological department of OUH for
      incubation after the end of the intervention.

      Knee samples will be serially diluted in a sterile phosphate buffer in ten-fold dilutions to
      10-3 for pre-disinfection samples and 10-1 for post-disinfection samples. Aliquots of 100-200
      microliters of each diluted and undiluted specimen is then spread in duplicate on 5% blood
      agar plates. All plates are then aerobically incubated for 36-48 hours at 35 degrees Celsius.
      The air-inoculated plates and negative control plates are incubated along with the knee
      samples for 36-48 hours at 35 degrees Celsius.

      Samples will be marked in accordance to the coding system described in the data management
      section of this protocol.

      The number of colony forming units, CFUs, in the samples is then determined. N. Milandt will
      perform CFU counting with assistance from staff of the microbiological department of OUH. All
      plates will be photographed so that subsequent recounting can be performed if necessary.

      Facilities

      The Orthopaedic ward of The Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Odense University Hospital
      (OUH), will supply operating theatres for the project.

      The Department of Clinical Microbiology, OUH, supplies laboratory facilities for microbial
      analysis.

      Ethics

      We anticipate no complications or side effect to the intervention of this study. Being
      positioned in a supine position for 75 minutes may produce minor discomfort and can result in
      back pain for some patients. Removal of the Ioban draping can be associated with discomfort
      caused by adherence to the hair of the lower extremity. Application of disinfection solution
      containing curcumin, may result in staining on the skin that can be difficult to remove
      completely immediately following the intervention. This discolouration will however disappear
      within a few days with normal shedding of the epidermis.

      Information regarding the project and its intervention will be presented to the participants
      verbally and in writing. Patients will first be contacted verbally and handed written
      information about the project. Patients expressing interest in participating will later
      receive verbal information, given by the main researcher. If the patient needs additional
      information regarding the project, they are supplied with the contact information of the
      project nurse and main researcher.

      Undergraduate N. Milandt has taken the initiative for the project in cooperation with
      Professor, MD, S. Overgaard.

      No members of this researcher group have any financial ties to any enterprises that sell or
      produce Iodine-impregnated self-adhesive draping.

      Participants of this study will not receive any compensation for their participation.
      Participants will however be offered fruit, snacks and a non-alcoholic beverage following the
      intervention and will be eligible for reimbursement of transportation expenses for
      transportation up to 100 km round-trip in conformity with current regional agreements.

      This protocol has been submitted to The Regional Scientific Ethical Committees for Southern
      Denmark, and was accepted in June 2014.

      Results

      Data management

      Data registration

      All patient data is registered and saved using Epidata. One document contains all patient
      information linked to a unique identification (ID) number. This key-file will contain the
      social security number and name of all participants along other variables of interest.

      Results from the microbiological analysis are recorded in a separate document only containing
      ID numbers. The analysis result will be assigned a code that designate patient ID nr
      (1,2,3...), Sample time (Pre- (0), 10 minutes (10) or 75 minutes (75) following
      disinfection.). The code will also contain information about leg randomization ((Drape (D) /
      No-drape (N)) and sampling site (Suprapatellar (S) / Infrapatellar (I)). All samples are
      plated in duplicate and an additional number will therefore be assign to identify the unique
      plate and the dilution step for the plate. The unique code is assigned to corresponding plate
      with sticker labels and will have a corresponding variable in the data entry form.

      All data will by recorded without arithmetic alteration.

      All entry variables are documented in a codebook.

      Encryption

      All data is encrypted using the integrated Epidata encryption module based on Advanced
      Encryption Standard encryption protocols. The key-file linking ID numbers to social security
      numbers will be encrypted using this standard. Plate photographs are saved only containing
      the patients assigned code and cannot be linked to an identifiable individual without
      unlocking the main data files. The sample data file will not contain any person sensitive
      information and will therefore not be encrypted.

      Backup

      Back up of all project documents and files are performed weekly to a secure server of the
      computer system of Odense University Hospital. N. Milandt will have sole access to the backed
      up data.

      N. Milandt will serve as contact person and will have the main responsibility for the project
      data. All Data will be stored and published in accordance with the decisions of The Danish
      Data Protection Agency.

      Outcomes and statistical inference

      Cleaning of data

      In order to ensure valid outcomes when data is log transformed, the minimal value of
      measurement is set to 1 resulting in 0 log10 following transformation. A duplicate mean of <1
      colony forming units (CFU)/plate is set to 0 log10 as a result. The sensitivity of the spread
      plate analysis may be lacking in distinguishing between 0 and 1 CFU and merging these values
      as a common flooring value of log10 = 0 may therefore be appropriate.

      Bacterial density of the samples performed after disinfection is not expected to exceed the
      sample density prior to disinfection. If this is the case the observation is likely due to
      contamination and is excluded from analysis.

      Primary outcomes

      The primary outcome of this study is the number of CFU grown on the agar plates. This number
      includes all viable organisms. Raw data will be converted to CFU/cm2 of skin and then log10
      transformed in order to allow assumption of linearity. A mean, representing the entire knee
      will be calculated from the infrapatellar and suprapatellar samples.

      The mean surviving CFU/cm2 are then compared. Comparison will be performed within the same
      knee and between knees in the same patient. Samples from one knee are compared at different
      sampling times (baseline, 10 minutes after disinfection and 75 minutes after start of
      simulated surgery). Analysis between knees will be performed between the drape group and the
      non-drape group at all sampling times. Finally, a mean bacterial regrowth will be calculated
      as a variable representing the increase in bacterial density between sampling performed
      before and after the use of Ioban drape. The regrowth of bacteria in the two settings are
      then compared.

      Data is examined using an exploratory data analysis to justify the assumption of Gaussian
      distribution. If this is the case, the analysis will be performed using a two-tailed students
      t-test.

      If the data does not approximate normal distribution, the nonparametric Mann-Whitney U test
      will be used. P ≤0,05 is interpreted as significant. Statistical analysis will be performed
      using the data analysis and statistical software, STATA.

      All analytical processes are documented in a data management logbook and a STATA do-file

      Secondary outcome

      The type of organism present on the skin following the disinfection and the use of Ioban
      draping is also of interest in clinical practise. It is, however, not the scope of this study
      to produce at detailed quantitative analysis of the frequency of various organisms on the
      skin. We will however perform a minor descriptive examination of the skin flora following the
      use of Ioban draping.

      The undiluted growth plates from the 75 min samples of every participant will be
      macroscopically examined for unique colonies. Both the draped knee and undraped knee is
      analysed. The colonies are then identified using Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization
      Time of Flight analysis (MALDI-TOF). Findings will be listed as a prevalence of growth of
      specific organisms in the study population.

      Time schedule

      Planned project start is September 1, 2014. The project will be initiated by a data
      collection period of 9 months. During this period a minimum of 16 patients will be recruited
      and subjected to project intervention. The last 3 months of the project period will be
      dedicated the analysis of data and to production of an article and preparation of a project
      presentation. The project is scheduled to end August 31, 2015.

      Comment from the Authors:

      We acknowledge that revisions has been made to this trial protocol following primary trial
      registration. We declare that the changes to the protocol was made prior to study recruitment
      and data analysis. No change was made to the criteria for inclusion/exclusion, nor the
      outcomes measures of the study.
    
  