
    
      BACKGROUND - Over 8.75 million people in the United Kingdom have painful osteoarthritis in
      one or both knees and a third of people of 45 years old have sought treatment. It has been
      well established that physical activity in mild - moderate osteoarthritis can provide
      improvement in symptoms and physical function. Current research is evaluating what modality
      of physical activity is best to achieve these improvements. A preliminary pedometer study in
      2003 demonstrated symptomatic and functional improvement in knee osteoarthritis. A recent
      observational study has found that increased walking activity, with 6,000 steps per day being
      optimal, decreased the risk of functional limitation in knee osteoarthritis. Therefore, the
      purpose of this study is test evaluate the effectiveness of these recent recommendations
      against current UK physical activity guidelines.

      AIMS - The study aims to investigate the role of walking in achieving a subjective
      improvement in symptomatic osteoarthritis of the knee/s. Furthermore, the study will
      investigate whether walking improves performance based tests which objectively assess
      physical function in participants with knee osteoarthritis. Null hypothesis to be tested:
      There is no difference in a 12 week intervention of walking 6,000 steps, per day, in
      improving pain and self reported physical function, compared to the current Department of
      Health physical activity guidelines.

      EXPERIMENTAL PROTOCOL AND METHODS - Participants will be recruited through poster
      advertisement and non-incentivised involvement. Potential participants will be sent a Patient
      Information Leaflet for the study and a Consent Form. Following consent, the participant will
      be screened by telephone to ensure participants meet the inclusion criteria and also to
      exclude participants who would not be eligible on their medical history and activity status
      alone. Eligible participants from screening will be invited for a formal assessment. The
      assessment will confirm that information given in the screening remains accurate and a
      focussed physical examination of the knee. Participants eligible at the end of end of
      assessment will be randomly allocation into the control and intervention group, both lasting
      12 weeks. Block randomisation will be used and this will be prepared by an independent
      person. Participants, irrespective of their allocation, will complete the following
      questionnaires: KOOS (KOOS: Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score), IPAQ (IPAQ:
      International Physical Activity Questionnaire), VAS for knee pain (VAS: Visual Analogue
      Scale), OKS (OKS: Oxford Knee Score), SF36 (SF36: Short Form Health Survey) and WOMAC (WOMAC:
      Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index). The intervention group will be
      allocated a walking activity of 6,000 per day. Participants will be provided with a pedometer
      and diary so walking activity can be recorded and monitored. Weekly scores will be collected
      via telephone contact with the participant. The control group will be provided with the
      standard physical activity advice that participants would receive from their GP (GP: General
      Practitioner) regarding physical activity levels. Both groups will complete a further IPAQ
      questionnaire at the mid point of the study at 6 weeks to monitor physical activity levels.
      At 12 weeks at the end of study, all participants will repeat the initial questionnaires,
      KOOS, IPAQ, VAS, OKS, SF36 and WOMAC and the performance based tests.

      MEASUREABLE ENDPOINTS - Objective outcomes from performance based testing will be assessed,
      OARSI (OARSI: Osteoarthritis Research Society International) recommended physical function
      tests (6 minute walk test). Secondary outcomes: Pain, reported physical function in daily
      activities/sport/recreation, knee related quality of life measures from the above mentioned
      questionnaires and 4 other OARSI recommended functional tests (30sec chair stand test, 40m
      fast paced walk test, stair climb test and up and go test) in addition to age, sex, BMI (Body
      Mass Index), ethnicity and occupation.

      N.B. 6,000 steps roughly equates to 2.5 miles/4.3 km. This distance is based on 71 steps to
      cover 100m (Investigator's 100m pace). At a steady pace, on flat terrain, 1 mile can be
      covered in 15minutes. The distance and timing to complete 6,000 steps will vary between
      participants depending on their stride length and pace.
    
  