
    
      Once the eligibility is confirmed, approximately 1-3 weeks after the screening/baseline
      visit, the subject will return for the first infusions. Subsequent treatments will occur
      every other week.

      On each of these visits, the subject will receive one autologous HB-adMSC infusion of 50
      million (50 x 10^6 cells) total cells. Every infusion visit will include the following
      procedures:

        1. Interval H&P update,

        2. Weight

        3. Vital signs monitoring (Heart Rate, BP, Resp., Temp., SpO2),

        4. A urine and blood sample for clinical labs (CBC with diff., CMP, and Coagulation Panel,
           Serum Leptin),

        5. A verification of patient/LAR consent will be verbally performed,

        6. The HB-adMSC infusion will be given via IV over a 1 hour period.

        7. The subject will then be monitored for a minimum of 4hr.

        8. 24-hour telephone assessment for adverse events

        9. Video Documentation

      Follow Up Visits Week 4, 8, 12 and 16 (Safety Assessments)

      The patient will be assessed for adverse events 24 hours after each infusion with a follow up
      phone call. 4 weeks after the first infusion have occurred, the subject will return to the
      clinical site for an onsite safety assessment, which will be repeated at week 8, 12, and 16.
      Each one of these on-site safety assessments will include:

        1. Review and update medical history,

        2. Update concomitant medications list

        3. Video documentation

        4. Weight

        5. Vital signs (Heart Rate, BP, Respirations, Temp., SpO2),

        6. Physical exam,

        7. A urine and blood sample for clinical labs (CBC with diff., CMP, and Coagulation Panel
           and serum leptin)

        8. SARAH assessment on Weeks 4, 12 and 16.

        9. Adverse event monitoring Follow Up Visit Week 26 (Safety Assessments)

      1. Review and update medical history, 2. Update concomitant medications list 3. Weight 4.
      Vital signs (Heart Rate, BP, Respirations, Temp., SpO2), 5. Physical exam, 6. A urine and
      blood sample for clinical labs (CBC with diff., CMP, and Coagulation Panel and serum leptin),
      7. Brain MRI 8. The SARAH (motor-functional evaluation scale for children and adolescents
      with cerebral palsy) 9. Adverse event monitoring 10. Video documentation

      Follow Up Visit Week 52 (Safety Assessments-End of Study)

        1. Review and update medical history,

        2. Update concomitant medications list

        3. Weight

        4. Vital signs (Heart Rate, BP, Respirations, Temp., SpO2),

        5. Physical exam,

        6. A urine and blood sample for clinical labs (CBC with diff., CMP, and Coagulation Panel
           and serum leptin),

        7. Chest X ray (PA Single view)

        8. The SARAH (motor-functional evaluation scale for children and adolescents with cerebral
           palsy)

        9. Adverse event monitoring

       10. Video documentation
    
  