
    
      Objectives: The primary objective of this study is to examine the association of COPD
      maintenance inhalation medication (Inhaled Corticosteroid or ICS) adherence with COPD
      exacerbation healthcare resource utilization among COPD patients with exacerbation history.

      Study design: This study is a retrospective database analysis using 2014-2016 Guangzhou City
      health insurance database.

      Data Source(s): Guangzhou city health insurance database will be used for this study. All
      outpatient and inpatient visits for one patient during 2014-2016 were available.

      Study Population: This study will include patients with a physician COPD diagnosis in
      Guangzhou city health insurance database during 2015 and with complete treatment data during
      1 year before and 1 year after the index date. The rough sample size of the study population
      was 49,000.

      Outcome(s):

        1. Indicators of COPD control: exacerbations;

        2. Health resource utilization: annual number of inpatient days, inpatient visit number,
           emergency department (ED) visit number;

        3. Costs: COPD exacerbation hospitalization expenditures, all-cause hospitalization
           expenditure.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Descriptive statistics will be used for all variables, as appropriate. Continuous variables
      will be summarized by the number of observations, mean, standard deviation, median, minimum,
      maximum, first quartile and third quartile. Categorical variables will be summarized by
      frequency counts and percentages at each category. Number of patients and number of missing
      for each variable will be summarized.

      Logistic regression will be used to estimate the risk of any hospitalization. Generalized
      Linear Models (GLMs) with a gamma distribution and log link will be used to approximate the
      highly right-skewed distribution of medical expenditure.

      For exploratory objectives, Propensity Score Matching (PSM) will be used to explore the
      association of medication class and health resource utilization if applicable. The
      interaction of medication class * adherence or subgroup analysis (by medication class) will
      be considered when conducting the regression model.
    
  