
    
      Patients with life-threatening hypotension are commonly cared for in intensive care units
      (ICUs). Pathophysiologic perturbations due to disease states such as sepsis, hypovolemia, and
      congestive heart failure may lead to tissue hypoxia, a critical development which precedes
      multi-organ failure and death. Not only is it difficult to rapidly identify patients heading
      down this path, but the execution of effective hemodynamic resuscitation to slow or reverse
      this process is challenging.

      A cornerstone of hemodynamic resuscitation is volume administration. The goal of volume
      administration is to maximize cardiac output, and thereby systemic oxygen delivery, by
      optimizing cardiac preload. Bedside clinical assessment is inadequate for judging whether or
      not this goal has been achieved. Invasive techniques, such as central venous pressure (CVP)
      monitoring and pulmonary artery catheterization, carry risks, are costly and time-consuming,
      and may yield misleading data. Doppler ultrasound-based technology has been developed that
      allows for instantaneous, non-invasive monitoring of key hemodynamic parameters, such as
      cardiac output. This technology may facilitate determining the etiology of hemodynamic
      disturbances and assist the clinician in optimizing therapy based on changes in hemodynamic
      parameters. This randomized, controlled trial was designed to determine the impact of a
      volume resuscitation protocol, guided by non-invasive Doppler ultrasound technology, on
      outcomes in medical ICU patients with vasopressor-dependent hypotension.

      Materials and methods:

      Patient Population:

      Study participants were recruited between January 19, 2010 and December 26, 2010 from two
      medical ICUs at Barnes-Jewish Hospital, a 1252-bed urban teaching hospital. The Washington
      University School of Medicine Human Research Protection Office approved the study, and
      informed consent was obtained from participants or their authorized representatives.
      Inclusion criteria were age ≥18 years; administration of vasopressors, defined as a
      continuous infusion of norepinephrine at a dose >5 mcg/min, dopamine ≥5 mcg/kg/min or any
      dose of another vasopressor; and passage of <18 hours since initiation of vasopressors at
      doses specified above. Exclusion criteria were hemorrhagic shock, need for immediate surgery,
      imminent risk of death in the next 48 hours (as judged by the attending ICU physician), level
      of care decision that precluded implementation of the study protocol, enrollment in any other
      clinical study, and pregnancy.

      Study Protocol:

      Subjects were assigned to treatment groups using blocked randomization to receive either
      volume resuscitation guided by the ultrasound cardiac output monitor (USCOM; USCOM Ltd.,
      Sydney, Australia) or observation. The USCOM is a non-invasive device that uses
      continuous-wave Doppler ultrasound measurements of blood flow in the ascending aorta or
      pulmonary artery to estimate stroke volume (SV). Prior to the beginning of the study, one of
      the study investigators (LMD) underwent a supervised training period with the USCOM in 50
      patients to insure reproducibility of the obtained measurements. Subjects randomized to the
      intervention group underwent a baseline USCOM measurement of SV by a single operator (LMD),
      followed by a pressurized infusion of 1 L of normal saline (NS) over approximately 15
      minutes, after which the SV measurement was repeated. If the SV increased by ≥15%, the
      patient was deemed volume-responsive, and another 1 L NS bolus was administered. This process
      was repeated until the SV did not increase by ≥15%, two hours had elapsed since study
      enrollment, or 4 L of NS had been infused, whichever occurred first. With the exception of
      initial fluid management in the intervention group, as described above, use of all diagnostic
      and treatment modalities were at the discretion of the ICU physicians. Subjects in the
      control group underwent no intervention; ongoing care was carried out at the discretion of
      the ICU physicians. ICU physicians were unaware of subjects' group assignments and the USCOM
      data acquired in the intervention group.
    
  