
    
      The list of the top causes of death and lost disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) globally
      includes many conditions that initially present in the emergency setting. These top causes
      include lower respiratory infections, ischemic heart disease, and acute injury. The morbidity
      and mortality that result from these causes can be minimized with emergency treatment. A key
      element to reducing morbidity and mortality from acute illnesses is the time of patient
      transport to a medical facility, which has been most clearly demonstrated for acute injury.

      Low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) shoulder a disproportionate burden from acute
      illnesses, yet it has also been demonstrated that reduced transport times to a hospital
      decrease the odds of mortality in trauma patients in LMICs. A lack of equipment, poorly
      developed infrastructure, and long distances have been reported as key barriers in the
      provision of emergency care. Pakistan is one such LMIC that is burdened by many of these
      challenges in prehospital care. Emergency medical systems (EMS) have only recently been
      established in Pakistan, and prior to the last several years, patients were routinely
      transported to healthcare facilities by relatives, bystanders, or by basic patient transport.
      Where formal patient transport is available, transport times are often prolonged by distance,
      traffic congestion, and a lack of public cooperation.

      Geographic information systems (GIS) are an analytic method that may serve as a key tool in
      decreasing the time of transporting acutely ill patients to life-saving medical care. GIS,
      which links geographic information to public health data, has been used in simulations to
      decrease ambulance response times and been shown to decrease response times in industrialized
      countries. However, this has not been replicated in other highly developed countries and has
      never been demonstrated in an LMIC.

      The investigators hypothesize that that spatial analysis of the location data of ambulance
      calls can improve prehospital care provided by Aman Health Care Services in Karachi, Pakistan
      by decreasing ambulance response times for high acuity patients.

      Aim 1: Develop a conceptual framework for prehospital care in LMICs. As no such framework
      currently exists in the literature, the investigators will develop a conceptual framework to
      anchor this project in Aims 2 and 3. The framework will be developed after a consideration of
      other related health systems frameworks in the literature. The investigators will also
      consult with experts in the field and with the partners in Karachi to comment on how the
      framework can be improved.

      Aim 2: Analyze the location of calls to identify geographic areas with longer calls and
      higher severity of illness. Using GIS and spatial analysis, the investigators will analyze
      Aman Ambulance's existing data on ambulance calls to find areas of Karachi that routinely
      have long response times.

      Aim 3: Position ambulances where there are clusters of delayed ambulance calls for high
      acuity patients to improve response times. Over a six-month period, ambulances will be
      repositioned in and around clusters of delays to improve response times. This period will be
      compared with the same calendar period in the previous year using a logistic regression
      analysis to determine if there is a decrease in delayed ambulance responses. Spatial analyses
      will also be performed on data from the intervention period to assess for the presence of
      clusters of delays.

      This study has the potential to use a sustainable method of analyzing routinely collected
      data on ambulance calls to shorten the time that patients with acute illnesses receive
      appropriate medical care in Pakistan, a setting in which there are substantial infrastructure
      and human resource challenges.
    
  