
    
      The study was a prospective, single-arm feasibility study. Participants were patients who met
      the entry criteria and were referred to the Meuhedet health service Physical Therapy
      outpatient clinic, Jerusalem, from September 2019 to February 2020. The sample size was based
      on previous recommendations for pilot and feasibility studies (Julious 2005; Billingham,
      Whitehead, and Julious 2013). Inclusion criteria were: AT that was clinically determined by
      an orthopedic surgeon (E.S) according to nontraumatic pain and tenderness at the Achilles
      tendon and report of decreased activity levels secondary to Achilles pain; a history of
      running for at least one session a week in the past three months; age > 18 and < 70.
      Exclusion criteria were having other lower extremity injuries; prior treatment with eccentric
      exercise or currently receiving Physical Therapy for AT; received a steroid injection into
      the tendon in the three months prior, or underwent Achilles tendon surgery.

      Participants received a total of nine treatment sessions, twice a week for a total of five
      weeks. Each treatment consisted of backward walking / running over an 8ยบ negatively inclined
      treadmill. (Landice L7 Rehabilitation treadmill, New Jersey, USA) with a warmup and a
      cooldown on a stationary bike. A detailed description of the protocol is presented in Table
      1. As backward locomotion on a treadmill was novel for all participants they were advised to
      hold the treadmill handles during the adjustment period (treatment sessions 1-3).
      Participants were also instructed to refrain from specific sports which involve continuous
      jumping and forward running throughout the intervention period. Patients were informed that
      if they do not feel comfortable with the training protocol, they could terminate their
      participation at any point.

      Assessments took place at baseline, pretreatment four, pretreatment six, and at a separate
      meeting after treatment nine
    
  