
    
      Objective To examine efficacy of G-TBT on improving quality of life, psychological
      well-being, and social reintegration of Veterans with PTSD, MDD, and related conditions
      compared to G-DSTs using a non-inferiority design. Patient satisfaction, access, and
      predictors of feasibility (attendance and discontinuation) also will be assessed.

      Recruitment Strategy Veterans will be recruited through the Primary Care - Mental Health
      Integration, General Outpatient Mental Health, and CBT Clinic programs at the Charleston
      VAMC. Within these programs, all Veterans reporting symptoms of depression and anxiety meet
      with a mental health staff member to complete a clinical interview and self-report measures.
      If Veterans endorse symptoms consistent with a depressive/anxiety disorder, interest in
      participating in research will be assessed and, if agreeable, the Veteran will be referred to
      project staff. A study-specific intake appointment will be completed with the project staff
      to assess inclusion/exclusion criteria (with a targeted sample of 208 VAMC patients),
      including a semi-structured clinical interview and self-report questionnaires focused on
      quality of life, social integration, and psychiatric symptoms (described later). Participants
      who meet inclusion/exclusion criteria will be randomized into a study condition, and will be
      assigned to a project therapist. Because most VAMC patients who meet study criteria likely
      will present with multiple depressive/anxiety disorders, principal diagnosis, or the most
      impairing of the diagnosable disorders, will be used to select patients for participation and
      inform randomization. Principal diagnosis will be determined via diagnostic severity scores
      in the Anxiety Disorders Interview Schedule-5 (ADIS-5). To balance diagnoses across the two
      conditions, a stratified random assignment based on principal diagnosis will be used (MDD and
      PTSD).

      Procedures Eligible VAMC patients will be randomized into one of two treatment conditions:
      G-TBT or G-DSTs. Both treatment conditions will include 12 weekly 90-minute group sessions.
      The general format of sessions will involve: 1) brief check-in; 2) review of materials from
      previous sessions; 3) review of homework assignments; 4) overview of new materials and
      in-session exercises; and 5) assignment of homework for next session. Attendance and homework
      completion will be recorded.

      Treatment groups (G-TBT, Group CBT-Depression, Group Cognitive Processing Therapy for PTSD)
      will require at least 6 participants and maximum of 12 participants to begin. Upon
      randomization, participants will be notified of the group assignment and expected wait period
      for the group to begin. Wait periods (in days) will be recorded as an indicator of access to
      treatment across groups.

      Randomization Procedures Participants will be randomly assigned (1:1) to one of the two study
      arms (n = 104 per arm) using a permuted block randomization procedure. Randomization will be
      stratified by principal diagnostic group (or most impairing disorder between MDD and PTSD if
      both disorders are present, based upon ADIS disorder-specific interference and distress
      severity scores) and block size will be varied to minimize the likelihood of unmasking. If
      both disorders evidence identical severity scores (highly unlikely), participants will be
      asked which of the two disorders is more impairing/significant for randomization purposes.
      After determining eligibility and completing consent and baseline assessment materials,
      enrolled participants will be assigned to treatment conditions by the Research
      Coordinator/Therapist using a computer-generated randomization scheme. Once a participant is
      randomized, they will be included in the intent-to-treat analysis. Randomization will occur
      at the participant level.

      Group Transdiagnostic Behavior Therapy TBT was developed as a streamlined protocol to address
      transdiagnostic avoidance via the use of four different types of exposure techniques
      (situational/in-vivo, physical/interoceptive, thought/imaginal, and [positive]
      emotional/behavioral activation). From the transdiagnostic avoidance perspective, the four
      exposure practices are matched to the type(s) of avoidance experienced by patients based upon
      their cluster of symptoms/disorders. Per protocol, the first six sessions of TBT are designed
      to educate on, prepare for, and practice the four different types of exposure techniques. The
      next five sessions are focused on practicing and refining exposure practices as participants
      work through their lists of avoided situations/sensation/thoughts. The final session reviews
      treatment progress and relapse prevention strategies.

      G-DSTs Control Condition Matching and Assignment To provide an evidence-based comparison for
      the G-TBT condition, G-DSTs will be used that are matched to the participant's principal
      diagnosis. G-DSTs will include groups for the most common principal diagnoses that have
      VA-approved protocols and training programs, including PTSD (Cognitive Processing Therapy for
      PTSD) and MDD (CBT-Depression). Each of these G-DSTs have published manuals for
      administration and have received extensive support in the literature. Participants randomized
      to a G-DST group will be matched to the G-DST based on the principal diagnosis determined via
      the ADIS-5.
    
  