
    
      Antiretroviral therapy (ART) in pregnancy is able to effectively reduce mother-to-child
      transmission (MTCT) of HIV. If untreated, the risk of transmission is around 25% (greater
      with high viral loads) but ART administered optimally during pregnancy may reduce this risk
      to 1-2%. In order to successfully prevent infection, ART should be started in the first or
      second trimester, and should reduce maternal plasma viral load to undetectable levels.
      Unfortunately throughout low-middle income countries, MTCT rates are unacceptably high with
      an estimated 430 000 newborn children infected annually. The main causes for this are
      undiagnosed or late diagnosis of maternal infection, suboptimal adherence to therapy and drug
      resistance, particularly in mothers who have previously received single dose nevirapine.

      In sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), women frequently engage with health services late in pregnancy,
      and new HIV diagnoses in the third trimester (≥28 weeks of pregnancy) are not uncommon. Risk
      of MTCT is high, especially as NNRTI-based therapy takes a median of 2 months to
      significantly reduce the HIV viral load, making it unlikely that commencement of these drugs
      in late pregnancy will offer protection of the infant from intrapartum transmission.

      Vertical transmission of HIV remains a significant challenge in developing countries and
      antiretroviral prophylaxis for PMTCT is an important tool towards elimination of paediatric
      infections. Between 2009 and 2010, coverage of antiretroviral prophylaxis for prevention of
      mother to child transmission was 42% and an estimated 1.48 million infants were born to women
      living with HIV (WHO 2010). Global efforts are geared towards improving access to
      antiretrovirals for PMTCT by simplifying antiretroviral treatment protocols while ensuring
      optimal outcomes for HIV-infected women and their children (WHO 2010; WHO 2012).

      Under consolidated antiretroviral guidelines issued by the WHO in 2013, efavirenz-based ART
      is now recommended the preferred NNRTI option for HIV-1 infected patients, including among
      women of childbearing age and pregnant women (WHO 2013). In 2012, Uganda adopted the Option
      B+ strategy for PMTCT of HIV. Under this strategy, lifelong ART is offered to all pregnant
      ART naïve women irrespective of CD4 count with efavirenz-based ART as the preferred treatment
      option. However, the effectiveness of this regimen could be compromised in the event of large
      populations of women who may have been either exposed to single dose nevirapine in the past
      or among women with transmitted NNRTI resistance.

      The justification for studying DTG in pregnancy includes:

        1. Likely widespread availability of generic DTG in the coming years. The manufacturer has
           indicated its willingness to make DTG available in low income countries, and is
           currently engaging with generic manufacturers. Estimates from the Clinton Foundation
           suggest that generic manufacture of DTG will make this drug affordable either as an
           alternative first line, or else second line agent (Hill 2013). Clinical guidelines from
           the US and Europe currently rank INSTIs such as raltegravir and elvitegravir alongside
           NNRTIs as preferred first line agents. INSTIs may replace NNRTIs in first line regimens
           due to their good safety and toxicity profile, lower propensity for drug interactions,
           and superior efficacy. Large phase III RCTs comparing raltegravir (Rockstroh, Dejesus et
           al. 2013), elvitegravir (Sax, DeJesus et al. 2012) and dolutegravir (van Lunzen,
           Maggiolo et al. 2012) against efavirenz-based therapy have shown superior virological
           outcome at 48 weeks, faster time to undetectable viral load, lower incidence of adverse
           events, and fewer treatment discontinuations, and these findings have recently been
           confirmed in a meta-analysis (Messiaen, Wensing et al. 2013).

        2. Low risk for serious drug-drug interactions. The potential for drug-drug interactions is
           significantly less for INSTIs compared with other antiretrovirals (relative risk
           compared with raltegravir: boosted protease inhibitors [RR = 4.96], non-nucleoside
           reverse transcriptase inhibitors [RR = 2.48](Patel, Abdelsayed et al. 2011). These are
           particularly important considerations for low/middle income country settings where
           adults with newly diagnosed HIV infection often present with tuberculosis, or during
           antenatal screening in late pregnancy. Here DTG may carry significant advantages over
           NNRTIs, and other INSTIs. In the absence of alternatives to rifampicin-based TB therapy,
           DTG and raltegravir exposures are only moderately reduced (Dooley, Sayre et al. 2013),
           compared to larger (50-90%) reductions in concentrations of boosted PIs, nevirapine and
           elvitegravir. Dolutegravir is metabolized by glucuronidation (UGT1A1) with some
           contribution from CYP3A.

        3. Rapid viral load drop potentially beneficial in late diagnosis during pregnancy. In
           Sub-Saharan Africa, pregnant mothers tend to engage with health services later in
           pregnancy compared with Europe, and new HIV diagnoses resulting from universal testing
           at ≥28w gestation are frequent. DTG results in a very rapid reduction in viral load;
           median time to undetectable viral load in the SINGLE study was 28 days vs. 84 days with
           Atripla (P<0.0001) (Walmsley, Antela et al. 2012). Use of DTG may lower risk of
           mother-to-child transmission of HIV in late presenters. Although meta-analysis shows no
           increase in birth defects with maternal efavirenz (Ford, Mofenson et al. 2010), there
           has been recent suspicion of neurological toxicity in a large French registry (Sibiude,
           Madelbrot et al. 2013) and neurodevelopmental delay in a South African cohort
           (Westreich, Rubel et al. 2010)

        4. Proven efficacy in patients with established drug resistance to other antiretrovirals.
           In most resource-poor settings, options for anti-retroviral therapy are limited (2011),
           and the emergence of HIV drug resistance gives cause for concern (Hedt, Wadonda-Kabondo
           et al. 2008; WHO 2012). In a cross-sectional study conducted among HIV-1 antiretroviral
           naïve patients in five African countries, the highest prevalence of transmitted
           resistance was observed in Kampala, Uganda 12.3% (22 of 179; 7.5-17.1) (Hamers, Wallis
           et al. 2011). In Malawi, the prevalence of primary drug resistance in new infections was
           6.1% which is comparable with figures of ~3% for South Africa (Manasa, Katzenstein et
           al. 2012), and 5.7% for Zambia (Hamers, Siwale et al. 2010), with over half of all
           mutations conferring resistance to non-nucleoside reverse transcriptases (NNRTI)
           (Wadonda-Kabondo, Banda et al. 2012). Studies across Africa have shown that treatment
           response to NNRTIs in mothers and children exposed to nevirapine (particularly single
           dose) during pregnancy is blunted (Musiime, Ssali et al. 2009). In this context, a novel
           class of ARV which is safe, affordable and effective is an urgent need

        5. Safety profile in pregnancy. DTG is classified as FDA pregnancy Category B. There are no
           adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Because animal reproduction
           studies are not always predictive of human response, and dolutegravir was shown to cross
           the placenta in animal studies, the manufacturer recommends that this drug should be
           used during pregnancy only if clearly needed (ViiV 2013).

        6. Necessity of investigating DTG PK in pregnant women. Alongside the clinical and
           humanitarian imperative to provide effective treatment for preventing HIV transmission
           in pregnant mothers with NNRTI-resistant HIV, there is an equally important ethical
           imperative to establish the safety, efficacy and pharmacokinetics of DTG in pregnant
           mothers and their breastfed infants in SSA, especially given the implementation of WHO
           Option B+, and the potential for widespread use of DTG in the forseeable future.
           Previous experience suggests it is universally the case that pregnant women in SSA
           receive new antiretrovirals (ARV) ahead of any proper evaluation, and clinical studies
           (if undertaken at all) occur at a much later stage after many mothers and infants have
           been exposed.

        7. Importance of undertaking the study in SSA. Any pivotal study if undertaken in developed
           countries would have limited generalizability to an African setting because i) ARVs tend
           to be initiated later in gestation in newly presenting pregnant women, ii) the standard
           of care across SSA is likely to be an efavirenz or nevirapine-based regimen iii) infant
           breastfeeding is recommended in the presence of ARVs ii) host factors such as BMI,
           ethnicity etc may impact on pharmacokinetics (PK) of ARVs.

        8. Continued administration of DTG for 2 weeks post-partum (whilst breastfeeding) to
           characterize PK in non-pregnant state. Under standard of care, the infant will receive 6
           weeks of nevirapine syrup, and would be exposed to the NNRTI/NRTI/NRTI combination
           received by the mother under standard of care. In this study, infants will be exposed
           DTG via the breastmilk for a 2 week period following birth. We believe this risk to be
           acceptable given the potential benefits. Furthermore, the risk is unlikely to exceed any
           potential risk of in utero exposure to DTG. Drug-drug interactions between directly
           administered NVP and DTG ingested via the breastmilk are unlikely to have clinical
           significance, although we will study this. The potential risks of breastfeeding are
           fewer than those of giving formula feeding during the two week period that mothers
           continue to receive DTG postpartum. Replacement of breast feeding with formula feeding
           during the first two weeks post-partum would be unethical due to the loss of the immune
           benefits of colostrum to the neonate, risks intrinsic to formula feeding in low resource
           settings and increased risk of HIV transmission if mixed feeding occurs (Teasdale et al,
           2011) The potential risks of low-level ARV causing drug-resistance in the infant should
           the PMTCT fail exist for the standard of care NNRTIs and NRTIs; it is not anticipated
           that DTG will carry a greater risk but nevertheless this is best monitored within a
           clinical trial setting before widespread uptake without monitoring.

      Study Design Open label randomized trial of DTG in late pregnancy. HIV+ pregnant women
      (untreated at ≥28w gestation will be randomized 1:1 to receive a DTG-based regimen compared
      with standard of care (regimen not containing INSTI).
    
  