
    
      Poor adherence to inhaled controller medications for asthma is a well-documented and poorly
      understood problem with a disproportionate prevalence and impact on urban minority children.
      Recent randomized trials from other countries using electronic monitoring of inhaled steroids
      with automated adherence feedback demonstrated dramatic improvements in adherence behavior.
      Whether similar intervention effects can be expected in high-risk children in the US is
      unknown.

      To accomplish the above objectives, investigators propose to enroll 40 children and their
      parents (20 parent/child dyads in each arm) in a two-month pilot randomized controlled trial
      of an automated adherence feedback intervention. Children will be from West Philadelphia,
      ages 4-11, and must be hospitalized for asthma at The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia
      (CHOP).

      The study intervention will include daily automated medication reminders via text messaging
      for those subjects randomized to the intervention group. Inhaled controller medication
      adherence will be measured in both groups using electronic monitors affixed to the top of the
      canister of the inhaled steroid medication and adherence trajectories will be determined
      using group-based trajectory modeling. Factors associated with adherence trajectories will be
      assessed using a survey completed upon enrollment, completion of the treatment phase (1
      month) and upon completion of follow up (2 months). Feasibility outcomes will include use,
      acceptance, and preferences. Limited efficacy outcomes will include change in parent-reported
      asthma control and difference in average percent adherence between intervention and control
      conditions.

      Findings from this study will provide preliminary data for a larger study evaluating the
      mechanisms of differential adherence trajectories and the effect of an adherence feedback
      intervention for different mechanisms of non-adherence.
    
  