
    
      Aims This is a two-arm cluster randomized controlled trial that assesses the consequences of
      a shift work schedule without quick returns for six months, compared to a schedule that
      include quick returns. First, we will examine any differential change in sickness absence,
      during the six-month intervention period. Second, we will examine if there are differential
      changes in sleep and functioning, physical and mental health, work-related accidents, and
      turnover intention, among others. Third, we will investigate if individual characteristics
      associated with shift work tolerance including sex, age, personality and subjectively
      reported sleep need will moderate the negative effects of quick returns on the primary and
      secondary outcomes. Finally, the study will investigate if individual factors like
      satisfaction with work schedule, job satisfaction, job engagement and work-family
      interference will moderate the negative effects of quick returns on the primary and secondary
      outcomes.

      Research design A cluster randomized controlled trial comparing a work schedule abolishing
      quick returns (intervention) with that of a work schedule maintaining a normal amount of
      quick returns (control) will be conducted. The clusters represent hospital units that are
      randomly selected to receive (or not receive) the intervention. 'Normal amount of quick
      returns' refer to that which is the common practice at the respective hospital unit in recent
      years (i.e., when no explicit changes have been made to the work schedule), which means that
      the total number of quick returns at the unit will vary from 329-2356 per year. The hospital
      units were randomized to one of the two conditions in September 2020, of which the autumn of
      2020 was spent planning the shift schedule for 2021 (i.e., removing quick returns for the
      intervention group and leaving quick returns untouched for the control group), with the
      intervention period commencing from February/March 2021 for most units. The intervention
      period in this study is six calendar months. Most units in this trial start the intervention
      period in February/March 2021, but some units will, for practical reasons, start the
      intervention period in the second half of the rotation year, i.e. from August/September 2021.

      The primary outcome is sickness absence retrieved from the local records kept by the hospital
      (including short- and long-term sick leave). The baseline measurements will be sickness
      absence from the year preceding the intervention, which for each individual participant will
      be matched on duration and season to that of the intervention period. Sickness absence data
      will be retrieved from the local records kept by the hospital.(Vedaa, Pallesen et al. 2017)
      This record includes information about the date of any absence of the individual employee,
      implying that it includes information about both short- and long-term sickness absence.
      Further, these data include information on whether the absence is self-certified or whether
      it is certified by a physician, whether the absence is due to a sick child of whom the
      employee has caretaker responsibility of, and whether the absence is due to COVID-19 related
      issues (e.g., quarantine). The use of register data will not require individual consent.
      However, a consent-based part of the trial will also be conducted, in which secondary outcome
      measures will be collected via questionnaire at baseline and six-month follow-up. All
      employees (n ≈ 2700) at the randomized units will be asked to complete a digital
      questionnaire made available via the hospital's internal website. Baseline assessment will
      occur the month preceding the intervention period, and follow-up assessment will occur the
      last month of the intervention period. A subsample (n ≈ 70) will be asked to objectively
      record their sleep with advanced radar technomogy (Somnofy™) and subjectively with sleep
      diaries for ≥1 week at the baseline and follow-up assessments, respectively.

      Participants and procedure Recruitment This trial is carried out in close collaboration with
      the human resources department at Haukeland University Hospital. All hospital care units that
      have 24-hour staffing at hospital will be randomized, in which all healthcare workers working
      shifts will be included, with the exception of physicians. Physicians will not be included
      since they often have a different shift schedule and compensation scheme compared to the
      other occupational groups. Hereinafter, 'all employees' refer to all healthcare workers
      engaged in shift work at the randomised hospital units, with the exception of physicians. All
      employees (n ≈ 2700) at the randomized hospital units will be asked to complete a
      questionnaire prior to and at the end of the intervention period. Recruitment for this part
      of the trial will take place via the hospital's internal website. Researchers and human
      resources personnel at the hospital will attend staff meetings at all included units to
      inform about the research project and encourage participation. A subsample of n ≈ 70 randomly
      selected employees (evenly distributed from the intervention and the control units) will be
      recruited for the sleep monitoring section of the trial.

      Randomisation Eligible hospital units were randomized to one of the two conditions based on
      stratification on unit size and total number of quick returns in the unit during the last
      year (range: 329-2356). The randomization procedure will follow a 1:1 ratio.

      Sample size The necessary sample size (assuming a power of .80 and significance level of .05)
      was calculated to be 448 participants in each condition. This calculation was based on the
      mean values of sickness absence days per month (0.9 days, SD=1.6), as reported in Vedaa et
      al.(Vedaa, Pallesen et al. 2017). In the present trial, we will also examine potential
      moderators and mediators in exploratory analyses, which will require an appreciably larger
      sample size. For the primary outcome measure in this trial (sickness absence from register
      data), we will have an expected sample size of ≈ 2700. This includes all employees (who work
      >=50 percent of full time equivalent) in the randomized hospital units and is considered
      sufficient for all conceivable purposes of this trial.

      Data analysis plan All analyses will be conducted based on the intention-to-treat population,
      unless otherwise stated. To examine the effects of a shift schedule abated of quick returns
      on primary and secondary outcomes, the observed rates or scores will be analysed by means of
      latent growth models (or other equivalent models such as generalized linear mixed models).
      The observed rates or scores before and during the intervention period will be modelled by a
      random intercept and a fixed slope. The effect of the intervention will be estimated by using
      the group variable (intervention vs. control) as a predictor of the slope. Between-group
      effect sizes (Cohen's d) will be calculated by dividing the mean difference in estimated
      change in scores from baseline to the follow-up assessment by the pooled SD at baseline.
      Robust maximum likelihood will be used as the estimator, providing unbiased estimates under
      the assumption of data being missing at random,(Enders 2010) which might be partly met
      through the inclusion of baseline scores to the model. The primary outcome measure in this
      trial is sickness absence data retrieved from the register at the hospital, in which we
      expect no missing data. However, it is reasonable to expect some missing data on the
      secondary outcome measures, as data are collected through questionnaire or via the sleep
      radar.

      As some data for the follow-up questionnaire and sleep radar assessment will be missing not
      at random, the robustness of the results under the missing-at-random assumption will be
      tested by sensitivity analyses in which the missing scores at follow-up will be replaced by
      baseline values for each respective individual. These sensitivity analyses will only be
      performed on selected variables depending on the focus in the respective article.

      The intention-to-treat analyses may be accompanied by selected per-protocol analyses in which
      we, based on payroll data, define a group that has completely abolished or had a satisfactory
      reduction in the number of quick returns over the intervention period.

      The primary outcome of sick leave will mainly be analysed in terms of the total number of
      sickness absence days and periods (spells) for a given period before compared to during the
      intervention period.(Vedaa, Pallesen et al. 2017) The models of sickness absence will take
      into account the zero inflation in this type of data. Other operationalisations of sickness
      absence might also be considered in accordance with recommendations in the
      literature.(Hensing, Alexanderson et al. 1998) For a further investigation of the sickness
      absence data, we will consider the use of other models where we treat time differently. For
      example, we will consider models where we look at the time to the first sick leave episode
      for the two intervention groups, with a time-dependent covariate for the number of quick
      returns (ie, a variable that increases by 1 each time the person has a quick return). Another
      possibility is to say that participants start at "0" every time the person has a quick
      return, and to measure time from the last quick return to the first subsequent sick leave
      episode, while adjusting for repeated observations with e.g. robust variance estimate (the
      non-quick return group will then only be followed from the start of the intervention, given
      that they in fact have no quick returns). Another option is to set up a model for time from
      sick leave to return to work.

      Since the introduction of a work schedule without quick returns may entail an alternative
      schedule with an increase in other undesirable characteristics (e.g., more consecutive
      evening shifts), we will consider conducting analyses that adjust for such characteristics.

      Mediator and moderator analyses will be performed for exploratory purposes, based on the
      basic principle for such analyses in randomised controlled trials as described by others
      ((e.g., Kraemer, Wilson et al. 2002)). For example, some of the data collected on
      demographics, sleep-related personality traits (rCTI and MEQ), mental health, among others,
      can be used to examine factors that may moderate the impact of the intervention.

      References

      Enders, C. K. (2010). Applied missing data analysis. New York, NY, US, Guilford Press.

      Hensing, G., et al. (1998). "How to measure sickness absence? Literature review and
      suggestion of five basic measures." Scandinavian journal of public health 26: 133-144.

      Kraemer, H. C., et al. (2002). "Mediators and moderators of treatment effects in randomized
      clinical trials." Archives of General Psychiatry 59: 877-883.

      Vedaa, Ø., et al. (2017). "Short rest between shift intervals increases the risk of sick
      leave: a prospective registry study." Occupational and Environmental Medicine 74: 496-501.
    
  