
    
      Cognitive Processing Therapy (CPT) is identified as one of the most effective treatments for
      posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in a wide range of trauma populations, with a higher
      effect size than any other evidence-based treatments for PTSD. However, CPT has been shown to
      be somewhat less effective in active duty and veteran populations when compared to civilian
      trauma victims. One reason may be that service members have difficulty committing to a
      six-week course of therapy due to the demanding nature of active duty military operations
      schedules. In addition, limited availability of clinical providers may reduce access to care.
      One way to address these barriers may be to administer CPT in an intensive, 5-day format.
      This format may increase rates of treatment completion and produce faster symptom improvement
      than the standard administration of CPT. This study will test the efficacy of massed CPT
      (MCPT) compared to standard CPT delivery. MCPT will be delivered in an intensive outpatient
      setting (12 sessions in 5 days) composed of both group and individual sessions. Standard
      delivery of CPT consists of 12 sessions over 6 weeks and involves only individual sessions.

      The sample includes 140 active duty service members randomized to receive either MCPT or
      standard CPT. Participants will be assessed 4 times during the course of the study. In order
      to test the equivalence of the treatment conditions, outcomes will be compared at a
      consistent number of weeks posttreatment for each condition (e.g., at baseline, and one month
      and 4 months following the conclusion of the therapy). Additionally, in order to compare the
      treatment groups at the same point in actual time, each group will be assessed at the one
      month posttreatment time point for the other condition. The timing of these assessment
      intervals allows for the comparison groups to be assessed similarly at each important
      juncture of therapy (baseline and post-treatment) and also to be assessed for maintenance of
      treatment gains following a similar passage of time (4 months post-treatment). Those who drop
      out of treatment will be asked to return for the follow-up assessments based on their
      projected end date for inclusion in the intent to treat analyses.

      Aim 1: To evaluate the efficacy of massed CPT in a sample of active duty military in
      reductions of clinician-rated and self-reported PTSD symptoms, as well as secondary outcomes
      including depression, psychosocial functioning, and physical health after treatment
      completion (assessed at one month and 4 months posttreatment for each condition). Rates of
      treatment completion and speed of recovery will also be compared between conditions.

      Aim 2: To examine predictors of symptom reduction in each treatment condition including
      demographic characteristics, military factors, psychosocial variables, and comorbid mental
      health symptoms.

      Aim 3 (Exploratory): To evaluate the tolerability of massed versus standard administration of
      CPT. Important nonspecific factors such as therapeutic alliance, patient preference,
      treatment expectancy, perceived burden, and emotional factors such as anxiety and avoidance
      will be examined with regard to treatment outcome.
    
  