
    
      This proposed study is a multi-site, single-masked (blinded), randomized controlled, parallel
      group clinical trial to assess the effectiveness of an at home PC-based auditory training as
      a supplement to standard-of-care hearing-aid intervention in veterans treated for hearing
      loss, with or without previous hearing-aid experience. The participants will be assigned
      randomly to one of three groups, with hearing-aid use stratified within the groups: (1) Group
      1, HA+AT, in which the participants will receive standard-of-care hearing-aid intervention
      (HA) and complete the four-week LACE auditory training program (AT); (2) Group 2, HA, with
      the participants receiving only standard-of-care hearing-aid intervention (HA); and (3) Group
      3, HA+DL, in which the participants will receive standard-of-care hearing-aid intervention
      (HA) and complete four-weeks of placebo auditory training, consisting of directed listening
      (DL) to books-on-tape. The participants in each group will attend four test sessions. During
      Session 1 the informed consent process will be completed, baseline assessments will be made
      to ensure that the participants meet the study inclusion criteria (page 52), testing of
      predictor variables (page 57-58) will be completed, and all hearing aids will be assessed for
      correct functionality (page 53). The participants then will be assigned randomly to a study
      group. Session 2 will occur four weeks after Session 1. During Session 2, baseline
      performance on the outcome measures will be assessed (page 54-57), as will performance on the
      predictor variables. Following testing, the participants in Groups 1 and 3 will receive
      training in the use of the AT or DL programs. Session 3 will occur at the end of the 4-week
      experimental training period. During Session 3 all participants will be retested on the
      outcome measures to assess short-term intervention outcomes. During Session 4, which will
      occur at seven-months post-study enrollment (i.e., six-months post training completion for
      Groups 1 and 3), all participants will be retested on all outcome measures to examine the
      long-term outcomes. In Sessions 2-4, the stability of hearing-aid function will be assessed
      through electroacoustic measures.
    
  