
    
      Objective/ Hypothesis: The objective of this clinical trial is to test the effectiveness of a
      low-glutamate diet in GWI patients, as a way to mediate symptom occurrence by reducing excess
      glutamatergic neurotransmission.

      Specific Aims:

      Aim 1- Determine if GWI is a glutamate neurotoxicity disorder, by testing whether reduced
      exposure to dietary glutamate can modulate symptoms. Hypothesis: Dietary glutamate
      restriction will significantly reduce GWI symptoms, including fatigue, cognitive dysfunction,
      pain, problems sleeping, headache/migraine, and diarrhea; as measured by symptom
      questionnaire, dolorimetery, computerized cognitive testing, EEG and fMRI memory testing.
      Additionally, brain glutamate levels will be reduced after one month on the diet, as measured
      by magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS).

      Aim 2- Confirm that altered dietary glutamate exposure was the cause of symptom improvement.

      Hypothesis: Challenge with MSG, as compared to placebo, in a randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled crossover challenge, will significantly increase the occurrence of
      symptoms, cause increased pain sensitivity as measured by dolorimetry, increased excitatory
      neurotransmission as measured by EEG, and a worsening of cognitive function as measured by
      computerized cognitive testing.

      Study Design: 40 subjects will be recruited from around the US . After phone screening,
      eligible individuals will travel to Washington DC for their first visit, where subjects will
      undergo baseline testing, including assessment of symptoms, cognition, brain glutamate levels
      and working memory testing using fMRI. For phase 1, subjects will be randomized to a
      low-glutamate diet (n=20) or a waitlisted group (n=20 as controls), and symptom occurrence
      will be compared after one month. Waitlisted participants will follow the low-glutamate diet
      over the following month. At the end of phase 1, subjects will return to DC, will undergo
      post-diet assessment of symptoms (same as baseline), and then will move onto Phase 2 of the
      study, a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover challenge, to test whether
      symptoms recur upon challenge with MSG and not with placebo. Subjects will be randomized as
      to which contingency (MSG or placebo) is received first, and will receive MSG for 3
      consecutive days on one of the weeks and placebo for 3 consecutive days on the other week.
      Symptoms, EEG and cognition will be assessed on day 3 of challenges each week. All subjects
      will still be following the low-glutamate diet during the challenge period, so their only
      exposure to glutamate will be from the week they receive the MSG.
    
  