
    
      With the global population increasingly exposed to pandemic crises, permanent and expedient
      solutions are needed at an affordable cost. Vaccination is less than ideal as the virus is
      prone to a mutation that renders the previous generation of vaccine less effective. Epidemic
      and pandemic of viruses infection has become more common and affects both developed and less
      developed communities. Overcrowding and poor hygiene have been cited to be the major factors
      in these epidemics, but the host immune system and the ability of the human system to ward
      off virus infection is a factor less mentioned.

      Nutrition is a critical determinant of immune responses and malnutrition the most common
      cause of immunodeficiency worldwide. Protein-energy malnutrition is associated with a
      significant impairment of cell-mediated immunity, phagocyte function, complement system,
      secretory immunoglobulin A antibody concentrations, and cytokine production. Deficiency of
      single nutrients also results in altered immune responses: this is observed even when the
      deficiency state is relatively mild. Of the micronutrients, zinc; selenium; iron; copper;
      vitamins A, C, E, and B6; and folic acid have important influences on immune responses.
      Adequate intake of vitamins B6, folate, B12, C, E, and of selenium, zinc, copper, and iron
      supports a Th1 cytokine-mediated immune response with sufficient production of
      proinflammatory cytokines, which maintains an effective immune response and avoids a shift to
      an anti-inflammatory Th2 cell-mediated immune response and an increased risk of extracellular
      infections. Supplementation with these micronutrients reverses the Th2 cell-mediated immune
      response to a proinflammatory Th1 cytokine-regulated response with enhanced innate immunity.

      Reduxium, a dietary supplement that provides immune support, is a low-cost candidate to boost
      immune response. Reduxium is a natural compound commercialised in the USA that helps restore
      homeostasis and controls inflammation. As no toxins or allergens are used, but purely food
      grade compounds, it is classified as a dietary supplement. Its current purpose is not to
      treat, diagnose, prevent or cure any disease, but it has immunomodulatory properties.
      Reduxium is manufactured using a proprietary reactor - a "biochemical cavitation mixer" that
      allows to create a "smart small molecule". The principal device belongs to the cavitation
      technology family and is used for the intensification of technological processes in liquid
      media (liquid processing, splitting of complex molecules, "cold" pasteurization, destruction
      of solid inclusions). The usage of this process technology enables compression of a set of
      molecules to 1/12th their original size. Its components are: Phosphoric Acid (58%),
      Microelement Complex (33.6%) (Zinc, Copper, Iron Pyrophosphate, Potassium, Calcium, Silica,
      Glycyrrhizic Acid (8.4%). The Microelement Complex is made up of a homogenized complex with
      special indication, pH =0.0008-0.4, waterless in the final composition.The complex molecules
      generated scan at the cellular level for the presence of pathogenic (bacterial, viral,
      fungal) etiologies by reading the characteristics of the electron proton (KNa) pump on the
      membrane. If these characteristics are violated, the supplement "enters" the cell. At the
      intra-cellular level, the supplement scans the cell in search of pathology; this "scanning
      process" is made on the basis of selectivity (healthy - do not touch/ill - induce apoptosis)
      through the mechanism of mitochondria activity. Specifically, the complex molecules start a
      cascade of biochemical processes (switching to mitochondria aerobic oxidation, restarting the
      methyl group with the "epigenetic" effects on DNA, apoptosis). It is unclear how and to which
      extent this mechanism contributes to innate immune activation following cellular damage and
      stress, or how it contributes to the adaptive immune response of T and B cells. The primary
      objective is to analyse the changes in the immune responses after two weeks of Reduxium
      intake.The secondary objective is to analyse the safety and tolerability of Reduxium.
    
  