
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of hypofractionated stereotactic body radiotherapy
           (SBRT) to the central lung region (peri-mediastinum) in patients with stage I or II
           non-small cell lung cancer. (Phase I)

        -  Determine local control and time to local progression in patients treated with this
           regimen. (Phase II)

        -  Evaluate the ability of peak standardized uptake values (SUV) for fludeoxyglucose F 18
           (FDG)-PET scan, obtained shortly after SBRT (post-treatment), to predict local control
           and time to progression in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate the ability of maximum SUV for FDG-PET scan, obtained shortly after SBRT, to
           predict long-term local control and time to progression in these patients.

        -  Evaluate the ability of peak SUV and max SUV for FDG-PET scan, obtained prior to SBRT,
           to predict local control and time to progression in these patients.

        -  Determine the utility of PET/CT scan data in guiding treatment planning.

        -  Determine if treatment with radiotherapy involving high biological doses with limited
           treatment volume using these SBRT techniques achieves acceptable treatment-related
           toxicity.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I dose-escalation study followed by a phase II open-label study.

        -  Phase I: Patients undergo hypofractionated stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) 3 times
           within a 2-week time frame.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of hypofractionated SBRT until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2
      of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients undergo hypofractionated SBRT at the MTD as in phase I. In both
           phases, patients undergo fludeoxyglucose F 18-PET/CT scans at baseline and at 12-16
           weeks after completion of SBRT.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 4 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 90 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  