
    
      IFN-B has demonstrated a dose-dependent ability to suppress the replication of HIV in the
      test tube. In addition, previous studies have shown AZT to be an effective inhibitor of HIV
      reverse transcriptase; Phase I and II study benefits of AZT treatment include increased
      objective clinical improvement, decreased mortality rate, and decreased incidence of
      opportunistic infections. Long-term AZT use, however, presents possible limitations secondary
      to intolerance. This study, therefore, will investigate the potential antiviral activities of
      a combination of IFN-B and AZT to determine the safety and efficacy of such treatment in
      patients with AIDS related Kaposi's sarcoma. It is believed that combination drug therapy
      consisting of low doses of each drug will reduce the potential of toxicity, treatment
      failures, and disease recurrences resulting from drug-resistant virus mutants.

      Patients undergo evaluations to determine the extent of their disease and the status of their
      immune system. Patients then receive IFN-B subcutaneously once a day at one of three
      different dose levels. Patients also take AZT at 1 of 2 doses. The first 12 patients are
      treated with the lower dose of AZT. The first 4 patients are entered at level 1 of IFN-B. If
      no dose-limiting toxicity is seen in these 4 patients after 2 weeks of therapy, 4 patients
      are then enrolled at level 2 of IFN-B. The study proceeds in this manner until the highest
      tolerated dose or level 3 is reached. If both drugs are tolerated, patients then remain on
      both medications as long as they continue to tolerate the medications and show some
      improvement in either antiviral response, immune response, or clinical response for as long
      as 24 weeks. The initial three doses of IFN-B are given to each patient at the study site
      during which time the patient is trained to self-administer the IFN-B. Patients are then seen
      weekly for 4 months and every 2 weeks thereafter.
    
  