
    
      The project consists of different consecutive parts:

        1. Trigger criteria: Trigger criteria for patients with unmet palliative care needs in an
           intensive care unit have been specified prior to start of the clinical study by survey
           of staff of the surgical intensive care unit (intensivists and nursing staff): Trigger
           criteria include a) advanced cancer, b) multi-organ failure, c) severe cognitive
           impairment or dementia

        2. Clinical study: Proactive palliative care intervention vs. standard care for intensive
           care patients. Initially patients fulfilling the defined trigger criteria will be
           enrolled in the standard care group (Group 1). In the intervention part of the study,
           enrolled patients will be offered a set of different palliative care interventions in
           addition to standard intensive care (Group 2). In both groups, family satisfaction will
           be evaluated with the FS-ICU-24 (Family Satisfaction Intensive Care) questionnaire after
           discharge of the patients from the ICU. 8 weeks (60 days +/- 7 days) after inclusion in
           the study, patients' biopsychosocial distress will be assessed with standardized patient
           questionnaires (NCCN Distress thermometer, PHQ-2 Patient Health Questionnaire). One year
           after inclusion in the study, patients' functional status will be evaluated in a
           telephone interview using the Barthel Index. Planned duration of clinical part of the
           study: 3 years, thereof

             1. Patient-related:

                Duration of palliative care intervention: approx. 60 mins for each patient contact.
                The number of interventions depends on the duration of ICU stay per patient.
                Follow-up per patient until 1 year after enrolment.

             2. Study-related:

           The clinical study starts with the enrollment of the first ICU patient. Data will be
           collected between the admission of the patient in the ICU until discharge from ICU and
           hospital discharge, respectively. Follow-up visits will be performed 8 weeks and 1 year
           after enrolment. Patients will be recruited over an estimated period of approx. 3 years,
           assuming that 1-2 patients per week can be included. Follow-up data will be collected up
           to 1 year after last patient in.

        3. Termination of study including data analysis and evaluation, and publication of the
           study results: approx. 1 year
    
  