
    
      Imaging-based metrics have recently played a central role in the quest to identify chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) phenotypes, serving to establish homogeneous
      sub-populations to aid in genotyping, therapeutic targeting and design and outcomes
      assessment. Recent findings in both animals and humans have lead us to believe that CT
      derived perfusion (PBF) and mean transit time (MTT) measures within regionally injured lung
      parenchyma provide for a functional phenotype of which may be directly tied to the etiology
      of the pathologic process leading to emphysema in acentrilobular emphysema susceptible subset
      of the smoking population. The primary hypotheses of the proposal are built around the notion
      that smokers prone to emphysema have abnormal vasoregulation in that regional hypoxic
      pulmonary vasoconstriction (HPV) continues despite regional lung injury. This failure to
      block vasoconstriction alters the repair response and leads to tissue destruction in
      emphysema susceptible smokers (SS) with abnormal vasoregulation. The normal response to
      regional hypoxia is to shunt blood towards better-ventilated regions. However, smoking
      induces small scale, regional infiltrates which in turn lead to local hypoxia, HPV would
      interfere with defense mechanisms serving to clear the irritant and thus interfere with
      mechanisms of repair. The investigators have demonstrated that, in SS subjects with normal
      PFTs but CT evidence of early centriacinar emphysema (CAE), there is an increased
      heterogeneity of perfusion. This is supportive of the notion that attenuation of
      vasoconstriction has failed. Further, the investigators have demonstrated a tight correlation
      between quantitative CT evidence of emphysema with reduced lung volume (LV) filling down to
      very small amounts of emphysema.

      The investigators outline a series of experiments seeking to:

        1. link increased pulmonary perfusion heterogeneity in SS subjects to the lung's response
           to alveolar oxygenation;

        2. establish that the perfusion heterogeneity is reversible;

        3. demonstrate that the response to inflammation and not just inflammation itself is a key
           factor in the increased heterogeneity.

      With any combination of positive outcomes of this study, the investigators will have provided
      new insights into disease etiology, serving to provide new targets for disease intervention
      and providing the tools needed for assessing outcomes.
    
  