
    
      This will be a prospective cohort of patients at MDMC, The Liver Institute, and Texas
      Oncology between 6/1/2018 and 12/31/2020. Subject records will be reviewed to identify
      case-based details including demographics, diagnosis, and date of diagnosis. Subjects will
      complete survey instruments to assess their levels of stress and anxiety, and the impact of
      the same on their ability to communicate at baseline, after the stress management coaching
      session, following their treatment planning visit (outpatients only), and one week after the
      visit (by mail). Providers will also complete the dyadic OPTION instrument (for outpatients
      only) to empirically assess the perceived degree of patient involvement in the treatment
      planning process. The face-to-face stress management coaching session will occur
      approximately an hour before meeting with the treatment planning team for outpatients and at
      a designated time identified for inpatients. The session will focus on mindfulness-based
      interventions on stress regulation, communication, and shared decision making. A
      comprehensive evaluation will be performed and a unique treatment plan developed for each
      subject based on a biopsychosocial model to address the mind, body, and spirit. Nutritional
      counseling and lifestyle coaching will also be addressed.

      2.2. Study Outcome Measures 2.2.1. Primary Outcome

      The effectiveness of the mindfulness-based intervention which will be assessed by:

      Baseline and post-intervention perception of stress and anxiety Impact of stress on
      communication Emotional-Brain state Level of SDM during a pivotal visit with provider e.g.
      treatment planning visit (for outpatients only) The Emotional Distress-Anxiety (PROMIS,
      2016), Communication Short Form (Cella, PROMIS, 2013), Emotional/Brain State Question
      (Mellin, 2017) and The Shared Decision Making dyadic OPTION scale (Melbourne, 2016) will be
      used to evaluate these outcomes.

      2.2.2. Secondary Outcome Feasibility of such a study in the patient population and setting.
      This will be measured by the barriers encountered and the ability to successfully carry out
      the study.

      2.3 Study Enrollment: 2.3.1.Study Inclusion Criteria

        -  Age 18 years or olde

        -  Newly diagnosed cancer patient (breast, pancreatic, head & neck, hepatocellular
           carcinoma, cholangiocarcinoma, and colorectal carcinoma with metastases to the liver) at
           MDMC, the Liver Institute, or Texas Oncology

        -  Provided written informed consent 2.3.2. Study Exclusion Criteria

        -  Below 18 years of age

        -  Does not have cancer
    
  