
    
      Specific Aims

        -  Further validate a unique saliva collection device in a randomized controlled study of a
           psychoeducation, paced respiration, and relaxation (PEPRR) intervention for caregivers
           of patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation.

        -  Evaluate the suitability of paced respiratory training using RESPeRATE™ for these
           caregivers.

        -  Determine the efficacy of a PEPRR intervention on behavioral (stress level, mood and
           overall health) and physiological (neuroendocrine function, immune function, and sleep)
           outcomes of these caregivers.

      OUTLINE: Caregivers are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

        -  Group I (treatment as usual [TAU]): Caregivers and patients attend a 2-hour orientation
           class that provides an overview of the transplant process, information regarding
           financial issues and resources that may be available to the patient and caregiver, a
           review of caregiver duties, dietary restrictions post-transplantation, a brief
           introduction to stress and stress management, and hands-on training of how to care for a
           central venous catheter. Patients also receive information in the form of a written
           manual that provides in-depth information about transplant, including how the transplant
           works, what to expect, caregiver duties, graft-vs-host disease, and when to contact
           medical staff for assistance. A voluntary 1-hour weekly caregiver support group is
           offered on the inpatient BMT unit.

        -  Group II (psychoeducation, paced respiration, and relaxation [PEPRR]): Caregivers and
           patients attend a 2-hour orientation class identical to group I. Caregivers also
           participate in the PEPRR intervention comprising an individualized stress management
           component and educational component that addresses the psychosocial needs of the
           caregivers. It also provides self-care and adaptive coping skills. The stress management
           component addresses caregivers' perception of potential stressors (primary appraisal);
           perceived ability to control or manage the stressor (secondary appraisal); ability to
           exert control and cope with the stressor (coping effort); and ongoing evaluation of the
           stressor and their perceived ability of managing the stressor (reappraisal) and applies
           coping strategies such as relaxation, prioritizing, goal setting, pacing, and
           communicating needs. The PEPRR intervention consists of 8 sessions (4 weekly 60-minute
           sessions followed by 4 biweekly 60-minute sessions) that cover the 100-day period of
           caregiving post-transplantation. Caregivers also undergo paced respiratory (RESPeRATE™)
           training for 15 minutes once daily over 12 weeks that measures caregiver adherence and
           compliance to the relaxation program.

      Caregivers and patients undergo psychosocial assessments at approximately 1-3 months prior to
      randomization and transplantation and again at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after transplantation.
      Caregivers also complete questionnaires to assess their stress (PSS, CRA, and IES), mood
      (POMS, CES-D, and STAI), sleep (PSQI), and health (SF-36).

      Caregivers undergo blood and saliva sample collection at baseline and periodically during
      study for biomarker analysis (e.g., neuroendocrine and immune markers). Caregivers wear an
      activity watch (actimeter) during each saliva sample collection period.
    
  