
    
      Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is one of the most prevalent and deadly conditions in the
      21st century. T2DM is characterized by obesity and insulin resistance that leads to chronic
      hyperglycemia, which even with best medical care is often uncontrolled, resulting in
      life-threatening micro- and macrovascular complications.

      The gut microbiota (i.e. the microbial population inhabiting the gut) has been extensively
      linked to blood glucose levels and was shown to mediate insulin response in various settings,
      including anti-diabetic pharmacotherapy. Moreover, fecal microbial transplantation (FMT) from
      lean healthy donors improved insulin resistance in humans suffering from metabolic syndrome.
      These pre-clinical and clinical evidence suggest that the gut microbiota has a mechanistic
      role in insulin-resistance.

      Bariatric surgeries were originally designed to treat obesity but were also retrospectively
      found to ameliorate T2DM among other metabolic and non-metabolic disorders. Since obesity is
      a significant risk factor for T2DM, it is not surprising that surgically-induced weight loss
      which occurs within several months after surgery also improves insulin sensitivity. However,
      a substantial share of patients experience an improvement in insulin resistance within days
      after bariatric surgery, which clinically presents as normal glycemic values despite
      decreased dosage of anti-diabetic medications in the first post-operative days. This
      phenomenon of early diabetes remission after surgery precedes any weight-loss, therefore it
      is weight-independent and it is far from being understood.

      Several explanations were suggested to explain early post-bariatric surgery diabetes
      remission, among which are acute caloric restriction, amplified incretins response, and rapid
      alterations in bile acids composition; however, none of them accounts for such a drastic
      improvement in glycemic control within such a short time frame.

      Bariatric surgery rapidly alters the gut microbiome in a conserved fashion in both humans and
      rodents. Although descriptive studies demonstrated a change in microbiome composition within
      a few months after surgery, most studies didn't analyze microbiome in the first
      post-operative weeks in which the improvement in diabetes takes place, and data so far
      remains associative at best. Two independent studies exhibited improved metabolism following
      FMT from post-bariatric surgery humans and mice donors

      into germ-free (microbiota-devoid) mice recipients, however, no mechanism was suggested and
      both studies used stool samples taken at a very late postoperative period, therefore no
      conclusions could be made regarding early diabetic remission. Caloric restriction, incretins,
      bile-acids, and the gut microbiome most probably "co-evolve" following surgery to exert
      surgery's beneficial metabolic effect with no single factor solely responsible for the entire
      effect.

      Despite being highly effective in ameliorating obesity and obesity-related co-morbidities in
      the short-term, bariatric surgeries are invasive, risky, and not always successful in the
      long-term. Bariatric surgeries are thus far from being a perfect solution to obese diabetic
      patients, but they do serve as an intriguing investigational-model in the context of glucose
      metabolism. Hopefully, probing the mechanisms behind surgery's metabolic effect will
      facilitate the development of safer treatments for diabetic patients.
    
  