
    
      Recent studies suggest the potential of polyphenols as a supplementary treatment for diabetes
      mellitus owing to their biological properties. Polyphenols are natural phytochemical
      compounds found in fruits and vegetables. The most common group of phenolic compounds in our
      diet are phenolic acids and flavonoids. The two main classes are hydroxybenzoic acid
      derivatives and hydroxycinnamic acid derivatives.

      The potential efficacy of polyphenols on glucose homeostasis and carbohydrate metabolism is
      being aggressively investigated in in vitro, animal models and clinical trials. The
      anti-hyperglycemic property of polyphenols is mainly contributed by the reduction of dietary
      carbohydrate absorption through intestines, improvement of β-cell function and insulin
      action, stimulation of insulin secretion, modulation of the enzymes involved in glucose
      metabolism, anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory effects.

      The key enzymes responsible for the digestion of dietary carbohydrates to glucose are
      α-glucosidase and α-amylase. One of the most well-known properties of polyphenols especially
      phenolic acids on carbohydrate metabolism is the inhibition of these enzymes. Some
      investigations have shown that polyphenols are also able to regulate postprandial glycemia
      and inhibit the development of glucose intolerance by a facilitated insulin response and
      increased secretion of glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) and glucagonlike
      polypeptide-1 (GLP-1).

      The current study focuses on the glucose-controlling properties of phenolic compounds
      extracted from oil palm (Elaeis guineensis), a high oil-producing tropical plant that also
      rich in phytochemicals. The major phenolic components in OPP are identified as
      caffeoylshikimic acid, protocatechuic acid and p-hydroxybenzoic acid. OPP has been found to
      exert various positive health effects parallel to the well-established physiological benefits
      of polyphenols. It has been shown that OPP protects against early type 2 diabetes and
      encouraging results suggest its role in modulating the development of diabetes. The current
      study aims to investigate and determine the effects of oil palm phenolics (OPP) on the blood
      glucose control in patients with uncontrolled insulin treated type 2 diabetes mellitus.
    
  