
    
      The primary goals for this investigation are to quantify: (1) fluctuations in PTSD symptom
      reports when assessed at bi-weekly intervals; (2) change in PTSD symptoms associated with
      stressful life events; and (3) change in PTSD symptoms associated with perceived social
      support.

      Despite increased sophistication in measurement of PTSD, little is known about the long-term
      longitudinal course of this disorder or the fluctuation of symptoms over time. Because
      previous studies have focused on the development and persistence of symptoms immediately
      following a stressor, the course of the chronic disorder has been largely unexplored.
      Although there is evidence of both persistence and fluctuation of PTSD symptom presentation
      in Vietnam veterans, little is known about how much and in what ways symptoms change over
      time. This investigation will increase understanding of the nature and extent of symptom
      fluctuation as well as the longitudinal course of PTSD as first steps in determining which
      variables affect that course and how clinicians might intervene to alter it.

      Aversive life events may constitute one factor that influences the course of chronic PTSD.
      Researchers and clinicians have frequently hypothesized that stressful life events account
      for much of the variability in course of chronic PTSD; individuals with PTSD may have a
      compromised ability to cope with stressors, and such events may worsen existing symptoms.
      Social support is another variable thought to affect the course of post-trauma
      symptomatology. Support from other persons has been shown to both promote psychological
      health in general and to protect against psychological deterioration in times of stress. This
      investigation will examine aversive life events and perceived social support to determine
      their relationships over time to symptoms of PTSD.
    
  