
    
      Methodology: Multicentric French national cohort with prospective collection of data and
      constitution of biobank, in HCV genotype 1 patients with compensated cirrhosis who failed to
      eradicate HCV with the combination PEG-IFN and RBV, treated with protease inhibitor
      (telaprevir or boceprevir), PEG-IFN and RBV, included in the French Early Access Program for
      the use of protease inhibitors or after approval of these drugs through the the marketing
      authorization.

      Primary objective: Evaluate the efficacy defined by the sustained virological response (SVR),
      in patients with compensated cirrhosis treated with PEG-IFN, RBV and telaprevir or boceprevir
      in the French Early Access Program for the use of protease inhibitors or after the approval
      of these drugs.

      Estimated enrollment: 900 patients treated in the French Early Access Program for the use of
      protease inhibitors and after the marketing authorization approval.

      Treatments:

        -  with telaprevir: triple combination with PEG-IFN alfa-2a, 180 µg/week, ribavirin 1000 to
           1200 mg/d according the body weight and telaprevir 750 mg/8h, for 12 weeks followed by
           PEG-IFN and RBV for 36 weeks for a total duration of treatment of 48 weeks.

        -  or with boceprevir: triple combination with PEG-IFN alfa-2b, 1,5 µg/kg/week, RBV 800 to
           1400 mg/d according the body weight and boceprevir 800 mg/8h. The treatment will begin
           after a lead in phase of PEG-IFN and RBV for 4 weeks, followed by a triple combination
           (PEG-IFN, RBV and boceprevir)during 44 weeks for a total duration of treatment of 48
           weeks.

      Estimated planning:

        -  study start date: February 2011

        -  enrollment period: 14 months

        -  subject participation duration: 12 months of treatment and 12 months of follow-up = 24
           months

        -  total study duration: 38 months. The last visit of the last enrolled patient is prevised
           in February 2014, the end of analysis on biobank in May 2014 (long term follow up of
           resistant mutants).

      Some blood samples will be preserved for scientific future research.

      Study design: national French multicentric cohort in patients with HCV-related cirrhosis
      treated in the French Early Access Program for the use of boceprevir or telaprevir or after
      the marketing authorization approval of these drugs associated with PEG-IFN and RBV with a
      collection of clinical and biological data and constitution of a biobank.
    
  