
    
      Polycystic Ovary Syndrome, or PCOS, is the most common endocrine disorder in women. Depending
      on the strictness of the diagnostic criteria used, it is thought to occur in about 6-10% of
      all women, many of whom do not know they have the syndrome. Women with PCOS produce
      abnormally high levels of male hormones (hyperandrogenism); this counteracts their ovaries'
      ability to make enough of the female hormones estrogen and progesterone needed for normal
      menstruation. PCOS is the number one cause of hormonally related infertility and also
      increases women's risks for diabetes, high blood pressure, hypercholesteremia, cardiovascular
      disease and certain cancers. It is currently unclear to what extent PCOS and PCOS-associated
      traits (hyperandrogenism, hyperinsulinemia, insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes,
      dyslipidemia, hypertension, obesity, and coronary artery disease) are the results of
      environmental factors or genetic predisposition. Therefore, the NIEHS Program in Clinical
      Research is conducting a multi-phase twin study to measure the extent of PCOS heritability
      and to identify environmental and genetic factors involved in the development of PCOS. The
      proposal described here is for Phase 2 of this study. The goals of Phase 2 are to: 1)
      establish more reliable concordance rates and baseline heritability estimates for PCOS in MZ
      and DZ twins; and 2) establish a cohort of intact MZ and DZ female twin pairs with PCOS as a
      resource for future studies.

      In Phase 1, about 1500 individual female twins were identified from the Mid-Atlantic Twin
      Registry (MATR) based on self report of a history of irregular periods and/or cystic ovaries
      in the MATR General Health Screening Questionnaire. Those twins were surveyed by phone for
      other traits associated with PCOS. In Phase 2, the twins most likely to have PCOS based on
      their answers to the Phase 1 phone survey will be recontacted for further PCOS screening. One
      or both twins in a pair will be screened for elevated levels of testosterone (total and free
      testosterone, bioavailable testosterone or BaT; free androgen index or FAI). Hyperandrogenism
      is one of the hallmark traits of PCOS and can be exhibited either biochemically (elevated
      testosterone) or clinically (hirsutism, acne, hair loss, alopecia, other). If one twin in a
      pair has an elevated BaT level, then both twins in the pair will be asked to undergo a
      medical evaluation for PCOS confirmation. This includes a physical exam, medical history,
      ultrasound, 2-hour glucose tolerance and other biochemical blood tests, and a
      Ferriman-Gallwey evaluation for abnormal hirsutism (another characteristic of PCOS). The
      women will also be tested for pregnancy and zygosity. Their female co-twins will be invited
      to undergo a similar medical evaluation.

      Depending on their PCOS traits, twin pairs in which neither member has elevated testosterone
      levels might be asked to undergo the medical evaluation as well. In clinical practice, PCOS
      diagnoses are often made on women with normal testosterone levels if they have other certain
      PCOS traits. The determination to include pairs in which both members have normal
      testosterone levels will be made depending on their collective PCOS traits that they reported
      on their Phase 1 survey.
    
  