
    
      Ankle fracture is a common injury with a wide spectrum of mechanism, especially in the
      elderly population. Surgical treatment of the unstable ankle fracture presents encouraging
      outcomes. Open reduction with plate osteosynthesis is the gold standard but is sometimes
      complicated by wound problems. The overall rate of complications after open reduction and
      internal fixation of ankle fracture varies from 5% to 40%. Wound complication, including
      superficial and deep ones, was reported as high as 18.8% in a previous meta-analysis,
      especially in the patients with high-risk factors e.g. elderly, osteoarthritis and diabetic
      subpopulation.

      Newer implants such as locked fibular nail (FN) have been developed with studies showing
      promising results. The Acumed fibular rod system is such an alternative method which is a
      metallic implant with length 110mm, 145 mm and 180 mm. The shorter diameter of the nail
      (ranging from 3.0 mm-3.6 mm) allows surgeons to make an incision as short as 1 cm compared to
      the 8-cm incision in conventional lateral plate fixation. Also, it shows advantages in
      mechanical stability for osteoporotic bone with less prominent metalwork. The nail is
      anchored by a lateral-medial locking screw at the level of the syndesmosis and two
      anterior-posterior locking screws distally. A 1-cm longitudinal incision will be made over
      the tip of the lateral malleolus after performing a closed reduction.

      The results from previous studies imply that the fibular rod system may give positive
      outcomes. However, the majority of the relative studies were single-centre series providing a
      low level of evidence and lacking a comparative group. For example, a case series
      retrospectively reviewed 105 patients who experienced surgical treatment using the Acumed
      fibular rod system for ankle fracture and found good functional and radiographic results with
      minimal complications. Like all other retrospective studies, the follow up was not complete
      and some radiographic information could not be obtained. Thus a comparative study with a high
      level of evidence is required to provide more information for surgeons.

      To the investigators' best knowledge, no prospective randomized controlled trials have been
      conducted to investigate the clinical outcomes and radiographic results after surgical
      treatment using the Acumed fibular rod system in ankle fracture. The objective of the study
      is to compare the clinical outcomes of locking fibular nail and to results of the
      open-reduction with plate fixation in ankle fracture management.
    
  