
    
      Province of Chongqing:

      Basic design: randomized townships (3 groups) comparing 2 different interventions to one
      randomised internal control group and one non-randomized external control group. In
      service-training:

        1. in service-training of clinical skills: Yes. In non-randomized setting, comparing
           in-service training to the external control group without training, and in randomized
           setting comparing in-service training to the internal control group without in-service
           training.

        2. in service-training of health education: Yes. In non-randomized setting, comparing
           in-service training to the external control group without training, and in randomized
           setting comparing in-service training to the internal control group without in-service
           training.

             -  Control groups: one randomized internal control group and one external
                non-randomised control group.

             -  20 townships in Rongchang County are divided into 2 intervention groups and one
                internal control group (7 clusters)

             -  6 townships in Tongliang County are randomly selected for an external control group

      Province of Shaan'xi:

      Basic design: Randomized townships, 5 groups (in two counties) comparing 2 different
      interventions to the randomized control group (Figure 2)

        -  Financial intervention: Yes. In randomized setting, comparing coverage of ante- and
           postnatal care to in service-training of clinical skills, in non-randomized setting
           comparing coverage of ante- and postnatal care to normal local coverage system (control
           group of matched pairs).

        -  In service-training:

             1. Clinical skills: Yes. In randomized setting, comparing in service-training of
                clinical skills to coverage of ante- and postnatal care, in non-randomized setting
                comparing in service-training of clinical skills to normal local coverage system
                (control group of matched pairs).

             2. Health education: Yes. In randomized setting, comparing in service training of
                health education to normal local system, control group (in one county) and to group
                of clinical skills and control group (in one county).

        -  Control group: randomized townships. - 25 townships in Zhen'an County are divided into 2
           groups (12 clusters): one intervention and one control group

        -  29 townships in Lantian County are divided into three groups (10 clusters): two
           intervention groups and one control group.

      Province of Anhui Basic design: randomized townships, 3 groups (in two counties), comparing 4
      different interventions to randomized control groups (Figure 3)

        -  Financial intervention: Yes, in a randomized setting, comparing coverage of antenatal
           and postnatal care to the control and in-service training groups.

        -  In service-training of clinical skills: Yes, in a randomized setting, comparing the
           in-service training group to the control group and to the group of antenatal and
           postnatal care.

        -  In service-training of health education: Yes, in a randomized setting, comparing two
           different types of health education to the control group.

        -  Control groups: randomized townships

        -  18 townships in Fanchang county are divided into 2 intervention groups (Group 1 and
           Group 2) and one control group (Group 3)

        -  12 townships in Xuancheng county are divided into two intervention groups (Group 4 and
           Group 5) and one control group (Group 6).
    
  