
    
      The prognosis of exudative age-related macular degeneration (AMD) accompanied by submacular
      hemorrhage is generally poor. Although anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) has
      been demonstrated excellent efficacy in the treatment of exudative AMD, eyes with submacular
      hemorrhage were excluded from the previous well-known clinical trials. The exclusion of these
      patients may probably be determined by some concerns suggesting possible poor prognosis in
      these patients. Firstly, it was well known that subretinal hemorrhage itself induces retinal
      damage and degeneration. Secondly, it was not certain whether the drug penetrates through
      hemorrhage and stabilize to the underlying lesion or not. As a result, the efficacy in
      submacular hemorrhage could not be demonstrated in these clinical trials.

      The efficacy of anti-VEGF therapy in eyes with submacular hemorrhage has recently been
      spotlighted. Several reports demonstrated significant improvement in visual acuity after
      anti-VEGF monotherapy, including LucentisTM, AvastinTM, or both, in eyes with exudative AMD
      with submacular hemorrhage. Although histopathologic evidence using animal model has not been
      presented, results of these clinical studies suggest that anti-VEGF may penetrates the
      hemorrhage and stabilize the underlying lesion. Recently, a large prospective clinical trial
      that evaluated the efficacy of anti-VEGF therapy in this condition showed favorable outcome.
      Result of this study may be published in a near future

      A recently developed anti-VEGF agent eyeliaTM is also a useful treatment option for exudative
      AMD. The result of VIEW study clearly demonstrated that this new agent has comparable
      efficacy to LucentisTM using less frequent injection schedule. However, one major limitation
      of VIEW study was that lack of data regarding eyes with submacular hemorrhage. Investigators
      carefully reviewed the study protocol of VIEW study and found that lesions composed of >50%
      blood were excluded. In addition, investigators could not aware any report in English
      literature that evaluated the efficacy of eyeliaTM in exudative AMD with submacular
      hemorrhage.

      It took almost 8 years to demonstrate the efficacy of two previously available anti-VEGF
      agents (LucentisTM and AvastinTM) in eyes with submacular hemorrhage. Investigators believe
      that a prospective study evaluating the efficacy of eyeliaTM in exudative AMD with submacular
      hemorrhage may help to achieve a consensus that eyeliaTM is also a useful treatment for
      submacular hemorrhage within a relatively short time.

      The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the efficacy of Eylea in submacular
      hemorrhage secondary to exudative AMD.
    
  