
    
      Critically ill patients often develop endocrine and metabolic changes, particularly
      disruptions of glucose homeostasis that result in hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia.Stress
      hyperglycemia commonly occurs in children with critical illnesses.

      Stress hyperglycemia results from increased gluconeogenesis relative to the clearance of
      glucose as well as from the development of insulin resistance affecting glucose uptake. These
      mechanisms are mediated through increased production of counteracting hormones (i.e.,
      epinephrine, norepinephrine, cortisol, glucagon, and growth hormone). Furthermore, stress
      hyperglycemia is associated with pro-inflammatory cytokines, oxidative stress, and
      therapeutic interventions. Those factors in turn inhibit the secretion of insulin by
      pancreatic β cells through α-adrenergic receptor stimulation, interfere with insulin receptor
      signaling and/or insulin-regulated glucose channels, and directly interfere with proper
      glucose transport and utilization in peripheral cells.

      Several studies have demonstrated the association of stress hyperglycemia in critically ill
      children with mortality. Specifically, peak and duration of stress hyperglycemia appear to be
      associated with mortality. Peak blood glucose concentrations tend to be much higher in non
      survivors compared with survivors. Similarly, non survivors tend to have exposure to longer
      duration of stress hyperglycemia compared with survivors. This association of stress
      hyperglycemia with mortality appears across different pediatric disease states, including
      septic shock, burns, traumatic brain injury, post cardiac surgery, and trauma. Additionally,
      stress hyperglycemia is associated with longer periods of ICU and hospital stay and more
      frequent nosocomial infections, including surgical site infections in critically ill
      children. While all these studies demonstrate strong associations between stress
      hyperglycemia and poor clinical outcomes, they do not necessarily demonstrate a cause and
      effect relationship.
    
  