
    
      This study has two primary aims: 1) to determine the effects of intra-articular suction drain
      use, placed during total knee arthroplasty (TKA), on postoperative knee joint effusion, which
      is the collection of fluid in the joint capsule, and lower extremity swelling compared to a
      TKA without the use of an intra-articular drain and, 2) to describe the relationship between
      postoperative lower extremity swelling and quadriceps function (strength and activation). The
      use of intra-articular drains during TKA surgery has been highly disputed, due to the fear of
      increasing risk of infection from a secondary incision site, however, past studies have found
      no increased risk of complication from drain use. Furthermore, studies have shown that drain
      use may reduce the amount of hidden blood loss, or blood that is collected in the
      intra-articular space. Of interest, effusion may be associated with decreased quadriceps
      function. Previous research examining the influence of knee effusion on quadriceps function
      has shown that with laboratory-induced acute knee effusion, quadriceps activation and force
      production are reduced. However, previous findings lack the ability to inform care for
      patients following TKA due to the acute nature of the effusion and the inability to translate
      findings from healthy individuals to a clinical population. This study has the potential to
      greatly improve care for patients undergoing TKA by informing the surgical procedure while
      also providing important evidence for the influence of postoperative swelling on quadriceps
      muscle function.

      In order to maintain patient blinding, a non-functional subcutaneous drain will be placed in
      the non-randomized knee. Patients will be blinded to any fluid output from the
      intra-articular drain.

      A medial parapatellar approach will be utilized for exposure of the knee. All TKAs will be
      performed using a gap balancing technique with substitution of the posterior collateral
      ligament (PCL). In all cases, a tensioning device will be used to establish balanced,
      symmetrical flexion and extension spaces. All TKA procedures will utilize cemented implants.
      Randomly assigned drains (intra-articular or subcutaneous) will be placed in respective knees
      before closure. All patients will be treated with Tranexamic Acid intravenously to
      standardize blood loss and effusion.

      All patients will be provided standard rehabilitation protocol during their inpatient stay.
      After hospital discharge, patients will be encouraged to receive outpatient physical therapy
      2-3 times per week for 6 weeks.
    
  