
    
      Pediatric bronchoscopy requires moderate to deep sedation in order to maintain patient
      comfort and safety, while optimizing the working environment for the physician performing the
      procedure. There is a paucity of pediatric research in the field of pediatric flexible
      bronchoscopy and data are often extrapolated from adult studies.

      Propofol is often used as the sedation drug for this procedure due to its rapid sedative
      effect and favorable emergence profile. Propofol's major limitation is its tendency to cause
      apneas, which can occur in a relatively narrow therapeutic window. Apnea risk decreases with
      the patient's age and administering physician's familiarity and experience with the drug.

      Ketamine is a drug often used for pediatric procedural sedation. Its pharmacologic safety
      profile is very wide, allowing a wide spectrum of dosing with a significantly reduced risk of
      apnea when compared to propofol. Known adverse effects of the drug include its emergence
      profile which may be accompanied by hallucinations, bronchorrhea and laryngospasm.
      Hallucinations may be prevented by using benzodiazepines concurrently and are possibly more
      pronounced in teenaged children compared to infants, although post-sedation irritability in
      the latter group might be an expression of this. Bronchorrhea, while usually not of
      significant concern during procedural sedation, has the potential to play a more noteworthy
      role during bronchoscopy. Significant airway secretions can create a difficult working
      environment for the pulmonologist performing the procedure. Patient safety may also be
      affected, as increased airway secretions reduce visibility in pediatric airways that are
      narrow to begin with and further compromised by placement of the bronchoscope. Potentially,
      this might also impact on the child's air flow and gas exchange. Laryngospasm during the
      procedure potentially hinders passage of the scope beyond the vocal cords and might extend
      the duration of the procedure.

      In the investigators' center, propofol has most often been the sedative drug of choice for
      bronchoscopy. Yet, ketamine has been used at times due to its safety profile and the
      administering physicians level of comfort with each drug.

      Aim:

      To compare operator satisfaction and adverse effects in children presenting for flexible
      bronchoscopy using ketamine versus propofol as the primary sedative agent.
    
  