
    
      Bronchoscopy Stable, lung transplant recipients undergoing surveillance bronchoscopy will be
      enrolled. We will exclude subjects with new or persistent cough, hypoxemia, new radiographic
      infiltrates, or hemodynamic instability.

      Before bronchoscopy, patients will receive diazepam while codeine and atropine will be
      withheld. Upper airway anesthesia was performed using cotton swabs soaked with 4 % lidocaine
      applied on the oropharyngeal mucosa and gradually placed posteriorly with the aid of curved
      foreceps to anesthetize the supraglottic region. A trained individual will perform topical
      upper airway anesthesia over 15 minutes and adequate anesthesia will be determined once
      subjects fail to cough during foreceps application to the supraglottic region. Conscious
      sedation will be administered using intravenous midazolam while vital signs are monitored.
      Once adequate sedation is achieved, the bronchoscope will be introduced through the mouth
      beyond the vocal chords to the main carina and slowly advanced to the airway anastomosis.
      Coughing that occurs with advancement of the bronchoscope from the chords to the anastomosis
      will be addressed by maintaining the bronchoscope in an immobile neutral position for 60-180
      seconds until coughing stops and the cough provocation will be performed.

      Cough provocation Airway irritants will be applied in the following sequence: 1) one cm
      distal to anastomosis, 2) one cm proximal to anastomosis and 3) at the main carina. Chemical
      irritation will consist of 3 mL aliquots of 5 % dextrose water (D5W) instilled through the
      bronchoscope channel on the bronchial mucosa (21). Aliquots of D5W will be administered at
      each site on three separate occasions with a 60 second interval between administrations.
      Mechanical irritation will involve placement of the biopsy foreceps on the bronchial mucosa
      at each site. The sequence of airway irritation sites will always begin with the distal
      anastomosis followed by the proximal anastomosis and main carina.

      Airway lidocaine administration Patients demonstrating a cough reflex at the distal
      anastomotic site will be recorded. After measurements are obtained at all airway sites, the
      bronchoscope will be reintroduced to the distal anastomosis and 3 mL of 4 % lidocaine
      instilled on the bronchial mucosa. Sixty seconds later, mechanical and chemical irritation of
      the proximal and distal anastomosis will be performed as previously outlined.

      Cough assessment Cough frequency will be determined by counting audible coughs and abdominal
      muscle contractions measured with a surface electromyograph (EMG) recorder. Surface
      electrodes placed on the skin, 2 cm below each costal margin along the midclavicular line
      will be connected to an EMG recorder (Biopac Systems Inc, Santa Barbara, CA) linked to a
      dedicated computer. Continuous EMG recordings will be obtained 15 seconds before
      administration of the airway irritant to ensure absence of cough before airway irritant
      administration (Figure 1). Twenty seconds or more of recording will be obtained after airway
      irritant application. Cough will be defined as abdominal muscle contraction and audible
      expiratory sound.
    
  