
    
      design and settings: This study is a descriptive, cross-sectional and multicenter study
      conducted at Tanta and Benha Universities, Egypt in the period from August, 1, 2018 to
      December, 31, 2018.

      Patients:

      Eligibility: Nine hundred patients were selected carefully according to inclusion and
      exclusion criteria. The inclusion criteria were: (i) Primipara having prior cesarean delivery
      whether scheduled or emergency (ii) Term delivery ≥ 37 weeks of gestation (iii) Multipara
      having the last delivery by cesarean either scheduled or emergency (iv) The interval
      following cesarean delivery to be 6 months at least and (v) Double-layer repair of uterus and
      (vi) Cesarean by pfannensteil incisions. The exclusion criteria were: (i) Repeat cesarean
      sections (ii) Preterm delivery (iii) Associated placental abnormalities (iv) Single-layer
      repair of uterus and (v) Refusal to participate.

      Allocations: This study is not a clinical trial so allocation is made based on
      characteristics of patients and eligibility to be allocated in either scheduled cesarean
      group or emergency cesarean group. The allocation was not equal based on the percentage of
      patients in either group. The scheduled cesarean group included 580 cases while the emergency
      cesarean group included 320 cases from both universities.

      Intervention: Cesarean scar assessment included both uterine scar and cutaneous scar. The
      uterine scar was assessed by transvaginal 3D ultrasound. The used device in both universities
      was DC-30 device of Mindray Company. All ultrasound examinations were conducted by third
      author in this study. Cutaneous scar was assessed by surgery department represented by the
      fourth author in this study. The uterine scar in both groups was examined for distance from
      internal os, length, thickness, volume, vasculature and presence of any defects. Cutaneous
      scar was examined for distance from symphysis pubis, length, shape, any depressed areas, any
      defects (hernia orifice), sinus and presence of keloid or hypertrophic scar.
    
  