
    
      Background

      The improvements in access to antiretroviral therapy (ART) among people living with HIV/AIDs
      (PLWHA) has resulted in a decrease in HIV-associated morbidity and mortality. This is
      particularly true in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), which bear the largest burden
      of HIV. The reduction in mortality has substantially increased life expectancy, with
      estimates among PLWHA now approaching that of the general population (Asiki, Reniers et al.
      2016). Consequently, there has been increased attention among survivors to the emerging
      burden of non-communicable diseases (NCD), such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
      (COPD) (Geneau, Stuckler et al. 2010). Sub-Saharan Africa, which has the highest density of
      PLWHA, has experienced dramatic increases in COPD related-morbidity and mortality (van Zyl
      Smit, Pai et al. 2010, Asiki, Reniers et al. 2016). Studies are urgently needed to further
      elucidate the pathogenesis of COPD, and to determine optimal screening and treatment
      strategies (Asiki, Reniers et al. 2016, Drummond, Kunisaki et al. 2016). Associations between
      lung dysbiosis and COPD exacerbation phenotypes have been demonstrated in the general
      population(Wang, Bafadhel et al. 2016). However, it still remains unknown why PLWHA have
      higher prevalence of COPD compared with the general population (Drummond, Kunisaki et al.
      2016). No data currently exists on lung microbiome in the general Sub Saharan African
      population including Uganda. There is a need to explore the dynamics of the lung microbiome
      (Cui, Morris et al. 2014, Wang, Bafadhel et al. 2016) and elucidate immune-mediated responses
      responsible for irreversible lung damage that may follow lung dysbiosis in the setting of HIV
      infection (Hutchinson, Vlahos et al. 2014, Wang, Bafadhel et al. 2016). Understanding the
      role of lung dysbiosis in the pathogenesis of HIV-associated COPD is of utmost significance
      in the African setting with the highest HIV/AIDs burden(Cassol, Cassetta et al. 2010, Morris,
      George et al. 2011).

      Study hypothesis

      Altered lung microbiome in HIV infected individuals is associated with chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease (COPD).

      Specific aims

        1. To determine the lung microbiome among HIV-infected and uninfected individuals without
           COPD (healthy controls).

        2. To determine the lung microbiome among HIV-infected individuals with COPD.

        3. To compare lung microbiome among HIV-infected individuals with COPD and HIV negative
           individuals with COPD.

        4. To determine the association between lung microbiome and COPD in HIV-infected
           individuals.

      Problem Statement

      Whereas multiple studies on lung microbiome and its role in COPD exacerbations are currently
      being carried out in the western world (Cui, Morris et al. 2014, Sze, Hogg et al. 2014, Wang,
      Bafadhel et al. 2016) , there is limited literature on the role of HIV in COPD pathogenesis
      (Morris, George et al. 2011, Drummond, Kunisaki et al. 2016). It is still unknown why
      HIV-infected individuals develop COPD with a prevalence higher than their HIV-negative
      counterparts (Morris, George et al. 2011). No data currently exists on lung microbiome in the
      general Sub Saharan African population including Uganda. Research is urgently needed to
      describe the lung microbiome in individuals without COPD and to elucidate the pathogenesis of
      COPD in HIV (Morris, George et al. 2011, Drummond, Kunisaki et al. 2016).

      Justification

      Establishing an association between lung microbiome and HIV-associated COPD is of utmost
      significance in the African setting with the highest HIV/AIDs burden.Knowledge from such a
      study will to guide the development of optimal screening and treatment strategies of COPD in
      HIV population.

      Methods

      A cross sectional study will be conducted among HIV-infected individuals attending ART
      clinics in Nakaseke and HIV negative individuals from Lung function in Nakaseke (LiNK) study.

      Estimated sample size

      Applying the hypothesis testing and power calculations for taxonomic-based human microbiome
      data using the Human Microbiome project-R (HMP-R) statistical package (version1.4.3) which
      operates on the Dirichlet-multinomial model[33], For significance level (alpha set at = 5%),
      number of participants N = 50; number of sequence reads ≥20,000 (considered as cut off for
      quality control), power ≥99.99% (this power is sufficient to detect the effect size that is
      anticipated to be observed in the sequence data). Considering 20% non-participation rate, the
      sample size for each group will be 63 participants.

      Study site selection

      Nakaseke district ART clinics have been chosen as the study sites because of the ongoing
      COPD/HIV study whose objectives are to determine the prevalence and factors associated with
      COPD in HIV. Over 752 HIV-infected individuals have been screened for COPD following standard
      guidelines. In addition, the LiNK study (Lung Function in Nakaseke and Kampala (LiNK), PI:
      Kirenga, Checkley) was also conducted in Nakaseke. It was a population based observational
      study assessing COPD prevalence, risk factors and symptomatology in rural communities of
      Nakaseke using a stratified random sample of 1000 individuals above 35 years of age and full
      time residents of Nakaseke.

      Sampling procedure

      Using Epi tool random number generator (La Rosa, Brooks et al. 2012), the study staff will
      select 63 participants in the target groups from our respective cohorts. The research
      assistant will document their age, sex and smoking history. The COPD+HIV+ group will be used
      to identify participants from other groups.

      Study plan

      Trained research assistants and a medical officer will be based at Nakaseke ART clinics.
      Randomly selected participants will be contacted by phone. The study team will explain the
      protocol to the participants and if interested, a study visit will be scheduled by the
      research assistant. They will obtain informed consent from participants and a baseline
      spirometry will be done. The study staff will carry out sputum induction procedure following
      standard operating procedures. Induced sputum specimens will be collected using sputum DNA
      collection, preservation and isolation Kits following manufacturer's instructions. The
      components of the preservative will allow the collected samples to be stored for more than 2
      years without any detectable DNA degradation.

      Specimen handling

      Specimen will be handled as per the standard operating procedures. Briefly, sputum specimens
      will placed in a leak proof biohazard bag with sealed lids and absorbent material. All
      specimens will be transported in compliance with local and national regulations governing the
      transport of potentially infectious materials.

      Core laboratory for specimen processing

      Molecular diagnostics laboratory and Integrated Biorepository laboratory located at Makerere
      University College of Health Sciences on the 3rd floor of the Medical Microbiology building
      will be used for sample processing.

      Genomic DNA extraction

      Bacterial genomic DNA will be extracted from 200 microlitres of sputum samples using
      commercially available kits.

      Genomic DNA extraction controls

      ZymoBIOMICS Microbial Community Standard will be used as a positive sample control when
      preparing DNA samples. Storage Buffer from DNA Collection Kit with no sample added will be
      used as negative control.

      V3 and V4 hypervariable region polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification

      The V3 and V4 hypervariable region of the 16S rRNA gene will be PCR amplified utilizing
      commercially available primers.

      16S rRNA sequencing

      DNA sequencing will be done in batches utilizing MiSeq sequencing platform following
      manufacturer's protocol. Each batch will consist of randomized samples from the two groups. A
      1x26 MiSeq run will be performed to check cluster density and normalization of samples.
      Illumina metagenomics workflow by MiSeq Reporter version 2.3 will be used for demultiplexing
      indexed reads, generating sequence files, and classifying reads. Stringent criteria will be
      used to remove low quality and chimeric reads.

      Statistical analysis

      For specific aim 1, 2 and 3

        1. Clustering 16SrRNA sequence reads into OTUs:

           After quality control and data cleaning, the remaining reads will be subjected to an
           open reference operational taxonomical unit (OTU) picking (97% identity cut-off) in
           which reads will be firstly clustered against the Greengenes reference sequences. OTUs
           will be rarefied to the lowest number of reads among all samples, and the rarefied OTU
           table will be used for assessing alpha and beta diversity . A jack-knifing Principal
           Coordinate Analysis (PCoA) will be performed to assess the robustness of the results.

        2. Composition of the lung microbiome in the target compared with control groups:

      The investigators will compute the mean percentage abundance of all the identified taxonomic
      clusters OTUs) or bacterial species in the target population vs. the control group. This data
      will be summarized and presented in histogram.

      For specific aim 3

        1. A multivariate model between OTUs, clinical status (COPD/HIV) and/or clinical data will
           be developed. This will be achieved by performing a general linear regression for each
           continuous variable and the binary outcome. To establish the relationship between OTUs
           and a group of clinical data, a canonical correspondence analysis will be performed.

           For the microbiome dataset, OTUs that will be present in at least 10% of all samples
           will be included in the analysis. For the clinical dataset, variables that will be
           missing in more than 50% of all samples will be excluded to minimize the effects of
           missing values. Collinearity will be addressed using pairwise Pearson's correlation test
           on microbiome and clinical variables. Significant model components will be selected by
           cross validation using the Auto-fit option with default criteria in the SIMCA-P (Wang,
           Bafadhel et al. 2016).

        2. Measuring association between OTUs, HIV, COPD status and clinical data A co-occurrence
           network will be established by correlation of individual OTUs. Pairwise Pearson's
           correlation test will be used to assess the significance of co-occurrence relationships,
           and only significant correlations will be retained (adjusted P-value < 0.05). The False
           Discovery Rate (FDR) method will be used throughout to adjust P-values (adj. P) for
           multiple tests (Wang, Bafadhel et al. 2016). Unstable edges whose scores will not be
           within 95% confidence interval of bootstrap distribution will be removed from the
           network. Missing values will be omitted from correlation calculations. For the OTU
           network, the 100 top-ranking and 100 bottom-ranking edges will be displayed in the final
           network (Wang, Bafadhel et al. 2016).

      Study limitations

      In this study, the scope of our investigations will involve bacterial communities in the
      lungs which the investigators will identify by 16SrRNA sequencing. The investigators
      acknowledge that other microbe communities (viral, fungal and parasites) may play a role in
      COPD pathogenesis and exacerbation.

      Ethical consideration

      The study was approved by the Uganda National Council of Science and Technology (UNCST) and
      Mulago Hospital Research Ethics Committee (MHREC). No invasive procedures are being done to
      the participants and all screening will include standard point of care approaches.

      Informed consent process:

      Confidentiality

      Participants will be given unique identification numbers to replace their identifiable data.
      No participant identifiers will be attached to participant data. Study staff will have access
      to raw data. All data will be stored in a password protected, fully encrypted database,
      accessible only to the study staff and investigators responsible for analysis.
    
  