
    
      We are at a critical time to examine new, innovative strategies to promote healthy pregnancy
      and optimize maternal and newborn outcomes. Generating successful strategies will require
      careful examination of existing service delivery models, challenging the current structure of
      care provision. One aspect of care, recently identified by the World Health Organization,
      which merits further research, is group antenatal care (ANC).

      Since ANC is widely available and attended by the majority of pregnant women in Ghana without
      the expected impact on birth outcomes, it is vital to examine the way antenatal health
      messages are delivered. Pregnant women must receive health information that is accurate and
      easy to understand for them to make informed choices to improve their health and the health
      of their baby. A critical component of all ANC is teaching women to recognize the major
      complications that account for the majority of preventable maternal and newborn deaths.
      Antenatal care provides an opportunity to promote a healthy lifestyle, to integrate positive
      health behaviors, and to develop a trusting relationship with a provider and the health
      system. Interactions during ANC provide the opportunity to identify and treat numerous
      problems, as well as providing a setting to improve women's health literacy. Patients must
      receive health messages in a manner that allows them to process and evaluate the information
      and ultimately use it to impact their own health.

      The effectiveness of ANC depends on the multidimensional concept of health literacy.
      Initially considered only as a patient's ability to read and understand written information,
      it is now more broadly defined as a person's ability to acquire or access information,
      understand it, and use the information in ways that promote and maintain good health. Despite
      a burgeoning emphasis on health literacy in high resource countries, there are a dearth of
      studies examining interventions to improve health literacy in low-resource settings. Even
      fewer studies have examined maternal health literacy, defined as the "cognitive and social
      skills which determine the motivation and ability of women to gain access to, understand, and
      use information in ways that promote and maintain their health and that of their children''.
      New approaches to improve health literacy are sorely needed in countries where women and
      newborns continue to die from preventable causes.

      Antenatal care has been delivered the same way for decades. Clinics and hospitals in
      low-resource countries are notorious for providing ethnocentric care, privileging northern
      medical values at the expense of traditional and community values. Yet health literacy is
      affected by the cultural context in which learning takes place, including, but not limited
      to, belief systems, traditions, understanding, and communication styles. Transmitting health
      information in a clinical setting often fails to take into account the social and economic
      circumstances of patients, therefore not achieving the expected impact on health behaviors.
      This divide has contributed to a lack of progress in reaching the most vulnerable
      populations. If pregnant women do not receive health messages in a comprehensible way, they
      cannot effectively maximize the benefits of the health system. Substantially improving
      women's ability to understand and utilize health information is of utmost importance if we
      are to reach the global targets of 70 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births by 2030 and a
      neonatal mortality rate of 12 per 1000 live births set by WHO/USAID.

      The investigators hypothesize that pregnant women randomized into group ANC will exhibit
      increased health literacy through:

        1. Increased BPCR, including recognition of danger signs and knowledge of how to respond to
           such signs

        2. Higher rates of care-seeking behaviors, including seeking care for problems identified
           during pregnancy, higher facility delivery rates, and increased attendance at postnatal
           and postpartum care

        3. Better clinical outcomes for themselves and their newborns than women who received the
           routine, individual ANC.

      The intervention consists of nine meetings; one individual meeting and eight group meetings.
      At the initial ANC visit, women are assigned to a small groups with up to14 women of similar
      gestational age. Women meet individually with the midwife and the standard history and
      physical exam as well as lab tests are completed; group visits start at the second ANC visit.
      Prior to the start of each group, blood pressure, weight, and a urinalysis are measured for
      each woman. The midwife, health facility staff member, and patients then sit in circle facing
      one another for a 60-90 minute facilitated discussion. The health facility staff member will
      assist the midwife with group activities. The model uses strategies such as story-telling,
      peer support, and demonstration and teach-back to enhance its effectiveness. Health literacy
      is incorporated as an integral part of clinical practice within the model - not as an add-on
      to care.
    
  