
    
      Primary Study Endpoints The primary endpoint of this study to be measured would be topical
      steroid prescription records (including unit sizes, potencies, and number of prescriptions)
      from study participants before and during use of this app.

      Secondary Study Endpoints The study participants will also be asked to take surveys to rate
      user satisfaction and clinical utility.

      2.1 Scientific Background and Gaps The literature has shown that patients with dermatologic
      conditions may not receive appropriate management by PCPs. Dermatologic conditions are
      common, affecting 20-36% of patients in PCP offices; however PCPs report diagnostic and
      management uncertainty.1,2 PCPs have been shown to prescribe either inappropriately
      high-potency TCS or, conversely, inappropriately low-potency TCS.3 In addition, it was
      recently found that drug costs may be higher if multiple small tubes are dispensed over the
      treatment course.4 Thus, there are opportunities to reduce cost by prescribing larger units,
      when indicated; however PCPs may not have the knowledge to effectively and cost-efficiently
      prescribe TCS. Teaching this information is not sufficient, since most (71%) medical schools
      provided nine or fewer hours of instruction in the first two years.5 Importantly, mobile
      devices and apps provide significantly increased access to point-of-care tools and, with use
      by providers, demonstrate better clinical decision-making and improved patient outcomes.6,7
      Thus, our goal is to develop a point-of-care decision support app to educate PCPs while
      facilitating evidence-based care and lower health care costs.

      The mobile application will be developed by a team at Penn State Hershey from the results
      obtained in a systematic literature review and quality assessment of clinical practice
      guidelines for topical corticosteroid use. The quality of the guidelines will be assessed
      using the AGREE II tool. After the app user enters in information concerning patients' rash
      location and desired treatment duration, the app will generate a list of recommended topical
      steroids (focusing on specific quantity and potency) for the patient's particular area of
      need. It is ultimately up to the physician whether or not to follow or modify the recommended
      suggestions.

      Study Rationale Smartphone applications are rising rapidly in popularity in the healthcare
      field. 85% of clinicians are reported as owners of smart phones, with 50% of them using apps
      in their practice.8 Use of smartphone technology and clinical decision support tools may mean
      improvements in primary care practices by assisting in the standardization of the prescribing
      practices for TCS while allowing dermatologists more availability for patients with higher
      need.
    
  