
    
      Repetition of self-harm is common, ranging from 6% to 30% in 12 months. Repetition is
      strongly associated with subsequent suicide and has important implications for healthcare
      resources. In every country including Ireland, fatal suicide attempts rank among the top ten
      causes of death for individual of all ages and one of the three leading causes of death in
      the 15 -35 years age group.

      Previous studies of interventions to reduce the repetition of self-harm in unselected patient
      groups have been unsuccessful in reducing the proportion of repeaters. These interventions
      have included the use of antidepressants, problem solving, intensive care with outreach, an
      emergency card, psychosocial crisis intervention, and guaranteed inpatient shelter in cases
      of emergency. In a study involving the use of low cost postcards after an episode of
      self-poisoning, although no significant difference in the proportion of individual patients
      who repeated self-harm were detected, there was a clinically and statistically significant
      reduction in the number of events per individual by about 50%.

      Only a few non-pharmacological interventions have been reported to be effective in reducing
      repetition in selected subsets of populations with self-harm including; partial
      hospitalization, dialectical behaviour therapy and psychodynamic interpersonal therapy. These
      interventions are all resource intensive and therefore may only be applicable to carefully
      selected patients.

      Given the recent global financial crisis with consequent diminution of health care resources,
      interventions are needed that could be delivered economically to entire populations of
      patients who self-harm. In light of the growing interest in using text messages as an
      intervention in healthcare, the investigators will focus in this study on exploring the
      potential for using text messages to reduce repeat self-harm in patients presenting to the
      Emergency Department (ED).

      There is established research evidence for using text messages to remind patients of
      scheduled medical appointments, to coordinate medical staff,to deliver medical test results
      and to monitor patient side effects following treatment.

      In a review of the literature on the use of text messaging for clinical and healthy behaviour
      interventions, Wei et al. (2011) found that among 16 randomized controlled trials, 10
      reported significant improvement with interventions and six reported differences suggesting
      positive trends. In one meta-analysis of four randomised trials of mobile phone-based
      interventions for smoking cessation, it was reported that text message interventions resulted
      in a significant increase in short-term self-reported quitting (RR of 2.18, 95% CI 1.80 to
      2.65). In the same review, when data from an internet and a mobile phone programme were
      pooled and meta-analysed, they found significant increases in both short-, and long-term,
      self-reported quitting (RR of 2.03, 95% Conficence Intervals (CI)= 1.40 to 2.94).

      In a study of text message services based on qualitative interviews with 12 young people, the
      aim of which was to provide young people with information on cannabis and help them to reduce
      their consumption of the drug, participants reported that they saw the messages as flexible
      and discrete, and as being personally meant for them. They paid more attention to the
      messages than they did to mass approaches such as public information broadcasts on TV. Along
      with other factors, the participants reported feeling motivated to decrease their level of
      cannabis abuse and to maintain a reduced level. .

      In another study, young adults in 3 urban EDs (n= 45; aged 18 to 24 years, 54% women) who
      were identified as hazardous drinkers by the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification
      Test-Consumption Score were randomly assigned by the researchers to weekly text message-based
      feedback with goal setting (Intervention), weekly text message-based drinking assessments
      without feedback (Assessment), or to a control who received no text messages. At 3 months,
      they found that participants who were exposed to the text message-based intervention had 3.4
      (Standard Deviation (SD)= 5.4) fewer heavy drinking days in the last month and 2.1 (SD 1.5)
      fewer drinks per drinking day when compared to baseline.

      In a recent randomised trial in Ireland of supportive text messages for patients with
      depression and comorbid alcohol use disorder, there was a trend towards finding a greater
      cumulative abstinence duration in the group that received twice daily supportive text
      messages compared to the control group who only received fortnightly tank you text messages:
      88.3 (SD=6.2) vs. 79.3 (SD=24.1), t=1.78, df=48, p=0.08. In this trial, after adjusting for
      baseline scores, patients in the supportive text message group also had significantly lower
      Beck's Depression Inventory Scores compared to the control groups; 8.5 (SD=8.0) vs. 16.7
      (SD=10.3) respectively, F (1, 49) = 9.54, p=0.003, ƞp2=0.17.

      In a study by Owens et al. (2010) to engage a group of self-harmers in the development of a
      text-messaging intervention to reduce repetition of self-harm, three broad categories of
      message emerged, namely, those that affirmed or validated emotions (e.g. "it's ok to feel
      angry"), those that prescribed actions, distractions or cognitive strategies (e.g. "call
      Samaritans," "have a warm bath"," take it a minute at a time") and those that were
      interrogative or designed to initiate dialogue (e.g. "do you want to talk?"). They also found
      that the group were unable to reach an agreement on a set of messages that might work in all
      circumstances to reduce the urge to self-harm or to enable people to feel cared for,
      concluding instead that text messages may need to be individualised. A major limitation of
      this study was its small sample size of only 8 people. Furthermore, participants in this
      study only reported how they envisaged they would respond to text messages rather than how
      they actually responded to text messages which could vary significantly from what is
      reported. In the recent randomised trial in Ireland of generic supportive text messages for
      patients with depression and comorbid alcohol use disorder, 20 of the 24 patients (83%)
      reported that the intervention had played a useful role in helping to improve their mental
      health.

      Recently, the Samaritans in Ireland introduce a limited interactive text message programme
      for patients who experience suicidal ideation. This service allows clients to receive support
      when in crisis via an interactive text messaging programme from a trained volunteer.

      After an extensive review of the literature using Google Scholar, MEDLINE, Pub Med, ERIC, Web
      of Science, Science Direct and PsychINFO, no published randomised trial was found on the use
      of text messages delivered via mobile phone as an intervention to address suicidal ideation
      and repeat self-harm in patients presenting with self-harm to the ED. Thus, the investigators
      seek to determine if text messaging is a useful and effective strategy to help reduce the
      frequency and intensity of thoughts of self-harm and depressive symptoms after patients are
      discharged from an ED following a presentation with self-harm.

      The investigators hypothesize that supportive, informative and interactive text messages
      delivered to patients discharged from an ED after an episode of self-harm will significantly
      reduce the frequency and intensity of thoughts of self-harm and self-harming behaviour in
      patients compared with those receiving only follow-up treatment as usual. A secondary
      hypothesis is that patients receiving the text messages will report a favourable experience
      and an overall satisfaction with the system.
    
  