
    
      The Bio-Rad SARS-CoV-2 ddPCR Test is a reverse transcription (RT) droplet digital polymerase
      chain reaction (ddPCR) test designed to detect RNA from SARS-CoV-2 in specimens (mainly
      nasopharyngeal, anterior nasal, oropharyngeal and mid-turbinate swab but also nasopharyngeal
      wash/aspirate and nasal aspirate specimens) collected from individuals who are suspected of
      COVID-19 infection.

      This single assay multiplex test enables a one-well reaction with three sets of the
      oligonucleotide primers and probes which were reported by CDC. Two were selected from regions
      of the virus nucleocapsid (N) gene. An additional primer/probe included in the panel is set
      to detect the human RNase P gene (RP) in control samples and clinical specimens.

      RNA isolated and purified from swab specimens is added to the mastermix comprised of reverse
      transcriptase whereby RNA is converted into cDNA and then amplified, using the Bio-Rad
      One-Step RT-ddPCR Advanced Kit for Probes.

      Briefly, the sample and mastermix RT-ddPCR mixtures are fractionated into up to 20,000
      nanoliter-sized droplets in the form of a water-in-oil emulsion. The 96-well RT-ddPCR ready
      plate containing droplets is sealed with foil using a plate sealer. The emulsions are then
      thermocycled to achieve reverse transcription to generate cDNA followed by target
      amplification plus probe hydrolysis in each droplet. After thermocycling is complete, the
      96-well RT-ddPCR ready plate is loaded into the Droplet Reader. The Droplet Reader singulates
      the droplets and flows them past a two-color fluorescence detector (FAM and HEX) in order to
      determine which contain target (positive) and which do not (negative) for each of the targets
      identified with the SARS-CoV-2 ddPCR Test: N1, N2 and RP. The ddPCR system uses the
      QuantaSoft 1.7 and QuantaSoft Analysis Pro 1.0 for analysis software.
    
  