
    
      Background While there is ample research documenting the problems people diagnosed with
      cancer face, including high levels of distress, anxiety, depression and symptoms such as
      fatigue, pain and sleep disturbance, there is also a limited but growing body of evidence
      supporting the efficacy of a range of mind-body therapies (MBTs) in alleviating these and
      other symptoms. The investigators have chosen to focus on comparing MBCR and TCQ because both
      have level 1 evidence in cancer care, and both have shown potential to affect important
      biomarkers and clinical outcomes. Both interventions are similarly rooted in meditative
      practice, but MBCR has greater emphasis on mental practice, while TCQ is more emphatically a
      body movement-based practice. The investigators also anticipate that many patients will have
      a preference for one or the other. Evidence for the efficacy of each will be briefly reviewed
      followed by details of study design and methods.

      Mindfulness-Based Cancer Recovery (MBCR) Through an ongoing program of research the
      investigators adapted a group intervention based on intensive training in mindfulness
      meditation (Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction; MBSR) specifically for people with cancer,
      and called it Mindfulness-Based Cancer Recovery (MBCR), acknowledging the roots of the
      program but also that its form and content is somewhat different, and focused primarily on
      the challenges faced by people living with cancer. It is an 8-week program consisting of
      weekly group meetings of 1.5 to 2 hours, shortened from traditional MBSR based on practical
      logistical concerns and the needs of the study population. Home practice of 45 minutes per
      day (15 min yoga; 30 min meditation) is prescribed. As the weeks progress, different forms of
      meditation are introduced, beginning with a body scan sensory awareness experience,
      progressing to sitting and walking meditations. Gentle Hatha yoga is incorporated throughout,
      as a form of moving meditation. Didactic instruction as well as group discussion and
      reflection, problem solving and skillful inquiry are commonly applied teaching tools.

      Since 1998, the investigators have tested its efficacy in a wide range of studies and groups
      of people with cancer, beginning with psychological outcomes including stress symptoms, mood
      disturbance including anxiety, anger and depression, then expanding in scope and scale to
      assess effects on sleep disturbance and fatigue. The investigators also examined positive
      outcomes including post-traumatic growth, spirituality and benefit finding. To assess
      potential biological mechanisms of change, the investigators examined the effects of the
      program on biomarkers including blood pressure, inflammatory cytokines, stress hormones and
      most recently telomere length using increasingly sophisticated study designs, showing benefit
      across all of these measures. The investigators work on MBCR for cancer patients and
      survivors has spanned the spectrum of research from basic mechanistic research to clinical
      trials and implementation science. Others, as well, have studied MBSR with cancer patients,
      and several reviews and meta-analyses summarize its benefits across outcomes of anxiety,
      stress, mood disturbance and quality of life.

      Tai Chi/Qigong (TCQ) Work has also been done evaluating the efficacy of tai-chi and qigong in
      cancer care, and reviews are now available for both. Tai chi is a shortened name for Tai Chi
      Ch'uan, a form of martial art from traditional Chinese medicine. It involves a series of slow
      specific movements or "forms" done in a meditative fashion. It is purported that focusing the
      mind solely on the movements of the form helps to bring about a state of mental calm and
      clarity. The practice itself has been separated from its martial arts roots and is widely
      taught as a health behavior practice and exercise. In cancer care, a review of seven
      controlled trials in breast cancer patients concluded that while tai chi helped to improve
      psychological and physical health measures compared to usual care, compared to other active
      interventions it may not be superior. Overall in elderly samples, a larger body of research
      supports its efficacy for improving balance and preventing falls and improving overall
      psychological well-being, but larger studies with better designs are needed.

      Similarly, a growing body of research suggests efficacy of qigong, a practice of aligning
      breath, movement, and awareness for exercise, healing, and meditation. Qigong is
      traditionally viewed as a practice to cultivate and balance qi (chi) or "intrinsic life
      energy". Qigong exercises generally have three components: a posture (whether moving or
      stationary), breathing techniques, and mental focus on guiding qi through the body. A review
      of the literature including Chinese and Korean databases found 23 studies in cancer care. The
      most consistent benefits were seen on immune system function (reduced inflammation), improved
      mood, quality of life, and fatigue. As is the case with tai chi studies, randomized
      controlled trials with larger samples sizes are necessary to generalize findings. The study
      protocol incorporates simple Tai Chi elements within a healing framework stemming from Qigong
      principles. For that reason the investigators call it Tai Chi/Qigong (TCQ).
    
  