
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine if immunosuppressive therapy with cyclophosphamide and prednisone is an
      effective therapy for neuroblastoma associated opsoclonus-myoclonus-ataxia (OMA) and can
      constitute a back-bone therapy upon which to build additional therapy.

      II. Determine in a randomized study if the addition of intravenous gammaglobulin therapy to
      the back-bone therapy of prednisone and cyclophosphamide improves response of neuroblastoma
      associated OMA.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine if intravenous gammaglobulin therapy improves the motor coordination of children
      diagnosed with neuroblastoma and presenting with OMA syndrome as assessed by neurological
      examination and the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scale (VABS).

      II. Determine if these regimens improve functional outcome in these patients. III.
      Investigate the biology of neuroblastoma associated OMA, with specific regard to magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) findings, anti-neuronal antibodies, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
      findings and tumor biology.

      IV. Define better the long-term prognosis for neurologic recovery in the child with
      neuroblastoma associated with OMA syndrome.

      V. Define the event-free and overall survival of patients with neuroblastoma associated
      opsoclonus-myoclonus-ataxia syndrome.

      OUTLINE:

      CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients with intermediate-risk or high-risk neuroblastoma receive chemotherapy
      (including cyclophosphamide) according to the standard of care for the stage of primary
      neuroblastoma, beginning on day 0. Patients with low-risk neuroblastoma (and not receiving
      other chemotherapy) receive cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day 0. Treatment repeats every
      4 weeks for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. All
      patients receive oral prednisone twice daily for 3 months and then every other day for 7-15
      months.

      IMMUNE GLOBULIN THERAPY: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive immune globulin IV on days -2 and -1, at weeks 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, and
      24, and then at months 8, 10, and 12 after therapy. Treatment continues in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with no response after 6 months go off
      treatment.

      ARM II: Patients do not receive immune globulin. Patients with unresponsive
      opsoclonus-myoclonus-ataxia syndrome after 2 months or progression after 6 months may cross
      over to arm I.

      Patients are followed during therapy every month for 6 months, at 1 year, and then annually
      for up to 10 years.
    
  