
    
      VillageWhere was pilot tested with a sample of 16 youth and their primary caregiver
      participating in an EST for a serious conduct problem (Mean age 14.6 years, 52% male, 56%
      African American, 33% were previously arrested). After completing baseline self-report
      measures, dyads used the app as desired for 4 weeks, then participated in a post-assessment
      and qualitative interviews. App usage by both parents and youth was high with little
      diminished use over the four weeks of the trial. All parents set and used reinforcers for
      functional behavior and used the "find my teen" feature; 84% set geolocation expectations for
      youth's whereabouts at specific times; and 88% set other expectations for the youth (e.g.,
      finish homework), viewed notifications, and regularly used the "Find My Teen" feature. As
      expected, parents interacted with the app frequently: 2.4 times per day. Youth used the app
      on average four times per day. All youth earned and redeemed points for complying with their
      parent's expectations and routinely viewed their behavior plans (93.3%) and feedback
      notification messages (86.7%). Parents did not on average use coaching videos (20%).

      Although the study was not powered to detect statistical significance, a series of paired
      t-tests were conducted to examine pre- to post-changes on self-report measures. Changes for
      parents and youth all were in predicted directions, with effect sizes ranging from small to
      high (average d = .42, range .21-.80). Parents reported greater use of positive parenting
      behaviors (i.e., rewards and praise), greater discipline consistency, lower overall perceived
      stress, a higher feeling of influence over youth behavior, and greater parenting efficacy.
      Youth reported increases in parent use of positive behaviors, consistency, and knowledge of
      whereabouts. Parent- and youth-reported change in youth aggression and rule-breaking (as
      measured by the CBCL/YSR).

      Qualitative results were also positive. Using 7-point scales, parents and youth reported on
      app satisfaction three times/week. Parent ratings were high (M = 6.0) across items (e.g.,
      "The app was helpful today," "I have ways to intervene with my teen"). Youth satisfaction
      scores were also high (M = 6.1; e.g., "My parent is noticing & rewarding my good behavior;"
      "I liked getting app prompts & reminders"). Parents reported that the app helped them trust
      their youth, increase their use of rewards, and made giving rewards easier; they also
      reported a reduction in youths' "excuse-making." Youth perceived that the app allowed them
      more freedom, because parents had an objective way of verifying their whereabouts. Nearly all
      youth (89%) liked that their parent was more consistent in paying attention to their positive
      behaviors and rewarding them for it (versus only being punitive). Both parents and youth
      described significant improvements in their relationship.

      In addition, 16 therapists working with the parent-youth dyads also gave qualitative feedback
      that was highly positive. Therapists stated that they liked the extra accountability the app
      afforded to teens and the reduction in parent-youth communication issues.
    
  