
    
      The current study will investigate the effects of a chosen exercise or dietary intervention
      on BMI and other health-related parameters in postpartum women with overweight and obesity.
      Dietary or physical activity interventions, alone or combined, are associated with greater
      weight loss when provided to women in the postpartum period, compared with no intervention.
      Providing a combined physical activity and dietary intervention is associated with an average
      weight loss of 2.49kg post-intervention and 2.4kg 12 months after pregnancy. However, the
      variation in average weight loss achieved is great which could be due to differences in the
      design of lifestyle programmes.

      Interventions including individualised support and self-monitoring have proven more effective
      in promoting reductions in BMI in postpartum women. However, high levels of attrition and
      poor engagement have been highlighted as two areas that require attention in this area.
      Therefore, future research is required to identify strategies best suited to the design and
      implementation of effective lifestyle interventions in overweight and obese postpartum women.

      Women between six weeks and one year postpartum will elect to be part of either a 16-week
      exercise or dietary intervention. Prior to this, participants will be tracked for a period of
      four weeks in free living conditions. Each intervention will be split into four blocks of
      three weeks where staged intervention specific information will be provided. Individualised
      face-to-face and technological group support will be provided throughout. For the final four
      weeks of the intervention no new information will be provided and all support will be
      withdrawn.

      Analyses of body composition and girths, blood metabolites, resting heart rate, blood
      pressure, and questionnaires assessing physical activity, eating behaviours and quality of
      life will be carried out alongside assessments of BMI at baseline, pre-intervention and at
      both twelve and sixteen weeks of the intervention. Measures of BMI, resting heart rate, blood
      pressure and questionnaire scores will be taken at each three weekly stage of the
      intervention.
    
  