
    
      Heart Rate Variability (HRV). HRV has two domains, time domain and frequency domain. SDNN
      (Standard Deviation Normal to Normal) is the first time domain. In healthy state, the signal
      is more diversity and SDNN is high. Decrease of SDNN means that ability to maintain
      homeostasis is reduced. It is shown while a person is in any disease state. Significant
      decreasing of HRV is an indicator for general health. PSI (Physical Stress Index) is the
      pressure loaded state due to overloaded physical activity and heart rate is increasing. Total
      power (TP), Very low frequency (VLF), Low frequency (LF), High frequency (HF), normalized Low
      frequency (nLF, LF norm) = LF/(LF +HF), normalized High frequency (nHF, HF norm) = HF/(LF+HF)
      and Low frequency to High frequency ratio (LF/HF) are frequency domain. Mean Heart rate (MHR)
      is also an indicator representing autonomic function.

      Range of study: It will be done during April - May 2016.

      Population Enrollment and recruitment was done by selected volunteers for our 100
      participants.

      Investigator: Training investigators were selected from psychologists, technicians, nurses,
      medical students and hospital health colleagues. Certified attending the class of training,
      assessment and evaluation was done before study.

      Maneuver: Instruments were questionnaires and HRV measurements by SA-3000P. Fast Fourier
      Transformation method (FFT) was applied underlying it. Finger probe was used by five minutes
      with comfort sitting upright position. Normal respiration and not heavy pay attention in the
      monitor by looking to the wall. Enough sleeping in the night before study and no take coffee,
      drugs, alcohol or smoking two hours before study.

      Variables: HRT, Heart rate; SDNN, Standard deviation of normal to normal interval; RMSSD, the
      square root of the mean squared differences of successive NN intervals; PSI, Physical stress
      index; ApEn, Approximate Entropy; SRD, Successive R-R interval difference; TSRD, Total
      SRD;TP, Total power; VLF, Very low frequency; LF, Low frequency; HF, High frequency; nLF,
      normalized LF; nHF, normalized HF.

      Statistical analysis: We use descriptive study and report it in percents, means, standard
      deviations, medians, inter quartiles ranges. Independent t-test and ANOVA were used in
      parametric test. Pearson Chi-square Test, Mann-Whitney U Test, Kruskal-Wallis Test,
      Kolmogorov-Smirnov Z Test, Wald-Wolfowitz Test were used in nonparametric test. Significance
      of statistical analysis was 0.05 or 95% confidence interval. Units of SDNN is millisecond
      (ms) and TP, VLF, LF, HF are square of millisecond (ms2) multiply by 100. Comparative study
      (before and after) will use paired t-test or non-parametric (McNemar test, Sign test or
      Wilcoxon).

      Conflict of interest: We receive these products (Omega-3, Fish oil) from Starlab company and
      this manufacturing will be stop to produce this agent in this April because of high business
      competition. They donate the remaining products for this research.
    
  