
    
      HET Bipolar System: Validation of Outpatient Hemorrhoid Treatment

      Introduction: This study will evaluate the effectiveness of treatment of Grade I-II
      hemorrhoids with the novel HET Bipolar System (Medtronic, Boulder, Co.). This device is a
      modified anoscope equipped with LED lighting, tissue clamping mechanism and bipolar energy
      device. It is inserted in the anus under direct vision targeting the tissue proximal to the
      hemorrhoid, which is placed within the treatment window and clamped. The bipolar energy
      device is activated to ligate the feeding hemorrhoidal vessels, essentially disrupting the
      blood supply to the hemorrhoid. The only published evaluation of this device to date is a
      retrospective analysis of the safety and efficacy of the device in 23 patients (1).

      There is no prospective study of this device and its effectiveness in the literature. The
      investigators aim to evaluate the efficacy of this device, defined as decrease in symptoms
      and/or recurrence, of Grade I-II hemorrhoids through a prospective study consisting of 30
      patients. Other non invasive means of treating hemorrhoids range from sclerotherapy to rubber
      band ligation, which often requires multiple treatments and can cause some discomfort. The
      investigators aim to study HET Bipolar treatment of hemorrhoids to offer another validated
      minimally invasive option for the treatment of symptomatic hemorrhoids in the outpatient
      setting.

      Research Design and Method: The investigators will enroll a total of 30 subjects.
      Participating patients,18 years of age and older, will be undergoing treatment with the HET
      bipolar system for symptomatic Grade I and II hemorrhoids. Please note that the HET bipolar
      system is used as part of standard of care and participants will receive the treatment
      regardless of this research. The subjects will be identified and recruited by University of
      Illinois at Chicago Department of Colorectal Surgery faculty via clinic appointments in the
      Outpatient Care Center, 1801 W. Taylor St, Suite 3F, Chicago, Il 60612. Informed consent will
      be provided at the clinic in regards to participation in the study. Refusal to participate
      will not influence treatment options presented or deemed necessary for the subject's
      condition. A pretreatment hemorrhoid symptom questionnaire will be completed by each patient.
      In developing our questionnaire the investigators examined the only validated hemorrhoidal
      symptom questionnaire in the literature, the Sodergren Score (2) and also various others (3).
      The Sodergren score offers a theoretical basis, however the investigators chose to develop a
      questionnaire secondary to the need for inclusion of bleeding symptoms of hemorrhoids. While
      subjects are undergoing treatment, the investigators will record timing of treatment, number
      of hemorrhoids treated, and energy application timing. Immediately after the treatment, the
      patients will describe how painful the procedure was using the Visual Analog Scale (VAS). The
      questionnaire will take 5-10 minutes to complete. Patients will be seen for follow up
      outpatient clinic visits at 2-3 weeks and at 8-12 weeks post procedure. At follow up, the
      patients will be given a post-treatment questionnaire regarding symptoms of hemorrhoids (this
      is the same questionnaire as the pre-treatment questionnaire). The questionnaire assigns each
      of the five cardinal symptoms of hemorrhoids with a number from 0 to 3 with 3 being the most
      severe symptom. After tallying the five symptom scores, a total from 0 (no symptoms) to 15
      (severe symptoms) will be assigned to each patient's overall symptoms. In addition, patients
      will be given a journal to record their daily pain for 14 consecutive days, day 21 and day 56
      using the Visual Analog Scale (VAS). This is to more accurately record pain, as the
      questionnaire does not include a VAS score component. Patients who are unable to come for
      follow up visits will be interviewed over the phone by one of the investigators and the
      relevant data, i.e. the questionnaire and pain score, will be obtained during this phone
      conversation. For patients following up over the phone, a phone script will be created in
      addition to the questionnaire. The total number of visits/encounters is 3 and will take place
      during regular clinic visit appointments. The difference between pre treatment and post
      treatment scores will be representative of the treatment effect.

      Statistical Section:

      Descriptive statistics will be used to describing the distribution of data. The Wilcoxon
      signed rank test will be used to examine the pre- and post- treatment symptom score
      difference. Paired two-sample t-test and McNemar's test will also be used to examine the pre-
      and post-treatment difference for other variables of interests.

      Sample size justification:

      Since the Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to test the significant difference between
      pre- and post- treatment scores, the power calculation is based on the Wilcoxon signed rank
      test. At 80% power level, assuming correlation 0.2 between pre- and post- treatment scores,
      the sample size of 18 ensure minimum detectable difference in symptom score between pre- and
      post-treatment scores of 3. Thus, our sample size of 30 is appropriate.

      Example: At 80% power level, assuming correlation 0.2 between pre- and post- treatment
      scores, the sample size of 18 ensure minimum detectable difference in symptom score between
      pre- and post-treatment scores of 3.

      Expected Results/Conclusions: The investigators anticipate a significant decrease of
      hemorrhoidal symptoms, defined in this study as pain, pruritis, prolapse, soiling, and
      bleeding with the HET bipolar system, providing a validated outpatient minimally invasive
      treatment option for symptomatic hemorrhoids.

      Benefits/Risks: There is no direct benefit to the subjects of this study. The main risk of
      this research is loss of confidentiality of information. The patient may experience mild
      anxiety or discomfort in providing information about their health and well-being. Records
      will be stored in an electronic data file on a password protected computer in a locked
      office. Master key will be kept in a separate file accessible only by the primary
      investigator.

      Informed Consent:

      Informed consent will be provided at the clinic in regards to participation in the study.
      Refusal to participate will not influence treatment options presented or deemed necessary for
      the subject's condition. Consent will be obtained by the primary investigator and/or research
      fellows who have experience and training in the explanation of the procedure, potential risks
      and benefits. The informed consent document will be stored in the subject's electronic
      medical record. If non-English speaking subjects are encountered, the informed consent will
      be translated by interpretation in the language of the subject.

      Data and Safety Monitoring Plan:

      This study poses minimal risk, the main risk being mild anxiety or loss of confidentiality of
      information. If problems arise they will be handled according to Institutional Review Board
      protocol.

      Data Collection and Management Procedures:

      Data procurement will be done electronically and incorporated in password protected encrypted
      server in a locked office. The master key will be kept in a separate file accessible only by
      the primary investigator.

      Reporting Unanticipated Problems:

      If any unanticipated problems arise they will be reported to University of Illinois at
      Chicago's Insitutional Review Board per defined protocol.
    
  