
    
      AAAs are common among older individuals, and are the 10th leading cause of death for men over
      the age of 55. A ruptured AAA usually leads to death. Therefore, early detection and
      treatment are critical. Currently, there are several surgical treatment options available,
      but there is no proven non-surgical treatment for AAAs. Research has shown that physical
      inactivity may be linked to the development of AAAs. The purpose of this study is to gather
      information on AAA risk factors, and to evaluate the effectiveness of an exercise program at
      preventing the growth of small AAAs in older individuals.

      This study will be composed of three individual projects. Project 1 will enroll 1400
      individuals with small AAAs. Project 2 will enroll 1000 individuals with unknown aortic size
      and previously tested exercise capacity. Both groups of participants will attend one study
      visit, at which time their medical history and physical activity history will be recorded,
      vital signs will be collected, and blood and urine sample will be given. Questionnaires will
      be completed to document physical activity levels and AAA risk factors. An abdominal
      ultrasound will be performed to measure the size of the aorta or AAA. Participants in Project
      2 will also take part in a treadmill exercise test, during which heart rate and blood
      pressure will be recorded, and heart activity will be monitored by an electrocardiogram
      (ECG).

      The third project will last 3 years and will enroll 340 individuals from Project 1.
      Participants will be randomly assigned to either an exercise program or a usual activity
      group. An initial screening visit will include medical history review, vital sign
      measurements, blood collection, questionnaires, an abdominal ultrasound, a positron emission
      tomography (PET) scan, a computed tomography (CT) scan, and a magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI) scan.

      Participants in the exercise program will complete an exercise test at the beginning of the
      study and every 6 months for the duration of the study. Participants who live within 15 miles
      of the Palo Alto VA Hospital will take part in a supervised aerobic exercise program 3 days a
      week. Participants who live farther than 15 miles from the hospital will receive a detailed
      exercise plan and will exercise on their own while wearing a heart rate and activity tracking
      device. They will also attend monthly study visits for review of their progress. All
      participants assigned to the exercise program will be encouraged to increase their daily
      exercise. Each day they will wear a pedometer; twice a month they will wear a global
      positioning system (GPS) and heart rate monitor. Participants assigned to the usual activity
      group will wear pedometers each day and will maintain their usual level of physical activity.
      At yearly study visits, blood will be collected and physical activity levels will be
      assessed.

      All Project 3 participants with AAAs smaller than 4 cm will undergo an ultrasound and blood
      collection once a year; participants with AAAs 4 cm or larger will undergo the same
      procedures every 6 months. At the end of 3 years, all participants will attend a final study
      visit at which time their medical history will be reviewed and blood will be collected. They
      will also undergo an abdominal ultrasound, and PET, CT, and MRI scans.
    
  