
    
      RELPALL is a single center, St Jude initiated, non-randomized single-arm phase I study to
      characterize the toxicity profile and to determine the maximum tolerated combination (MTC)
      and recommended phase II combination of palbociclib when given with chemotherapy in pediatric
      patients with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Palbociclib is a
      reversible inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinase 4 (CDK4) and the closely related
      cyclin-depending kinase 6 (CDK6) that has shown high anti-leukemic activity in several
      pre-clinical models. The mechanism of palbociclib, which reversibly arrests cells in G1,
      argues that combination treatment, as opposed to single agent treatment, will be more likely
      to provide clinical benefit. Timing of combination treatment with standard cytotoxic
      chemotherapy drugs that kill actively dividing cells is important to maximize the chance of
      activity. This study will build on prior multiple myeloma experience with palbociclib in
      combination with dexamethasone and bortezomib while tailoring the treatment to pediatric
      relapsed/refractory ALL. To maximize G1 arrest, dexamethasone will be given concurrently with
      palbociclib for five days. Patients will receive a 48 hour "washout" before receiving
      bortezomib and doxorubicin, both cytotoxic anti-leukemic drugs that preferentially kills
      cells when synchronized in S phase. Patients with Philadelphia Chromosome positive ALL (Ph+)
      and Philadelphia-like (Ph-like) ALL will also receive a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI)
      beginning on Day 7 until count recovery. The primary objective is to determine a tolerable
      combination of palbociclib plus chemotherapy in pediatric patients with relapsed or
      refractory ALL. The secondary objective is to estimate the overall response rate to the
      combination of palbociclib and chemotherapy in pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory
      ALL. Exploratory objectives include measuring cell cycle kinetics of ALL cells following
      administration of palbociclib and an evaluation of modes of resistance in non-responders.
    
  