
    
      Background: Traditional open surgery for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is burdened with
      complication risk from several organ systems, and also mortality figures of 3.5 - 5.5%. Over
      50% of early mortality can be attributed to cardiovascular complications. Myocardial
      infarction is the dominant organ-specific cause of both early and late mortality in patients
      operated on for AAA. Endovascular surgery (EndoVascular Aortic Repair, EVAR) was developed
      during the 90's as an alternative method that is considered less invasive and more
      well-tolerated from a cardiovascular perspective.

      Troponin T is a very sensitive and specific marker that predicts mortality in patients with
      acute symptoms of unstable angina and/or heart attack. Previous studies have also shown a
      high incidence of elevated troponin levels in patients who underwent major surgical
      procedures, especially vascular surgery, even in the absence of corresponding clinical or
      ECG-related symptoms of cardiac muscle injury. Several studies have also demonstrated that
      elevated troponin levels after surgery predict increased morbidity and mortality both
      short-term and long-term.

      Objective: To prospectively compare elective open and endovascular surgery of AAA with
      respect to myocardial injury detectable with troponin T. Furthermore, to compare open and
      endovascular AAA surgery for the total number of periods of oxygen deficiency in cardiac
      muscle during and at early stages after surgery using a special ECG method (48-hour 3-channel
      Holter ECG with ST analysis).

      Main aim of the study: To assess whether EVAR induce less myocardial injury compared with
      open repair for AAA.

      Significance: Myocardial infarction is the predominant cause of mortality in open surgical
      procedure for AAA. In several previous studies, troponin T rise has been associated with
      impaired both short-term and long-term prognosis in elderly patients undergoing major
      elective surgery. This study may provide information on whether the endovascular technique
      provides a reduction in myocardial injury, measured as elevated troponin T or myocardial
      ischemia with 3-channel Holter ECG. In this way, our study can provide improved decision
      support in the choice of the most appropriate treatment method in the individual case.
    
  