
    
      This is a double-blind randomized study. All babies less than eight hours old, admitted to
      the NICU at Cardinal Glennon Children's Medical Center, with moderate to severe HIE that
      qualify for whole body cooling will be eligible for enrollment in the study. Whole body
      cooling is part of standard treatment for babies with moderate to severe HIE, and the
      criteria for diagnosis and cooling are well established. After consent is obtained babies
      will be randomly assigned to melatonin treatment or control groups (standard treatment) using
      a 4-block randomization design, by opening a sealed opaque sequentially numbered envelope by
      the study pharmacist. A log of assignments will be maintained by the study pharmacist. The
      clinical team will be blinded as to the assignment. Patients assigned to melatonin treatment
      will receive 40 mg melatonin (PureBulk, CA, USA) in 5 mL of vehicle (1:90 mix ethanol/saline)
      every 8 hours for a total of six doses. Patients assigned to the control group will receive 5
      mL of vehicle only every 8 hours for a total of six doses. All doses will be administered via
      a nasogastric tube by the nurse assigned to the patient. Placement of a nasogastric tube is
      part of standard care for babies with HIE. Administration of the first dose within eight
      hours of life is mandatory for the study.

      EEG analysis is part of standard neurologic evaluation for patients with HIE, and is done
      once the patient has been rewarmed to normal body temperature (by 78-80 hours after starting
      whole body cooling). A 24 hour multichannel video-EEG (Nihon Kohden 9100A, Nihon Kohden USA
      Inc.) using the 10-20 system of electrode placement modified for neonates will be performed
      between 80 and 100 hours after initiation of the cooling protocol. The duration of each
      seizure will be added together for the entirety of the recording to obtain the seizure burden
      (total seizure time).

      Anticonvulsant treatment will assessed at the time of discharge whether the patient is on
      any, one, or more anticonvulsants.

      Cerebral tissue oxygenation (rSO2) will be monitored non-invasively by applying the NIRS
      probe to the forehead and attaching it to the INVOS monitor (Somanetics, MI, USA). The probe
      is very similar to the oxygen saturation oximeter probe that is routinely used in newborns.
      Cerebral tissue oxygenation will be continuously monitored until re-warming is complete. Data
      will be collected at the start of monitoring and then every six hours.

      A brain MRI is not required for the study, but if it is obtained then the results may be
      included in the data collected.
    
  