
    
      Pain at the origin of the extensor carpi radialis is an extremely common problem. Most
      patients are between 35 and 55 years of age. This problem has been referred to as tennis
      elbow, but fewer than 10% of patients with this problem play tennis, and it is not a common
      problem among professional tennis players. The problem is most commonly called lateral
      epicondylitis in spite of the fact that pathology specimens show no evidence of an
      inflammatory process. Instead, tissue necrosis and other findings suggestive of a
      degenerative process are seen. Previous clinical trials have noted improvement in 80% of
      patients in one year, even in placebo groups, suggesting that this is a self-limited rather
      than a progressive disorder.

      de Quervain's tenosynovitis and carpometacarpal (CMC) arthritis are also very common upper
      extremity problems. In de Quervain's tendonitis, inflammation in the first dorsal compartment
      of the wrist causes tenderness and chronic pain in the radial styloid region when forming a
      fist or using the thumb. CMC arthritis, most common in women 40-70, causes pain at the base
      of the thumb. Descriptions of the severity of this condition can range from stiffness to
      disability, and are associated with complaints of discomfort with pinching and gripping.

      These are frustrating conditions, particularly for active people. As a consequence, varied
      treatments are used routinely in spite of limited scientific support. These treatments can be
      costly, some have risks, and all of them may reinforce the idea that there is a quick fix or
      miracle cure. Physicians and patients alike favor quick, direct treatments, but these are not
      always available. In the absence of effective treatment, the role of the physician is to
      encourage adaptive behaviors based upon an understanding of the nature of the illness.

      Lateral elbow pain, de Quervain's tenosynovitis and CMC arthritis are extremely common and
      not all patients seek a physician's advice-many develop adaptive behaviors and manage well on
      their own. Our research unit has taken interest in studying psychological factors that may be
      associated with coming to the doctor and poor adaptation to symptoms and dysfunction. These
      are certainly a factor in the treatment of these conditions.

      A condition that is extremely common; is painful and disabling; and has no clear etiology,
      pathophysiology, or cure represents a tempting market for products and devices claiming to
      offer relief. The marketing and application of these devices reinforces patient's desires for
      a quick fix, miracle cure. It also tends to take advantage of people with less adaptive
      health behaviors. Conscientious use of treatments in this setting requires strong evidence of
      their safety and efficacy.

      Injection of corticosteroids is a common treatment for lateral elbow pain, de Quervain's
      tenosynovitis and CMC arthritis. Injections are delivered into the origin of the extensor
      carpi radialis brevis, into the first dorsal compartment of the wrist or into the
      trapeziometacarpal (TMC) joint, respectively. Several studies have tested the efficacy of
      steroid injections, including some prospective randomized trials. However, it is remarkable
      that only one of these have compared corticosteroid injection to placebo injection,
      especially in light of the fact that conditions like lateral elbow pain and de Quervain's
      tenosynovitis may be self-limiting. The psychological factors associated with receiving an
      injection may be important mediators of any treatment effects.
    
  