
    
      Acute myocardial infarctions resulting from unstable plaque in patients with coronary artery
      disease (CAD) account for a significant portion of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.
      Although prediction models that incorporate traditional risk factors have been developed in
      order to risk stratify patients at highest risk for development of subsequent cardiovascular
      events, such models lack precision and are often found to over or under-estimate risk.
      Moreover, current clinical practice has focused on stenosis severity as a predictor of future
      plaque erosion and/or rupture, in spite of the fact that evidence from intravascular
      ultrasound (IVUS) studies, such as the PROSPECT trial, demonstrate that ACS events are more
      likely to occur in less than severely stenotic lesions. Furthermore, there is incomplete
      understanding of the influence of gender on atherosclerotic plaque composition and downstream
      coronary events, given the chronologic and prognostic differences between men and women in
      atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.

      Several studies have attempted elucidating characteristics of vulnerable plaque using
      invasive imaging modalities such as IVUS. However, such studies have several limitations,
      most significantly is the fact that plaque characterization was performed after an acute
      coronary event, which limits the ability to isolate baseline plaque characteristics from
      changes following the acute event. Noninvasive evaluation of atherosclerotic coronary disease
      using coronary computed tomographic angiography (CCTA) has been established as an accurate
      and readily available imaging modality in clinical practice. In addition to the evaluation of
      diameter stenosis, CCTA is capable of evaluation plaque composition as well as arterial
      remodeling, in a similar fashion to IVUS. The agreement between plaque characterization using
      IVUS and CCTA has been demonstrated in several large-scale trials. Nevertheless, there are
      several key aspects that have yet to be addressed, including the utility of plaque
      characterization by CCTA for determination of future cardiovascular events, and gender-based
      differences in atherosclerotic plaque composition in patients with stable and unstable
      coronary artery disease.

      The ICONIC trial was designed as a nested case-control study based on the previously
      published CONFIRM registry, evaluating demographic, clinical as well as baseline
      CCTA-determined plaque composition in 238 patients with subsequent ACS events and 238 matched
      patients without ACS events. As previously described, ICONIC utilizes CCTA to comprehensively
      assess plaque morphology and characteristics, in addition to arterial wall changes in order
      to determine characteristics implicated in future adverse events, beyond what has been
      traditionally described using invasive imaging modalities. The primary goal is to investigate
      differences in atherosclerotic plaque composition in patients with ACS, compared to patients
      with stable coronary disease. The secondary goal is to determine gender-specific differences
      in plaque composition in both stable and unstable coronary artery disease.
    
  