
    
      As the prevalence of obesity has increased, public health experts have increasingly focused
      on the environments that shape overeating and unhealthy food choices. Retail grocery stores
      are pivotally positioned to influence choices and favorably affect energy balance. Greater
      availability of healthier foods, if translated to health-promoting purchases, can positively
      affect diet quality among those at greatest risk for obesity- low-income, ethnic minorities.

      The aims of the proposed study are:

        1. To evaluate, in a cluster randomized controlled trial design, effects of in-store
           healthy food marketing strategies on sales and purchase of healthier items in six
           product categories (milk, frozen entrees, beverage checkout coolers, bread, salty snacks
           and cheese); and

        2. To evaluate the association of changes in supermarket food marketing environments with
           changes in sales of specific healthier food items in the same six product categories;
           and

        3. To examine the relationships between neighborhood characteristics and changes in sales
           and purchases of healthier items in the six product categories.

      Investigators hypothesize that sales of targeted products will be significantly higher, and
      that more health-focused food marketing environments will be associated with higher sales of
      healthy food items.

      The study will be conducted in 32 supermarkets in urban, low-income, high-minority
      neighbor-hoods in the mid-Atlantic and Northeast regions. Intervention strategies will
      include prime placement, increased visibility of healthier products, call-out signs, and
      taste-testing for milk. Control stores will be assessment-only. Supermarket chains will help
      implement the strategies and provide data on sales of targeted products. Interventions will
      be conducted for 2 years, with an emphasis on scalability and long-term sustainability. The
      primary outcome measures of purchasing will be weekly sales per store for each product.
      Individual purchasing will be assessed in a cohort of shoppers by interviews and shopping
      receipts. The Grocery Marketing Environment Assessment (GMEA) tool will be used to assess
      marketing environments.

      The research team completed a randomized pilot study of a 6-month intervention in eight
      supermarkets, which demonstrated the impact of the interventions on three food categories.
      The proposed study will provide an expanded and extended, larger-scale, rigorous test of
      novel and widely applicable strategies to encourage healthy retail sales, complement
      increased-access initiatives, and reduce health disparities in obesity and related diseases.
    
  