
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with metastatic breast cancer
      receiving nab-paclitaxel versus paclitaxel (control arm).

      II. To compare PFS in patients receiving ixabepilone versus paclitaxel.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the objective response rate, duration of response, and time to treatment
      failure in patients receiving nab-paclitaxel versus paclitaxel, and to separately compare
      these endpoints in patients receiving ixabepilone versus paclitaxel.

      II. To compare the 12-month rate of progression in patients receiving nab-paclitaxel versus
      paclitaxel, and to separately compare this endpoint in patients receiving ixabepilone versus
      paclitaxel.

      III. To determine toxicities in patients receiving nab-paclitaxel as compared to paclitaxel,
      and in patients receiving ixabepilone as compared to paclitaxel.

      IV. To compare overall survival in patients receiving nab-paclitaxel versus paclitaxel, and
      to separately compare overall survival in patients receiving ixabepilone versus paclitaxel.

      V. To evaluate the relationships between secreted protein, acidic, cysteine-rich (SPARC)
      overexpression and changes in blood levels of caveolin-1 (Cav-1) to PFS and secondary
      endpoints of response during treatment with nab-paclitaxel as compared to paclitaxel, and
      with ixabepilone as compared to paclitaxel.

      VI. To evaluate the relationships between changes in blood levels of circulating tumor cells
      (CTCs) and circulating endothelial cells (CECs) to PFS and secondary endpoints of response
      during treatment with nab-paclitaxel as compared to paclitaxel, and with ixabepilone as
      compared to paclitaxel.

      VII. To evaluate the association of expression levels of the microtubule associated proteins
      tau and beta-tubulin isotype composition with PFS and secondary endpoints of response during
      treatment with nab-paclitaxel as compared to paclitaxel, and with ixabepilone as compared to
      paclitaxel.

      VIII. To investigate a potential cytochrome P450, family 2, subfamily C polypeptide 8, 2, 3
      (CYP2C8*2/*3) by paclitaxel interaction with respect to progression-free survival (PFS).

      IX. To determine if CYP2C8*2 and CPY2C8*3 are associated with paclitaxel-induced peripheral
      neuropathy.

      X. To perform exploratory analysis of cytochrome P450, family 3, subfamily A, polypeptide 4
      (CYP3A4), cytochrome P450, family 3, subfamily A, polypeptide 5 (CYP3A5), ATP-binding
      cassette, sub-family B (MDR/TAP), member 1 (ABCB1) and ATP-binding cassette, sub-family C
      (CFTR/MRP), member 2 (ABCC2) polymorphisms with response and toxicity profiles.

      XI. To prospectively collect data on sociodemographics, non-cancer morbidities, and receipt
      of post-trial therapy to evaluate the role of potential disparities on survival from cancer.

      XII. To evaluate the relationship between physical activity behaviors at the time of
      enrollment in the protocol and progression-free and overall survival.

      XIII. To identify baseline factors that predict the risk of grade 3, 4, or 5 toxicity in
      patients receiving treatment with weekly paclitaxel, nab-paclitaxel, or ixabepilone combined
      with or without bevacizumab.

      XIV. To perform an exploratory analysis of whether other factors included in patient
      assessments (either individually or in combination) predict the risk of grade 3, 4, or 5
      toxicity in patients receiving weekly paclitaxel, nab-paclitaxel, or ixabepilone combined
      with or without bevacizumab, with a specific focus on the relationship between pre-existing
      hypertension or neuropathy.

      XV. To compare the associations of baseline factors to grade 3, 4, or 5 toxicity in patients
      receiving weekly paclitaxel, nab-paclitaxel, or ixabepilone combined with or without
      bevacizumab.

      XVI. To explore whether longitudinal changes in factors are in association with the
      occurrence of grade 3, 4, or 5 toxicities in patients with weekly paclitaxel, nab-paclitaxel,
      or ixabepilone combined with or without bevacizumab.

      XVII. To explore the association between grade 2-4 neuropathy and longitudinal changes in the
      following functional status measures: a) Older Americans Resources and Services (OARS)
      Multidimensional Functional Assessment Questionnaire (MFAQ) (Instrumental Activities of Daily
      Living [IADL]); b) Medical Outcomes Study (MOS) Physical Functioning; c) Karnofsky
      Performance Status Rated Healthcare Professional; d) Timed "Up and Go"; e) OARS Physical
      Health Section.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      ARM A (WEEKLY PACLITAXEL): Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days
      1, 8, and 15. Patients may also receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15.

      ARM B (WEEKLY NAB-PACLITAXEL): Patients receive paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle
      formulation IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Patients may also receive bevacizumab as
      in Arm A.

      ARM C (WEEKLY IXABEPILONE): Patients receive ixabepilone IV over 60 minutes on days 1, 8, and
      15. Patients may also receive bevacizumab as in Arm A. (closed to accrual as of 7/18/11)

      In all arms, treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and then
      annually for up to 3 years.
    
  