
    
      Obesity is becoming a growing and significant public health problem. Evidence from various
      national surveys over the last 25 years show that the prevalence of obesity and overweight in
      adults in England has increased threefold. There is still no clear evidence available to
      explain the epidemic levels of obesity. A number of neuro-endocrine factors have a role in
      the regulation of food intake and in the control of insulin secretion. We are particularly
      interested in measuring levels of a hormone called Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) which is
      released from the intestine when food is absorbed. This hormone in turn has an influence on
      the production of insulin and another hormone, glucagons, both of which are involved in
      controlling blood glucose ('blood sugar') levels and appetite control.

      There is some evidence, that obese people with normal blood sugar control show attenuated
      GLP-1 levels, however the evidence is contradictive and statistical significance is unclear.
      There is an ample of evidence that in established diabetes GLP-1 levels are attenuated,
      however it still remains uncertain whether the lower GLP-1 levels contribute to the
      pathogenesis of the condition or are a consequence of chronic hyperglycaemia or other
      hormonal and metabolic changes, though the observation that GLP-1 levels are lower in obese
      subjects suggests the possibility that the former may be the case.

      Recently Bournemouth Diabetes and Emdocrine Centre (BDEC) conducted a research trial on
      effect of weight loss on GLP-1 levels in subjects with new onset type 2 diabetes. After 8
      months intensive lifestyle programme average weight loss was 7.8 kg with significant and
      sustained improvements in clinical and metabolic parameters. Despite this, the GLP-1 levels
      remained unchanged.

      None of the previous studies looked how gradual healthy lifestyle changes with sensible
      weight loss goals and increased activity levels effect GLP-1 levels in obese non-diabetic
      population.
    
  