
    
      Objective:

      A common, serious and debilitating long term complication of hematopoietic stem cell
      transplant (HCST) is chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). Ocular GVHD develops in up to
      85% of patients with chronic GVHD. It is characterized by progressive keratitis sicca and
      cicatrizing ocular inflammatory surface disease with T cell mediated damage to conjunctival
      and corneal epithelium and lacrimal tissue. Various medical and surgical treatments have been
      used, such as various lubricating agents, steroid drops and ointments, cyclosporin drops,
      punctal plugs or cautery and partial tarsorrhaphy. However, in severe cases, none offer
      acceptable, long-lasting relief from pain, irritation, dryness and diminished vision
      associated with ocular GVHD. An alternative treatment that has previously been safely
      investigated is autologous serum eye drops (ASEDs). The objective of this study was to
      determine whether ASEDs are more effective than control (normal saline) in the treatment of
      severe chronic ocular GVHD in HSCT patients unresponsive to standard medical treatment.

      Study Population:

      Eighteen post-HSCT patients with severe ocular GVHD unresponsive to standard medical
      treatment were enrolled. Initially, 34 post-HSCT patients with severe ocular GVHD
      unresponsive to standard medical treatment were to be enrolled. However, only 18 enrolled, as
      the investigational product (IP) was no longer provided to participants as of June 2015 due
      to manufacturing issues.

      Design:

      This was a Phase 2, randomized, double-masked, controlled, crossover, single-center study to
      investigate ASEDs in participants with severe chronic ocular GVHD. During the initial
      crossover phase of the study, participants participated in a two-period, six-month, crossover
      study in which participants were randomized to one of two treatment sequence groups. The two
      groups were: 1) daily administration of ASEDs for the first three months and then crossover
      to control (normal saline) eye drops beginning at Month 3 through Month 6, or 2) daily
      administration of control (normal saline) eye drops for the first three months and then
      crossover to ASEDs beginning at Month 3 through Month 6. Participants in both groups applied
      the assigned drops four times per day for six months, as well as maintained their current
      standard ocular GVHD therapy. Following the initial crossover phase, beginning at the Month 6
      visit, participants were provided ASEDs as open-label treatment on an as-needed basis until
      study completion. As of June 2015, participants were informed to discontinue use of the IP
      and send it back the NIH Pharmacy. During the first year, required clinic visits occurred at
      Baseline, Months 3, 6 and 12 with required telephone follow-up visits at Months 7 and 9.
      Following the Month 12 visit, participants were evaluated every six months, alternating
      telephone follow-up visits with clinic visits, until the last enrolled participant reached
      his/her Month 12 visit. At the discretion of the Investigator, participants who did not
      complete the Month 12 visit had the most recent study visit constitute as the final safety
      visit, otherwise the participant was scheduled for a final safety visit within 4 1/2 months.
      Participants who already surpassed the Month 12 visit were scheduled for a final safety visit
      within 4 1/2 months.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome was the proportion of participants experiencing a ≥ 50% reduction in the
      combined score of the modified Oxford punctate keratopathy grading and the National
      Institutes of Health (NIH)/National Eye Institute (NEI) visual analogue scale in the study
      eye from baseline to Month 3. A ≥ 50% reduction in the combined score is considered a
      treatment success. While the design is a crossover study, the primary outcome was assessed
      after the first period at Month 3. Secondary outcomes included changes in the combined score
      of the modified Oxford punctate keratopathy grading and the NIH/NEI visual analogue scale in
      both eyes from baseline to the end of each period, changes in the chronic ocular GVHD
      Composite Assessment Scale (CAS) score, objective testing, subjective testing and global
      chronic GVHD assessments in both eyes. Safety outcomes were the number and severity of
      systemic and ocular toxicities and adverse events. The number of participants withdrawn from
      the study treatment due to vision loss, adverse events or treatment failure also contributed
      to the assessment of safety.
    
  