
    
      The DECIDE - Salt in Elderly (Diet, ExerCIse and carDiovascular hEalth - Salt Reduction
      Strategies for the Elderly in Nursing Homes in China) is a study in the DECIDE project, which
      includes five studies. The others are DECIDE - Diet, DECIDE - Exercise, DECIDE - Obesity in
      Children, and DECIDE - Smart Living. The DECIDE - Salt in Elderly study is to evaluate the
      effects, safety and cost-effectiveness of salt substitution (SS) and kitchen-based stepwise
      salt supply control (SSSC) in reducing blood pressure in Chinese elderly in nursing homes.
      Specifically, the study aims include:

        1. to test if a stepwise salt supply control strategy could significantly reduce systolic
           blood pressure among elderly living in nursing homes;

        2. to test if replacing regular salt with the market available salt substitute could
           significantly reduce systolic blood pressure among elderly living in nursing homes; and

        3. to test if the joint effect of the two strategies is larger than that from one of each.

      The corresponding null hypotheses that will be tested are:

        1. the mean systolic blood pressure of elderly residents in nursing homes that are supplied
           with SS is equal to the mean systolic blood pressure of elderly residents in nursing
           homes that are supplied with regular salt;

        2. the mean systolic blood pressure of elderly residents in nursing homes that apply SSSC
           is equal to the mean systolic blood pressure of elderly residents in nursing homes that
           do not apply SSSC;

        3. There is no interaction between the two interventions above.

      The study will recruit over 1080 old people from 48 nursing homes in northern China, where
      the mean salt intake is generally higher than 12 g/day. A 2x2 factorial cluster-randomized
      trial will be used to test two independent salt reduction strategies: 1) using salt
      substitute to replace the regular salt in the kitchen of nursing homes; and 2) training the
      nursing manager to control/reduce, step by step, the amount of salt supplied to the kitchen
      of nursing homes. The 48 nursing homes will be randomized to the following 4 groups.

        1. salt substitute (SS) and stepwise salt supply control (SSSC);

        2. SS only;

        3. SSSC only; and

        4. no SS and no SSSC (control).

      A brief health education on salt and health will be applied to all four groups. The salt
      substitute (NaCl 62.5% and KCl 25%) will be centrally provided. And the Train-the-trainers
      model will be used to train the nursing home managers how to implement the SSSC.

      The intervention will last over 2 years. The baseline examination including three blood
      pressure measurements and one 24-hr urine collection will be conducted for all participants.
      Fasting blood samples will be drawn for measurement of serum potassium and detect
      hyperkalemia and hyponatremia.

      The randomization will be conducted centrally by the study coordinating center at Peking
      University Clinical Research Institute, after the baseline survey completed.

      All participants will be followed up for blood pressure measurements at 6, 12, 18 and 24
      months, for serum potassium at 12 and 24 months, and for 24-hr urine collection at 24 months.

      Study outcomes:

      Primary outcome: The change in systolic blood pressure from the baseline to 24 months

      Secondary outcomes: The incidence of hyperkalemia and hyponatremia from the baseline to 24
      months. The change in 24-hr urinary sodium, potassium and microalbumin from the baseline to
      24 months. The change in diastolic blood pressure from the baseline to 24 months. The change
      in ocular fundus. The change in incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) from the baseline
      to 24 months. The incidence of cardiovascular events and death from the baseline to 24
      months.

      Power analysis:

      On the assumptions of a 20% dropout rate, an intraclass correlation of 0.02, the number of
      clusters of 48 and at least 20 elderly people in each nursing home, and an α value of 0.05,
      the study to detect a mean 3.0 mmHg reduction in systolic blood pressure (SD, 18 mm Hg)
      between the intervention groups would have a power of 0.81. To detect a 4.0 mmHg reduction in
      systolic blood pressure (SD, 18 mm Hg), the power of the same sample size would be 0.96.

      Statistical analysis: Investigators will follow the intention-to-treat principle to analyze
      both primary and secondary outcomes in the comparison between intervention and control.

      Ethical considerations:

      The study will be submitted to and approved by the Peking University IRB, which has the full
      accreditation from AAHRRP. The study salt substitute is the product available on Chinese
      market and has been approved manufactured according to the product standards issued by the
      ministry of health. The SSSC approach will take every step for 3 months and the biggest step
      of salt reduction will be just 10% of the original amount of use. And the study will ensure
      an interview will be conducted to collect the feedback before every next step will take
      place. The SSSC intervention will stop at any time that elderly people feel unlike the foods.
    
  