
    
      This study uses a mixed method quasi-experimental pretest and posttest design which
      incorporates characteristics of both qualitative and quantitative approaches The use of the
      mixed method design approach is to explore an intervention tool which is administered. The
      study will be conducted in a locked in-patient psychiatric facility on the adolescent unit.
      Participants will be engaging in two intervention sessions. The first session will be
      conducted individually or in a group format. The second session will consist of a follow-up
      individual session.

      Participation in this study involves the following: if the subjects meet the inclusion
      criteria;

        -  The research team will gather demographic data from the subjects medical chart which
           will include the following: gender, age, trauma history, family dynamics such as
           divorced, single parents, foster family, weight and height, residential and town or city
           of residence.

        -  Subject will be asked to complete a self-esteem assessment called the Rosenberg
           Self-Esteem Scale, this will take about 10 minutes.

        -  Then the subject will be invited to attend the occupational therapy self-esteem
           treatment session. The self-esteem intervention is already part of the curriculum at
           Loma Linda University Behavioral Medicine Center on the adolescent unit. If participants
           meet inclusion criteria and after signing of consents and PHI, and taking the
           self-assessment the subjects will be invited to join the self-esteem group session and
           or individual treatment session if they cannot make it to the group session. The
           self-esteem treatment is based on a psychoeducation process encouraging discussion and
           focus on self-awareness of ones own self-esteem. During group processing the therapist
           will provided the handout of the self-love model.

        -  Within 2 to 3 days of the self-esteem treatment session there will be an individual
           follow up session to review the intervention. A self-esteem improvement plan handout
           will be provided, the subject will complete the self-esteem assessment again and will
           participate in an interview that will be audio recorded. The interview will take
           approximately 15 minutes.

        -  Within 40 days of discharge the subjects will be contacted for a follow-up
           audio-recorded interview which may be conducted via phone, in-person or videoconference.
           The subject will also complete the self-esteem assessments again. This may take up to 30
           minutes.
    
  