
    
      Patients scheduled for their first pulmonary vein (PV) isolation ablation for symptomatic,
      drug-refractory paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (AF), will be considered for inclusion in the
      study.

      Potential subjects will initially be approached some weeks before their ablation procedure,
      in order to give the patients enough time to consider the information, to ask questions to
      the Investigator, their general practitioner (GP) or other independent parties to decide
      whether they wish to participate in the study or not.

      For those interested in participation, a baseline assessment will be arranged to coincide
      with their standard pre-admission visit, for informed consent, screening and eligibility
      assessment. Moreover, a pre-operative imaging assessment with a cardiac computed tomography
      (CT) scan will be performed to define the LA and PV anatomy and to measure the baseline LA
      wall thickness and PVs ostial diameters.

      All AF ablation procedures will be performed in a standard fashion by using radiofrequency
      (RF) energy, cryo-balloon or laser balloon ablation under general anaesthesia and with
      continuous oesophageal temperature monitoring. Ultrasound imaging by IVUS (Visions PV .018,
      20 MHz digital probe, Volcano Corp) or ICE (Ultra ICE (9 MHz rotational transducer, Boston
      Scientific) will be performed at sites corresponding with the PV/LA junction at the beginning
      and the end of the procedure in order to measure acute changes in LA wall thickness and PV
      ostial diameters.

      The cardiac CT will be repeated within 24 hours post-procedure. After the procedure, a
      pre-discharge review and a telephone follow-up at 1 week will be performed to identify any
      early and late complications related to the procedure.

      A total of 12 patients will finally be enrolled in the study. The end of the study for each
      patient will be the date of the telephone follow-up 1 week after the procedure.

      For each patient the pre-procedural and post-procedural CT measurements of LA wall thickness
      and PVs ostial diameters will be compared with the corresponding IVUS or ICE measurements.
    
  