
    
      This research aims to determine the pharmacokinetics characteristics of silver and fluoride
      following topical application of Silver Diamine Fluoride (SDF) in healthy children. The use
      of Silver Diamine Fluoride is increasingly widespread since the device is approved by the
      Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of the United States in 2014, especially among the
      pediatric population. It is a single-arm, clinical study with the specific objectives: 1. to
      assess the level of silver and fluoride in the urine sample of patients receiving the SDF
      treatment; 2. to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of silver, based on the hair sample of
      patients receiving the SDF treatment. The investigators hypothesize that the pharmacokinetic
      characteristics of silver diamine fluoride in healthy children are different from that of
      silver diamine fluoride in healthy adults. The research is taking place at the Paediatrics
      Dentistry Specialist Clinic, Faculty of Dentistry, University of Malaya. The investigators
      have used a convenience sampling method to recruit children aged 4-10 years old to join the
      study. The investigators have calculated the sample size based on the alpha error probability
      of 0.05 and the power of study at 95%. The investigators have recruited children with at
      least one decayed primary tooth without clinical signs or symptoms. Radiographically the
      deepest layer of caries lesion does not involve the pulp. The investigators have excluded
      children with known medical illness, having glass ionomer or stainless steel crown
      restorations in the oral cavity. All of the recruited patients received the same
      intervention, the application of SDF onto the tooth cavity. The investigators have taken the
      patients' biological samples (urine and hair) to assess the silver and/or fluoride levels.
      The urine samples are collected before the SDF treatment, in the first and second 24 hours
      after the SDF treatment. Besides that, hair samples are collected before the SDF treatment,
      followed by days 7,14,30,60,75, and 90 after the SDF treatment. The silver level in hair and
      urine samples were analyzed using Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry (ICP-MS);
      fluoride level in urine samples using Ion-Selective Electrode. After review at days 90, if
      caries remains active despite the SDF treatment, the investigators will restore the SDF
      treated teeth or continue the six-monthly application of SDF depending on the patient's
      ability to cope with the procedure and the caries status.
    
  