
    
      MRI is a clinical routine test for imaging (creating a picture) of the structure and function
      of human organs using a giant magnet and other electronic and computing equipment. Functional
      MRI (fMRI) is an MRI that is done while the subject performs some simple activity or in
      resting state. It shows the areas of the brain that are activated by performing each of these
      activities or correlated with spontaneous brain activities (e.g. interictal spikes).

      The EEG-fMRI session will be conducted at the University of Minnesota Center for Magnetic
      Resonance Research. If a subject has any metal implant in his/her body, s/he must not
      participate in the MRI test. After subjects pass through the routine screening for
      participation in the MRI test, an EEG cap with 64 electrodes will be put on his/her scalp and
      electrically conducting gels will be applied to each of these electrodes. One more electrode
      will be put on his/her back to record electrocardiographic signal. The electrodes location
      will be recorded by means of a device which can tell the positions of the electrode sensors.
      The EEG preparation procedure will take around 30-45 minutes. Then a 15-minute EEG will be
      recorded out side of the scanner. Afterwards, the subject will be asked to lie down in a MRI
      scanner with the EEG cap on his/her scalp. The electrodes will be connected to a data
      collection system and electroencephalograms and fMRI will be collected and stored
      simultaneously onto the computer of the recording system. During the scan, subjects will be
      asked to close his/her eyes but keep awake. Or subjects may be also asked to perform some
      simple tasks. For example, subjects may be asked to tap his/her finger regularly or imagine
      some movements. The EEG-fMRI scan will take around 2 hours. After the recording session,
      subjects may want to wash his/her hair to clean out the electrically conductive gels.
      Although the EEG and MRI procedure can be performed as a routine clinical test, in this
      instance it is being performed for the research and not for his/her clinical care.

      Subjects may also be asked to undergo EEG or fMRI recordings separately. In this case,
      subjects will be asked to perform similar simple tasks as those during EEG-fMRI procedure.
      The total time involved with either the special EEG session or the MRI (or MRI-EEG) session
      will be about one to two hours.

      Approximately 50 subjects may be involved in this research at the University of Minnesota.
    
  