
    
      Retinoblastoma is a rare tumor of the eye and accounts for 6% of malignancies in children
      less than 5 years of age. Pediatric anesthesiologists have observed a series of hemodynamic
      instability following the insertion of a catheter into the cavernous segment of the internal
      carotid artery or during manipulation of a micro-catheter into the ophthalmic artery for
      intra-arterial chemotherapy (IAC) of retinoblastoma cases by neuroradiologists. This reaction
      has been recently published in case reports and observational studies as the treatment of
      these tumors have moved into the interventional imaging suites. This reaction closely
      resembles the "diving reflex" seen when a person is submerged in cold water; known as the
      trigeminal-cardiac reflex. It manifests as a sudden hemodynamic disturbance in arterial blood
      pressure, heart rate, arrhythmia and changes in pulmonary compliance.Rescue from a
      trigeminal-cardiac reflex entails increasing intravascular volume, administrating mild to
      resuscitative doses of epinephrine and ventilatory support.

      Catheter manipulation around the ophthalmic artery can stimulate the afferent pathway of the
      trigeminal nerve, branches V1 and V2, originating around the eye to be treated.The ethmoidal
      nerve, from the nasal passage on the same side, is also stimulated. This in turn triggers a
      response by the vagus nerve with hemodynamic instability.

      Method: Participants are placed under general endotracheal anesthesia for this scheduled
      procedure. One drop of ocular antiseptic (betadine 5%) will be placed in the eye to be
      treated followed by a drop of topical FDA approved local anesthetic, Tetracaine 0.5%, to the
      nasolacrimal duct ( inner corner of the eye) on the eye to be treated. This will numb the
      ethmoidal nerve in the nasal passage. This is followed by 1 ml of 3.5% Lidocaine gel to the
      surface of the eye. This gel is placed on the surface of the eye and skin around the eye to
      numb V1 and V2 fibers of the trigeminal nerve. The study will observe if there is any
      decrease in the intensity of the reflex or incidence of the reflex during placement of the
      micro-catheter.
    
  