
    
      The research is a randomized controlled trial that will be developed at the Laboratório de
      Análise da Performance Muscular (LAPERN) of the Physiotherapy Department of the Federal
      University of Rio Grande do Norte (UFRN). The population of the present study will be formed
      by elderly individuals living in the city of Natal / RN, aged between 65 and 75 years, of
      both sexes, without distinction of race, education and marital status. The research sample
      will be of a non-probabilistic type, in which these will be allocated randomly into two
      distinct groups: placebo group (GP) and experimental group (GE). This research was submitted
      to the Research Ethics Committee (CEP) for UFRN through the national interface Plataforma
      Brasil. The present research contemplates the ethical aspects based on Resolution 466/2012 of
      the National Health Council (CNS) and the Declaration of Helsinki for research with humans.
      In addition, the survey will be recorded in Clinicals Trial. All data will be recorded in a
      database of the laboratory under confidentiality and can only be handled by the responsible
      researchers. The study will only begin after the issuance of the referent opinion approving
      the project. All subjects will be duly informed and instructed regarding the scheduled
      procedures, which will only be executed after reading, accepting and signing the Term of Free
      and Informed Consent (TFIC). After approval by the Research Ethics Committee, following
      resolution 466/2012, a pilot study was carried out aiming at the adequacy of all the research
      procedures, as well as the training of the researchers involved. Initially the research will
      begin with the selection of the sample according to the inclusion criteria descried
      elsewhere. The evaluation will be scheduled by telephone contact. Following this, the
      volunteers will receive the TFIC for reading and due signature. The data collection process
      will take place in four stages: (1) initial evaluation, (2) sample allocation (3) application
      of exercise program and (4)reevaluation. The evaluations will be composed by the dynamometric
      analysis associated with EMG (electromyography) and postural control analysis. The volunteers
      will be allocated randomly into 2 groups: placebo group (with the platform off) or
      experimental group (with the platform set at a frequency of 40 Hz and amplitude of 4 mm).
      Both will perform a bout of exercise in the vibrating platform, consisting of a static
      bipodal squat at 40 ° of knee flexion, with 4 sets of 1.5 min, with a rest interval of 1
      minute. Immediately after the exercise the volunteers will be submitted to a revaluation,
      with the same procedures of the initial evaluation.
    
  