
    
      In this study, the investigators are testing the hypothesis that reductions in sympathetic
      activity would be greater following high-intensity interval training (HIIT) than
      moderate-intensity continuous training (MICT) and correspond with improvements in peripheral
      vascular function, and skeletal muscle function in patients with heart failure with reduced
      ejection fraction (HFrEF). To test this hypothesis patients with chronic heart failure (30 -
      65 years), left ventricular ejection fraction ≤40%, Functional Classes II-III), are being
      randomized into exercise with HIIT, MICT or no training (NT) three times/week for 12 weeks.
      Muscle sympathetic nerve activity is assessed by microneurography. Brachial artery
      flow-mediated dilation (FMD), blood flow and vascular conductance were assessed by
      ultrasonography. Blood pressure (BP) and heart rate (HR) by are being measured via finger
      photoplethysmograph and peak oxygen uptake (V̇O2peak) by a cardiopulmonary exercise test on
      ergometer cycle for leg. Biopsy samples from the lateral vast of the thigh are being
      collected for analysis of the intracellular mechanisms in the skeletal muscle. Exercise
      training is being conducted under supervision at the Heart Institute, School of Medicine,
      University of São Paulo. Both HIIT and MICT are performed on a cycle ergometer, three times
      per week for 12 weeks, and training sessions were matched for energy expenditure (i.e., an
      isocaloric energy expenditure of 200 Kcal/session). The intensity of the MICT session is
      established based on the HR and workload levels corresponding to anaerobic threshold and
      respiratory compensation point (RCP). The intensity of the HIIT session is established based
      on the HR and workload levels corresponding to 5% above the RCP. All exercise sessions were
      performed under the supervision of an exercise physiologist. The patients in the NT group
      were instructed to avoid any regular exercise program or any non-supervised exercise protocol
      during the study. All patients are being assessed before (pre) and after (post) both exercise
      training modes or control, no training.
    
  