
    
      Study design Observational prospective study

      The subjects Number of subjects 200 subjects: Average value CRP: group 1: 55; group 2: 84
      Average standard deviation: 70.52 Power 80%: 158 deelnemers Power 90%: 202 deelnemers alpha =
      0.05 2-sample T-test.

      Inclusion criteria

      Acute inflammation is defined as a CRP ≥ 10 mg/l. We will include 2 groups of participants:

        -  A) A group with an inflammatory syndrome and infection; infection being defined as:

             1. Viral infection confirmed by nasopharynx swab for: influenza, RSV, parainfluenza,
                rhinovirusses, coronavirusses.

             2. Bacterial infection confirmed with positive blood culture, positive articular
                punction, positive expectorations, pneumonia on chest radiograph, or infection
                documented by abdominal imagery (CT or echo), a positive urine culture with a
                confirmed pyelonephritis with a renal echography or a DMSA scintigraphy or specific
                clinical symptoms for pyelonephritis and positive hemoculture. A positive urine
                culture alone is not considered as urine infection because of the high prevalence
                of asymptomatic bacteriuria in geriatric patients.

        -  B) A group with inflammatory syndrome and inflammatory diseases without infection:
           defined as:

             1. Confirmed pulmonary embolism (PE) by CT or ventilation-perfusion scintigraphy

             2. Microcrystalline arthritis diagnosed by articular punction

             3. Crush syndrome or rhabdomyolyses defined by history of a fall and raised creatine
                kinase in blood sample.

      Exclusion criteria Immunosuppressive therapy (NSAIDs, corticosteroids, chemotherapy,
      immunotherapy), active cancer, antibiotics before admission, hematological diseases

      Replacement of subjects None.

      Restrictions and prohibitions for the subjects None.

      Procedures

      A) Questionnaires:

      taken at UZ Brussels

        -  Social: age, home, sex, marital status.

        -  Clinical: smoking and alcohol habits, streptococcus pneumoniae and influenza vaccination
           status, allergies, BMI, medical history, current treatment, reason for current
           hospitalization.

        -  Comprehensive geriatric assessment:

        -  CIRS-G (Cumulative Illness Rating Score): to quantify disease burden. It rates each
           organ system on a scale of 0 to 4, and differentiates older adults with the highest risk
           of and severity of infection, from those with lower infection risk. 20

        -  Katz scale (ADL: assessment of activities of daily living): It rates 6 tasks of daily
           living (bathing, dressing, toilet, transfer, continence and eating) on a scale from 1 to
           4. A low score means absence of dependence, and a high score the maximum of dependence
           for the task. 21

        -  MMSE (Mini Mental Status Examination): a 0-30 score of cognitive functions, <24/30
           meaning cognitive function impairment. 22 Patients with dementia:the investigators will
           request approval to be included in the study to the family of the patients.

        -  MUST (Malnutrition Universal Screening Tool): to assess nutritional status. It divides
           patients into 3 groups: A low risk of malnutrition (score 0). A medium risk of
           malnutrition (score 1): then it is recommended to observe the patient for dietary
           intake. A high risk of malnutrition (score ≥2): treat the malnutrition. 23

        -  Questionnaire for periodontal health. The newly developed questionnaire produces a
           reliable assessment of the individual risk of periodontitis (total score) and the need
           for periodontal treatment as well as the differentiation between gingivits and
           peridontitis. 24

        -  Grip strength: Inflammatory states in the elderly are also associated with a decrease in
           muscle strength and fatigue resistance, as seen at UZ Brussels by Bautmans et al. The
           reduced strength and fatigue resistance in geriatric patients with inflammation are
           significantly related with the concentration of circulating CRP levels. 25 In the study,
           the investigators will use the martin vigorimeter which is at our disposal at the
           geriatrics ward of UZ Brussels, to measure the patients' grip strength and muscle
           fatiguability and determine which factors seem to contribute to a decrease in muscle
           strength (CRP, CVD, CVR, infection, periodontitis, CMV status, onychomycosis, age). the
           investigators will use the Martin vigorimeter (Elmed, Addison, IL) to assess grip
           strength and fatiguibility. The investigators will ask the patients to squeeze the
           rubber bulb of the vigorimeter as hard as possible in 3 consecutive attempts, to assess
           their grip strength. The highest score for each hand is recorded. Fatigue resistance
           will be assessed by asking the patient to squeeze the bulb of the vigorimeter as hard as
           possible and to maintain this pressure as long as possible; the time (seconds) until the
           pressure diminished to half of the maximal grip strength is recorded for each hand.25 26
           B) Collection of data from physical examination C) Clinical evaluation of onychomycosis
           of the toenails: the investigators will perform a clinical examination of the toenails.
           Following parameters are found to be significantly related to positive mycology results
           in onychomycosis patients 8: scaling on one or both soles, white crumbly patches on the
           nail surface, and an abnormal colour of the nail.

      D) Follow up of bacterial and viral culture analyses

      Observational data from bacterial and viral samples during hospitatalization :

        1. Viral infection confirmed by nasopharynx swab for: influenza, RSV, parainfluenza,
           rhinovirusses, coronaviruses

        2. Bacterial infection confirmed with positive blood culture, positive articular punction,
           positive expectorations, pneumonia on chest radiograph, or infection documented by
           abdominal imagery (CT or echo), a positive urine culture with a confirmed pyelonephritis
           with a renal echography or a DMSA scintigraphy or specific clinical symptoms for
           pyelonephritis and positive hemoculture. A positive urine culture alone is not
           considered as urine infection because of the high prevalence of asymptomatic bacteriuria
           in geriatric patients.

      E) Follow up of blood analyses:

      Observational data from blood samples during hospitalization:

        -  Day 0 (at the emergency department): CRP, total and differential WBCC, renal function

        -  Day 1: at hospitalization, within 24h of admission

        -  Geriatric patients: CRP, total and differential WBCC, renal function, hepatic function
           (transaminases), albumin, prealbumin, protein profile and monoclonal protein, vitamin
           B12, folic acid, hemoglobin, hematocrit, TSH, CMV-serology.

        -  Young patients: CRP, total and differential WBCC, renal function, albumin, vitamin B12,
           folic acid, TSH, CMV-serology.

        -  Day 3: CRP, total and differential WBCC.

        -  Day 5: CRP, total and differential WBCC.

      Flowchart Questionnaires, blood samples: conducted by Hanne Maes. Supervising MD: Dr.
      Nathalie Compté, UZ Brussels.

      Randomisation/blinding Observational study, not applicable.

      Prior and concomitant therapy All medication can be continued during this study.

      Study analysis Statistical analysis the investigators will perform student t-tests or
      Mann-Whitney rank sum tests to compare geriatric/young patients with and without infection.
      To assess the contribution of age, comorbidities and geriatric syndrome in the kinetics of
      WBCC, the investigators will perform univariate and multivariate analyses.
    
  