
    
      Purpose and aim of the study The Fertility Clinic at Zealand University Hospital wishes to
      introduce a new care concept: 'Healthy Parents - Healthy Children´ with the purpose of
      changing the behaviours of infertile men and women towards a healthier life style now and for
      future generations.

      The Zealand Region includes areas of significant deprivation compared to Copenhagen and has a
      higher prevalence of obesity and poor diet.

      These inequalities generate socio-demographic and long-term health challenges, decrease the
      chance of becoming pregnant and increase risk of life style related diseases for parents and
      their offspring in the long term.

      The waiting time before fertility treatment (12 months in the region) represents a unique
      window of opportunity to encourage long-term life style changes. The aforementioned reasons
      initiated the planned Preconception Clinic 'Healthy Parents - Healthy Children´.

      The Preconception Clinic utilises waiting list time to optimise parental health prior to
      conception. We will provide weight loss interventions aimed at helping the patients to a
      healthier lifestyle, an increased chance of conception and a decreased risk of life style
      diseases for themselves and their future offspring.

      Purpose of study:

      Patient weight loss of at least 10% at the end of intervention and at annular follow up until
      5 years.

      Study population: Sub-fertile population referred to the Fertility Clinic Region Zealand due
      to infertility.

      Inclusion criteria:

      20 women and 20 men with a BMI>30, age 18-40 years.

      Exclusion criteria:

      Inability to understand the written and oral information.

      Baseline and end of intervention-sampling:

        1. Blood tests (metabolic markers), blood tests for Biobank and for miRNA biomarkers

        2. Urine sample

        3. Women: Endometrial biopsy and vaginal swab for microbiome testing

        4. Men: Sperm sample

      Intervention: Weight reduction through life style changes in diet and exercise by the
      following means:

        -  Counselling with a Nutritionist Nurse on diet and exercise.

        -  Online smartphone coaching program (LifeSum-App)

        -  Motivational and adjustment dialogue and counselling with Nutritionist Nurse including
           anthropometric measures every month.

      Primary endpoint: Weight loss of at least 10%.

      Anticipated impact The aim of this study is to find a feasible intervention that can change
      adverse life styles in a preconception setting. Elements from the weight loss intervention
      can be incorporated to the broader community, for instance as Preconception weight loss
      packages in the local municipalities, aimed at optimizing health before conception in the
      general fertile population.
    
  