
    
      The goal of the proposed research is to test a connected medication management platform
      technology to address medication optimization and non-adherence in chronic disease
      management. Chronic diseases (such as hypertension, heart failure, diabetes, coronary
      disease, etc.) are the main causes of morbidity, mortality and healthcare expense in the
      United States. Poor medication adherence and mismatches in the treatment (due to patient's
      reported side effect, complexity of treatment, and suboptimal efficacy of a chosen
      pharmacological treatment) are a major reason of failure in the management of chronic
      disease. The platform tested in this award will evaluate a complex machine-learning algorithm
      in treatment optimization for one of the chronic conditions, namely hypertension. The results
      of the proposed randomized clinical trial, if successful, will lead to a change in the
      treatment paradigm for chronic diseases. The principal investigator has just completed a
      pilot study in conjunction with Optima Inrwgrated Health, Inc. (i.e. PRECISION) to
      successfully test the medication management platform technology and its integration with the
      electronic medical record (EPIC® platform).

      Optima-for-Blood Pressure (O4BP) is a cloud-based artificial intelligence clinical decision
      support system (CDSS) that evaluates patient status updates in real-time to provide advanced
      decision recommendations for medication treatment changes, when needed, personalized to each
      patient. O4BP provides a multiparameter (age, gender, ethnicity, current treatment,
      comorbidities, side-effects, laboratory values, compliance) overall score computation that
      ranks possible treatment changes in order of % improvement over current treatment. The goal
      of the study is to test if blood pressure management by using the O4BP CDSS is superior to
      standard of care (SOC) (i.e. blood pressure management during office visits).
    
  