
    
      Stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) is becoming a new standard for unresectable lung
      metastases and primary lung cancers.

      However, it is becoming increasingly common for patients to undergo multiple courses of lung
      SBRT to synchronous and/or metachronous lung lesions. Further, the indications for SBRT are
      being expanded to patients who have very poor pulmonary function such as FEV1 < 0.5 L or DLCO
      < 35% predicted, who have large tumors (>3 cm), or who have centrally located lesions that
      abut great vessels and mainstem bronchi. Little is known about the safety of such treatments,
      especially the impact on pulmonary function, quality of life, and on functional changes
      within the lung itself. Radiation dose constraints and capturing functional changes on
      imaging are not well studied in this setting.

      The current study aims to evaluate the utility of advanced imaging to measure lung function
      prior to and after treatment and to assess the feasibility of using this data to adapt SBRT
      planning. SPECT/CT will be used to measure ventilation and perfusion changes while. CT
      ventilation scans will be used to correlate functional changes observed on diagnostic
      SPECT/CT. Dynamic contrast enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI) will also be used to explore local vascular
      changes in the treated tumor. In patients whose tumors lie close to the heart, cardiac MRI
      will be used to investigate whether high doses of radiation per fraction are associated with
      changes in cardiac function. These imaging modalities may be used to potentially predict
      toxicity and patient response with the ultimate goal of prospectively adapt dose to
      individual patient and tumor characteristics. Lung function prior to and post-treatment will
      also be measured as a correlate of functional imaging changes. Identifying areas of the lung
      that are sub-functional or low-functioning may offer an opportunity to adapt stereotactic
      ablations that spare functional lung thereby making SBRT treatments to higher risk patients
      safer.
    
  