
    
      Adenocarcinoma of the esophago-gastric junction (AEG) represents an aggressive disease with
      poor prognosis. Surgery is the traditional mainstay of treatment for patients presenting with
      locally advanced disease, defined as transmural invasion with or without lymph node
      involvement. Surgical approach may differ, but the principal is to achieve wide mural
      clearance, negative margins, and perform an adequate lymphadenectomy. Although surgery is the
      primary modality that can cure patients, the majority of patients reveal recurrence leading
      to death within 2 years after resection. The incidence of locoregional relapse in most series
      and in phase II and phase III trials ranges from 25% to 60%, and 20-30% of these patients
      have no evidence of distant metastases. Median survival with surgery alone for localized
      disease remains poor, and ranges from 13 to 19 months with 5-year survival rates at best
      approximately 40%. To improve a long-term outcome in patients with esophageal and gastric
      cancers a combined modality therapy concept has been investigating for many years. The
      experience in a combined modality therapy for adenocarcinoma of the esophago-gastric junction
      have been extrapolated from studies on esophageal or gastric cancer, where the investigated
      population involved in part patients with AEG.

      The most eminent drawback of majority commonly cited randomized trials is heterogenicity of
      cancer patients population. Most of them overlap between esophageal adenocarcinoma and
      squamous cell carcinoma or between adenocarcinoma of the esophagus, esophagogastric junction
      and the stomach. When the investigators reviewed the composition of the most prominent 10
      studies population including 3171 patients with easophageal and gastric cancer the
      investigators identified 911 (28.7%) patients with AEG. The remaining pooled population
      involved 1173 (36.9%) patients with adenocarcinoma of the esophagus, 598 (18.9%) patients
      with squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus and 775 (24.4%) patients with adenocarcinoma of
      the stomach. Only 1 randomized controlled trial concerned exclusively patients with AEG. In
      this study preoperative chemoradiotherapy resulted in a 16% increase of 3-year survival.
      Although its superiority was not proven (p=0.07), these data provide evidence that
      preoperative chemoradiotherapy may improve survival and should be further investigated.
      Interestingly, the survival benefit was evident although the postoperative mortality was more
      than doubled (10.2% versus 3.8%) by adding chemotherapy. Although this study did not meet its
      accrual goals and could not provide statistical significance, the improvement in both local
      cancer free and overall survival suggest that preoperative chemoradiotherapy appears most
      valuable modality treatment to cure patients with localized AEG. As it is more than evident
      that major response to preoperative treatment is an important prognostic factor future trials
      should aim to optimize preoperative treatment by combining all treatment modalities.

      All above mentioned discrepancies regarding the optimal treatment for AEG brought the
      investigators to an idea to design a study testing safety and efficacy of three-phase
      combined modality therapy accommodating induction taxane-based triple chemotherapy followed
      by concurrent chemoradiotherapy with 45Gy as a total dose of irradiation and subsequent
      surgical resection in homogenous population of patients with clearly defined AEG. Taking into
      account the results from recent phase II and III trials the proposed combined modality
      regimen suggests substantial response to the neoadjuvant therapy and promising highly
      effective loco-regional cancer clearance with moderate and acceptable tolerance despite a
      complex and extensive treatment.
    
  