
    
      Tuberculous meningitis (TBM) is the most lethal form of tuberculosis, causing death or severe
      neurologic deficits in more than half of those affected in spite of antituberculosis
      chemotherapy. Among the first line drugs, isoniazid is the only bactericidal agent that
      easily crossed blood-brain barrier, achieving concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
      similar to those in serum. The genetically polymorphic N-acetyltransferase type 2 (NAT2) is
      responsible for isoniazid metabolism, and individuals can be classified as "rapid
      acetylators", "intermediate acetylators" or "slow acetylators" based on NAT2 genotyping.
      Rapid acetylators were associated with low concentrations of isoniazid based on previous
      studies. The investigators hypothesize that among rapid acetylators high dose isoniazid would
      result in lower rates of death and disability in patients with tuberculous meningitis than
      the rates with the standard regimen.

      The investigators recruited patients between the ages of 18 and 65 years with newly diagnosed
      TBM. Patients could not enter the trial if they have been using any other second line
      antituberculosis drug; if they had received anti-tuberculosis therapy in the past 3 years；if
      they have positive CSF Gram or India ink stain; if they have received more than 14 days of
      anti-tuberculosis drugs for the current infection; if they were known or suspected
      hypersensitivity to or unacceptable side effects from any oral first line antituberculosis
      drug; if the plasma creatinine concentration was more than the upper limit of the normal
      range, if the plasma bilirubin concentration was more than 2 times the upper limit of the
      normal range, or if the plasma alanine aminotransferase level was more than three times the
      upper limit of the normal range; if they were known or suspected pregnancy; if they were
      known or suspected isoniazid and/or rifampin resistant; if they were lack of consent； if they
      were any participant for whom investigators judge this study is not appropriated.

      Participants will be recruited from four sites in China, including Beijing Chest Hospital
      affiliated to Capital Medical University, Zunyi Medical College affiliated Hospital, Jiangxi
      Provincial Chest Hospital and Jiamusi Infectious Disease Hospital. All hospitals serve the
      local community and act as tertiary referral centers for patients with severe tuberculosis or
      infectious diseases in China.

      Written informed consent to participate in the study was obtained from all patients. Then
      NAT2 genotype will be characterized by using High-Resolution Melting Kit (Zeesan Company,
      Xiamen). Participants with slow or intermediate acetylators will be administered with
      standard chemotherapy (3 months HRZE followed by 9 months HRE). For participants with rapid
      acetylators, patients were stratified at study entry according to the modified British
      Medical Research Council criteria (MRC grade), then randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to
      receive either standard or high dose isoniazid treatment.

      All patients received antituberculosis treatment, which consisted of isoniazid (300 mg for
      standard treatment and 900 mg for high dose treatment), rifampin (450 mg for weight no more
      than 50 kg, 600 mg for weight more than 50 kg), pyrazinamide (1500 mg for weight no more than
      50 kg, 1750 mg for weight more than 50 kg), ethambutol (750 mg for weight no more than 50 kg,
      1000 mg for weight more than 50 kg) for 3 months, followed by isoniazid, rifampin and
      ethambutol at the same doses for an additional 9 months. All patients received adjunctive
      treatment with dexamethasone for the first 6 to 8 weeks of treatment, as recommend by British
      Infection Society.

      338 participants with rapid acetylators will be randomly assigned to group B (standard
      treatment) and group C (high dose isoniazid), respectively. The calculation assumes an
      overall mortality and severe disability of 50% vs. 70 % in the two arms, a power of 80% and a
      two-sided significance level of 5%. Randomization ration is 1:1. At the same time, 338
      participants with slow or intermediate acetylators were recruited to group A (standard
      treatment).

      The primary outcome was death or severe disability 12 months after enrollment. Secondary
      outcome measures were coma-clearance time, fever-clearance time, and difference of CSF
      laboratory examination (protein concentration, chloride, glucose and white cell counts) of
      cerebrospinal fluid after 3 months treatment.
    
  