
    
      The current dietary reference intake (DRI) recommendations for protein in children (6-11
      years old) and adults (>19 years old) are based on nitrogen balance data and set at a mean
      (EAR) of 0.76 and 0.66 g/kg/day respectively and population safe (RDA) recommendation of 0.95
      and 0.80 g/kg/day respectively. Using the indicator amino oxidation (IAAO) method we
      estimated higher protein requirements in these populations. This suggests that current
      recommendations are underestimated. Studies in adults have shown that protein recommendation
      set on the basis of nitrogen balance data, while sufficient to maintain nitrogen balance,
      does not maintain GSH status.

      Glutathione (GSH) is most important intracellular antioxidant and scavenger and its
      deficiency has been shown to compromise recovery in acute as well as chronic stressors.
      Deficiency of GSH results when protein and/or cysteine intake is inadequate. Inadequate
      protein intake in children not only compromises growth, but could increase susceptibility to,
      and compromise recovery from regular childhood illness. Similarly, in young and older adults'
      inadequate intakes may result in increased oxidative stress and compromised immune function.
      Measurement of GSH synthesis provides a functional method whereby the current protein
      recommendation can be tested against higher estimates derived using the IAAO method. The
      purpose of this study therefore is to measure GSH synthesis in healthy school aged children
      (6-11 years), and healthy young (19 - 40 years) and old (60 - 90 years) adults in response to
      current recommended protein intakes and in response to protein requirement estimates derived
      using the IAAO method.

      In healthy school-aged children, each level of protein will be studied over three days. For
      two days (adaptation days), participants will eat some low protein foods plus a milkshake
      drink. On the study day, participants will consume 8 hourly protein drinks and special
      cookies at SickKids. In healthy young and old adults, each level of protein will be studied
      over three days. For two days (adaptation days), young adults will eat some low protein foods
      plus a milkshake drink. On the one study day, young adults will consume 10 hourly milkshake
      diets at SickKids. In old adults, each level of protein will be studied over four days. For
      three days (adaptation days), old adults will eat some low protein foods plus a milkshake
      drink. On the one study day, old adults will consume 10 hourly milkshake diets at SickKids.
    
  