
    
      4. Study Design and Methods In conjunction with the DMCC, we will construct a relational
      database and web-based data collection instrument; see Table 1 showing the sites that will
      contribute to this effort. Data will include demographics, symptomology, cerebral
      angioarchitecture, other organ involvement and HHT gene mutation results.

      The database will be used to serve Aim 2 and Aim 3 but will also serve as a platform to
      foster further HHT research. The recruitment of HHT BAVM cases will be emphasized by use of a
      3:1 ratio for enrolling non-BAVM to BAVM HHT cases, i.e., for each brain AVM recruited, 3
      patients without a brain AVM will be recruited. This will provide the largest RDCRN 6203
      Cerebral Hemorrhage Risk in single sample available that will also have centralized expert
      neuroradiological adjudication of the brain phenotype.

      The study design is detailed, by aim, in Section 6. The data to be collected is detailed in
      Sections 4.5 and 4.5.1 and the study schedule is detailed in Section 4.6.

      4.1. Study Population: The study population will include patients with HHT, with inclusion
      and exclusion criteria as detailed in section 4.3. Cases will be recruited from two sources:
      (a) the network of HHT Centers of Excellence (Table 1); and (b) patients who contact study
      personnel or the HHT Foundation International after learning about the study through the HHT
      Foundation International social networks, the RDCRN public website, friends, physicians,
      relatives, etc.

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria are detailed in section 4.3. 4.2. Case Ascertainment and
      Enrollment As shown in Table 2, we estimate conservatively that 875 cases will be available
      for recruitment over five years. Cases will be derived from two sources. First, we will
      recruit from the HHT Centers of Excellence cases that are currently being followed and new
      cases as they pass through the individual clinics. Ascertainment and enrollment will use IRB
      approved, HIPAA-compliant procedures. Each center will submit cases using web-based forms.
      Second, we will recruit new cases through the HHT Foundation. The HHT Foundation has a
      mailing list of 5646 families; there is approximately 1000 new families added per year. HHT
      Patients who contact the HHT Foundation with an interest in participating in the study will
      be directed to the closest participating HHT Center of Excellence. The HHT Foundation will
      recruit patients who contact the HHT Foundation who are interested in participating in the
      BAVM arm of the study but who are not affiliated with a participating center or do not wish
      to visit a center to participate in the study. We will also enroll non-BAVM HHT cases to
      facilitate long-term involvement of the HHT community in systematic, organized rare disease
      research. We have structured the database to be scalable to accommodate all types of HHT.
      Under the supervision of the site PI, each local PI and research staff will identify and
      obtain informed consent from patients and their clinical information is entered into a master
      registry. At enrollment, arrangements for a blood specimen will also be made. Approximately
      20 ml (about 4 teaspoons) of blood will be drawn (two ACD tubes of 8.5 ml each). If a blood
      draw is not possible, the UCSF core will provide bar-coded saliva DNA collection kits.
      Representative standard clinical imaging studies (MR and angiography) of enrolled cases will
      be provided to Dr. Karel TerBrugge at Toronto Western Hospital for adjudication and coding of
      angioarchitecture. We have conservatively estimated that we will be able to collect DNA from
      500 of the 875 project cases that will be enrolled over the course of the study.

      4.3 Patient Selection

      Inclusion Criteria:

        1. (a) Definite clinical HHT diagnosis (at least 3 Curacao criteria) or genetic diagnosis
           of HHT Curacao criteria: (a) spontaneous recurrent nosebleeds; (b) mucocutaneous
           telangiectasia at characteristic sites (lips, oral cavity, fingers or the nose); (c)
           visceral involvement such as pulmonary, hepatic or CNS BAVM; and (d) an affected first
           degree relative by same criteria.(65) OR (b) Definite clinical HHT diagnosis (at least 3
           Curacao criteria) or genetic diagnosis of HHT Curacao criteria: (a) spontaneous
           recurrent nosebleeds; (b) mucocutaneous telangiectasia at characteristic sites (lips,
           oral cavity, fingers or the nose); (c) visceral involvement such as pulmonary, hepatic
           or CNS BAVM; and (d) an affected first degree relative by same criteria.(65) AND
           Presence of BAVM For the purpose of the study, we will focus on BAVM that directly
           shunts blood from arterial to venous circulations without an intervening capillary bed,
           including Toronto classifications(23) of A-V fistulas, "micro" BAVMs (<1 cm) and 8
           "small" (1-3 cm) BAVMs, and if present, larger lesions. We will not include intracranial
           telangiectasias in isolation.

        2. Able to provide informed consent Exclusion Criteria: None 4.4 Recruitment and Informed
           Consent The prospective HHT population will consist of patients seen for evaluation and
           treatment of HHT. Health status for all patients will encompass a spectrum of
           disabilities encountered with the disease processes being studied. The Human Subjects
           Committee/Institutional Review Board of each clinical center will approve the informed
           consent form. A copy of the letter of approval from the IRB/REB and a copy of the
           consent form will be filed with the DMCC before a clinical center will be allowed to
           initiate enrollment. The informed consent will include the objectives of the study, a
           description of the screening process, the potential risks and benefits, the cost to the
           patient, alternatives to participation and liabilities of the particular participating
           center. All patients who are diagnosed with HHT, regardless of gender, race or
           ethnicity, are potential candidates for the RDCRC. To the best of our knowledge, there
           is no race-ethnicity predilection for HHT or sporadic BAVMs.

      4.5 Data and Sample Collection Development A detailed table of relevant fields and their data
      types and ranges were constructed by combining elements that are in use by the HHT community
      and those fields that are collected in our ongoing study of sporadic BAVM. We used these data
      tables as a departure point to work with the DMCC in constructing both the relational
      database for the project as well as the data web entry forms. Database issues are also
      addressed in the GSAC and AU sections.

      All recruited participants will be assigned a Database study ID. The link between patient
      identifying information and database study ID will only be maintained at the recruiting
      center. Data will be entered through a web-based system into a central Database developed at
      the DMCC. Only de-identified information will be entered in the central Database.

      4.5.1 Detailed Clinical and Radiographic Information to be Collected Information collected
      will include both attributes of the systemic manifestations of HHT with a focus on the brain
      vascular phenotype. Detailed tables of data fields and data web entry forms are available
      from the Site PI, Project Leader, and DMCC. The Clinical data elements include demographic
      information as well as specific clinical information about clinical features and
      complications of BAVMs, as well as other organ AVMs and complications related to HHT. The
      Neuroradiological elements include information about angiographic features, clinical
      presentation, complications and treatment of BAVMs. This data will be collect at baseline.
      Every year after recruitment, , participants will be contacted by the recruiting Center to
      collect a limited follow-up data set, regarding treatment and complications of BAVMs and
      mortal status.

      The diagnosis of BAVM will be made by referring centers and adjudicated by Dr. TerBrugge
      based on the submitted imaging studies. All imaging studies will be abstracted under the
      supervision of the consultant neuroradiologist, Dr. TerBrugge. The imaging source and date of
      CT, MRI, MR angiography, and any diagnostic cerebral angiography furnish primary descriptors
      including side, nidus size, anatomic location, "eloquence," feeding arteries, arterial
      aneurysms, number of lesions, and venous drainage pattern. Additional factors include
      location, the presence of intra- and extranidal aneurysms, and the presence of venous
      stenoses, as described in the Writing Group paper. New AVM hemorrhage is bleeding into the
      brain or its surrounding spaces likely to be associated with AVM (age and location of
      hemorrhage are also estimated). The time from diagnosis to any new hemorrhage will be used in
      the survival analyses. We will also record other potential sources of co-morbidity, including
      hypertension, diabetes mellitus, smoking history, hyperlipidemia, i.e., factors that may
      non-specifically increase the risk of hemorrhage. Although functional status is not part of
      the primary aims, we will record Modified Rankin Score (mRS)(66-68) (adapted from the ISAT
      trial patient questions(69)) coded as : 0 = no symptoms and cope well with life; 1 = few
      symptoms which do not interfere with everyday life; 2 = symptoms which have changed my life
      but I am still able to look after myself; 3 = symptoms which significantly changed my life,
      and I need some help looking after myself; 4 = quite severe symptoms, I need help from other
      people; 5 = major symptoms which severely handicap me and I need constant attention day and
      night; deaths are coded as 6.

      The mRS will be recorded at least for patient status at the time of BAVM discovery and the
      last available date. For retrospective cases, these will be estimated using available
      clinical records; for prospective cases, the last available status during the project period
      will be assessed. New ICH during follow-up will also be recorded. Working with the DMCC, we
      will institute a web-based system to facilitate data entry. The main follow-up will be
      targeted to be completed during the fifth year of the RDCRC project and will include: (a)
      date and nature of any treatment; (b) any new hemorrhagic events; and (c) modified Rankin
      score.

      4.5.2 Sample Collection, Processing and Banking Each site will arrange to obtain a blood
      sample from BAVM cases, but we will accommodate banking of samples from HHT patients without
      BAVM for exploratory analyses. Blood samples will be collected and sent directly to the
      Coriell/NINDS Human Genetics DNA and Cell Line Repository using their published instructions
      (http://ccr.coriell.org). Coriell with retain DNA and also release a DNA sample to the study
      investigators UCSF, where it will be stored as well. The advantages of using Coriell/NINDS
      are (1) 20 μg of genomic DNA will be made available to the researchers at no additional
      charge, and (2) lymphocytes will be immortalized, ensuring a durable renewable supply of DNA
      for future studies. The PI has worked with NINDS/Coriell before; we have sent approximately
      100 sporadic brain AVM cases to the NINDS DNA bank.

      For cases unable to have blood drawn, we will use commercially available saliva mailing kits
      (Oragene). The kit is sent by the Study Coordinator with instructions for use, consent form,
      and a return mailing box with pre-printed postage and shipping label. The specimen will be
      labeled with a study ID number, and sent directly to UCSF for processing and DNA extraction.
      We have used these with excellent DNA yields and genotyping results. Such samples would be
      handled directly by the UCSF Genetics and Statistical Analysis Core (GSAC). The Specimen
      study ID number will be assigned separately from the Database study ID number. Samples will
      be retained until all DNA has been used up. If there is sample remaining when the study is
      complete, the study investigators may use the sample for future research studies into genetic
      factors of and brain AVMs or other aspects of HHT.
    
  