
    
      This is an intervention study whose purpose is to determine whether daily interruption of
      sedative infusion contributes to the reduction of the occurrence of delirium and improves
      sleep perception in critically ill patients. Patients in a trauma intensive care unit (TICU)
      receiving mechanical ventilation and continuous infusion of sedatives will be enrolled in the
      study. A patient will be entered into the study after the family member has consented to have
      the patient participate. A sequential assignment method will be used to compare two groups of
      20 patients in each group. The first group of 20 patients (control group [CG]) to be studied
      will receive continuous sedative infusion without daily interruption. The second group of 20
      patients (intervention group [IG]) will receive a daily interruption of sedative infusion.

      If control and intervention group data are not sufficient to elicit the effect of daily
      interruption of sedatives, data collection will continue using the sequential assignment
      method alternating control and intervention group 10 patients at a time. This method will
      proceed until an effect is detected or until the a priori sample size of 182 (i.e., 91
      patients per group) has been reached.

      The intervention group will be monitored during the daily interruption of sedative infusion
      (i.e., sedation wake-up trial[SWT])in order to measure the following variables: delirium,
      physiological response (heart rate [HR], respiratory rate [RR], blood pressure [BP], and
      pulse oxygen saturation [SpO2]), pain intensity, and agitation/sedation level.Once the
      patient is awake during the SWT period, the patient will be screened for SBT. If the patient
      meets the SBT criteria, then the mechanical ventilator mode will be changed to continuous
      positive airway pressure (CPAP) or the patient will be placed in a T-tube circuit for 2 hours
      or until the patient presents signs of SBT failure. Delirium will be measured 3 times a day
      for a maximum of 3 days in both groups after continuous deep sedation discontinuation using
      the Confusion Assessment Method for the Intensive Care Unit (CAM-ICU). Sleep perception will
      be measured by a sleep questionnaire (Sleep Perception in the ICU) after discontinuous of
      continuous sedation. Agitation/sedation level will be measured with the Richmond
      Agitation-Sedation Scale (RASS) and Bispectral Index (BIS), and pain intensity with a 0 to 10
      numeric rating scale (NRS).
    
  