
    
      This study is a prospective randomized controlled study to investigate the gastric emptying
      time of high energy digestible foods in delivery women, and the effect of high energy
      digestible food given before surgery on the comfort and metabolism of women undergoing
      Cesarean section.

      In the first step, 60 women in delivery room are enrolled, who are full term singleton
      pregnancy subjects ranging 18 to 50 years old and fasting for more than 8 hours. They are
      randomly divided into three groups, 20 cases in each group.

      The experimental group (Group E1) is treated with high energy digestible food 300ml, Group G1
      is given 5% glucose injection 300ml and Group N1 is given normal saline 300ml. The gastric
      volume was determined by gastric antrum cross-sectional area (CSA) measured with
      ultrasonography before drinking and once every hour after drinking. Once CSA is less than
      3.81 cm2, the time is recorded as gastric emptying time of the woman. The overall gastric
      emptying time of high energy digestible food is determined with the 90 percentile gastric
      emptying time of women drinking high energy digestible food.

      The second step was to recruit 80 cases of full-term elective cesarean section. They were
      randomly divided into four groups, 20 cases in each group. The experimental group (Group E2)
      was given high energy digestible food 300ml before the time of gastric emptying found in the
      first step, Group G2 is given 5% glucose injection 300ml and Group N2 is given normal saline
      300ml, while the control group (Group C2) was not given any diet. After admission to the
      operation room, the volume of the stomach was measured by ultrasound, and the differences of
      comfort, body temperature, shivering, blood glucose and postoperative anal exhaust time
      between the two groups were observed.

      This study is going to investigate the gastric emptying time of high energy digestible foods
      in delivery women, and the effect of high energy digestible food on the comfort, body
      temperature and blood glucose of women undergoing Cesarean section, so as to provide a good
      basis for reducing the surgery stress in women undergoing Cesarean section.
    
  