
    
      Analytical plan

      Sysmex will be blinded to:

        -  All clinical data except age and gender of the participant

        -  All laboratory and imaging data that is not obtained by the XN-analyzers.

      The clinical study team will be blinded to:

      - Data from the XN-analyzers, excepting the currently validated data that is used for routine
      patient care (e.g. total blood count, white blood differentiation)

      Two researchers from Sysmex and two researchers from the study team will use the data
      available to them (i.e. the data to which they are not blinded) to categorize each patient
      according to the following categories (independently from each other) using the predefined
      case definitions as mentioned above.

        1. Confirmed malaria parasitemia

        2. Confirmed bacterial infection

        3. Confirmed viral infection

        4. Suspected malaria

        5. Suspected bacterial infection

        6. Suspected viral infection

        7. Mixed infection (specified which combination)

        8. No infection

      Analysis for primary outcome measures

        1. Diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of blue laser compared to microscopy/PCR

        2. ROC curve to assess best cut-off for the blue laser based on clinical samples

        3. Linear regression analysis to compare quantification of parasitemia by blue laser to
           microscopy/PCR

        4. Compare performance of the blue laser to performance of RDT (in comparison to
           microscopy/PCR)

        5. Diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of infection manager to detect bBSI in
           participants of 5 years and older.

        6. Diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of the infection manager to detect bBSI combined
           with malaria in participants of 5 years and older.

      Case definitions:

      Malaria parasitemia is defined as the presence of one or more parasites in malaria microscopy
      or a malaria qPCR 18S result over 50 p/ml

      Bacterial bloodstream infection is defined as growth of a clinically significant bacterial
      organism from blood culture within 5 days of incubation or a (16s) PCR result positive for a
      clinically significant organism

      Lower respiratory tract infection: a clinical suspicion including cough and/or shortness of
      breath, supported by results from chest exam and chest X-ray.

      Abscess: in case of superficial abscesses clinical presentation must be confirmed by pus upon
      drainage. In case of deep abscesses the clinical presentation must be confirmed by
      echography.

      Meningitis: A clinical suspicion with decreased conscience and neck stiffness, confirmed by
      culture or agglutination performed on cerebrospinal fluid.

      Pelvic inflammatory infection: Typical clinical presentation with vaginal discharge

      Protrude skin infections: clinical presentation combined with a grown pathogen in skin
      culture or presence of pus.

      Bacterial gastro-enteritis: Patients with diarrhoea and a grown pathogen from stool culture.

      Urinary tract infections: Patients clinical signs of a urinary tract infection and a grown
      pathogen from urine culture.

      Obvious causes of fever include superficial skin infection, superficial abscesses, otitis,
      pharyngitis and tonsillitis.

      Viral infections will be diagnosed based on clinical suspicion and confirmed using PCR or
      serology.
    
  