
    
      Patients above the age of 18 years with a first episode of immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) are
      eligible for inclusion, except pregnant women and patients unable to tolerate
      glucocorticoids. Diagnosis is made and treatment requirement defined according to the 1996
      practice guidelines of the American Society of Hematology. The primary endpoint is duration
      of remission defined as platelets ≥50/nl. Secondary endpoints are response rate, complete
      remission (platelets ≥150/nl), cumulative cortisol equivalent dose (potency of prednisone /
      dexamethasone relative to cortisol: x 4 / x 30) and adverse events. During the first week of
      treatment all patients receive prednisone at 1 mg/kg/d. This period is used to confirm the
      diagnosis and identify patients with ITP secondary to lymphoproliferative, autoimmune
      (systemic lupus erythematosus, antiphospholipid syndrome) or infectious diseases (human
      immunodeficiency, hepatitis C, cytomegalovirus infection). Patients are stratified by age
      (cut-off: 50 years), gender and primary versus secondary ITP and then randomized 1:1 between
      daily prednisone (arm A) and pulsed dexamethasone (arm B). In arm A prednisone is continued
      at 1 mg/kg/d for a second week. If platelets increase to ≥50/nl, its dose is reduced to <25
      mg/d by week 14 and <7.5 mg/d by week 20 according to a step-wise reduction scheme provided
      in the protocol. In patients without response after 2 weeks of treatment, the prednisone dose
      is increased to 2 mg/kg/d for another 2 weeks, then tapered as described above. In arm B
      patients receive six 21-day courses of pulsed dexamethasone (0.6 mg/kg/d, days 1-4). Patients
      failing to achieve or maintain a remission are switched to the alternative treatment arm (A:
      no response after 4 weeks of prednisone at 1-2 mg/kg/d, loss of response, maintenance doses
      exceeding the above limits; B: no response after 2 cycles, loss of response).
    
  