
    
      Hormone therapy (HT) was available since 1942 in tablets containing conjugated equine
      estrogens. Since the 1970s, it has been recommended to add progestogens to the treatment of
      women with a uterus to prevent endometrial hyperplasia. HT has been shown to be very
      effective in climacteric syndrome, relieving 90% of hot flushes that affect women in the
      menopausal transition.

      Target tissue, HT regimen and variations between patients will influence the effects of
      treatment. Regarding estrogen, the main factors that influence the therapeutic response are
      the type of hormone used, the dose and the route of administration. The most physiological
      type of estrogen is 17β estradiol, available in the form of gel and adhesive. The skin
      metabolizes only a small part of estradiol. Thus, the transdermal route reaches adequate
      therapeutic levels from a lower dose of estrogen. Also, the transdermal route prevents the
      first hepatic passage, resulting in more stable levels of estradiol in the circulation,
      without supraphysiological liver concentrations. The bioavailability of estrogen after
      undergoing metabolism in the liver is approximately 2 to 10% of the total administered. This
      hepatic passage can result in greater variability in hormone levels, as well as activation of
      prothrombotic and inflammatory factors. In addition, hepatic metabolism can change the
      therapeutic effects of estrogen and other pharmacological agents.

      The present study aims to evaluate and compare the effects of low dose of oral estradiol
      associated with oral progesterone and transdermal estradiol associated with vaginal
      progesterone on variables related to inflammation, coagulation and body composition
      parameters. This is a prospective randomized controlled study, and the study population
      includes postmenopausal patients with climacteric symptoms, who have not been using hormone
      therapy for at least three months. Patients will receive three months of oral hormonal
      treatment (estradiol 1mg and micronized natural progesterone 200mg 14 days a month) and three
      months of non-oral hormonal treatment (percutaneous estradiol gel 1.5mg and micronized
      progesterone 200mg vaginal 14 days a month).

      Patients with climacteric symptoms who meet the inclusion and the exclusion criteria will be
      included in the study. The entire sample will receive both hormonal therapies sequentially
      and the patients will be divided between the groups (oral therapy and non-oral therapy) to
      start the study by random allocation. There will be no period of suspension between
      treatments, that is, at the end of the first three months of the study, the group initially
      treated with oral therapy starts receiving non-oral treatment for another three months, and
      the group initially treated with non-oral therapy starts to receive oral therapy also for
      another three months.

      This project has already been approved by the Research Ethics Committee of the Hospital de
      Clínicas de Porto Alegre. Post-informed written consent will be obtained from all patients,
      in accordance with health research standards.

      The results will be presented as means and standard deviation or medians and interquartile
      range. Analysis of variance for latin square will be used to evaluate carryover effect.
      Two-way ANOVA for repeated samples will be used to compare baseline conditions and the two
      treatments. Bonferroni's adjustment will be used for multiple comparisons. Bivariate
      correlations between continuous numerical variables will be examined using Pearson or
      Spearman correlation coefficients, according to the Gaussian or non-Gaussian nature of the
      variable, respectively. Statistical analysis will be performed using Statistical Package for
      Social Sciences (SPSS, Chicago, IL, USA), with a value of p <0.05 being considered
      significant.
    
  