
    
      Primary repair for flexor tendon lacerations remain the standard of care. However, despite
      recent advances in knowledge of tendon healing, suture material, and post-operative
      protocols, outcomes have been reported as fair or poor in 7-20% of patients. Complications
      encountered include adhesion formation, development of joint contractures, tendon rupture,
      triggering, bowstringing and quadrigia.

      Wide-awake flexor tendon repair using local anesthesia and epinephrine with no tourniquet has
      been described. Safety of epinephrine in digits makes it possible, and epinephrine-induced
      vasoconstriction precludes the need for a tourniquet and cautery.This approach allows a
      wide-awake, comfortable, non-sedated, cooperative, tourniquet-free patient to test the
      freshly repaired tendon with full active range of motion intraoperatively. The surgeon can
      inspect for bunching, gapping, and triggering of the repair site in an active fashion. Thus,
      an opportunity is available to revise the repair, trim or add extra sutures, revise pulley
      reconstruction, or de-bulk tendons before wound closure. This could mean that a higher
      quality repair is possible and could guide post-operative rehabilitation. It follows that if
      the patient is unable to achieve total active range of motion intraoperatively they will not
      be able to postoperatively and may end up requiring a tenolysis. Lalonde and colleagues
      looked retrospectively at their 15 years of experience using WALANT with the hypothesis that
      this technique decreased their post-operative rupture rate. With 122 patients there were only
      3 ruptures, all due to unexpected forceful movements. Contraindications of this technique
      include patients who are unable or unwilling to tolerate an operation while awake, pediatric
      patients, those who are mentally impaired, and complex trauma.

      Improved compliance with postoperative therapy is also reported after patients visualize the
      repair in real time and gain a better understanding of limitations and expectations. Patient
      buy-in to the rehabilitation process is potentially improved if the surgeon can use the
      operative time to educate the patient, show them the repair, and manage expectations since
      the patient is wide-awake and coherent. Wide-awake flexor tendon repair could also improve
      surgeon confidence in initiating a true active motion therapy protocol when the surgeon
      visualizes the absence of gapping with full finger flexion. Initiation of early active motion
      could subsequently improve ultimate post-operative range of motion and patient satisfaction.
      The advent of wide-awake flexor tendon repair could have economic implications as well given
      that fewer resources are theoretically used for the procedure.

      Currently there are no prospective randomized controlled studies evaluating outcomes in
      flexor tendon repairs that have utilized a wide-awake anaesthesia protocol and comparing
      outcomes with traditional repair techniques.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate and compare outcomes of WALANT (wide-awake, local
      anesthetic, no tourniquet) when compared to traditional general/regional anesthetic for
      flexor tendon repairs in zone I and II.
    
  