
    
      Patients between the ages of 30-65 with allergic complaints (sneezing, itching,runy nose,
      respiratory distress) were diagnosed "atopic disease" (allergic asthma, allergic rhinitis,
      allergic conjunctivitis, chronic urticaria and atopic dermatitis) by same clinician in
      Immunology and Allergy Department. Women aged between 30-65 years are scanned free of charge
      (HPV and smears) by the Public Health Institution in our country. The HPV results of the
      screened patients were noted retrospectively through the result reports of the patients, and
      those who were not screened were directed to Gynecology Department and HPV results were
      followed. Healthy women without allergic complaints applied for routine gynecologic
      examination occurred control group. Similarly, the HPV results of the control group were
      recorded.

      Pregnant women, women who receive immunosuppressive therapy (including chemotherapy and
      chronic corticosteroid therapy), HIV positive women, women with cancer and performed
      hysterectomy were excluded. Patients' height, weight, demographic features (age, marital
      status, income level), obstetric histories (gravida, parity, mode of delivery), contraception
      methods and smoking status were noted.

      Subgroup atopic disease diagnoses, duration of illness, treatments regimes and treatment time
      of the patients in the study group were also questioned and recorded. Leukotriene receptor
      antagonists and histamine receptor antagonists were the main treatments for study group and
      all therapies were designed by the same clinician. Routine allergic skin tests were performed
      to all atopic patients during diagnosis.

      Statistical analyses

      Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) for Windows, version 18.0 (SPSS Inc., USA) was
      used to compare the clinical features of groups. Normality of data distribution was tested
      with Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Data was shown as means ± standart deviation (SD) for
      continuous variables and the independent t test was used to assess the differences in
      variables between groups. Kruskal-Wallis, Mann-Whitney U-test and Bonferroni correction were
      used for values with non-normal distribution. P Values below 0.05 (p<0.05) was accepted as
      statistically significant.
    
  