
    
      Group lifestyle interventions (LI) have documented efficacy in improving cardiovascular
      disease (CVD) risk factors, however, many fail to demonstrate outcome maintenance. Existing
      LIs primarily focus on behavioral regulation, neglecting to address emotional regulation
      (ER). Difficulty with negative emotions often leads to unhealthy lifestyle recidivism,
      particularly in women, whereas acquiring ER skills have been found to improve healthy eating
      and is associated with increased physical activity. The effectiveness of ER as a healthy
      eating intervention has been documented in individuals with binge eating disorders and obese
      emotional eaters; however, it has never been utilized in a non-clinical population.

      This pilot study aims to demonstrate that emotional regulation (ER) is a valuable supplement
      to a documented and effective group-based lifestyle intervention on cardiovascular disease
      risk reduction maintenance in a non-clinical population by assessing changes in this primary
      outcome: Mediterranean diet adherence and these secondary outcomes: average daily steps, METS
      per week, BMI, blood pressure, physical activity, LDL, HDL, Triglycerides, Hemoglobin A1c,
      Western Diet Score, ER skills, Healthy Heart Score and eating behavior. This study will
      include 14 female hospital employees and the group intervention will be based on the gold
      standard Diabetes Prevention Program, integrating the Mediterranean Diet as well as emotional
      regulation skills based on dialectical behavior therapy. The intervention will take place
      over 5 months: a weekly core intervention over 3 months time and 2 booster sessions over 2
      months time.

      Group sessions will focus on adherence to the Mediterranean Diet and increased physical
      activity. Nutrition content will include diet education, group counseling and social support,
      food interaction (tasting and cooking), behavioral self-regulation techniques (goal setting,
      self-monitoring, planning), conscious eating, creating healthy environmental support, and
      guidance tailored to the target audience. Physical activity will include education,
      motivation, guidance in starting a routine, and an experiential aerobic exercise class.
      Participants will be encouraged to exercise at least 150 minutes per week. Physical activity
      will also be integrated into sessions through a walking program, where participants receive a
      pedometer, weekly physical activity encouragement and tips, and create weekly step goals.
      Weekly steps will be tabulated by group leaders and assistants through pedometer measurement.

      The emotion regulation skills modules will be modified from the Dialectical Behavior Therapy
      manual adapted to binge eating disorders (DBT-BED) and other ER sources. These modules will
      emphasize ER skills that include the ability to identify and label emotions, to recognize
      their causes and what maintains emotions, the ability to accept and tolerate negative
      emotions, the skills to provide effective self-support and self-compassion in distressing
      situations, and the ability to manage situations that elicit negative emotions, as well as
      re-appraisal skills, which are identified as particularly influential on eating behaviors.

      Maintenance preparation sessions will address behavioral change maintenance, obstacle
      identification and coping skills. The booster session will provide an overview of the
      intervention and plans for continued outside-intervention support.

      Data will be collected at baseline and 2 post intervention follow up points (after the first
      5 months and 6 months following).
    
  