
    
      Juvenile idiopathic arthritis is the most frequent pathology in paediatric rheumatology
      clinic. Pain is an important symptom in paediatric rheumatology. It is actually poorly
      studied and is not evaluate in disease activity score like the Juvenile Arthritis Disease
      Activity Score (JADAS). It is source of handicap, social and psychological distress and
      greatly contribute to poor quality of life. Chronic pain is frequently multifactorial, even
      in inflammatory disease. In adult population, rheumatologists have shown an association
      between inflammatory disease like spondylarthritis or rheumatology polyarthritis and
      fibromyalgia.

      There is no specific data on chronic pain in juvenile idiopathic arthritis. Pain is mostly
      evaluated by the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) with no evaluation of pain repercussion on daily
      life or its chronicity. This study's primary objective is to determine the frequency of
      chronic pain and its relationship with disease activity. Secondaries objectives are to
      determine repercussion of pain in daily life, and risk factor of chronic pain.

      To responded to this objective, we will conduct a transversal study in a paediatric
      rheumatology refence centre in Necker-Enfants malades Hospital. We will include all patients
      between 12 and 18 years old followed in our centre for any type of juvenile idiopathic
      arthritis.

      Patients will be evaluated as usual by their paediatrics rheumatologist during a follow-up
      consultation or hospitalisation with the used of the clinical JADAS. Patient accepting to
      participate the study will be given a paper questionnaire evaluating chronic pain, its
      repercussion, anxiety (by the used of the Revised Children's Manifest Anxiety Scale (RCMAS
      score)), depression (by the used of the Children's Depression Inventory (CDI score)),
      Sleepiness (by the used of the Pediatric Daytime Sleepiness Scale (PDSS score)) and quality
      of life (by the used of the measurement model for the Pediatric Quality of Life inventory
      (PedQL score)).
    
  