
    
      .The hypotheses behind this study were:

      - The aMMP-8 test discriminates between individuals with and without untreated generalized
      chronic periodontitis

      Thus, sensitivity and specificity of a chair-side test for activated matrix
      metalloproteinase-8 to distinguish between individuals with and without untreated chronic
      periodontitis as well as between patients with generalized moderate and generalized severe
      ChP was evaluated.

      Patients

      A commercially available chair side test to detect increased levels of activated matrix
      metalloproteinase-8 was used at Dr. Matthias Mayer's dental office (Arndtstr. 14, 60325
      Frankfurt am Main) in periodontally healthy individuals and patients with untreated
      generalized moderate chronic periodontitis (mChP) and generalized severe chronic
      Periodontitis (sChP).

      The companies had provided 70 tests for use. During use the idea arose to retrospectively
      correlate test results and clinical diagnoses. Thus, a study protocol was submitted to the
      ethics committee of the Medical Faculty of the Johann Wolfgang Goethe-University
      Frankfurt/Main. All patients that were examined prior to the vote of the ethics committee
      were evaluated retrospectively. All following patients were recruited prospectively.

      All patients were asked about current smoking (yes/no) and education level (basic school,
      high school, university). The study complied with the rules of the Declaration of Helsinki
      and was approved by the Institutional Review Board for Human Studies of the Medical Faculty
      of the Goethe-University Frankfurt/Main (Application# 144/13).

      Chair side test

      For all periodontitis patients the activated matrix metalloproteinase-8 test was performed at
      least 24 hours after clinical examination. For periodontally healthy controls the test was
      done within a week after clinical examination. First of all patients rinsed with tap water
      for 30 seconds. Then they spat out the water and waited for 1 min. Now patients rinsed with
      5ml of purified water for 30 seconds and spat this sample back into the test cup.
      Approximately 2 ml of the sampled saliva was now taken up with a syringe. After a filter was
      put onto the syringe 3 drops of the saliva were pressed through the filter into the ELISA
      kit. After 5 to 10 min the result was read from the test kit. If both the control and test
      stripes were visible the respective test was positive (i.e. ≥ 25 ng activated matrix
      metalloproteinase-8 per ml). All test results were photographed with 2fold magnification.

      Statistical analysis

      The patient was looked upon as statistical unit. The sensitivity and specificity of the
      aMMP-8 test was defined as the main outcome variables. All other parameters were control
      variables.

      For all individuals, cigarette pack years were calculated. Group frequencies were expressed
      for sex, current smoking, education, and activated matrix metalloproteinase-8
      (positive/negative). Group means and standard deviations were calculated for age and bleeding
      on probing. Further, for each individual the following variables were calculated to describe
      the periodontal status.

      Comparisons between groups for dichotomous parameters were made by χ² or Fisher's exact test
      and for all other parameters by Kruskal-Wallis and Mann-Whitney-U test.

      Using backward stepwise logistic regression analysis, factors should be identified that were
      associated with positive activated matrix metalloproteinase-8 tests.
    
  