
    
      Background:

      Generalized arterial calcification of infancy (GACI) is an ultra-rare disorder with an
      estimated birth prevalence of around 1 in 400,000.1 GACI is characterized by extensive
      arterial calcifications, arterial stenosis, myointimal proliferation and periarticular
      calcifications. Individuals with GACI also experience calcification in other body areas, such
      as joints and organs. GACI is generally fatal before birth or within the first six months
      after birth. The cause of death is frequently myocardial infarction or stroke. GACI is
      strongly associated with inactivating mutations in ectonucleotide pyrophosphate/
      phosphodiesterase 1 (ENPP1); around three quarters of GACI cases investigated had one or
      several ENPP1 mutations. Many patients with GACI, including some without an ENPP1 mutation
      also present with mutations in adenosine triphosphate binding cassette transporter protein
      subfamily C member 6 (ABCC6). Autosomal recessive hypophosphatemic rickets type 2 (ARHR2) and
      pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE) are believed to be closely related to GACI. ARHR2 is caused by
      mutations in the ENPP1 gene5 and PXE is caused by mutations in the ABCC6 gene,3 with both
      being observed among patients with GACI. The natural history of GACI and in particular its
      long term morbidity and mortality are poorly understood, but a strong understanding of the
      condition will be crucial for further therapy development and drug testing. This study aims
      to address this knowledge gap.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective of this study is to characterize overall survival among patients with
      GACI, over time from birth.

      Secondary objectives are to:

        -  Characterize the patient and disease characteristics;

        -  Describe symptomology at diagnosis and the change in symptomology over time;

        -  Describe treatment patterns specific to GACI or rickets

        -  Characterize mental/physical impairment, education, and employment situation;

        -  Characterize the sequelae of the disease;

        -  Prevalence of rickets; and

        -  Growth velocities.

      Eligibility:

        -  GACI genotype (mutation in ENPP1 and/or ABCC6) confirmed through mutational analysis of
           the patient and a GACI phenotype confirmed by imaging or biopsy; or

        -  GACI phenotype confirmed with imaging, biopsy, or mutational analysis of the parents
           indicating a GACI genotype (mutation in ENPP1 and/or ABCC6) coinciding with symptoms of
           the patient.

      Data will be collected for both living and deceased patients

      Design:

      Retrospective multicenter chart review
    
  