
    
      BACKGROUND

      Metal-on-metal (MOM) hip implants have a risk of releasing metal ions upon wear of the
      component material. Some of the metal ions (e.g. cobalt and chromium) from the metal implant
      or from the metal particles will enter the bloodstream.

      The Food and Drug Administration (FDA, USA) recently highlighted systemic toxicity from metal
      on metal hip implants as a cause for concern and recommended that patients with systemic
      symptoms are assessed with a particular focus on cardiovascular, neurological,
      endocrinological (especially thyroid), and renal systems.

      A number of cases of suspected toxicity to circulating cobalt and chromium from MOM hip
      implants, including cardiac toxicity, have been reported recently. The most profound case
      involves a patient who died from cardiac failure secondary to cardiomyopathy and cobalt
      deposition within the cardiac tissues. A recent cross sectional health screen and isolated
      case reports, suggest that raised metal ion levels have the potential to cause cardiomyopathy
      and cardiac failure. Such cases have raised public anxiety in the process.

      Blood metal ions released from metal hip implants are increasingly recognized as a potential
      cause of local and distant abnormal tissue responses, since cobalt and chromium is released
      into the peri-prosthetic tissues and transported systemically throughout the body. Component
      design and positioning are associated with increased wear and as a result raised metal ion
      levels. However, a definitive causal link to systemic symptoms still remains to be
      established.

      Iron overload disorders affecting the heart or liver is a significant cause of morbidity in
      primary and secondary haemochromatosis and thalassaemia. Excessive iron deposition within
      cardiac tissues can lead to premature death secondary to fatal arrhythmias and heart failure.
      Cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging has revolutionised the management of this
      particular group of patients by allowing a robust non-invasive method of detecting iron
      loading.

      CMR is the gold-standard method of assessing cardiac volumes, function and mass. It's unique
      strength over other imaging modalities is tissue characterization with and without the use of
      contrast agents. Myocardial iron is detected due to the effects on relaxation times through
      the interaction of iron with hydrogen nuclei in normal cardiac tissue. Cobalt is a
      ferromagnetic metal containing unpaired electrons allowing it to align in parallel to applied
      magnetic fields, and therefore should be detected by MRI in a similar way to iron.

      RATIONALE

      No study has attempted to identify cobalt deposition within cardiac tissue using cardiac MRI.
      We therefore aim to detect cobalt deposition in the cardiac tissue of patients with metal hip
      implants and markedly raised cobalt blood ion levels. If detected, we aim to assess whether
      this had any clinical effect on cardiac function.

      Our hypothesis is that there is no discernable effect on cardiac function detectable on
      Cardiac MRI and Echocardiography in patients with raised blood cobalt ion levels.

      Case Controlled Cohort Observation study

      Three groups of patients will be identified with Hip implants (matched for age, sex and time
      since surgery).

        1. Patients with MOM hip implant and raised metal ion level (>7ppb) - N=30

        2. Patients with MOM hip implant and Normal Metal ion level (<7ppb) - N=30

        3. Patients with non-metal bearing hip implant (Ceramic on Ceramic/Polyethylene (COC/COP))
           - N=30

      Selection into each group will be defined by metal ion blood tests and hip implant type.
      Patients with two consecutive blood tests at the appropriate level and less than 10%
      variation (in the last 12 months) will be included, or those with a blood test at the
      appropriate level taken in the last 3 months will be included.

      The cardiologist will be blinded with regards to patient grouping, to ensure there is no bias
      when reporting the clinical and cardiological investigations results in light of the presence
      or absence of raised blood metal ions.

      All participants enrolled will:

        -  Be assessed by a cardiologist

        -  Have a cardiac MRI, an ECHOcardiogram, and an Electrocardiogram (ECG)

      These clinical data will be analysed and compared to assess if a significant difference
      exists between the 3 groups.
    
  