
    
      Main Objectives:

        1. Conceiving the clinical relevance of carbapenem hetero-resistance phenomenon among
           Klebsiella pneumoniae strains.

        2. Identification of molecular resistance mechanisms causing carbapenem hetero-resistance
           among Klebsiella pneumoniae strains

        3. Identification of accuracy of gradient test (e.g. E-test) and disc diffusion test for
           detection of carbapenem heteroresistance as compared with gold standard PAP analysis

      Hypothesis

      Main hypothesis

      1- 30-day mortality rate is higher in bloodstream infections caused by CRKp than carbapenem
      hetero-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae

      Secondary hypothesis

        1. 90-day relapse/re-infection rates are similar in CRKp and carbapenem heteroresistant Kp
           groups. However, carbapenem monotherapy is associated with higher rate of
           relapse/reinfection rate in treatment of bloodstream infection caused by carbapenem
           heteoresistant K. pneumonia even if used as high dose and prolonged infusion regimens.

        2. 14-day clinical cure rate is significantly higher in carbapenem heteroresistant Kp group
           than CRKp group.

        3. 14-day clinical cure rate is significantly lower in patients having BSI caused by
           carbapenem hetero-resistant K. pneumoniae and treated with carbapenem monotherapy.

        4. 7-day microbiological cure rate is significantly higher in carbapenem heteroresistant Kp
           group than CRKp group.

        5. 7-day microbiological cure rate is significantly lower in patients having BSI caused by
           carbapenem heteroresistant K. pneumoniae and treated with carbapenem monotherapy.

      Study Design:

      Prospective multi-centre multinational study

      Setting and study period:

      Tertiary care hospitals form different parts of the world will be included in COMBAT trial.
      Study period is scheduled to be 01.04.2020-01.04.2021 or longer until pre-defined sample size
      is attained. Local (primary) investigators will collect microbiological and clinical data of
      participants. Site investigators will screen the microbiology laboratory data in daily
      interval to identify patients with CRKp or carbapenem hetero-resistant Kp bacteremia. All
      consecutive patients with monobacterial CRKp or carbapenem hetero-resistant Kp BSI will be
      eligible to be evaluated for inclusion in the study. Carbapenem resistance will be determined
      according to 2015 CDC criteria. The presence of carbapenem hetero-resistance among Kp blood
      culture isolates will be initially determined based on observation of some sub-colonies in
      inhibition zone of carbapenems. The presence of hetero-resistance against only one type of
      carbapenems including ertapenem, imipenem, meroepenem will be sufficient to be included.
      Identification of carbapenem hetero-resistant subpopulations is not infrequent while
      performing disc diffusion tests or gradient tests (eg. E-test) in our daily practices.
      However, the exact sensitivity and specificity of these tests for identification of
      carbapenem hetero-resistance among gram-negative microorganisms are not known yet. The
      participants with BSI caused by carbapenem hetero-resistant Kp that is defined by disc
      diffusion or gradient test results will be recruited into carbapenem hetero-resistant Kp
      group. However, clinical carbapenem hetero-resistant Kp isolates will be transfered to
      pre-defined reference centres of each country via appropriate transfer culture media.
      Population analysis profiling (PAP) will be performed for these pathogens in reference
      centres. Although PAP is recommended method for identification of carbapenem
      hetero-resistance, it is cumbersome for microbiology laboratories for routine usage.
      Participants suspected of having BSI with carbapenem hetero-resistant Kp based on routine
      microbiological methods will be initially included and data of these patients will be
      recorded but, these patients will be excluded from our final analysis if PAP analysis does
      not confirm the presence of carbapenem hetero-resistance in these pathogens. PAP analysis
      will be used as a confirmatory test for identification of carbapenem heteroresistance among
      Klebsiella pneumoniae isolates. PAP will be performed at the end of patient recruitment and
      after collection of all isolates in reference centers. Therefore, treatment decisions and any
      other interventions will not be affected by the results of PAP analysis. PAP will only be
      used for identification of presence of carbapenem hetero-resistance among suspicious isolates
      as a gold standard method. This study will be purely observational and no intervention will
      be in any part of patient follow-up (eg. diagnosis, treatment etc.) and all decisions will be
      taken by attending physicians. Briefly, PAP analysis will be performed as following: one
      colony from a culture grown overnight on Columbia agar is inoculated into 5 ml of
      Luria-Bertani broth. After 24 h of incubation, 0.1 ml of bacterial suspension with a density
      corresponding 0.5 McFarland is serially diluted and spread onto Mueller-Hinton agar
      containing two-fold serial dilutions of meropenem, imipenem, ertapenem with concentrations
      ranging from 0.25 to 256 mg/L. One hundred microliters of ten-fold serial dilution(s) of a
      0.5 McFarland suspension is spread on drug-free Mueller-Hinton agar and incubated for 48h at
      37 °C to determine the CFUs/ml. Colony counts from three replicate plates are performed for
      all of the isolates, and mean values are estimated. The number of resistant cells in 0.1 ml
      of starting bacterial suspension is calculated and the log CFUs/ml is plotted against the
      antibiotic concentration. The frequency of hetero-resistant subpopulations at the highest
      drug concentration will be calculated and divided the number of colonies grown on
      antibiotic-containing plates by the colony counts from the same bacterial inoculum plated
      onto antibiotic-free plates. A protocol for PAP analysis will be prepared and send to
      reference centers to perform PAP more smoothly and with same techniques in each reference
      centers. Site investigators will also collect CRKp isolates and keep these isolates in
      appropriate conditions until time of transfer for analysis. All CRKp isolates will be sent to
      the central microbiology laboratories in each country for identification of carbapenemase
      genes by performing multiplex PCR (polymerized chain reaction).

      Sample Size:

      To best of our knowledge, there is no study investigating clinical outcomes of bloodstream or
      other type of invasive infections caused by carbapenem hetero-resistant gram negative
      bacteria in literature. Therefore, this study will be conducted as a pilot study.
      Nevertheless, 200 participants for CRKp arm and 100 participants for carbapenem
      hetero-resistant Klebsiella pneumonaie arm are planned to be involved.

      Follow-up:

      Participants will be evaluated for microbiological eradication on day 7 by control blood
      cultures and cultures of primary infection source. If causative pathogen is not eradicated
      within 7 days follow-up, consecutive cultures will be taken between 7-28 days as being
      necessary. Patients will also be evaluated for clinical response on day-7 and day-14 by using
      relevant parameters. All participants will be followed for 90 days after index blood culture
      date. During this follow-up period, regular assessment starting from blood culture sampling
      will be carried out and participants will be primarily evaluated for occurrence of any
      infection (blood stream or other type of invasive infection) in once a month interval if the
      participants are discharged. Participants will be warned to apply to our centres until the
      completion of 90-day follow-up period when symptoms of infection develop (eg fever, chills).
      Also, participants will be informed to call physicians who are primary investigators of
      particular centre in this study when the participants arrive to hospital clinic or emergency
      department. Primary investigators will evaluate participants and send their culture samples
      according to clinical necessity. After review of the results of cultures and clinical
      presentation, the patients will be allocated into infections with carbapenem resistant or
      carbapenem hetero-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae groups. If the participant is discharged
      before completion of the 90-days, he/she will be contacted in 30 days interval by telephone
      call to appraise the investigated outcomes.

      Microbiological Analysis:

        -  Antimicrobial susceptibility tests (AST) will be performed in each center and not be
           repeated. Therefore, AST results will be obtained from hospital database.

        -  PAP (Population analysis profiling) will be performed in reference centers in each
           country to identify actual hetero-resistant isolates among suspected isolates in which
           some subpopulations within inhibition zone in gradient test (eg.E-test) or disk
           diffusion test are identified

        -  Multiplex PCR will be used for identification of types of carbapenemase (will be
           performed in reference centers)

        -  Whole genome sequencing will be used to identifiy molecular mechanisms of carbapenem
           hetero-resistance in clinical isolates (will be performed in reference centers)

        -  Colistin resistance will be investigated by broth microdilution method (will be
           performed in reference centers)

        -  EUCAST breakpoints will be used for identification of resistance against all antibiotics
           except tigecycline in which FDA breakpoints will be applied.

        -  The results of antimicrobial susceptiblity and MIC values of carbapenems, colistin,
           tigecycline, amikacin and gentamycin will be indicated for most resistant subpopulations
           identified in PAP analysis. MIC values of aforementioned antibiotics will be analyzed in
           reference centers by using broth microdilution method. For other antibiotics, AST
           results of parental isolates will be recorded and obtained from hospital database.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Variables were described using median (interquartile range) or frequency count according to
      the type of variable. The categorical variables will be compared by Pearson's chi-square or
      Fisher's exact test if cells have a frequency of 5 or less and continuous variables by
      Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney U tests for nonnormally distributed variables or Student's t test for
      normally distributed variables. The groups (CRKp vs Carbapenem hetero-resisant) were compared
      by using univariate analysis to define the variables that have significant difference between
      comparison groups. All univariables with a P value of 0.20 or less will be included in the
      multivariate Cox regression models by manually selecting them in a backward stepwise manner
      according to clinical value and their association. VIF (variance inflation factor) will be
      calculated for each variables incorporated into multivariate model. The best fit model will
      be picked up according to likelihood ratio test. In another analysis comparing CRKp group and
      carbapenem hetero-resistant group, a propensity score will be calculated and this score will
      be incorporated into cox regression analysis model as a confounding parameter. Cox
      reggression analysis will be applied to compare relevant outcomes such as 30-day mortality
      and 14-day clinical cure rates.

      Survival for 30 days from the first positive blood culture was plotted as Kaplan-Meier curves
      and the rates of survival were compared by the log rank test to evaluate the effect of
      carbapenem hetero-resistance. All tests were two-tailed, and significance was set at 0.05 in
      SPSS software (version 20.0; SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA).
    
  