
    
      There is limited data available from which to develop guidelines for safe and effective
      exercise prescription among individuals with hip or vertebral fractures. The long-term goal
      of our research team is to conduct a large multi-centre randomized controlled trial (RCT) to
      investigate whether participating in a thrice-weekly home exercise program for one year can
      reduce incident fragility fractures among women aged 65 years or older with a history of
      vertebral fracture compared to no intervention. The current study is a pilot study with the
      principal objective of determining the feasibility of recruitment, retention and adherence of
      an international multicentre RCT evaluating the efficacy of thrice-weekly home exercise for
      one year among women with vertebral fracture. The intervention was developed by experts in
      exercise prescription based on a rigorous literature review and Cochrane meta-analysis we
      have conducted. Physiotherapists will conduct 6 home visits with participants to deliver the
      intervention (or social visit for controls) using a similar model to previous work by our
      team and others. Secondary outcomes of the pilot study are those hypothesized to be among the
      causal pathway linking exercise to fracture risk, including lower extremity strength,
      posture, balance, as well as falls and fractures. Additional secondary outcomes include
      quality of life, pain, exercise self-efficacy, the cost of the intervention, and the risk of
      adverse events associated with exercise. The recruitment and retention process will be
      summarized using a CONSORT flow diagram, and the reporting of results will be in accordance
      with the CONSORT criteria. Analyses of feasibility objectives will be descriptive or based on
      estimates with 95% confidence intervals, where feasibility will be assessed relative to
      criteria defined a priori. Differences in secondary outcomes will be evaluated in intention
      to treat analyses via independent student T-tests, Chi Square or logistic regression. The
      Bonferroni method will be used to adjust the level of significance for secondary outcomes so
      the overall level is alpha=0.05. Even if the larger trial proves not to be feasible, the
      current trial will be one of the largest exercise studies among a representative group of
      women with vertebral fracture to date, and will evaluate the feasibility and costs of a
      comprehensive home exercise program, and its effect on important secondary outcomes.
      Osteoporosis Canada has defined a need to develop patient resources on exercise and recently
      announced a shift in priority to individuals with existing fractures; the proposed pilot
      study is timely and will directly inform these knowledge translation initiatives.
    
  