
    
      Overview: Cluster-randomized stepped-wedge trial to evaluate the impact of implementing a
      clinical decision support initiative for early recognition and management of
      hospital-acquired AKI.

      Study Population: Adult patients hospitalized on surgical units in Alberta who develop acute
      kidney injury will be eligible if not already receiving dialysis.

      Intervention: The multidimensional clinical decision support intervention consists of: (1)
      electronic and non-computerized tools for early recognition of AKI, (2) educational program
      for clinical staff, (3) decision support resources and guidance for the management of AKI and
      consultation with specialists.

      Study Design: Using a stepped-wedge design, eight general and vascular surgery unit clusters
      in Calgary (Foothills Medical Centre, Peter Lougheed Centre) and Edmonton (University of
      Alberta Hospital, Grey Nuns Community Hospital), Alberta will be randomly ordered to be
      sequentially introduced to the clinical decision support intervention. The pre-implementation
      period will include all patients admitted to the participating hospital units in the year
      before the random timing of introduction of the initiative on each participating unit. The
      post-implementation study cohort will include patients admitted in the year after the random
      timing of introduction of the initiative on each unit. Analysis of processes of care and
      outcomes will focus on patients on these units who develop AKI during the pre- and
      post-implementation time periods (i.e. are eligible to receive care under the AKI decision
      support initiative). Additionally, health care providers (e.g. physicians, nursing staff,
      pharmacists) who have direct experience with the clinical decision support tools and
      processes will be invited to participate in the surveys and interviews pre- and
      post-implementation.
    
  