
    
      One fifth of patients discharged from hospital for COPD exacerbations are readmitted within
      30 days.(1, 3, 4) While therapies and care guidelines have improved, guideline implementation
      remains poor.(5) Implementing appropriate standards through usual hospital workflow presents
      significant challenges. One of the top challenges is ensuring all eligible patients with COPD
      exacerbations are identified in a timely manner.(6) Another top challenge is that staff are
      often too busy and do not have time to execute evidence-based practices that reduce
      readmissions.(6) Furthermore, intensive case management can not be offered to everyone
      because of limited resources. Therefore, it is important that we are able to identify both
      people who are admitted with COPD early as well as those who are at high risk for
      readmission.

      COPD exacerbations may, at times, not be easily recognized at first and take days to become
      apparent. Symptoms of exacerbations such as shortness of breath are not specific and signs
      such as chest radiograph infiltrates can be due to one or more diagnoses. Furthermore, COPD
      exacerbations can trigger or be triggered by other diseases. As a result, it is not uncommon
      for admitting physicians to admit patients with multiple provisional diagnoses of heart
      failure, pneumonia, COPD exacerbation and more. Distinguishing people with COPD exacerbations
      is further confounded by Electronic Health Records (EHRs) that do not have diagnoses listed
      as coded elements. The end result is that it is difficult for the rest of the
      interprofessional team to find COPD patients early in admission. This has been addressed in
      some U.S. hospitals by having non-health care providers review charts to identify patients
      admitted with for COPD.(7) An alternate approach has been machine learning and natural
      language processing. This has been implemented with some success for patients with heart
      failure but little has been done for people with COPD.(13) In one pilot program, natural
      language processing helped identify patients admitted with COPD.(7)

      To target scarce resources for those who need it most, it would be helpful to further
      identify patients at high risk of readmission. This would be the first step in determining
      how to implement effective strategies to reduce readmission rates. There are readmission
      prediction models developed for medical and surgical patients including the LACE score and
      the HOSPITAL score.(8, 9) Unfortunately, those that have been studied do not appear to
      perform well in the COPD population.(10) While factors have been identified that help predict
      COPD readmission, the models have not been fully validated.(11, 12) The performance could be
      improved through the use of unstructured data such as clinician progress notes and discharge
      summaries.

      Early identification of people with COPD and knowledge of those who are at risk of
      readmission can improve health outcomes. Zafar et al. demonstrated that a comprehensive COPD
      care bundle that consisted of 1. inhaler assessment, 2. appropriate inhaler regimen, 3. early
      discharge follow up and 4. patient-centered discharge instructions reduced readmissions.(14)
      Identification of those at high risk of readmission could facilitate enrollment into
      intensive case management. Therefore, we will conduct the current study to identify patients
      admitted with acute exacerbations of COPD and stratify patients according to risk of
      readmission

      Methods:

      Using retrospective data from the University Health Network (UHN), we will create a data set
      of admissions to General Internal Medicine for the past 5 years. We estimate this will
      include approximately 40,000 admissions of which 2,000 will have a most responsible diagnoses
      of a COPD exacerbation. The data set will contain both structured coded data as well as
      unstructured text data. Coded data will include age, gender, medications ordered,
      co-morbidities, laboratory values, and pulmonary function tests. Unstructured text data will
      include notes in EHR: physician clinic notes, discharge summaries, admission diagnoses,
      progress notes, and notes from our signover system.

      Analysis: We will use several different methods to develop the model including logistic
      regression, deep neural networks, and convolutional neural networks. Specifically, we will
      also use statistical machine learning algorithms for event detection using bi-directional
      long-short term memory neural networks across a variety of input types (e.g., Fourier filter
      banks, Mel-frequency cepstral coefficients, wavelets, and raw audio). We will also use
      traditional methods such as dynamic Bayes networks and conditional random fields. On the text
      analytics side, we will identify key phrases that predict readmission. One approach will be
      to use discourse analysis to single out "nucleus" phrases from background text. We will also
      build "joint" predictive models that combine features from the unstructured text and features
      from the structured coded data. We will use the standard Area under the ROC Curve to assess
      model performance and use cross validation to minimize the impact of overfitting. Finally, we
      will then validate our models using a dataset from different centres to determine whether
      these results are valid and generalizable.

      Anticipated results: The development of two validated models based on EHR data: one to
      accurately identify patients with AECOPD and the second to accurately identify patients at
      high risk of readmission within 30 days.
    
  