
    
      The study team is proposing a large study in the Essex Emergency Services to map the
      relationship between physiological indicators of stress and subjective mediators and, in
      doing, provide insight into factors that shape a staff members' response to stress, which
      could help to develop and personalise wellbeing initiatives.

      However, before undertaking a large study it is proposed to establish operational
      feasibility. This feasibility study will enrol ten shift-working staff from each of three
      emergency services (Essex Police, Essex County Fire and Rescue Service and East of England
      Ambulance Service Trust). Over a 3-day period, we will evaluate participants' physiological
      response to stressors by measuring HRV (using Firstbeat Bodyguard 2 beat-to-beat heart rate
      monitor). During the same period, participants will keep a personal online journal of events
      during the day. As part of the lifestyle assessment, data from the heart rate monitor and
      journal will be analysed and participants will receive a Summary Report including information
      on their body's reaction to stress and how this may be managed. Following the lifestyle
      assessment, the research team will facilitate semi-structured interviews; they will use
      participants' lifestyle assessment Summary Reports to inform appropriate questions. The team
      will discuss subjective experiences with participants as well as their overall experience
      with the data collection process.

      The objectives of the feasibility study are to:

        1. Evaluate feasibility of undertaking a larger definitive study in terms of:

             -  Willingness and eligibility of emergency services' staff to take part in the study

             -  Recruitment timeframe

             -  Participant adherence to lifestyle assessment protocols (including wearing a heart
                rate monitor and completing an online journal over a 3-day period)

             -  Proportion of participants in whom an interview is arranged and completed

             -  Feasibility of other operational aspects not included above.

        2. Undertake an initial evaluation of physiological indicators and subjective mediators of
           stress and identify any i) associations between them and ii) patterns that emerge
           between individual participants.
    
  