
    
      One of the major concerns addressed in the literature is the risk of fetal acidosis related
      to the use of vasopressors, which varies according to the type of drug used. Since severe
      fetal acidosis is associated with a two- and four-fold increase in neonatal morbidity and
      mortality, respectively, it is important to understand the mechanism by which these
      medications may contribute to fetal acidosis.

      It is well known that reduced uteroplacental blood flow can result in impaired fetal
      oxygenation and fetal acidosis. This can occur indirectly via compression of vessels due to
      myometrial contractions or directly by vasoactive effects on umbilical arteries. So far, no
      studies have directly explored the role of the aforementioned vasopressors on myometrial
      contractions and umbilical artery vasoconstriction. An in-vitro approach in isolated tissues
      will eliminate many clinical confounding variables, allowing direct comparison of the drugs
      in a controlled environment, and providing insight into the contractile mechanisms
      responsible for their neonatal effects.

      There is currently no consensus as to which vasopressor is best for the management of
      hypotension in obstetric patients and the mitigation of fetal acidosis. A survey of the
      members of the Society of Obstetric Anesthesia and Perinatology suggested significant
      variation in the practice of vasopressor use during cesarean deliveries. The evidence from
      animal studies contradicts the effects seen in human studies. This is possibly related to
      species differences in adrenergic receptor distribution, affinity to vasopressors, or
      placental transfer of vasopressors. It is well known that reduced uteroplacental blood flow
      can result in impaired fetal oxygenation and fetal acidosis. This can occur indirectly via
      compression of vessels due to myometrial contractions or directly by vasoactive effects on
      umbilical arteries. However, none of the studies so far have directly explored the role of
      the aforementioned vasopressors on myometrial contractions and umbilical artery
      vasoconstriction. An in-vitro approach in isolated tissues will eliminate many clinical
      confounding variables, allowing direct comparison of the drugs in a controlled environment,
      and providing insight into the contractile mechanisms responsible for their neonatal effects.
    
  