
    
      The liver transplantation is a common lifesaving procedure with an increased risk of bleeding
      in end stage liver disease patients. Historically liver transplantation (LT) has been
      associated with major postoperative blood loss, nevertheless in the last couple of years
      Massicotte had published increasing number of bloodless liver transplantation (LT) based on
      acute normovolemic hemodilution, portal pressure reduction and "cell saver" technique and
      Professor Görlinger many publications underlined the targeted, thromboelastometry guided use
      of factor concentrates in the background of bloodless liver transplantation. The chronic
      liver disease is associated with a rebalanced and often pro-coagulant hemostasis, a reduced
      reserve capacity within the system and a potentially considerable risk for a hemostasis
      imbalance manifested in microvascular bleeding or thrombosis. The maintenance of blood
      homeostasis basic condition parallel with the replacement of different coagulation factors
      according to their reduction order during liver transplantation is highlighted in the
      Professor Görlinger's pyramid of therapy of coagulopathies, which helps to maintain the
      hemostasis balance in most of all circumstances. The elevated risk of microvascular bleeding
      is well circumscribed by low coagulation factor levels in many guidelines, at last in the
      least European Society of Anesthesia guideline of perioperative bleeding management. However,
      in certain patients would be unfair to treat standard or viscoelastic tests results according
      to the guidelines in the absence of clinically manifest coagulopathy. The major objective of
      this study was to investigate the kinetics of hemostasis reserve capacity (HRC) in the
      perioperative 48 h of blood products less liver transplantation and absence of surgical and
      non-surgical bleeding by the implementation of the "Görlinger pyramid methodology" on
      guidelines directive close or slightly lower hemostasis reserves.

      Demographic data of the patients, general: Acute Physiology And Chronic Health Evaluation
      (APACHE II), Sequential Organ Failure Assessment Score (SOFA) and transplantation specific
      severity scores Donor Risk Index (DRI), Model For End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) are recorded
      along with surgical-, cold- and rewarming ischemia times Cold Ischaemic Time (CIT) Warm
      Ischaemic Time (WIT) or different organ supports. The hemodynamic parameters as intravascular
      pressure, volume and flow parameters are followed by transpulmonary volumetric hemodynamic
      technique (PiCCO2 monitor, Maquet). Standardized laboratory assays and hemostatic tests
      (Factor I-II-V-VII-X-XIII, AT III) are carried out by Sysmex® CS-2000i, Sysmex® XN-1000 and
      Siemens® Dimension-RXLMAX systems. Intervention required minimal functional hemostasis
      reserve capacity are defined by triggers as hematocrit: 27%, platelets: 30 G/l, Fibrinogen
      (FI): 1g/l, Factor II. (FII.), Factor V (FV.), Factor VII (FVII.), Factor X (FX.): 30%,
      Antithrombin III: 40%, Factor XIII (FXIII.): 60% levels. The estimate blood volume
      methodology (EBV, blood volume method) is used for to determine the amount of allowable blood
      loss in volume (ml) that does not require replacement based on current and trigger levels.
      According to the algorithm, an individualized pyramid of intervention defined as hemostasis
      reserve capacity are followed at every studied patient. All measurements and calculations are
      performed before liver transplantation (T1), at arrival on the Intensive Care Unit (T2) and
      12-24-48 h after liver transplantation (T3-4-5). The intraoperative whole blood coagulation
      is noted by thromboelastographic standard kaolin assay (TEG 5000, Haemonetics®) during
      hepatectomy, anhepatic phase and end of LT.

      Data are analyzed with Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS, version 20.0, SPSS
      Inc., Chicago, IL) through descriptive statistics (relative frequency distribution, means and
      ± Standard Deviation (SD) and inferential statistics (Fischer's exact test and r-ANOVA). In
      all tests, an a priori alpha error p-value of less than 0.05 and confidence intervals (CI) of
      95% are considered significant.
    
  