
    
      In the study，data of 100 colorectal cancer patients with liver metastases who received
      Cyberknife stereotactic radiotherapy or microwave ablation in the multi-center of the
      research group from June 2019 to May 2021 were collected, as well as follow-up data.

        1. Radiation: Stereotactic Radiotherapy 1.1 Equipment: Accuray VSI Cyberknife stereotactic
           radiotherapy platform, simulated positioning CT machine, MR, positron emission computed
           tomography PET-CT, vacuum pad.

           1.2 Radiotherapy localization: CT, MRI and PETCT were used to simulate localization.

           1.3 Relevant Definitions of Tumor Targets CT, MRI, PET-CT fusion, combined with MRI
           location and PET-CT location image for sketching.

           To delineate target areas and organs at risk. GTV: Combining localization and fusion
           images to delineate the tumors seen PTV = GTV + 0-10mm Dangerous organs: The stomach,
           duodenum, jejunum, ileum, colon, spinal cord and esophagus were delineated on the base
           sequence of CT plain scan.

           The target area should be approved by at least one physician in charge or by a physician
           in charge.

           1.4 Target volume radiation dose: According to the volume, location, organ function and
           other factors, the dosage of radiotherapy was determined. The range of BED value of
           radiotherapy was 90-120 when the distance between the tumor and gastrointestinal tract
           was more than 5 mm (alpha/beta=10) and 70-90 when the distance between the tumor and
           gastrointestinal tract was less than 5 mm (alpha/beta=10).

           1.5 Normal Tissue Limit: Reference to TG101 Report

        2. Microwave ablation 2.1 Preoperative positioning and planning: 2.1.1 Determine the fixing
           device: generally choose vacuum pad to fix 2.1.2 Choosing the right position: The
           principle is to choose the position that is easy to operate, taking into account the
           comfort and tolerance of patients.

      2.1.3 CT scan 2.1.4 The range of tumors was determined by CT images. In principle, at the
      maximum level, the skin points corresponding to the vertical center of the tumor are the
      marker points of the locating needle. At the same time, the center of the tumor was taken as
      the origin point, and the longitudinal and transverse cross lines were drawn on the patient's
      body surface. Roughly delineate the range of tumors according to CT in body surface 2.2
      Surgery and intraoperative optimization 2.2.1 Posture reduction and fixation of patients
      2.2.2 Oxygen inhalation, ECG and blood pressure monitoring 2.2.3 Installation of 3D Printing
      Planar Coordinate Template Fixer 2.2.4 Routine disinfection, cave towel laying, local
      infiltration anesthesia, fixing 3D printing plane coordinate template according to the range
      of tumors determined by physical examination and preoperative plan, and adjusting the
      direction of plane template by protractor.

      2.2.5 Puncture locating needle and puncture assistant fixing needle in 4 directions of tumor
      margin.

      2.2.6The real-time CT 2.5mm image was imported into the navigation system, the puncture
      needle was marked, the puncture needle was simulated, and the resolution of the template was
      adjusted accurately.

      2.2.7 Enhanced CT scan to determine the position and angle of template and pin accurately
      2.2.8 Layer by layer puncture according to preoperative plan 2.2.9 After inserting the
      ablation antenna to the reserved position, scan CT again to confirm whether the puncture
      needle has reached the planned position. 2.2.10 Complete ablation of tumors as planned.

      2.3Postoperative observation 2.3.1 With the assistance of the staff in the hospital, they
      will be transported back to the ward by flat car with their families.

      2.3.2 Re-measurement of blood pressure and heart rate 2.3.3Observe whether there is bleeding
      or exudation at the puncture point after operation, and give hemostasis and pain relief if
      necessary.

      To evaluate the clinical efficacy of stereotactic radiotherapy and microwave ablation in
      liver metastases after these treatment.In addition, the local control rate and side effects
      of stereotactic radiotherapy and microwave ablation in the treatment of liver metastases were
      explored, and the efficacy and safety of different doses of stereotactic radiotherapy were
      determined.
    
  