
    
      Background: Bulimia Nervosa (BN) is a serious and persistent mental illness with a high rate
      of mortality and morbidity. Research demonstrates that individuals with BN have high drop-out
      rates, multiple re-admissions to tertiary care programs and high relapse rates all of which
      may contribute to the chronicity of this illness. A systematic review of randomized
      controlled trials for eating disorders reveals dropout rates ranging from 0-43%. Individuals
      with BN are at the highest risk for relapse during the first three months following the
      completion of inpatient treatment for BN. A higher BMI at completion of an intensive eating
      disorder program and weight maintenance immediately following treatment are associated with
      lower relapse rates at six and twelve months. Women with chronic BN have a poorer quality of
      life than women in the general population in a variety of domains. Individuals with BN have
      access to a smaller support network outside of their nuclear family compared with normal
      controls. They are often confronted with negative stereotypes and stigmatizing attitudes from
      the general public who often perceive affected individuals as having control over their
      eating behaviours. Fear of being stigmatized and negatively stereotyped, a poor quality of
      life, a smaller social support network and lower expectations of receiving appropriate
      support, may contribute to and heighten the reliance of individuals with BN on their
      immediate families for emotional and instrumental support. The over-reliance on families for
      support may contribute to duress in families who may be willing to assist the person
      afflicted with BN but lack the sufficient knowledge and skills to effectively intervene to
      assist with the significant medical and psychological impairment that results from this
      illness.

      Caregivers of individuals with eating disorders experience significant distress poor quality
      of life, and intense feelings of self-blame and shame as a result of their caregiving role.
      Caregivers often feel responsible for causing a loved one to develop the illness, and these
      feelings are often reinforced by professionals. In fact, the general public is more likely to
      blame families for causing BN compared with other mental illnesses such as schizophrenia.
      Poor family functioning in families of individuals with BN is predicted by problematic eating
      symptoms, conflict about how best to support the affected person, stigma and lack of social
      support. Concerns and fears that their loved one will be discriminated against or labeled
      negatively have been shown to result in family members withdrawing from their own social
      support network. Social support has been shown to mitigate caregiver distress and burden and
      poor health in carers of individuals with mental illnesses. Hence, an intervention is
      required to increase social support for individuals and their family members while providing
      educational information that challenges stigma, self-blame and shame.

      Caring for an adult with chronic BN creates many challenges for the carer, including
      psychological duress, social isolation, stigma and poor family functioning. In turn,
      increased family conflict may exacerbate illness behaviours in the person with BN. Due to the
      emaciated appearance of the person with BN and the life threatening nature of this illness,
      family members may become overly protective and avoid discussions that may be distressing to
      the affected individual. Anxiety and depression may further heighten caregiver distress and
      intensify their propensity to over-protect the affected individual. Family members may also
      respond to severe symptoms by accommodating to the illness while taking on responsibility for
      the affected person in ways that are not age-appropriate. Negative feelings may be increased
      in the carers when their efforts to assist and motivate the person into treatment are met
      with denial about the seriousness of the illness and ambivalence to engage in treatment.
      These responses may elicit criticism from carers, especially if they perceive the eating
      symptoms as volitional. Emotional over-involvement, accommodation and criticism can have
      negative influences on the person with BN including heightened distress, decreased
      willingness to seek help and poorer treatment outcomes. An intervention is urgently needed to
      address the burden that this illness imposes on families and improve the quality of life of
      the carer, while teaching communication and problem solving skills that facilitate recovery
      from BN.

      In the last decade, Multi-family group therapy (MFT) has been recognized internationally as
      an innovative approach to working with families of BN adolescents and has been shown to
      contribute to positive outcomes. MFT has also been widely employed and shown to be effective
      in families of adults affected with other mental illnesses including substance abuse, bipolar
      disorder and schizophrenia. To date, MFT has not been investigated in families of adults with
      BN. Given the evidence that demonstrates the efficacy of MFT in adolescent BN and other
      mental illnesses in adults, the proposed research study seeks to assess the efficacy of MFT
      for adults with BN and their families.

      Overview of Proposed Study: In this study, the investigators propose to investigate MFT,
      which has never before been studied in adults with BN and their carers. The overarching
      objective will be to conduct a randomized controlled trial comparing MFT with treatment as
      usual (TAU) in patients receiving intensive treatment for BN and their carers.

      Hypotheses and Research Questions: This proposed randomized controlled trial aims to provide
      pilot data regarding the efficacy of Multi-Family Therapy (MFT) in improving treatment
      outcomes for patients with Bulimia Nervosa (BN) and in reducing caregiver distress. Compared
      with patients not participating in MFT, the investigators hypothesize that patients with BN
      and their carers participating in MFT will have: 1) lower drop out rates, 2) higher
      likelihood of sustaining a body mass index (BMI) of 18.5 or higher at three months
      post-treatment, 3) greater improvement in general psychological health for carers from
      pre-treatment to three months post-treatment, and 4) reductions in the adverse impact of
      caregiving, expressed emotion and accommodation of eating behaviours at three months
      post-treatment. Finally, the investigators expect that descriptive data will show that MFT is
      a feasible, acceptable option for patients with BN and their carers.
    
  