
    
      Early-onset schizophrenia (EOS) is associated with worse course and poor outcome than
      adulthood schizophrenia. Cognitive deficits are known to be a core feature in EOS, with large
      deficits on almost all cognitive domains. Importantly, cognitive deficits are known to be
      strong predictors of psychosocial and functional outcomes in schizophrenia and also in the
      early-onset form of the illness. Cognitive Remediation Therapy (CRT) is a behavioral training
      based intervention that aims to improve cognitive processes (attention, memory, executive
      function, social cognition or metacognition) with the goal of durability and generalization.
      It has been demonstrated that CRT improve cognitive deficits and functional outcome in adult
      patients but there are very few studies with adolescent samples.

      A controlled randomized study will be carry out with two groups: patients receiving treatment
      as usual plus CRT, and patients receiving treatment as usual (TAU). The independent variable
      is the cognitive remediation treatment. The CRT will be applied according to the manual of
      Wykes and Reeder (2005). The program has a duration of 40 sessions, with two session for
      week. It is carried out individually and utilizes paper and pencil tasks. The main technique
      utilized is the scaffolding in a context of learning without errors.

      The main dependent variable is the cognitive performance measured through neuropsychological
      tests. Other secondary dependent variables are functional outcome and clinical symptoms
      obtained from the psychometric evaluation.

      All participants will be evaluated before and after the experimental intervention in several
      neurocognitive domains, clinical symptoms and functional outcome. The evaluations will be
      carried out by expert evaluators. Intention-to-treat analysis will be carry out using the
      statistical package SPSS v 18.
    
  