
    
      After school sports programs may be generalizable, motivating and cost-efficient
      interventions for long-term weight control among at-risk and overweight children. The
      infrastructure needed to provide such programs already exists in most communities. In
      contrast, more traditional, medically- and behaviorally-oriented treatment programs are
      expensive, generally not very effective, often inconvenient, and not available in most
      communities. While children involved in team sports tend to be more physically fit than their
      uninvolved peers, team sports has not yet been tested as a method to increase involvement of
      at-risk and overweight children in regular physical activity. As an added bonus, these sports
      programs can displace typical after school television viewing and snacking. Team sports is a
      potentially innovative and high impact approach for intervening with at-risk and overweight
      children, as it may provide an opportunity to reduce weight gain while increasing social
      interaction and self-esteem. If our proposed research finds that team sports are an
      efficacious intervention for reducing weight gain among low-income at-risk and overweight
      children, it is an intervention approach that could be rapidly diffused and tested for
      effectiveness. The policy implications of these findings would be great, encouraging expanded
      access to team sports programs to a population that has not been previously targeted or
      included.

      We propose a two-phase project in East Palo Alto, California, a low-income, primarily Latino,
      African-American and Pacific Islander community. The first phase will be a 3-month
      feasibility trial of an after school team sports program for overweight children to examine
      several theory-driven approaches to program design and implementation, including assessments
      of liking and participation and barriers and facilitators of participation. The second phase
      will be a 6-month randomized controlled pilot trial (RCT) comparing weight changes among
      overweight children randomized to participate in the after school team sports program versus
      a traditional weight control/health education program.
    
  