
    
      Acute upper respiratory tract infections (URTIs) are the most common diagnoses made in the
      primary medical services, which consisted of 34.6% of all diagnoses in Hong Kong. It accounts
      for approximately 100 million visits per year in the US. It was estimated that an adult has
      an average of 3 to 4 times while children has an average of 6 to 8 times each year. WHO has
      pointed out that URTIs have a great impact on personal and economical aspects although they
      are rarely lethal It was estimated that 60% of the working class has contracted URTIs each
      year, and a loss of 8.8 days of perfect health for each worker on average each year, and a
      loss of up to HK$ 31.3 billion of economic output each year.

      There is no established curative treatment in Western medicine for URTIs except for selected
      cases of influenza. Studies have shown that the average duration of illness of an URTI is
      around 7 days, and most URTIs resolve by the 10th day. Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) is
      commonly used by people in Hong Kong on its own or along side with Western medicine for the
      treatment of URTIs. The Chinese Medicine Council of Hong Kong was established in September
      1999, the use of Chinese herbal medicine (CHM) is expected to increase and there is an urgent
      need for research evidence on their effectiveness and side effects. TCM follows a theoretical
      and methodological pathway, which leads to its diagnosis and treatment. Most URTIs can be
      differentiated into two types according to the theory of TCM: Wind-cold syndrome and
      Wind-heat syndrome. The theory leads to two classical herbal formulae that are very popular
      in Hong Kong: the Jing Fang Bai Du san for treating the Wind-cold syndrome whiles the Ying
      Qiao san for treating Wind-heat syndrome.

      The Jing Fang Bai Du san can relieve external symptoms and effectively clear up the
      pathogenic cold. It contains 13 herbs including, Radix Angelicae Pubescentis, Radix
      Peucedani, Radix Ginseng, Smilacis Glabrae Rhizoma, Rhizoma Chuanxiong, Fructus Aurantii,
      Radix Platycodi, GlycyrrhizaeRadix, Herba Schizonepetae, Fructus Arctii, MenthaeFolium, Radix
      Saposhnikoviae, Rhizoma et Radix Notopterygii. Previous clinical studies conducted in China
      showed mixed results on the effectiveness of Jing Fang Bai Du san on Wind-cold syndrome. One
      study showed that it was no better than no treatment while another study showed that
      concentrated granules of Jing Fang Bai Du san was more effective (80%) than Western medicine
      (10%) in improving and resolving symptoms of Wind-cold syndrome within 7 days.

      The Ying Qiao san can relieve external symptoms and effectively clear up the pathogenic heat.
      It contains 10 herbs: Fructus Forsythiae, LoniceraeFlos, Radix Platycodi, MenthaeFolium,
      GlycyrrhizaeRadix, Herba Schizonepetae, Sojae Semen praeparatum, Fructus Arctii,
      PhragmitisRhizoma and LophatheriHerba. From pharmacological studies, it showed
      anti-inflammatory, antipyretic, analgesic, anti-bacterial and antiviral actions. A clinical
      trial also showed the concentrated granules of Ying Qiao san was more effective (66.13%) than
      Western medicine (40%) in resolving the symptoms of Wind-heat syndrome within 1 week. These
      two CHM formulae have been used for many years and have not been associated with any serious
      adverse reactions. The common side effects are mild diarrhoea and headache.

      Although there are some data from Mainland China suggesting the effectiveness of these two
      formulae for URTIs but most of these previous studies were observational and the few clinical
      trials were not placebo-controlled and of poor quality. Furthermore, results of trials from
      Mainland China may not be generalisable to the people in Hong Kong. Most previous studies on
      CHM focused on individual herbs, which is against the TCM principles as pointed out by the
      WHO. The WHO recommends that future clinical studies should attempt to integrate TCM
      diagnosis pattern with traditional CHM treatments. In this proposed study, the integrated TCM
      approach of using traditional formulae of multiple herbs, guided by the TCM diagnosis, will
      be used in a double-blind randomized placebo-controlled trial.
    
  