
    
      RAD001 is a new drug that was designed to block proteins that are important in the
      development and growth of cancer. It may also stop the growth of new blood vessels that help
      tumor growth, resulting in cell death.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have "screening tests." These tests
      will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this study. You will have a
      complete physical exam. Blood (about 6 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to
      test for the amount of fat in the blood. You will have a chest x-ray, bone scan and a 2-D
      echocardiogram (a test to evaluate the pumping function of the heart). You will have a
      computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest and abdomen (stomach area). Women who are able to
      have children must have a negative blood (about 1 tablespoon) pregnancy test.

      You will have a mammogram and an ultrasound of the breast and armpit to record tumor size. As
      part of this study, you will have a fine needle biopsy of the breast tumor to test for the
      signaling pathway. You will receive a separate consent form for the mammogram, ultrasound,
      and biopsy and these procedures will be discussed with you in more detail. The fine needle
      biopsy is a procedure that would not be performed if you were not on this study.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the toss of a coin) to one of two treatment groups. You will have an equal chance of being
      assigned to either group.

      If you are assigned to Group 1, you will receive paclitaxel once a week through a needle in
      your vein over 1 hour. You will have a total of 12 treatments. Before each treatment, you may
      also receive drugs to help prevent or reduce your risk of side effects from paclitaxel.

      If you are assigned to Group 2, you will receive paclitaxel and RAD001. You will receive
      paclitaxel once a week through a needle in your vein over 1 hour. You will have a total of 12
      treatments. Before each treatment, you may also receive drugs to help prevent or reduce your
      risk of side effects from paclitaxel. You will take RAD001, by mouth, on each day you receive
      paclitaxel. You should take RAD001 on an empty stomach or after a light meal. Pills will not
      be taken out of their package until the staff is ready for you to take them, since they can
      be damaged by light or humidity.

      Participants in both groups will have blood (about 2 tablespoons) drawn for routine tests
      before each weekly dose of chemotherapy.

      You will have a second fine needle biopsy 2 days after starting treatment. This will be done
      to check to see if the signaling pathway has been affected.

      After your 12 weeks of treatment with paclitaxel or paclitaxel and RAD001, you will have an
      ultrasound and if tumor is visible, a fine needle biopsy to check to see if the signaling
      pathway has been affected.

      After the 12 week treatment with either paclitaxel or paclitaxel and RAD001, you will begin
      treatment with 5-fluorouracil, epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide. This drug combination is
      called FEC. You will receive FEC through needle in your vein (over 1 hour) once every 3
      weeks. You will have 4 treatments (12 weeks total). Before each treatment, you may also
      receive drugs to help prevent or reduce your risk of side effects from FEC.

      Once you have finished treatment with FEC, you will have a mammogram and ultrasound to check
      the status of the disease. This mammogram and ultrasound will also be used by the doctor to
      decide whether to remove all or part of the breast and/or nearby lymph nodes during surgery.

      You will then have surgery to remove all or part of the breast that has the tumor. If there
      are signs that the lymph nodes in the armpit contain cancer, these lymph nodes will also be
      removed. You will receive a separate consent form for these procedures and your doctor will
      discuss them in more detail. If available, a portion of left over tumor tissue will be
      collected to check to see if the signaling pathway has been affected.

      You will be considered "off study" once you have had surgery. You will be taken off study
      early if the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      This is an investigational study. Paclitaxel, 5-fluorouracil, cyclophosphamide, and
      epirubicin are all FDA approved and commercially available. RAD001 is not FDA approved or
      commercially available. It has been authorized for use in research only. Up to 50 patients
      will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  