
    
      The purpose of this research registry is to gather information about clinical symptoms and
      laboratory test results in patients with undifferentiated connective tissue disease (UCTD).
      Analysis of this information may help to better predict the prognosis for patients with this
      form of autoimmune disease, and may identify risk factors for progression to more specific
      connective tissue diseases such as systemic lupus. This is done by collecting information
      from your medical records including clinical history, physical examination, and lab test
      results, and by asking you questions about specific symptoms you may have such as joint pain,
      rashes, and other common symptoms of UCTD. This information will be stored in a database, and
      used at a later time for research studies. All future research studies using information in
      this registry will be subject to oversight by HSS's Institutional Review Board (which is
      responsible for oversight of research at HSS involving human subjects). All patients who seek
      or receive medical care at HSS for undifferentiated connective tissue disease will be invited
      to participate in this registry.

      Most future research studies involving this registry will only use the information in this
      registry, and therefore will not require the further involvement or additional informed
      consent of participants in the registry. But the information in this registry may also be
      used to identify patients who may be eligible to participate in certain future research
      studies conducted by HSS that relate to their particular disease, condition, or treatment and
      for which information is needed that is not in the registry. If you are identified (based on
      information about you in the registry) as being potentially eligible for a future research
      study that relates to your particular disease, condition, or treatment, you may be contacted
      to find out if you would be interested in participating in the research study. If you are
      interested, the research study would be fully explained to you, and you would have to give
      your informed consent before you could participate. If you participate in this registry, you
      will not be required to participate in any future research study that HSS contacts you about.

      By participating in this registry, you will not be asked to do anything that would not
      ordinarily be done as a matter of routine care at HSS including clinical assessments,
      laboratory tests and radiology procedures. During your routine visits we will be recording
      all of the information about you that relates to your disease, condition, or treatment and
      will include that information in the registry. Your participation will involve a minimum of
      one yearly visit at the time of your visit to your own rheumatologist. Most study visits are
      expected to last 10 - 15 minutes.
    
  