
    
      Background:

        -  Zolpidem is currently approved for the treatment of patients with insomnia.

        -  Women reported experiencing an increased incidence of adverse effects than men,
           resulting in a reduction of the recommended dose of zolpidem for women.

        -  Zolpidem metabolism is affected by both age and gender; the recommended dose for the
           elderly and female populations is 5mg daily.

        -  Subsequent studies have shown that women experience greater exposure to zolpidem than
           men, potentially due to androgen-driven differences in enzyme expression.

        -  A preclinical study showed that castrated male rats exhibited zolpidem pharmacokinetics
           similar to that of female rats, providing further evidence to suggest that zolpidem
           pharmacokinetics are androgen-driven.

      Objectives:

      -To evaluate the effect of castration on the pharmacokinetics of a single 5-mg dose of
      zolpidem in patients with prostate cancer undergoing androgen deprivation therapy (prevs.
      post-castration therapy) compared to normal healthy females.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients with prostate cancer (rising PSA and greater than or equal to 100 ng/dL)

        -  Females in good health condition or without significant diseases

        -  After androgen deprivation therapy, castrate testosterone levels <50 ng/dL

        -  ECOG 0-1

      Design:

        -  Comparative, single-dose pharmacokinetic study.

        -  Men with prostate cancer (pre-castration) and normal healthy females will receive
           treatment with a single dose of 5 mg tablet of zolpidem followed by 8-hour
           pharmacokinetic evaluation of zolpidem and its metabolites.

        -  Men will then undergo androgen deprivation therapy and when castrate testosterone levels
           <50 ng/dL (post-castration), they will receive another 5 mg single dose of zolpidem
           followed by 8-hour pharmacokinetic evaluation of zolpidem and its metabolites.

        -  Normal healthy females will receive treatment with a single dose of 5 mg tablet of
           zolpidem followed by 8-hour pharmacokinetic evaluation of zolpidem and its metabolites.
    
  