
    
      In an RCT, we will compare 2 active treatments delivered over 12-months via telehealth
      services linking participants in rural villages to Anchorage and Stanford-based study
      counselors overcoming access-to-care for CV preventive health issues. The village AN health
      aides will facilitate data collection and telehealth connectivity. Intervention contacts
      occur at baseline, 3-, 6- and 12-months follow-up, with the final assessment at 18-months.
      The repeated intervention contacts provide iterative computerized feedback reflecting prior
      responses and encouragement of adoption and maintenance of behavioral health goals. The
      groups are:

        1. Tobacco/Physical Activity Intervention (n=150), consisting of a psychosocial component
           that includes counselor-facing computer-assisted intervention with tailored counseling
           feedback focused on increasing intrinsic motivation, goal setting for tobacco and
           physical activity, adherence with nicotine replacement therapy (NRT, patch plus gum or
           lozenge), and self-monitoring with a pedometer-based walking program. The study will
           provide 12-weeks of NRT for participants randomized to this intervention condition.

        2. HTN/HCL (HTN/HC, n=150), consisting of a psychosocial component that includes
           counselor-facing computer-assisted intervention with tailored counseling feedback
           focused on increasing intrinsic motivation, goal setting for managing HTN and HCL, and
           adherence with antihypertensives and statins with supportive dietary changes. The AN
           health plan covers antihypertensive and statins as a benefit to patients and would be
           prescribed as part of standard of care (i.e., not prescribed for the purposes of this
           research); however, strategies to maximize medication adherence are needed, hence the
           focus of this intervention.

      The counseling and print materials are highly individualized, unique to the participant,
      thereby minimizing the likelihood of cross-condition contamination, determined to be minimal
      in prior investigations. For the research study, participant eligibility criteria include AN
      heritage; daily cigarette smoking; and hypertension, hyperlipidemia, or established vascular
      disease. Intention to change the targeted risk behaviors will not be required to participate.
      Utilizing telemedicine technology and Transtheoretical Model-tailored interventions, the
      trial aims to reach at-risk AN people regardless of residential location or current
      motivation. The primary outcome is biochemically-confirmed tobacco abstinence using
      anabasine. Secondary outcomes include moderate-to-vigorous physical activity assessed by
      self-report, blood pressure, cholesterol ratio, medication adherence, dietary change, body
      mass index, Framingham index, multibehavioral impact factor, a linear index, and cost
      effectiveness.
    
  