
    
      Chronic widespread pain (CWP), the cardinal feature of fibromyalgia, is associated with lost
      work productivity, psychological ill health, and poor quality of life. It is one of the most
      common reasons for referral to a rheumatologist. The cost of CWP is high in terms of both
      individual, societal and health costs: for example, in the United States, mean per-patient
      costs (including pain and non-pain-related medication, physician consultations, tests and
      procedures, and emergency department visits) in the 6 months following a new diagnosis of
      fibromyalgia have been reported as $3481, comparable to patients with rheumatoid arthritis
      but resulting in worse quality of life. Current guidelines recommend pharmacological,
      physical, and psychological therapies although the importance attributed to individual
      therapies is inconsistent. There is good evidence for musculoskeletal pain conditions
      generally that the longer the duration of symptoms, the less likely that symptoms are to
      improve, including with specific interventions. This is particularly so for CWP which, once
      developed, is challenging to manage and effect improvement.

      A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials (RCT) of Cognitive
      Behaviour Therapy (CBT) for patients with fibromyalgia concluded that CBT improves coping
      with pain, reduces depressed mood and healthcare-seeking behaviour in such patients. The
      delivery of CBT by telephone has been shown to be effective, acceptable and accessible. The
      MUSICIAN study, which the investigators have recently concluded, tested telephone delivered
      CBT (tCBT) and/or exercise for patients with chronic widespread pain consulting to their GP.
      Three months after the end of therapy, both interventions resulted in significantly better
      primary outcome measures (patient global health) than treatment as usual, but there was no
      significant additional benefit of receiving both interventions. Recent analyses have
      demonstrated these benefits are maintained 2 years after the end of therapy. The
      investigators have conducted a comprehensive literature review with the aim of identifying
      randomised trials which had the aim of preventing the onset either of CWP or fibromyalgia.
      This review did not identify any such published trials. Further, a search of 11 international
      clinical trials registers/databases (including US, UK, Europe, Australia/New Zealand, Japan),
      undertaken in Autumn 2013 did not identify any ongoing trial with the aim of preventing the
      onset of CWP (or fibromyalgia).

      There are several reasons why it may be desirable to try to prevent CWP onset, namely that
      the majority of CWP patients do not have important symptom improvement with current
      management (even within trials). Prediction models from epidemiological studies have been
      developed to identify "high risk" patients, which makes such an approach feasible. Research
      using the General Practice Research Database has demonstrated that prior to receiving a
      diagnosis of fibromyalgia in primary care, persons have a long-term prior history of
      consultation with symptoms. Although this will be the first prevention trial in this area,
      the concept of prevention using CBT has been addressed in musculoskeletal disorders with
      respect to intervention in neck pain and low back pain before people become patients and in
      mental disorders.

      The investigators have conducted prospective epidemiological studies which have demonstrated
      that it is possible to identify "high risk" groups. In the first study, a high risk group for
      CWP onset was identified on the basis of two factors: somatic awareness (using the Somatic
      Symptom Scale) and illness behaviour (using the Illness Behaviour Score). This was replicated
      in a second study conducted by the applicants. These "aetiological models" excluded pain and
      therefore the investigators have re-analysed data from the latter study (also considering
      pain status) to identify the best predictors of onset and which results in a model more
      suitable for use in prevention studies. The resulting "at risk model" requires regional pain
      and two of the following: maladaptive behavioural response to illness), a high number of
      somatic symptoms, and sleep disturbance. In the second "validation" study, from a population
      of 2,374 persons without CWP, 653 satisfied the definition of "high risk of CWP" of whom 139
      had developed CWP twelve months later (that is a Positive Predictive value of 21.3%). Amongst
      persons not deemed to be at high risk (n=1721), 77 developed CWP which is a Negative
      Predictive Value of 95.5%.

      The investigators have previously shown short and long-term effectiveness of tCBT for CWP
      (compared to usual care). Specifically this demonstrated sustained improvement in patient
      global assessment of change, reduced psychological distress, fear of movement and reliance on
      passive coping styles. Secondly the investigators have developed and refined statistical
      models which identify persons at high risk for the future development of CWP. The
      investigators therefore now propose a study to test whether tCBT can reduce the risk of CWP
      onset amongst those at high risk.

      Three health boards in Scotland will be research sites for the study. The three health boards
      are NHS Grampian, NHS Highland, and NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde. The study will require the
      involvement of 7 or 8 equivalent general practices. The investigators will mail a randomly
      selected sample of adults aged 25 years and over registered with participating general
      practices in the study areas. The Scottish Primary Care Research Network (SPCRN) will be
      involved in recruitment of patients to this study from primary care. SPCRN staff provide GP
      practices with an expert service to undertake searches of their electronic databases to
      identify a random sample of potentially eligible patients and prepare the ethically approved
      letters to be sent out. Searches are undertaken at each GP practice before the screening
      survey questionnaires are sent out by Health Informatics Centre Services in Dundee on behalf
      of the practice. Patients will return completed survey questionnaires to the research team at
      the University of Aberdeen where responses will be assessed by the research team for
      eligibility and patients sent invitation letters if eligible.

      The "screening questionnaire" will determine whether a) respondents meet the study
      eligibility criteria and b) respondents would be willing to be contacted again regarding a
      treatment trial for "musculoskeletal health". The questionnaire will include:

        -  Pain assessed by specific questions on the experience of pain, consultation and body
           manikins (which will provide site and also allow us to exclude those who already have
           chronic widespread pain).

        -  Illness Behaviour Scale

        -  Somatic Symptoms Scale (excluding pain items)

        -  Sleep Problem Scale

        -  Quality of Life and Wellbeing

        -  General Health Questionnaire

        -  Chalder Fatigue Scale A list of eligible patients will be provided to the general
           practitioner in advance, with the option of indicating any as unsuitable for the study.
           Patients would then be sent information about the study and subsequently contacted by a
           member of the research team by telephone and, if appropriate, consented and recruited
           into the trial.

      Included in the mailing to eligible patients will be an information sheet, consent form, and
      a best-time-to-call slip. Once a patient has returned a signed consent form and
      best-time-to-call slip, a member of the research team will phone them. The researcher will
      read out from a script giving information about the study, and the patient will have the
      opportunity then to ask questions about the study. If the patient consents to participate the
      participant will be recruited to the study and randomised to one of the arms of the trial.

      Follow-up questionnaires will be mailed to participants at 3, 12 and 24 months after the
      treatment start date (for participants in the active treatment group) or dummy treatment
      start date (for those in usual care). Instruments included in the follow-up questionnaires
      will be the same as in the screening survey questionnaire. Additionally, follow-up
      questionnaires will include the Patient Global Impression of Change, and questions on health
      care usage.

      Participants will have the option to withdraw from the treatment or the study at any time.
      Those withdrawing from the treatment will continue to be sent follow-up questionnaires unless
      the participant requests not to receive them. Failure of any participant to complete a
      follow-up questionnaire at any particular timepoint will not be counted as a withdrawal
      unless the participant requests not to receive any further follow-ups.

      Our previous longitudinal study of onset of CWP (and subsequent replication) has suggested
      that 21% of "high risk" persons identified will develop CWP over the course of the next
      twelve months. Our previous data is based on persons with pain and at least 2 out of 3 other
      "risk factors". There are no published studies of prevention of CWP on which to base our
      measure of effect. However in the MUSICIAN study some subjects, although reporting CWP at the
      screening survey, no longer had CWP at the enrolment interview. These participants were
      however still eligible to take part, provided the participant had regional pain. Therefore
      those subjects with regional pain provide a sub-population on which to base the likely
      effects of the tCBT. Amongst such subjects, those who received tCBT had a reduced odds of
      having CWP at the end of the study OR 0.5 95% CI (0.2-1.4) compared to those in usual care.

      Thus the study is powered on the ability of the current study to reduce the onset of CWP from
      21% to 12%, with 90% power and a 5% significance level. The investigators further assume,
      based on prior data, that 75% of persons allocated to the tCBT arm will be adherent to the
      intervention, and that 80% of all subjects will return the follow-up questionnaires to assess
      outcome.

      Accordingly the investigators require 473 subjects per arm that is a total of 946 subjects
      recruited. In MUSICIAN exactly 50% of those found eligible and willing to consider taking
      part ultimately were randomised. A previous trial of a cognitive-behavioural intervention to
      prevent chronic pain found that 36% of patients identified as eligible ended up being
      recruited to the study. If 80% of eligible patients agreed to be contacted about taking part,
      this equates to 45% of those eligible and willing to consider taking part being randomised -
      higher numbers for a clinical trial of CWP reflect the fact that this is a prevention trial
      rather than a treatment trial and may be less attractive to potential participants. Thus the
      investigators aim to find a total of 2102 subjects who are eligible and willing to consider
      taking part. Assuming a participation rate to the survey of 30%, that 1 in 4 people will be
      "at risk", and (using data from MUSICIAN) that 80% of people who return a questionnaire agree
      to consider taking part, the investigators require to survey 35 037 persons.

      A pre-defined statistical analysis plan will be developed and signed off by the trial
      steering committee before undertaking any data analysis. Comparison between arms will be on
      an intention-to-treat basis (main analysis) with a per protocol sensitivity analysis.

      Characteristics of the study participants in the two treatment arms will be described using
      simple summary statistics. Descriptive statistics will include mean and standard deviation
      for normally distributed continuous data, median and inter-quartile range for skewed
      continuous data and count and percentage for categorical data. No formal statistical
      comparisons will be made between baseline characteristics. Primary and secondary outcomes
      will be described at the three follow-up times: 3, 12 and 24 months, using appropriate
      summary statistics.
    
  