
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To demonstrate superiority, in terms of 3-year progression-free survival (PFS), of
           rituximab maintenance over observation in patients who are in complete or partial
           response (CR or PR) after induction therapy comprising fludarabine, cyclophosphamide,
           and rituximab.

      Secondary

        -  To determine event-free survival, disease-free survival, overall survival, and time to
           next treatment, all from time of randomization.

        -  To determine overall response rate (CR and PR) according to NCI and iwCLL criteria

        -  To assess the rate of phenotypic response (minimal residual disease).

        -  To assess duration of phenotypic and NCI and iwCLL clinical responses.

        -  To determine response rates and time-related parameters in biological subgroups.

        -  To determine rates of treatment-related adverse events.

        -  To evaluate CD4/CD8 counts, immunoglobulin levels, and incidence of Coombs-positive
           hemolytic anemia.

        -  To study pharmacokinetics of rituximab during induction and maintenance.

        -  To evaluate the prognostic impact of the immunoglobulin FcγRIIIA genotype.

        -  To assess quality of life.

        -  To study pharmacoeconomics.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Randomization is stratified according to response to
      induction therapy (complete response [CR] vs partial response [PR]), IGHV mutational status,
      and 11q deletion.

      Patients receive rituximab IV on days 1 and 14 of courses 1-2 and on day 1 of courses 3 and
      4. Patients also receive oral fludarabine and oral cyclophosphamide once daily on days 2-4 of
      course 1 and on days 1-3 of courses 2-4. Courses are administered every 28 days. Patients
      achieving CR or PR are randomized 1:1 to maintenance arm or observation arm.

        -  Arm A: Patients receive rituximab IV every 2 months in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity for a maximum duration of 24 months (12 infusions).

        -  Arm B: Patients undergo observation only.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then
      every 6 months for 2 years.
    
  