
    
      Somatosensory evoked potential (SSEP) and motor evoked potential (MEP) have become an
      integral component in intraoperative care of patients and have resulted in a high degree of
      sensitivity in predicting neurologic outcomes. According to Padberg, Nuwer and Ecker ,SSEP
      and MEP monitoring allows surgical interventions to occur early and thus decreases the
      incidence of postoperative neurologic deficits.

      These measurements are done during surgery under general anesthesia and it is known that
      anesthetic agents have a dose-dependent adverse effect on the ability to record evoked
      potential responses. All anesthesia agents seem to interfere with the measurements especially
      in higher doses.

      In 1999, dexmedetomidine, a highly specific and selective alpha-2-adrenergic agonist with
      sedative, anxiolytic and analgesic effects, got FDA approved for adult patients for sedation.
      Since then, it has also been widely used off-label in various settings; it is described as a
      successful adjunct for surgical procedures in adolescents and adult populations where SSEP/
      MEP monitoring is beneficial. Several small and retrospective studies have shown that
      dexmedetomidine does not appear to interfere with neurophysiological monitoring when used in
      FDA approved doses.

      In pediatric patients, dexmedetomidine is also used off-label and has been shown to be
      beneficial. In fact, at Doernbecher Childen's Hospital, the use of dexmedetomidine has become
      a standard in pediatric procedures involving SSEP and MEP measurements. To the best of our
      knowledge, prospective studies in pediatric patients with SSEP monitoring while using
      dexmedetomidine have not been completed.

      If dexmedetomidine does not interfere the SSEP/MEP reading, it might be an advantageous
      adjunct to use in these settings. Propofol has a small risk of a serious side effect called
      propofol infusion syndrome. Propofol infusion syndrome is potentially life threatening, with
      the development of a profound lactate acidosis. It is seen when large doses of propofol
      (usually from a prolonged infusion) are given in the pediatric population.
    
  