
    
      This study is a multi-center, prospective, double-blind, randomized placebo-controlled trial
      to assess the efficacy of intradermal TICE BCG (for intravesical use, Merck) BCG LIVE or
      placebo vaccine, in reducing the incidence of infection of SARS-CoV2 and severity of COVID-19
      disease. This study proposes to examine BCG-induced nonspecific trained immunity to provide
      protection from SARS-CoV2 among health care workers who are likely to care for patients with
      COVID-19 illness, 18-64 years of age.

      Up to 670 individuals will be screened to enroll 550 participants with a planned 50 person
      enrollment at USU site, 300 persons at Darnall Medical Center (CRDMC) and 200 persons at
      Brooke Army Medical Center (BAMC), resulting in 275 receiving BCG vaccine and 275 receiving
      placebo. To account for attrition prior to vaccination we will enroll up to 70 at USU, up to
      350 at CRDMC and up to 250 at BAMC.

      There are three phases in which research procedures will be completed: (1) initial screening
      for eligibility, consent, baseline testing; (2) enrollment, randomization, if pertains- prior
      to vaccination research blood draw for peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), and
      immunization with study vaccine (BCG or placebo); and (3) follow-up screening and testing.

      Participants will be followed to assess whether infection with SARS-CoV-2 occurs:

      Participants will complete intermittent surveys via an electronic system every 2 weeks to
      assess the presence of any flu-like symptom. Any positive response on the survey will trigger
      a nasopharyngeal swab to be collected to test for COVID-19 via rt-PCR.

      All participants, regardless of survey responses, will have serology (4mL SST tube) for
      COVID-19 tested at monthly intervals during the 6 month follow-up period or until a positive
      test result occurs.

      If a participant completes the follow-up period and does not test positive for COVID disease,
      study participation is complete.

      If a participant does test positive for COVID-19 disease at any point during follow-up,
      disease status will be ascertained for up to two months from the time of positive test or
      until an outcome is available through one of the following mechanisms:

      (1) an electronic survey if not admitted to the hospital, including questions about the
      number of days ill, daily fever, and other symptoms; or (2) if admitted to the hospital,
      ordinal outcomes for disease severity will be extracted from the hospital's medical records
      system for the 2 month period of highest acuity. Participants will have a final study visit
      after hospitalization when cleared for outpatient follow up.

      During the first 6 weeks of follow-up post vaccination, all participants will be asked about
      any adverse events; thereafter, participants will report vaccine-related and solicited
      adverse events (AE), as well as unsolicited AEs through the electronic survey.
    
  