
    
      Increasingly, the group of patients undergoing cardiac surgery are older. Patients that are
      more elderly and frail are known to have an increase risk of injury to major organs following
      surgery including the heart, kidneys, and brain, all of which are associated with worse
      survival or diminished quality of life. It is becoming more important to be able to predict
      how well patients will fair in cardiac surgery, including predicting risk of complications
      (such as stroke or heart attacks) as well as long-term survival and quality of life.
      Currently, scores such as EUROscore can be used with good effect in predicting survival and
      major complications in cardiac surgery patients. However, frailty - the severity of a
      patient's weakness or fragility - has emerged as a potential candidate in predicting risk.
      Recent research has shown frailty score to predict risk of survival and complications
      following cardiac surgery and suggested to be possibly superior to pre-existing scores. The
      investigators wish to investigate the possible link between frailty and outcomes following
      cardiac surgery, in addition to current risk scores. The investigators also wish to determine
      whether frailty can effectively predict longer-term outcomes such as 'disability-free
      survival' - a patient-centred score that measures the ability of a patient to lead normal
      life activities. Patients undergoing major cardiac surgery at King's College Hospital will be
      recruited, following consent. The study will mainly involve questionnaires at various stages,
      starting at a pre-operative clinic. After surgery, follow up of patient's progress will be
      carried out at 3 days in hospital; and at 1 month, 3 months, and 6 months and 1 year via
      telephone. The investigators expect the results of this observational study to influence
      further research into the use of frailty risk scoring prior to clinical decisions, and add to
      the evidence in assessing risk-related outcomes in cardiac surgery.
    
  