
    
      Chronic pancreatitis is the medical term for chronic inflammation of the pancreas. This
      illness is associated with long-term abdominal pain. In the 1980s it was proposed that
      chronic pancreatitis was due to a deficiency of protective "antioxidants" in the pancreas and
      on this basis antioxidant therapy was introduced. This therapy was highly controversial until
      a large randomised trial of antioxidant therapy in chronic pancreatitis, undertaken in
      Manchester showed that 6 months intervention with antioxidant therapy was not associated with
      any change in pain score or improvement in quality of life. Antioxidant therapy is no longer
      used in modern day pancreatic practice.

      However, as with any study, the randomised trial raised some specific questions.

      First, does treatment for more than 6 months provide benefit? Second, are there disease
      sub-types of chronic pancreatitis where antioxidant therapy may benefit?

      Given the lack of contemporary use of antioxidant therapy, this question cannot be answered
      in a prospective study. However, the case records of the Manchester Royal Infirmary contain
      information on antioxidant treatment in patients who received this therapy over a prolonged
      period.

      Thus the aim of the present study is to review the case notes of patients given a discharge
      code from the Manchester Royal Infirmary of chronic pancreatitis during the period 1st
      January 1990 to 1st January 1998 in order to assess whether there is a record of improvement
      in outcome. Only the case notes will be reviewed and patients will be given an opportunity to
      opt out.

      The study accepts the limitations of assessing pain from clinical notes but also notes that
      more objective findings such as development of diabetes mellitus (a long term complication of
      chronic pancreatitis) can be assessed from the notes.
    
  