
    
      Necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) remains an important cause of morbidity and mortality among
      preterm neonates. Despite many investigations its pathogenesis remains unclear. The role of
      intestinal bacteria in NEC development is supported by epidemiologic evidence (outbreaks),
      the frequent isolation of infectious agents, and a decrease incidence of NEC resulting from
      preventive antibiotic treatment. Bacterial implication is thought to be due to colonic
      fermentation of nonhydrolyzed lactose, a consequence of the intestinal immaturity of preterm
      infants (intestinal lactase deficiency). To date, no specific bacteria or bacterial
      colonization pattern have been causally associated with the development of NEC. Clinical
      signs and some epidemiological studies are consistent with clostridia involvement in NEC.
      Indeed, Clostridium butyricum, Clostridium perfringens, and Clostridium paraputrificum have
      been isolated from the blood, feces, and peritoneal fluids of preterm neonates suffering from
      NEC. In addition, a correlation between the presence of C. butyricum and C. paraputrificum
      and pneumatosis intestinalis in tissue specimens from NEC neonates was reported. Furthermore,
      the role of these clostridia species in NEC pathogenesis has been demonstrated using NEC
      animal models (preterm piglet or gnotobiotic quails). Particularly, lactose fermentation
      end-products (butyrate or iso-butyrate) was linked to cecal NEC-like lesions onset in
      gnotobiotic quails animal model.

      This project is lying within this context, and aims at confirming the clostridial involvement
      in the pathogenesis of NEC and search for bacterial pathogenicity biomarkers. For this
      purpose, investigators will use both clinical and experimental approaches.

      The clinical study will take the opportunity of previous EPIFLORE project network (ANR 2012)
      to build during a one-year period a large collection of proved NEC cases. During that period,
      preterm neonates diagnosed as NEC cases (Bell stage II or III) from 20 French neonatal units
      will be included and matched to a control group of non-NEC neonates. Anthropometric data,
      clinical data, drug and feeding intakes will be collected from birth to the neonatal unit
      discharge. Microbiota analysis of NEC and non-NEC preterm neonates will be performed using
      culture and 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing. This case-control study aims at obtaining the
      largest French collection of clinical and microbiological documented NEC cases that will
      allow reaching significance in results about the characteristics of the microbiota of NEC
      neonates. Additionally, it will confirm the involvement of specific bacteria, i.e.
      clostridia, which will be proposed as a biological marker of high risk to develop NEC.

      Experimental approach will consist in the construction of mutants of clinical isolates of
      C.butyricum, C. perfringens, and C. paraputrificum impaired in butyrate production using the
      Clostron directed mutagenesis knock out tool recently adapted to clostridia. investigators
      will inactivate the gene encoding the enzyme responsible for butyrate production. The
      pathogenicity of wild type and mutants strains will be performed in previous gnotobiotic
      quail animal model of NEC. This will allow us to verify the hypothesis of clostridia species
      biological involvement in NEC pathogenesis through fermentation end-product metabolite. This
      work will be completed by a phenotypic characterization and proteomics analysis of the
      clinical strains linked to NEC development in order to search for a bacterial pathogenicity
      biomarker. The absence of a consensus for the prevention of NEC is partly due to the lack of
      knowledge of its pathogenesis. This project will give important information in terms of
      clinical and mechanistic data. Looking for biological markers as investigators propose will
      be helpful for clinical practice and strategies of prevention implementation
    
  