
    
      Lung Cancer represent approximately 13% of total cancer diagnoses worldwide and continues to
      be the leading cause of cancer-related mortality. Stage III represents between 25-30% of
      NSCLC and the majority of them are unresectable. The standard treatment in unresectable
      patients was chemoradiotherapy consurrently if possible.

      The PACIFIC study is a phase III study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of durvalumab as a
      sequential therapy concurrent platinum-based chemotherapy and thoracic RT. The study was
      positive for both primary endpoints progression-free survival and overall survival. After
      that, it was decided to open an early acces programme ti provide acces to durvalumab for
      patients with locally advanced, unresectable NSCLC (stage III) tho have not progressed
      following chemoradiation.

      This observational study is based on the collection of data about the patients treated with
      Durvalumab after chemoraditherapy in the real world.

      The study will include all patients who have participated in the EAP between 1 September 2017
      up to 21 December 2018 and have received at least 1 dose of durvalumab.

      The primary objective is to assess affectiveness of durvalumab in patients treated in
      real-life settings by evaluating Progression Free Survival. Other secondary objectives are:

      To assess effectiveness of durvalumab in patients treated in real-life settings by evaluating
      1-year survival rate, to describe adverse events of special interests, to stimate time and
      sites of disease progression or relapse in metastatic setting, to describe details on
      durvalumab treatment, to describe demographic and clinical characteristics of stage III
      unresectable NSCLC patients treated with Durvalumab, to describe previous chemoradiotherapy
      strategy, to describe the baseline staging status, to further assess subsequent treatments
      pattern at the time of disease progression including duration of therapy and type of therapy,
      and to explore healthcare resource utilization while on durvalumab treatment.
    
  