
    
      Objective:

      In dysautonomias, altered functions of one or more components of the autonomic nervous system
      adversely affect health. Primary dysautonomias have been classified clinically into chronic
      autonomic failure (CAF) syndromes that include pure autonomic failure (PAF), multiple system
      atrophy (MSA), and Parkinson disease (PD) with autonomic failure (manifested especially by
      neurogenic orthostatic hypotension (OH)). Clinical assessment alone is often inadequate for
      correct diagnosis and does not provide insights into mechanisms or identify new therapeutic
      targets. This protocol calls for continuous development and assessment of physiological,
      neuropharmacologic, neurochemical, neuroimaging, and other clinical laboratory approaches, to
      identify lesion types and sites in CAF and improve diagnosis, increase mechanistic
      understanding, and incite novel therapeutics. PAF, MSA, and PD exemplify alpha
      synucleinopathies, in which deposits of the protein alpha-synuclein occur in Lewy bodies in
      catecholamine-producing neurons (PD, PAF) or in the cytoplasm of glial cells (MSA). Only the
      Lewy body forms of synucleinopathy are consistently associated with loss of catecholaminergic
      neurons. Under this protocol we have obtained evidence that patients with Lewy body diseases
      have decreased ability to take up intra-neuronal catecholamines from the cytoplasm into
      storage vesicles. Cytoplasmic catecholamines are cytotoxic, such as by enzyme-catalyzed
      conversion to highly reactive catecholaldehydes. By studying CAF patients we hope to make
      discoveries that will yield a unifying, integrative concept for the pathogenesis and
      different clinical manifestations of Lewy body diseases. Autonomic function testing under
      this protocol is also required for screening purposes for entry into other protocols of the
      Clinical Neurocardiology Section. Moreover, comprehensive autonomic function testing is
      requested in patients of the NIH Undiagnosed Diseases Program. Finally, in a long-term
      project as a member of the Autonomic Rare Diseases Clinical Research Consortium we are
      applying this testing to study the natural history of neurogenic OH.

      Study Population:

      The study population consists of patients with idiopathic, or primary, CAF, with emphasis on
      PAF, MSA, and PD. Comparison groups include healthy volunteers (HVs), patients with PD who do
      not have OH, and patients with iatrogenic CAF such as from bilateral thoracic
      sympathectomies.

      Design: Subjects undergo multiple physiological, neuropharmacologic, neurochemical, and
      neuroimaging, and other tests, to see if the results by different modalities agree and point
      to specific sites and types of lesions.

      Outcome Measures:

      Physiological outcome measures include hemodynamic responses to the Valsalva maneuver,
      orthostasis, and altered temperature at skin of the back. Neuropharmacologic measures include
      cardiovascular responses to test drugs that probe specific components of the autonomic
      nervous system. Neurochemical measures include plasma, cerebrospinal fluid, microdialysate,
      urine, and skin biopsy tissue levels of catecholamines and related compounds. Neuroimaging
      measures include positron emission tomographic scanning after injection of 18F-dopamine,
      18F-DOPA, 13N-ammonia, or 11C-methylreboxetine.
    
  