
    
      Postoperative knee pain is one of the most challenging problems following total knee
      arthroplasty. Of all the possible complications, the patella-femoral joint is an important
      cause of postoperative knee pain and prosthetic failure. Nägerl et al. observed that the
      tibia slides along the femoral surface when the knee is flexed [Nagerlet al., 2009]. Beside
      the stabilization of the flexion gap, the main task of the posterior cruciate ligament is to
      initiate the femoral rollback to reduce the patellofemoral pressure. Vice versa, Heyse et al.
      could show that the patello-femoral pressure rises with the nsuffictency of the posterior
      cruciate ligament [Heyse et al., 2010]. Pandit et al. measured the physiological rollback in
      healthy knees and following implantation of currently available TKA. They could show that
      bonventional TKA are not able to restore the rollback in the natural tibio-femoral joint
      [Pandit et al., 2005]. Thus it would be important to see if the knee stability in joint
      replacement reaches the one found in intact or reconstructed knees after surgery. To mimic
      the femoral rollback a new prosthesis has recently been developed and is about to be
      introduced to be a new option for total knee arthroplasty. The "Attune Knee System" (DePuy,
      Warsaw, USA) also has a reduced femoral flange to reduce the patella-femoral contact
      pressure. The increased rotational stability, the reduced femoral flange and the femoral
      rollback of the "Attune Knee System" are intended to decrease postoperative knee pain.
      Different levels of femoral rollback were observed intra-operatively between the Attune and
      PFC Sigma system. Yoshiya et al. could show the relation between the posterior cruciate
      ligament with the femoral rollback [Yoshiya et al. 2005]. Therefore, one can hypothesize that
      different implant designs in combination with the tension of the PCL produce different
      extents of femoral rollback, ln order to test in-vivo knee kinematics in patients during
      active movements, we use motion capture, together with combinations of advanced techniques
      for assessing skeletal kinematics (including sARA [Ehrig et a1.2007], SCoRE [Ehrig et
      al.2011] & ocsr [Taytor et at. 2005]), a novet non-invasive approach to evaluate dynamic
      tibio-femoral motion. The combination of these approaches is now able to provide the accuracy
      and sensitivity required to analyze movement patterns in a rapid, robust and therefore
      clinically viable manner. ln order to do so, highly advanced equipment is needed which is
      available in our laboratory in the Julius Wolff lnstitute. Here, we use an infra-red optical
      motion capture system (10 T20S cameras, Vicon, Oxford, UK; system accuracy \-0.3-0.5 mm),
      tracked at120Hz, as well as 2 force plates (AMTI 0R6, Watertown, MA, USA) in order to assess
      the external forces while performing active movements. With this methodology we are then able
      to measure the kinematics as well as kinetics in the knee joint [Boeth et al., 2013],
      especially different levels of femoral rollback in patients with ATTUNE implants, during
      activities of daily living including walking, jogging, stair ascending/descending, rise a
      chair, sit down. Furthermore lunge can also be performed with single plane fluoroscopy (BV
      Pulsera, Philips) with a frequency of 30 Hz. During these measurements, the different extents
      of femoral rollback in deep flexion (at 105'-125') under weight bearing condiiions will be
      assessed and compared to the Sigma PFC system. The contact point between the femoral
      component and the polyethylene inlay will be recorded and compared to standardized
      postoperative radiographs. Clear specification should be given to the subject in order to
      avoid unnecessary radiation, for this, at least 3 repetitions without radiation should be
      performed to guarantee a complete subject's understanding of the procedure. The final
      position of the foot on the sieps is marked to guarantee a standardization of the procedure.
      The height of the c-arm of the device is adjusted to the specific shank's height of the
      subject. During the analysis of the fluoroscopic assessment, model-based RSA software (MEDIS,
      Leiden, The Netherlands) is used to register CAD models of the meiallic implants to the
      fluoroscopic images, a registration accuracy of 0.6mm and 0.4' has been reported [Moewis
      elal.2012].
    
  