
    
      Lung cancer is the most common cancer and leading cause of cancer related death worldwide,
      accounting for more than 1.3 million deaths annually. The 5 year survival of clinical stage
      IIIA NSCLC, a technically curable lung cancer by surgery, chemotherapy +/- radiotherapy
      delivered in the perioperative setting, remains a modest 15%, with systemic recurrence
      occurring in the majority of patients. 5 year overall survival (OS) for patients with stage
      IB and II disease is also modest at 53% and 25% respectively.

      The FDA approvals of T-cell checkpoint inhibitors, targeting programmed cell death-1 (PD-1)
      has changed the landscape of NSCLC. Although robust responses to anti-PD-1 can be observed,
      it is a small subset of patients with durable benefit. In phase 3 trials, the response rate
      to anti-PD- 1 is 19% with only ½ of these patients experiencing durable benefit. Even NSCLC
      tumors with high levels of PD-L1 have only a 30% response rate and combination immunotherapy
      has improved efficacy modestly.

      Clinical trials in resectable lung cancer, have traditionally attempted to institute new
      agents in the adjuvant setting. However clinical endpoints take years of follow-up to
      ascertain. For example, The ANITA study was the most recent phase III study of adjuvant
      chemotherapy in NSCLC. In this study, results were published 12 years after study initiation.
      Thus, while OS remains the gold standard for assessment of benefit of adjuvant therapy,
      studies that are 12 years long are slow, expensive, and may yield results that are out of
      date by the time they are published. Thus the use of valid surrogate endpoints for OS is a
      high priority in NSCLC.

      The potential for durable benefit in the advanced NSCLC setting has, not unexpectably, led to
      a foray with immune checkpoint blockade treatment into the adjuvant setting for resectable
      NSCLC. Randomized trials with durvalumab, pembrolizumab, and nivolumab are all underway.

      However in the resected setting, adjuvant patients cannot be monitored radiologically for
      treatment response due to the absence of measurable disease thus requiring innovative in
      vitro and in vivo methods to study therapeutic response to immune checkpoint blockade.
      Encouragingly, as proof of concept, single-agent ipilimumab has demonstrated improved
      recurrence-free survival at 3 years in resected stage III melanoma compared to placebo
      leading to FDA approval in this setting. Less encouragingly, the hazard ratio favored the
      higher risk patients suggesting the benefit may be restricted to those tumors more apt to
      have residual disease and may represent the subset where benefit is most realized.
      Furthermore the data are not sufficiently mature to demonstrate an overall survival advantage
      nor is it known if this data can be extrapolated to NSCLC where responses are numerically
      lower.

      Patients with resectable NSCLC will undergo surgical resection and bone marrow procurement at
      the same time. Tumor will be dissociated into single cell suspension and separated into
      viable cryopreserved tumor cells and tumor infiltrating lymphocytes will be expanded in media
      and high dose IL-2. Post-operatively, after recovery from surgical resection, patients will
      receive adjuvant treatment with chemotherapy as determined by the treating physician.
      Subsequently patients will receive adjuvant durvalumab for 12 doses and tremelimumab for 4
      doses. Serial PBMCs will be obtained every 4 weeks during therapy. Primary resected tumor
      will undergo whole exome sequencing and RNA sequencing and clonal neoantigens will be
      predicted with established algorithms. Neoantigen specific T cell reactivity will be tested
      in autologous PBMCs with multimer (quantitative) and ICS (functional) assays.
    
  