
    
      Chronic use of opiates is a rapidly escalating crisis in the United States, with over 4.3
      million Americans dependent on opiate analgesic, an escalating rate of opiate overdose
      deaths, and a resurgence of intravenous heroin use leading to total societal cost exceeding
      $55 billion. The struggle to break the addiction cycle is likely due to factors that affect
      neural circuits that govern craving and cognitive control. There is growing interest in the
      utilization of prefrontal cortex repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) as a
      novel, non-invasive, non-pharmacologic approach to decreasing craving among chronic opiate
      users. At this early stage of development, however, it is unclear if the best TMS strategy is
      to (Strategy 1, Aim 1) increase activity in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, or (Strategy
      2, Aim 2) decrease activity in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex.

      DESIGN: To parametrically evaluate these two promising treatment strategies, the
      investigators have developed a design where opiate dependent individuals and healthy controls
      will be randomized to receive either one placebo-like TMS treatment, or one of two real TMS
      treatments (DLPFC iTBS or MPFC cTBS). Participants with opiate dependence will be recruited
      from the local community, as well as the MUSC Center for Drug and Alcohol Programs (CDAP),
      the Ralph H. Johnson Substance Abuse Treatment Center and local pain clinics. Healthy
      controls will be recruited from the local community. Approved Study Team Members will visit
      the above mentioned clinics and community and talk with patients. Individuals who consent
      will receive interleaved TMS/BOLD imaging and our established MRI-based thermal pain paradigm
      immediately before and after rTMS. The investigators will also measure subjective pain and
      opiate craving ratings. The relative efficacy of Strategy 1 vs 2 will directly translate to
      development of a large clinical trial of rTMS as an innovative, new treatment option for pain
      in opiate dependent individuals.
    
  