
    
      Malaria is a major contributor of the disease burden in Sub-Saharan Africa: some 90% of
      global cases occur in Sub-Saharan Africa, with pregnant women and children < 5 representing
      the most vulnerable population. P.falciparum infection in pregnancy leads to parasite
      sequestration in the maternal placental vascular space, causing increased risks of abortion,
      stillbirth, prematurity, intrauterine growth retardation and maternal anaemia; it is also
      associated with increased risk of low birth weight (LBW) and perinatal, neonatal and infant
      mortality.In low transmission areas, malaria can be severe with a high risk of maternal and
      perinatal mortality (up to 60-70%). In highly endemic areas, malaria is still associated with
      maternal anaemia, LBW and stillbirth. For prevention and control of malaria in pregnancy, the
      WHO recommends Intermittent Preventive Treatment (IPT), insecticide treated nets (ITNs) and
      effective case management for malaria and anaemia.

      HIV-1 infection in pregnancy increases the risks of malaria. In HIV+ pregnant women, in
      addition, the efficacy of IPT with sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) appears decreased.

      In Zambia, the malaria incidence rate increased from 121.5/1000 in 1976 to 482.0/1000 in
      2003. The high rates were predominantly evident among pregnant women and children <five.
      Malaria prevention in pregnancy in Zambia relies on ITNs and IPT with SP.

      Several studies in Zambia and Uganda demonstrated that daily cotrimoxazole (CTX) prophylaxis
      is effective in reducing mortality and morbidity in HIV+ individuals and that antibiotic
      therapy during pregnancy might impact positively to the reduction of adverse pregnancy
      outcomes. CTX prophylaxis significantly improves birth outcomes in HIV+ women with
      CD4<200/µl. A recent study in Zambia concluded that antenatal provision of CTX was beneficial
      for HIV+ pregnant women with low CD4 but not in women with ≥200/µl. However, this study was
      carried out in an area with an extremely low risk of malaria infection; CTX may have had a
      different impact if malaria transmission was either holo or hyperendemic. Today, WHO
      recommends daily CTX in addition to ARVs, to prevent opportunistic infections in HIV+,
      regardless of the background prevalence of CTX microbial resistance.

      Concurrent administration of SP and CTX has been associated with increased incidence of
      severe adverse reactions in HIV+ patients. Therefore, WHO has promoted CTX prophylaxis as an
      alternative to SP for the IPT in immuno-compromised (CD4 < 350/µl)pregnant women.
      Unfortunately, there is insufficient information on the effectiveness of daily CTX for
      preventing malaria infection (placental parasitaemia) and its consequences (maternal anaemia
      and low birth weight) in pregnancy: so, presently, SP is the only antimalarial treatment for
      which data on efficacy and safety for IPT is available, and the WHO recommends that at least
      2 doses of SP are given after the first trimester. With the documented increase in SP
      resistance and with the newer antimalarials still being studied for safety and efficacy in
      pregnancy, CTX could be an alternative for SP in reducing malaria and malaria related
      morbidity and mortality in pregnancy.

      The focus of this study is the malaria related outcome in pregnancy: we will target both HIV
      negative and HIV positive pregnant women, assuming that CTX is not inferior to SP in reducing
      placental parasitaemia. Such information is urgently needed in order to issue updated,
      effective guidelines on intermittent preventive treatment in pregnant women.

      An open label clinical trial is the best design to assess the research question and its
      consequences on the offspring, both in HIV negative pregnant women and in HIV positive
      pregnant women with CD4 count ≥350/µl. The parallel design was chosen evaluate to each group
      separately, as HIV might interact with CTX efficacy. Offsets for efficacy were based on
      literature review.
    
  