
    
      Patients with chronic lower limb edema commonly suffered from extremities edema, pain,
      varicosities, venous stasis changes, and deep venous thrombosis. A common challenge for
      primary care physicians is to determine the cause and find an effective treatment for leg
      edema of unclear etiology. The aims of this project are to determine the cause of patients
      with chronic lower limb edema with conventional digital venography, the clinical value of
      role of 3D rotational venography or combined multidetector (MD)CT angiography and iliac
      venography using direct iliac venography for contrast administration via bilateral femoral
      catheterization (MDCT angiography/venography) with volume-rendering images supplementary to
      2D digital venography in evaluation of patients with chronic lower limb edema.

      This project is designed as retrospective cross-sectional study. Between April 2008 and Dec
      2009, a total of approximately 300 patients with chronic lower limb edema who had had
      bilateral iliac digital venography and surgery at our institution will be reviewed. All
      patients underwent surgery by one senior vascular surgeon for lower limb conditions within
      one month after the venographic examination. Patients who had incomplete clinical and
      surgical records or incomplete images will be excluded. The surgical findings of the
      presence, anatomical location, and size of the venous narrowing will assessed and described.
      Stenosis was defined as luminal narrowing of 50% or more compared to the prestenotic or
      poststenotic lumen.With use of surgical findings as a the standard, we calculated and
      compared the diagnostic accuracies, sensitivities, specificities, positive predict values and
      negative predict values of 2D digital venography images alone, 3D rotational venography, and
      combined MDCT angiography/venography with volume-rendering images supplementary to 2D digital
      venography.

      With this large series study, we believe that the cause of chronic lower leg edema in our
      patients' population will be clarified. The value of additional 3D rotational venography, and
      combination MDCT angiography/venography with volume-rendering images will lead to higher
      diagnostic performance and may provide a helpful tool for planning surgical and endovascular
      treatment, which has not been reported before.
    
  