
    
      Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia (CLL) is a lymphoproliferative disorder characterized by the
      progressive accumulation of monoclonal peripheral B cells in bone marrow, peripheral blood
      and lymphoid tissues. Median survival is about 10 years. It is now clear that front line
      therapy for a patient with CLL requiring treatment should be the association of purine
      analogue and rituximab with or without cyclophosphamide. Concerning the choice of the purine
      analogue, similar results have been obtained by using cladribine instead of fludarabine.
      Although cladribine is less commonly used, the direct comparison between the two analogues
      for what concerns efficacy and toxicity, has confirmed the same profile of the two drugs.
      Encouraging results have been obtained using the monoclonal antibody in association with the
      purine analogue.

      The utilization of rituximab as a maintenance therapy could improve the response in cases of
      persistence of minimal residual disease as well as delay the insurgence of relapses thus
      increasing the DFS.

      The objective of this study is to confirm the efficacy of the association of R-2cda and of
      evaluating the efficacy of prolongation of therapy with additional infusions of Rituximab
      alone in increasing and prolonging the duration of the response. The results of this study
      will be compared with existing clinical results from a group of 42 pts already treated as
      standard with R-2cda without additional rituximab infusions.

      Patients enrolled in the study will receive 4 cycles of R-2-CdA therapy. Patients, who
      achieve a partial response or complete response after the therapy with R- 2-CdA, will prolong
      therapy with Rituximab. The therapy will begin 3 months after the end of the induction
      therapy and patients will receive one administration every 2 months for a total of 8
      administrations.
    
  