
    
      Severe asthma is observed in 3 to 5% of the asthmatic population and is characterized by a
      higher rate of exacerbations, poorly controlled asthma and/or a poor lung function. During
      the last ten years, anti-IgE and anti-IL5 (and anti-IL5R) have considerably improved severe
      asthma status. Treatment with chronic or oral course of corticosteroids is indeed responsible
      for a lot of side effects. There is however a lack of biomarkers for the prediction of
      responders to anti-IL5 and anti-IgE.

      We have previously found that sputum eosinophil counts are good predictors for improvement in
      lung function of severe asthmatics using anti-IL5 (Schleich et al, in press in Clin Exp
      Allergy 2020). Sputum cells might not be the only relevant sputum marker for responders to
      mepolizumab.

      The objective is to evaluate the ability of sputum cytokines (protein levels and genes)
      (IL-3, IL-4, IL-5, IL-13, IL-33 and GM-CSF) to predict the response of severe asthmatics
      after 6 months treatment with biologics in terms of reduction in exacerbations and
      corticosteroid use, improvement in FEV1, in asthma control, in asthma quality of life and the
      effect on sputum and blood inflammation.

      Severe asthmatics seen in the Asthma Clinic of CHU of Liege are very well characterized using
      baseline measure of blood samples, induced sputum, lung function, FeNO, asthma control
      questionnaires (ACT - ACQ) and asthma quality of life questionnaires (AQLQ).

      Data on exacerbations during the previous year and current inhaled and oral treatment is also
      recorded. If FEV1 value is upper than 70% of the predicted value, severe asthmatics also
      perform a methacholine challenge to evaluate bronchial hyperresponsiveness.

      All these measures are repeated after 6 months treatment with mepolizumab. All the sputum
      supernatants are stored at -80°C and RNA from sputum cells is also available.

      Target sample size: 50 patients

      We plan to measure different cytokines in the sputum (IL3, GM-CSF, IL5, IL-13, IL-33, IL-4…)
      and to evaluate their ability to predict the response after 6 months treatment with different
      biologics in terms of reduction in exacerbations and corticosteroid use, improvement in FEV1
      (+200ml), in asthma control (ACQ decrease >0.5, ACT increase >3), in asthma quality of life
      (increase in AQLQ score > 0.5) and the effect on sputum and blood inflammation.

      Asthmatic patients are recruited through the outpatient clinic and pulmonary rehabilitation
      centre (CHU, Sart-Tilman, Liege). Asthma is diagnosed as described in the GINA guidelines
      (http://ginasthma.org/).

      Sputum induction and processing. The sputum is induced and processed as previously described
      (Delvaux Thorax 2014). The whole sputum is collected in a plastic container, weighed, and
      homogenized with three volumes of phosphate-buffered saline (PBS), vortexed for 30 s, and
      centrifuged at 800g for 10 min at 4° C. The supernatant is separated from the cell pellet by
      filtration through 2 layers of sterile gauze. A mucolysis is performed by adding an equal
      volume of 6.5 mM dithiothreitol and the suspension is rocked during 20 min. After a
      centrifugation of 10 min at 550g, the squamous cells and total cell counts as well as the
      cell viability are checked by trypan blue exclusion with a manual hemocytometer. The
      differential leukocyte count is performed on cytospins stained with May-Grünwald-Giemsa on
      500 cells.

      If the quality criteria (< 30% of squamous cells and viability > 50%) are respected, the cell
      pellet is mixed with 5 volumes of RNAprotect cell reagent (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) and kept
      at -80 °C until RNA extraction.

      In total, 50 patient with successful induced sputum supernatant samples before anti-IL-5,
      anti-IL5R or anti-IgE therapy as well as 6 months after will be analysed. Regarding the
      sputum cells, patients with good quality samples before and after therapy will allow gene
      expression analysis.

      Immunoassays: The concentrations of the mediators contained in the sputum supernatant are
      assessed by ELISA Luminex performance assay (R and D systems, Minneapolis, USA) according to
      the manufacturer's instructions. Spiking experiments of cytokines in sputum supernatants are
      performed to check that the recovery is between 80% and 120% for all the analytes.

      RNA extraction and RT-qPCR methods The mediator protein levels will be obtained using Luminex
      performance XL discovery kit (R and D systems, Minneapolis, USA) for IL-3 and IL-4 (detection
      limit : 0.09 pg/ml for both). A Luminex high sensitivity performance kit will be used for
      IL-5, IL-13, IL-33 and GM-CSF. Detection limits are 0.4, 5.1, 1.8 and 1.6 pg/ml respectively.

      Regarding the mediator gene expression levels, the steps will be performed exactly as
      recently described. Primers and probes will all beobtained from IDT (Integrated DNA
      Technologies, Skokie, IL, USA). PCR efficiencies will be calculated using qbase+ qPCR
      analysis software (Biogazelle, Zwijnaarde, Belgium). The same program will be used to obtain
      relative quantitation in gene expression using the 2-∆∆Ct method. HPRT1 and GNB2L1 will be
      used as reference genes as also previously reported. The patients will be compared with a
      cohort of 7 healthy subjects.

      These steps are performed according to the description of da Silva et al [Clin Exp allergy
      2017] except that the Taqman PCR step is performed in 96-well plates and that for each
      sample, 2 µl of cDNA (diluted 1:4) is used in a total reaction volume of 12.5 µl including
      500 nM forward primer, 500 nM reverse primer and 250 nM probe for all the tested genes. Every
      qPCR are realized in duplicate and included non-template controls for each gene.
      Amplification is performed on the LightCycler 480 Real-Time PCR (Roche, Pleasanton, CA, USA)
      during 45 cycles as follows: initial activation step: 95 °C for 15 min; denaturation stage:
      94 °C for 15 s; annealing and elongation stage: 60 °C for 1 min. Primers and probes are all
      labeled with reporter and double-quencher dyes 5'6-carboxyfluorescein/ZEN/3' Iowa black FQ
      (5'6-FAM/ZEN/3'IBFQ) and were obtained from IDT (Integrated DNA Technologies, Skokie, IL,
      USA). Standard curves are generated for each gene using a 4 times serial dilution of stock
      cDNA (pool of 4 cDNA) to check that all PCR efficiencies obtained are between 1.9 and 2.1.
      Genomic DNA contamination is controlled by performing qPCR with each RNA sample without RT
      step. Relative quantitation in gene expression is determined using qbase+ qPCR analysis
      software (Biogazelle, Zwijnaarde, Belgium) using the 2-∆∆Ct method. HPRT1 and GNB2L1 are used
      as reference genes as previously determined. All the procedure is done according to the MIQE
      guidelines for the minimum information required for a qPCR experiment.

      Cytokines will also be measured in the blood of a subset of patients.

      Study Endpoints

      Primary endpoint:

      To identify predictors of reduction in exacerbations and in oral corticosteroids dose.

      Secondary endpoint:

      To identify predictors of improvement in ACQ (-0.5), ACT (+3pts), AQLQ (+ 0.5), sputum
      eosinophils (<3%), FEV1 (+ 200ml).

      Statistical Plan or Data analysis The results will be expressed as mean¡SD or mean¡SEM for
      continuous variables; median (range) for skewed distributions. For categorical variables, the
      number of observations and percentages will be given in each category. Comparisons between
      different subgroups will be performed with a Kruskal-Wallis test or paired t-test / Wilcoxon
      signed rank test. The Spearman correlation coefficient will be used to measure the
      association between clinical parameters.

      Power calculations indicated a required total sample size of 50 subjects to confirm a change
      in outcomes.
    
  