
    
      Instituto Bioclon S.A. de C.V. has developed Analatro®, an antibody fragment (Fab2)
      containing widow spider (Latrodectus) antivenom, and proposes to conduct a clinical trial in
      hospital emergency departments to assess the efficacy and safety of this product in patients
      with moderate to severe pain associated with Latrodectus envenomation (latrodectism). The
      primary objectives of this Phase III, multi-center, double-blind, controlled study are as
      follows:

      To determine the efficacy of Analatro compared to control for the treatment of latrodectism
      as measured by the proportion of patients in whom pain control is not achieved (e.g.,
      treatment failure)

      To further characterize the safety profile of Analatro, including comparison of the rate of
      drug-related adverse events to control for the treatment of latrodectism

      The flow of study procedures are illustrated in the chart on the following page. All patients
      who consent to participate will be given a visual analog scale (VAS, 0=no pain to 100mm=worst
      possible pain) for assessing pain intensity. Patients that meet all study enrollment
      requirements, including a minimum age of 10 years, a clinical diagnosis of latrodectism and a
      VAS pain score of ≥40 mm (moderate to severe pain) will be randomly assigned to be treated
      with Analatro or control. A screening phase will be completed, during which time preliminary
      procedures will be performed by the investigator (medical history, physical exam, and
      pregnancy test as applicable) and two doses of Analatro or two doses of saline control will
      be prepared. Fentanyl may be administered intravenously as needed for pain relief during the
      screening phase at a dosage not to exceed 1.5 µg/kg/hr. At the end of the screening phase,
      baseline measurements (vital signs, VAS pain score) will be performed. Patients must have a
      baseline VAS score ≥40 mm to receive study medication.

      Eligible patients will begin a 2.5 hour treatment phase. Dose 1 of study medication (50 mL)
      will be infused intravenously over 10 minutes. Thirty minutes after the start of Dose 1, pain
      intensity will be assessed (VAS2), vital signs will be recorded (VS2), and a blood sample
      collected (B2). Clinical improvement in this study will be defined as a VAS score that is at
      least 13mm less than the baseline VAS score (VAS1). Patients that fail to show clinical
      improvement at 30 minutes will receive Dose 2 of study medication (Dose 2 will be identical
      to Dose 1). Patients showing clinical improvement will not receive Dose 2.

      Thirty minutes after VAS2 (or after the start of Dose 2, if applicable), VAS3 will be
      administered, vital signs (VS3) will be recorded, and a blood sample (B3) will be collected.
      If the patient has not clinically improved relative to baseline, the patient will be deemed a
      treatment failure; the treatment phase will be discontinued, and the patient will be treated
      in accordance with standard of care by the investigator and/or treating physician. Patients
      that have clinically improved will remain in the treatment arm.

      The remaining 1.5 hours of the treatment arm will consist of serial assessments of pain
      intensity (VAS4, 5 and 6), vital signs (VS4, 5 and 6), and collection of one blood sample
      (B4, 5 and 6) every 30 minutes. After each VAS, the patient must continue to show clinical
      improvement relative to baseline to remain in the treatment arm. Otherwise, the patient will
      exit the treatment phase and be treated in accordance with standard of care. No analgesics
      will be allowed during the treatment phase to eliminate the potential confounding effect of
      pain medication on assessing the effectiveness of the study medication on clinical
      improvement. Routine decision points for treatment failure (every thirty minutes) will
      promote accurate identification of treatment failures without compromising timely provision
      of pain medication in absence of clinical improvement.

      All patients will be closely monitored for adverse events during Dose 1 of treatment until
      the time of discharge from the emergency department. Follow-up for possible adverse events
      and recurring/residual symptoms will be conducted by telephone on Days 2, 10, and 17 after
      discharge from the emergency department.

      Treatment failure will be defined as (1) early exit from the treatment phase due to absence
      of clinical improvement relative to baseline and/or (2) patient requires prescription pain
      medication or Antivenin Latrodectus Mactans (Merck) for pain associated with the study
      condition being treated at any time after the treatment phase up to 48 hours after the time
      of discharge from the emergency department. To improve accurate identification of treatment
      failure after discharge, no preventative pain medication will be administered or prescribed
      to patients that successfully complete the treatment phase. Patients will be encouraged to
      call the investigator or return to the emergency department, if necessary, for proper
      evaluation and treatment.
    
  