
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 study arms. This is done because no one knows if one study
      arm is better than, the same, or worse than the other group.

      If you are in Arm A, you will not take part in a structured exercise program. If you are in
      Arm B, you will take part in a structured exercise program and behavioral skills training as
      described below.

      Length of Study:

      You will continue to take part in this study for up to 7 months after your scheduled
      standard-of-care surgery. However, if intolerable side effects occur or the disease appears
      to get worse, the study staff will decide if continuing the exercise program is in your best
      interest.

      Study Visits:

      At your baseline visit, after you complete chemotherapy and/or radiation, 3-6 weeks after
      surgery, and then 3-7 months after surgery:

        -  You will complete 4 questionnaires about your physical abilities, motivation, and
           quality of life. They should take about 25 minutes total to complete.

        -  Your hand grip strength will be measured using a hand-held machine

        -  Your arm strength will be measured using an arm curl test. You will be given a small
           weight (about 5-8 pounds) and asked to perform as many bicep curls as you can for 30
           seconds.

        -  You will be asked to rise from a chair without using your arms to push off.

        -  You will complete a 6-minute walk test to see how far you can walk in 6 minutes.

        -  You will complete a nutritional questionnaire and receive nutritional counseling. The
           questionnaire will ask about your diet and any recent weight loss. It should take about
           5 minutes to complete. After you complete the questionnaire, you will receive
           educational materials and personalized counseling based on your answers.

        -  If you are in Arm B, you will receive behavioral skills training to teach you ways to
           monitor your health, set goals, and reward yourself. It should take about 15 minutes to
           complete.

        -  At the baseline visit, you will be given a Fitbit Charge 2 activity tracker to wear
           during the study. This is a small device designed to record your physical activity and
           sleep during the study. This device will allow you to monitor your own physical activity
           and sleep and may help you achieve your goals. You can keep the Fitbit after the study
           is over.

      If you are in Arm B, one (1) time each week for the first 4 weeks and then every 2 weeks
      after that, a member of the study staff will contact you by phone for behavioral skills
      training and to see how you are doing. These calls should last about 15 minutes.

      For 2 weeks during each phase of chemotherapy and/or radiation you receive, you will wear a
      small activity monitor on an elastic band. This will be worn in addition to your Fitbit.

      Exercise Programs:

      ARM A:

      If you are in Arm A, you will be encouraged to remain active during chemotherapy and/or
      radiation, but you will not receive instruction about aerobic or strengthening exercises. You
      will receive a booklet that contains a stretching guide with full-body stretches and safety.

      ARM B:

      If you are in Arm B, you will be asked to complete up to 30 minutes of moderate-intensity
      aerobic exercise (such as brisk walking, stationary cycling, and/or elliptical or stair
      stepping machines) for at least 5 days each week.

      You will also complete strength training exercises at least 2 times per week. You will
      complete 1 set of 10-15 repetitions for each of the 8 exercises that you are taught. Over
      time, the amount of resistance, repetitions, and/or sets may increase or decrease based on
      your strength. You will be given 5 different resistance tubes to complete these exercises,
      but you may use free-weights or machines if you prefer.

      You should complete warm up exercises and 5 minutes of stretching before and after strength
      training.

      You must keep a daily activity log to document your exercises.
    
  