
    
      This is a single-dose study that explore the safety, tolerability, PK, and PD of the study
      drug by sequentially increasing the study drug in 6 dose levels. The route of administration
      is either subcutaneous (SC) injection or intravenous (IV) injection.

      For healthy subjects, 6 subjects will be assigned to the study group and 2 subjects will be
      assigned to the placebo group to explore the safety and tolerability, and PK/PD of the study
      drug in comparison with placebo. Hemophilia patients will be assigned only to the study group
      with 3 subjects in each cohort.

      The investigator and subjects will know which cohort the healthy subjects have been assigned
      to, but they will be double-blinded as to whether the subjects are assigned to the study
      group (study drug) or the placebo group (placebo) within each cohort.

      The doses planned in healthy subjects are 0.5 mg/kg, 1.7 mg/kg, and 3.3 mg/kg by SC
      injection; 3.3 mg/kg and 6.6 mg/kg by IV injection. In hemophilia patients, 3.3 mg/kg will be
      administered by SC injection, and 6.6 mg/kg and 13.3 mg/kg will be administered by IV
      injection. The planned dose will be administered after checking the safety and tolerability
      at the previous dose to the extent not exceeding the criteria for discontinuation of dose
      escalation. The dose escalation will be decided by the Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) in the
      blinded evaluation of the safety and tolerability data obtained from each previous cohort for
      7 days after administration. Both Cohort 4 and Cohort 3B can be proceeded after the
      evaluation for Cohort 3, and Cohort 5 and Cohort 5B will be proceeded independently after the
      evaluation for Cohort 4 and Cohort 3B, respectively. Before proceeding with Cohort 6, the
      safety, tolerability, PK, and PD data obtained from all healthy subjects and hemophilia
      patients up to Cohort 5 and Cohort 5B will be evaluated by the Data and Safety Monitoring
      Boards (DSMB) in a blinded manner. Then, the dose escalation and the modification of the
      highest dose will be determined.
    
  