
    
      The shape of the RV is dramatically modified by surgical repair of CHD, with infundibular
      bulging and apical dilation and deformation, leading to a large range of RV shapes(1,2).
      Moreover, pericardial section and suture during surgery influence RV geometry, as RV is
      normally more con-strained by the pericardium then the LV because of its thinner wall (3).

      Intra cardiac repair(ICR) is the definitive management of TOF. Refinement in surgical
      techniques, advancements in anaesthetic & critical care has resulted in improving survival
      following ICR. Post operative mortality following ICR is reported between 1% - 5% (3). Post
      operative low cardiac output and mortality has been attributed to many factors such as
      anatomical defects with small main pulmonary artery annulus, severe hypoplasia or absent
      right or left pulmonary artery, ventriculotomy and right ventricular (RV) outflow patch,
      myocardial hypoxia during cardiopulmonary bypass, or ARDS (4). Certain patients despite
      satisfactory ICR exhibit difficult post operative course which is characterized by prolonged
      ventilation & inotropic support. These patients have been identified to exhibit features of
      RV dysfunction (low cardiac output, high central venous filling pressure, increased inotropic
      requirement, and prolonged ventilation). Identification of risk factors to characterise this
      subset of patients allows for better allocation of hospital resources, improved outcome, and
      substantially reduced hospital costs. This study will try to identify the risk factors
      associated with development of RV dysfunction & its course over a period of three months in
      patients of tetralogy following ICR.

      MRI is a gold standard for assessment of right ventricular function (5). However, MRI has
      restricted availability, is costly, and there are many patients in whom MRI-non compatible
      devices prohibit its use.

      Because of its complex shape, there is no geometrical assumption that can allow
      quantification of RV volumes and ejection fraction (RVEF) by standard two-dimensional (2D)
      echocardiography. For this reason, surrogate parameters of RV systolic function are used most
      frequently to assess RV systolic function, because they are easy to measure, feasible and
      reproducible. These parameters include:-

        -  Tricuspid annulus movement:- Measurements of tricuspid annulus movement by M-mode
           (tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion [TAPSE]) or tissue Doppler imaging (peak
           systolic velocity [PSV]) are used most frequently to assess RV function; they are highly
           feasible and reproducible. However, several studies have shown their dependence on
           loading condition; TAPSE and PSV values are increased in volume overload and decreased
           in pressure overload (6), independent of RVEF.

      -2D global longitudinal peak systolic strain of the RV lateral wall:- Speckle-tracking
      echocardiography is a new technology that allows quantification of myocardial regional
      deformation. The main advantage compared with tissue Doppler imaging is its angle
      independency; it was also thought to be less load dependent, but further studies demonstrated
      that 2D longitudinal strain values increase in volume overload and decrease in barometric
      overload (7).

      - Isovolumic acceleration time(IVA):- Is a quantitative assessment of RV contractile function
      that is supposed to be unaffected by RV geometry or loading conditions. In patients with
      tetralogy of Fallot, studies have shown a good correlation between pulmonary regurgitation
      severity and IVA (8,9).

      -Myocardial performance index :- Myocardial performance index (MPI) is another tissue
      Doppler-derived parameter of RV systolic function. MPI is calculated using the following
      formula: MPI =(isovolumic contraction time + isovolumic relaxation time)/ejection time (10).

      - Fractional area change:- FAC has been shown to correlate well with RVEF measured by MRI in
      the general population (10).
    
  