
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a major cause of chronic morbidity and
      mortality in the world. It is one of our most common chronic diseases and up to 700.000
      people is estimated to suffer from COPD in Sweden. Exercise intolerance is the key disabling
      factor in COPD, with decreased exercise capacity, leg fatigue and dyspnea among the most
      frequently reported symptoms.

      Different training modalities have been evaluated to uncover the most effective way of
      training patients with COPD. Traditionally research has used whole-body, or major muscle mass
      training regimes when investigating the effect of both endurance and resistance in COPD
      patients. However recent research have demonstrated positive effects using training regimes
      involving a simultaneous smaller muscle mass compared to traditional exercise. The concept of
      using this regime is to put less stress on the ventilator system when exercising to minimize
      the effect of the chronic airflow limitation and to enhance the ability to be able to
      exercise for this group of patients compared to traditional training using major muscle mass
      exercise regimes. Although recent research have shown positive effects of single limb
      training using one-legged cycling, one major limitation is that only a small amount of
      important muscles for COPD patients are incorporated. Therefore, the aim of this study is to:
      (i) examine the effect of a single limb exercise regime on local muscle endurance, maximal
      strength, quality of life, dyspnea, walking capacity, self-efficacy, anxiety and depression,
      (ii) to examine if the physiological effects differ between man and women and (iii) to
      investigate if this exercise regime is feasible and safe to use for patients with COPD.

      Patients diagnosed with moderate to very severe COPD according to GOLD criteria will be
      randomly assigned to constitute either an exercise or control group The exercise group will
      participate in a high-repetitive single limb exercise regime, consisting of upper and lower
      limb exercises with elastic resistance, compromised of three sessions per week over a period
      of 8 weeks. The exercise regime will be performed in group at Umeå University Hospital of
      Northern Sweden, and at Huddinge University Hospital, Sweden supervised by experienced
      physiotherapists. Both the exercise and control group will receive four sessions of
      standardized patient education during the 8 week intervention period. After completion of the
      study, patients in the control group will be offered participation in the single limb
      exercise regime.

      The most important upper and lower extremity muscles for COPD patients are identified and
      exercises are designed specific to each of these. The exercise regime consists of 8
      exercises, 4 upper extremity and 4 lower extremity exercises. Starting position and
      performance of the exercises are standardized and the resistance individually adjusted and
      progressed according to rated dyspnea and muscle fatigue.

      Before and after the 8 week intervention period the following information will be collected.
      Effects on maximal strength, muscular endurance, dyspnea, self-efficacy, anxiety and
      depression. The relationship between changes in health related variables and changes in
      exercise capacity, sex related differences in training effects, feasibility of the program,
      strategies to determine adequate starting resistance and provide accurate resistance for each
      involved movement and the relationship between muscle fatigue and dyspnea in the different
      exercise tests will also be analyzed.
    
  