
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare gene expression in normal prostate tissue (at baseline and after treatment) of
           patients with stage I or II adenocarcinoma of the prostate treated with lycopene vs
           omega-3 fatty acid nutritional supplements vs placebo.

      Secondary

        -  Determine new candidate molecular targets for lycopene and omega-3 response pathways.

        -  Correlate baseline gene expression patterns, determined by cDNA array analysis, with
           self-reported dietary intake.

        -  Correlate gene expression patterns with progression or lack of progression at 12 months
           after study entry.

        -  Determine if lycopene or omega-3 supplements affect the incidence of tumor progression.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, placebo-controlled study. Patients are stratified according to
      dietary intake of tomato and fish (low tomato [< 4 servings/week], low fish [< 2
      servings/week] vs low tomato, high fish [≥ 2 servings/week] vs high tomato [≥ 4
      servings/week], low fish vs high tomato, high fish). Patients are randomized to 1 of 3
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients maintain normal diet and receive oral omega-3 fatty acids placebo 3
           times daily and lycopene placebo twice daily.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral lycopene twice daily and oral omega-3 fatty acids placebo
           3 times daily.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive oral lycopene placebo twice daily and oral omega-3 fatty acids
           3 times daily.

      In all arms, treatment continues for up to 90 days or until post-treatment biopsy is
      scheduled (a maximum of 104 days) in the absence of disease progression.

      Patients complete a dietary questionnaire at baseline and then for 3 days each month during
      study therapy. Quality of life is assessed at baseline and at 3 months.

      Prostate tissue needle biopsies and blood samples are collected at baseline and at 3 months.
      Tissue and blood samples are examined for lycopene and omega-3 fatty acids (treatment
      compliance), omega-6 fatty acids, insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1, IGF binding protein-5,
      and cyclooxygenase-2 gene by polymerase chain reaction, cDNA microarray hybridization, and
      other gene expression assays.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 114 patients will be enrolled in this study.
    
  