
    
      Blood pressure (BP) is controlled to recommended levels in only 1 in 3 people with
      hypertension, and there has been little improvement since the late 1980s, despite advances in
      evidence to support aggressive hypertension control, and availability of many new and
      effective antihypertensive drugs. It is clear that meaningful and sustained improvement in
      hypertension control will likely require fundamental changes in the current
      physician-centered office-visit based model of caring for hypertension. In this project we
      develop and implement an intervention that takes advantage of new technology and team models
      of care to improve BP measurement and control, solving the problems that have limited the
      application of case management approaches to hypertension care improvement. The study will
      take place in a diverse population of adults with hypertension cared for in a real-world
      primary care setting. The Telemonitoring Intervention (TI) integrates 2 innovative
      components: First, home BP measures are done using state-of-the-art modem-enabled automated
      equipment that internally stores and electronically transmits BP data through a simple
      touch-tone telephone connection to a secure web site. Second, a pharmacist case manager
      integrated with the primary care team through a jointly used electronic medical record (EMR)
      and formulary adjusts antihypertensive therapy using an approved written protocol, under a
      collaborative practice agreement with physicians. Treatment decisions are based on home BP
      data and are discussed and communicated to patients in telephone visits with the pharmacist
      case manager. Two-way communication between the pharmacist case manager and the patient's
      primary care team is assured by using a shared EMR and by additional secure messaging of the
      results of every pharmacist encounter to the primary care team. To assess the impact of the
      TI on hypertension control, patient satisfaction, and costs of care, we will conduct a
      cluster-randomized trial, assigning 16 primary care clinics and 450 of their nested patients
      with uncontrolled hypertension to either a Usual Care (UC) control group or TI. Blood
      pressure outcomes in both groups will be determined at baseline, 6, 12, 18 and 54 months in
      an identical and blinded fashion in a research clinic separate from the clinical setting
      where patients received their medical care. We hypothesize that guideline BP control will be
      achieved at 6 months and maintained at 12 months in more than 60% of patients from TI
      clinics, compared to < 40% in patients from UC clinics. We will compare satisfaction with
      care and costs in the TI and UC groups. The TI has the potential to improve hypertension
      control for millions of patients, and could be implemented widely in diverse and large
      patient populations based on performance in this randomized trial. The results of the project
      will have important implications for future efforts to improve care provided to many of the
      estimated 20 million Americans with uncontrolled hypertension.
    
  