
    
      Complications of diabetes are influenced by the quality of blood pressure control and of
      metabolic control. Several prospective studies have shown a positive effect of the
      implementation of such control, however metabolic and blood pressure targets are not achieved
      for about 30% of diabetic uremic patients.

      Our project aims at evaluating a comprehensive management approach of diabetic patients
      affected by renal insufficiency, defined by glomerular filtration rate (GRF) <60 mL/min/1,73
      m², through an alternate and complementary follow-up by the nephrologist and the
      diabetologist.

      During a first period (one year), patients are managed as "usually". After this period, the
      patients will start the multidisciplinary health care during at least two years. They will be
      followed-up by the diabetologist every 4 months. According to his GFR measured by renal
      clearance of Cr-EDTA, the patient will be followed-up by the nephrologist every year if the
      GFR is between 60 and 40 ml/min, every 4 months if the GFR is between 40 and 20 ml/min, and
      every 1 or 2 months if the GFR is under 20 ml/min. GFR will be re-evaluated every year
      (Cr-EDTA or Cockcroft-Gault formula) and so medical examination frequency. Guidelines will be
      applied regarding blood pressure control (objective: < 135/85 mmHg, and < 125/75 mmHg if
      proteinuria > 1g/24H, choice of drugs, implementation of the treatment...) and glycemic
      control (current guidelines according to the French Health Technology Information Agency,
      ANAES). Another important component of the management will be the implementation of
      nutritional balance and foot care.

      Every two years, a detailed nutritional checkup will be planned by the diabetologist and a
      cardiologic check-up will be planned by the nephrologist during one day in the local
      nephrology department.

      A biobank will be built up after patient's consent. We will assess the impact of this
      intervention (guidelines application + multidisciplinary methodical and complementary
      follow-up) in terms of glycemic and blood pressure control.

      The percentage of patients who will obtain a good glycemic and blood pressure control will be
      analysed and compared between the two follow-up period (before/after the intervention).

      If validated this strategy may provide the basis of a care network focused on an optimum
      diabetic health care.
    
  