
    
      Busulfan is a chemotherapy drug that kills cancer cells by binding to DNA, and is commonly
      used in stem cell transplantation. Fludarabine is an antimetabolite drug which has
      anti-leukemia and immunosuppressive effects.

      If you are eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as in the toss
      of a coin) to 1 of 2 study groups. One group will receive a fixed dose of busulfan, while the
      other group will receive an adjusted dose of busulfan based on blood levels of the drug. Both
      groups will receive fludarabine treatment as well as a stem cell transplant.

      Patients in the adjusted-dose group will first receive a low-level "test" dose of busulfan to
      check how their blood levels change over time; this information will be used to decide the
      next dose needed to reach the target blood level that matches your body size. Patients in the
      fixed-dose group will receive a fixed dose of busulfan without the test dose. If you are
      assigned to the fixed-dose group, this measurement will only affect your dose level if you
      have an unusually high or low drug level in your blood. Patients in both groups will have a
      total of about 20 teaspoons (less than 7 tablespoons) of blood drawn over time to check their
      busulfan blood levels following one or more of the busulfan treatments.

      About 11 samples of blood will be drawn to check your blood levels of busulfan over time
      following the test dose and the first high-dose busulfan treatment; each sample is about 1
      teaspoon of blood. A heparin lock will be placed in your vein to lower the number of needle
      sticks needed for these draws. If it is not possible for these blood level tests to be
      performed for technical or scheduling reasons, you will receive the standard fixed dose.

      Both groups of patients receive fludarabine through a central venous catheter (CVC--a small
      tube inserted into one of your major veins, usually in the chest or shoulder blade) over 1
      hour, once a day, for 4 days. After each dose of fludarabine, the high-dose Busulfan will be
      infused through the CVC over 3 hours. These drugs are given to try to kill malignant cells
      and suppress your immune system in order to reduce the risk of stem cell transplant
      rejection. If you are going to be receiving a transplant from an HLA-type-nonidentical or
      unrelated donor, you will also receive Thymoglobulin (ATG) over 4 hours on the 3 days prior
      to the transplant to further suppress your immune system.

      After 2 days of rest, the allogeneic stem cells (bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cells)
      will then be given intravenously (IV--through a needle in your vein). You will receive the
      drug G-CSF (Neupogen) as an injection under the skin daily starting 1 week after the
      transplant until your blood cell levels return to normal.

      Patients usually remain in the hospital for about 4 weeks after stem cell transplantation.
      After you are released from the hospital, you will continue as an outpatient in the hospital
      area to be monitored for infections and transplant-related complications for a minimum of 100
      days after the transplant.

      Patients who previously had leukemia involvement in the nervous system may need to receive
      spinal taps, with injection of cytosine arabinoside and hydrocortisone, several times over
      the year after transplantation to try to keep the leukemia from coming back.

      You will undergo blood tests and bone marrow biopsies at 3, 6, and 12 months after the
      transplant, to check if the disease is in remission. Your health status will be followed
      along with their local physician to find out if the leukemia or myelodysplastic syndrome
      comes back, as well as to check the length of your survival.

      This is an investigational study. All of the drugs used in this study are approved by the FDA
      for treatment of cancer. Up to 230 patients will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  