
    
      Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) is increasing in incidence and
      accounts for one third to one half of all heart failure admissions worldwide. It portrays a
      significant burden in terms of prevalence, morbidity and mortality. It is a complex clinical
      syndrome characterized by multiple pathophysiological mechanisms affecting the cardiac
      structure and function culminating to increased ventricular filling pressures. The definition
      of HFpEF remains an evolving concept and the exact definition by various learned societies is
      not uniform. The recent ANZ heart failure guidelines defines HFpEF as the presence of typical
      symptoms with or without signs of heart failure, with a measured left ventricular ejection
      fraction of at least 50% and objective evidence of relevant structural heart disease or
      diastolic dysfunction without an alternative cause. Despite some common clinical features,
      there is heterogeneity in the causes of HFpEF, and it is likely that it represents a broad
      cohort of patients with a range of comorbid conditions. In addition to clinical variability,
      there is morphological and functional variability at the myocardial level. For instance,
      whilst left ventricular hypertrophy and left atrial dilatation are traditionally considered
      morphological hallmarks, they are not universally present, and one third to one half of
      patients do not demonstrate one or both of these features. Furthermore whilst diastolic
      dysfunction is considered a sine qua non of the disease, and is recognised in the current
      guidelines, up-to one third of HFpEF patients in echocardiographic sub-studies have normal
      diastolic function even in the presence of elevated natriuretic peptides.

      The heterogeneous phenotypes in HFpEF have potentially confounded previous trials. Therefore,
      the identification of various structural phenotypes capable of segmenting the HFpEF
      population into relevant pathophysiologic categories represents a promising approach.
      Post-mortem endomyocardial biopsy studies from HFpEF patients have suggested that some of the
      cardiac structural phenotypes are related to myocyte hypertrophy, interstitial fibrosis,
      myocardial inflammation due to oxidative stress and epicardial coronary artery disease. In
      addition, a better understanding of the mechanisms that contribute to the pathophysiology of
      HFpEF is emerging from pre-clinical, interventional and mechanistic studies. In HFpEF,
      proinflammatory cardiovascular and non-cardiovascular coexisting conditions (e.g.,
      hypertension, obesity) lead to systemic microvascular endothelial inflammation. This results
      in myocardial inflammation and fibrosis, increases in oxidative stress and alterations in
      cardiomyocyte signalling pathways. These alterations promote cardiomyocyte remodeling and
      dysfunction as well as coronary microvascular dysfunction. A recent study showed that there
      is a high prevalence of coronary microvascular dysfunction in HFpEF even in the absence of
      unrevascularized macrovascular coronary artery disease and was correlated with markers of
      heart failure severity.

      Cardiac imaging is pivotal in the evaluation of patients with suspected HFpEF. 2D
      Echocardiography is able to non-invasively measure left ventricular systolic and diastolic
      dysfunction, as well as characterise left ventricular filling pressures. Echocardiographic
      data adds incremental prognostic information in patients with HFpEF. These include assessment
      of left ventricular hypertrophy, left atrial volume, E/e' ratio, tricuspid regurgitation
      velocity, right ventricular function and global longitudinal strain. However,
      echocardiography is unable to easily characterise myocardial tissue nor assess myocardial
      microvascular function. The application of Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance (CMR) imaging is
      increasingly recognised and is currently the standard modality for assessing atrial /
      ventricular volumes, quantifying ejection fraction and left ventricular mass. It is uniquely
      able to provide information on morphology, function, perfusion, viability, and tissue
      characterization in a single examination. Hence, CMR is an ideal tool to delineate the
      various cardiac structural phenotypes that have been described in HFpEF patients. In addition
      to routinely used CMR parameters, there are a number of emerging CMR applications that have
      the potential in advancing our understanding of HFpEF. The important amongst them are the
      assessment of myocardial oxygenation using Oxygen Sensitive CMR (OS-CMR) and diffuse
      myocardial fibrosis using T1 mapping. OS-CMR can directly assess the myocardial tissue
      oxygenation and potentially measure mismatches in myocardial oxygen demand and supply. OS-CMR
      is based on the principle of changes of paramagnetic properties of haemoglobin due to the
      effects of oxygenation. The change from oxygenated to de-oxygenated haemoglobin leads to a
      change in the magnetic resonance signal intensity (SI). An increased myocardial
      de-oxygenation is reflected as a drop in SI on the T2 weighted CMR images. Hence, this allows
      in vivo assessment of myocardial ischaemia at the tissue level, relying on accumulation of
      de-oxyhaemoglobin following vasodilator stress. The change in SI is quantified as a
      percentage of signal change. Myocardial fibrosis has been implicated in the pathophysiology
      of HFpEF. Both focal replacement fibrosis and interstitial fibrosis promote adverse
      ventricular remodelling in HFpEF. The pattern of interstitial fibrosis is diffuse in HFpEF
      and cannot be detected using the late gadolinium enhancement technique. Recent improvements
      in parametric mapping techniques (such as T1, T2 and T2*) has made non-invasive assessment of
      diffuse interstitial and fibrotic changes clinically feasible. CMR T1 parametric mapping
      techniques enable quantification of the extracellular volume (ECV), a surrogate marker of
      diffuse fibrosis, and have been validated histologically. Hence it is possible that CMR along
      with OS-CMR, parametric imaging and late gadolinium enhancement represents the ideal
      non-invasive modality to study and understand the various pathophysiological mechanisms in
      HFpEF patients.

      A number of biomarkers associated with heart failure are well recognized and measuring their
      concentrations in circulation can provide valuable information about the diagnosis,
      prognosis, and management. These biomarkers have significantly enhanced the understanding of
      the pathophysiology of HFpEF, however only a few are currently being used in clinical
      practice. The measurement of natriuretic peptides (BNP or NT-proBNP) is recommended by
      current guidelines as they provide incremental value. Cardiac troponin testing is recommended
      to establish prognosis in acute heart failure and may be used for prognostication in chronic
      heart failure as well. Novel biomarkers are increasingly becoming validated and recognized in
      the care of patients with heart failure. These include galectin-3, ST2, renin and cGMP and
      they alter in response to cardiac remodelling and fibrosis. However, the role of these
      biomarkers in microvascular dysfunction has not been systematically studied in HFpEF.

      Currently, there are no proven pharmacological therapies for patients with HFpEF. This is
      evident on HFpEF patients trial on beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers, angiotensin
      converting enzyme inhibitors, and angiotensin receptor blockers which have failed to
      demonstrate a significant clinical benefit. The first-in-class angiotensin receptor
      neprilysin inhibitor (ARNI) sacubitril/valsartan holds promise based on its pharmacodynamic
      profile. It simultaneously blocks the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system and the
      endopeptidase neprilysin. Neprilysin is a ubiquitous enzyme that is responsible for the
      breakdown of many vasoactive peptides, including the biologically active natriuretic
      peptides. Sacubitril/valsartan has reduced cardiovascular and all-cause mortality in patients
      with heart failure and reduced ejection fraction, compared with enalapril. In addition, the
      biomarkers associated with profibrotic signalling are significantly decreased with ARNI
      therapy in patients with reduced ejection fraction. In HFpEF patients, the PARAMOUNT-HF Phase
      II trial has demonstrated significant reduction of NT-proBNP with ARNI in comparison with
      Valsartan.However, in the recently published PARAGON-HF trial, sacubitril/valsartan did not
      result in a significantly lower rate of total hospitalizations for heart failure and death
      from cardiovascular causes among patients with HFpEF. In patients with HFpEF, the effect of
      ARNI therapy on the various emerging pathophysiological mechanisms remains unknown.
      Myocardial fibrosis is an important pathophysiological mechanism in HFpEF. Treatment options
      to block or reverse fibrosis in HFpEF have proven elusive. Angiotensin-receptor blockers have
      been shown to induce regression of severe myocardial fibrosis in hypertensive patients. In
      mouse models, ARNI ameliorates maladaptive cardiac remodeling and fibrosis in pressure
      overload-induced hypertrophy. Although not approved for use in HFpEF, ARNI is an attractive
      option to mitigate myocardial hypertrophy, fibrosis, ischaemia, and impaired
      ventricular-arterial coupling, which are all closely related to increased left ventricular
      filling pressures, a common hallmark of this multifaceted syndrome.

      Thus, there remains an enormous unmet need for effective therapy in the group of HFpEF
      patients. HFpEF is a heterogeneous syndrome, with different degrees of contribution from
      various pathophysiological processes. In patients with HFpEF, the effect of ARNI therapy on
      the various postulated structural phenotypes remain unexplored. ARNI has the potential to
      reduce both ischaemia and fibrosis, and both can be accurately measured utilizing CMR.
      Therefore, by combining CMR with echocardiography, the investigators aim to assess the effect
      of ARNI on myocardial deoxygenation at stress and myocardial fibrosis, and correlate this to
      changes in myocardial systolic and diastolic function in HFpEF patients.
    
  