
    
      Shoulder replacement surgery is recognized as having the potential to cause a considerable
      amount of pain that may require opioid consumption for several days post-operatively. The
      side effects of opioids are numerous, and ropivacaine administered pre-operatively via
      interscalene nerve block, with a post-operative continuous ropivacaine infusion through an
      indwelling catheter (CINB) is a highly effective method for controlling pain and reducing
      opioid consumption and side effects. While CINB provides adequate post-operative analgesia,
      and may extend post-operative pain relief for up to 48 hours, there are some risks associated
      with CINB ranging from catheter tip withdrawal to more serious complications including
      catheter tip beakage, brachial plexus injury, and pulmonary complications. Local infiltration
      of liposomal bupivacaine (EXPAREL Pacira Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Parsippany, New Jersey) may
      provide longer-lasting pain relief when compared to single shot INB (SSINB), and reduce
      opioid consumption at 24 hours, 48 hours and 72 hours post-op. Studies have shown
      inconsistency in the effectiveness of EXPAREL, and one proposed reason is the method of
      administration. Clinicians experienced in their infiltration technique demonstrated greater
      improvement in pain-related outcomes. The first 48 hours post-op present the most likely
      opportunity for reducing narcotic administration, which increases the value of attempting to
      reduce opioid consumption during this period. The cost of EXPAREL LIA, is slightly less than
      the cost of CINB, and if pain control is comparable, may benefit the patient in reducing
      hospital costs. The purpose of this study is to examine the effectiveness of pain control of
      local infiltration of EXPAREL administration to ropivacaine administered via continuous
      interscalene nerve block (CINB) for postoperative pain relief following shoulder replacement.
      Effectiveness will be measured in opioid consumption and NRS pain intensity scores from 0-4h,
      4-8h, 9-12h, 13-16h, 17-20, 21-24h, 48 hours and 72 hours post-op. Patient satisfaction with
      pain control; patient functional outcome; adverse events related to CINB, EXPAREL
      administration, and opioid consumption; and pain intensity scores from the time of surgery
      until post-operative day 10 (+/- 5 days) will also be examined.
    
  