
    
      BACKGROUND: In December 2019, a cluster of patients with pneumonia of unknown cause was
      described in Wuhan, China. Named SARS-CoV-2 due to its resemblance to the coronavirus
      responsible for severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS-CoV), COVID-19 is the infectious
      disease caused by SARS-CoV-2. Despite historically unprecedented public health measures,
      SARS-CoV-2 has rapidly spread across the world. The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared
      the COVID-19 outbreak a public health emergency of international concern on 30th January
      2020.

      The acute effects of COVID-19 are now well described. Evidence is emerging of serious
      longer-term complications occurring in the convalescent phase of the illness in a significant
      proportion of patients. COVID-19 is a new disease, the natural history of which remains
      uncertain. Recent data highlight that ~20% of patients develop new or worsened
      cardiopulmonary symptoms at 40-60-days after hospital discharge. A unique feature of COVID-19
      is the high incidence of these cardiovascular and pulmonary complications that may carry
      long-term implications for morbidity and mortality including venous thromboembolism,
      persistent lung inflammation, and pulmonary fibrosis; increasingly it appears these may not
      be confined to the acute phase of the illness, but rather may also occur during the
      convalescent phase of the illness, thus providing a major contribution to the ill-defined
      syndrome "Long COVID".

      "Long COVID" is likely to include a constellation of different conditions traversing post-ICU
      syndromes, significant cardiopulmonary complications, post-viral syndromes and exacerbations
      of underlying conditions. Patients have reported a range of long-term symptoms associated
      with Long COVID that have significant impact on their quality of life. Though there have been
      effective acute treatments, there has been little work evaluating longer-term treatment aimed
      at reducing longer-term complications. To investigate the role of medium-term convalescent
      treatment targeting known and emerging complications, an adaptive platform trial will enrol
      patients at the point of hospital discharge from across centres in the UK.

      OBJECTIVES: HEAL-COVID is an adaptive platform trial design to provide reliable evidence on
      the efficacy of post-hospitalisation treatments to improve longer-term clinical outcomes from
      COVID-19.

      In early 2021, when the trial commenced, there were no treatments being assessed in
      randomised controlled trials targeting the post-hospital phase of COVID-19. Longer-term
      outcomes for COVID-19 are currently unclear, but early data suggest a significant burden of
      mortality and morbidity. In this situation, even treatments with only a moderate impact on
      survival or on hospital resource use are worthwhile. Therefore, the focus of HEAL-COVID is
      the impact of candidate treatments on mortality and the need for rehospitalisation.

      The primary objective is to determine whether interventions in the post-hospital
      (convalescent) phase of COVID-19 improve longer-term mortality/morbidity outcomes.

      The secondary objectives of HEAL-COVID are to evaluate treatment-specific and patient
      reported outcomes of COVID-19 and their response to intervention, as well as to estimate the
      cost-effectiveness of treatments.

      ELIGIBILITY AND RANDOMISATION: The HEAL-COVID trial aims to recruit 877 patients per active
      arm and an equal number of matched controls based on sample size calculations described
      further in the publicly available trial protocol (www. heal-covid.net). All patients or a
      representative must provide written, informed consent before any study procedures occur and
      must meet all eligibility criteria.

      ADAPTIVE DESIGN: New therapeutic arms will be commenced on the recommendation of the UK
      COVID-19 Therapeutics Advisory Panel (UK-CTAP), in discussion with the Chief Medical Officer
      for England, if approved by the Chief Investigator/Sponsor. New treatments will be added to
      the platform by recruiting additional participants to the study.

      Interim analyses will be undertaken once 181 events have been observed across both arms in
      the comparison. The Independent Data & Safety Monitoring Committee (IDSMC) may recommend that
      the treatment arms be discontinued for lack of benefit, or safety reasons.

      SIMPLICITY OF PROCEDURES: To facilitate collaboration, even in hospitals that suddenly become
      overloaded, patient enrolment (via a secure web-based randomisation and data capture system)
      and all other trial procedures are greatly streamlined. Informed consent is simple and data
      entry is minimal. Randomisation via the internet is simple and quick, at the end of which the
      allocated treatment is displayed on the screen and can be printed or downloaded. Follow-up
      information is collected via routinely collected data.
    
  