
    
      Valganciclovir is a novel drug used extensively as a prophylactic, preemptive and treatment
      agent for cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection after solid organ transplantation (SOT).

      It is the valine ester prodrug of Ganciclovir,has a bioavailability of approximately 60%,
      which is up to 10-fold higher than oral ganciclovir .

      Based on the correlation between the Pharmacokinetic (PK) of VGC and its clinical efficacy
      found in adult studies, AUC (0-24) of approximately 40-60 mcg∙h/mL has been described as
      predictive PK parameter of efficacy. Considering the mechanism of action of Valganciclovir ,
      relationships of exposure-efficacy and exposure-safety are expected to be similar in children
      and adults.

      In 2009, a new dosing algorithm incorporating both body surface area (BSA) and renal function
      was introduced by the manufacturer for infants and young children:

      Dose (mg) =7 × BSA × CrCl

      Very few studies have evaluated this dosing for infants and young children. In 2010 the FDA
      published a safety alert confirming the excessively high dosage calculated by the dosing
      algorithm in children with low body weight, low body surface area, and normal serum
      creatinine. This type of patient was not routinely observed in the clinical trials used to
      derive and confirm the pediatric dose.

      As the body weight decreases and/or as the Creatinine Clearance (CrCl) increases excessively
      high doses are calculated. There is unproportional variability of doses calculated by the
      algorithm for infants and young children with normal renal function.

      Doses can reach as high as 4 fold higher than the weight-based common dosing.

      Objective:

        1. To prospectively validate a dosing regimen of Valganciclovir administration

        2. and to compare it to other dosing algorithms.

      Methods:

      This is a prospective study of all pediatric SOT recipients who were treated with oral
      valganciclovir. The common practice dose at Schneider Children's Medical Center dosing
      guidelines of valganciclovir is 17 mg/kg once daily for prophylaxis, with stratified dose
      reductions for impaired renal function as shown in the table. Max dose was 900 mg.

      Measurement of valganciclovir levels After three days of consistent oral dosing to ensure
      steady-state concentrations, drug levels were measured at 2, 5 and 10 h following
      administration of the dose, and were analyzed at the pharmacologic laboratory of "Asaf
      HaRofeh Medical Center" using standard HPLC, with a lower limit of detection of 0.5 mcg/mL
      and a coefficient of variation of <10%. AUCs were calculated using the trapezoidal method.
    
  