
    
      Metal or plastic biliary stents placement under ERCP is a well-established treatment for
      patients with benign biliary obstruction to relieve jaundice, a palliative treatment for
      patients with unresectable malignant pancreaticobiliary obstruction and a bridge to surgery
      for patients with resectable disease. Single or multiple plastic stents are recommended for
      patients with benign stricture of the common bile duct or malignant stricture if the expected
      survival is less than 4 months. The main limitation of long time plastic stents is stents
      occlusion. Biliary plastic stents are changed every 2 to 3 months due to an expected median
      patency from 77 to 126 days.Metal stents present a lower risk of recurring biliary occlusion,
      yet high cost and stents occlusion are eventually inevitable. The mechanism of biliary stents
      occlusion include biliary sludge of the accumulation of bacteria and duodenal biliary reflux
      .The anti-reflux barrier of Oddi's sphincter disappears after the insertion of biliary stents
      and the pressure in bile duct lowers the duodenale, which cause the retrograde flow of
      duodenal material into the biliary ducts. Besides, ordinary biliary plastic stent is short
      which can also shortens the length of duodenal biliary reflux . Therefore, trying to prevent
      the duodenal biliary reflux is very important in reducing biliary stents occlusion and it is
      gradually concerned by clinical researchers. Some studies have showed that plastic stents
      with antireflux valves can effectively reduce the biliary stent stricture and prolong the
      stents patency, which means reducing duodenobiliary reflux is surely useful for keeping
      biliary stent patency.So,we assume to explore an innovatively intraintestinal extended
      biliary stents with length of 26cm (reformed with nasobiliary tube ) as substitution for
      ordinary biliary plastic stent to prevent the duodenobiliary reflux by extending the length
      of duodenal content reflux and avoid the stents shift via suspending in intrahepatic duct. In
      this study,we will design a multicenter stratified randomized controlled trial to compare the
      patency of intraintestinal extended biliary stents and ordinary plastic biliary stents in
      patients with malignant or benign biliary obstruction respectively and evaluate the effect of
      intraintestinal extended biliary stents for the prevention of duodenobiliary reflux.

      This prospective study will be performed at 6 tertiary hospitals in China.The investigators
      will recruit patients according to admission criteria and exclusion criteria.The patients
      stratified by malignant and benign biliary obstruction will be randomized (at a 1:1 ratio) to
      intraintestinal extended biliary stents group (experimental group) and ordinary plastic
      biliary stents group (control group).The experimental groups will be placed the
      intraintestinal extended biliary stents in intrahepatic bile duct in ERCP. The control group
      will be placed ordinary plastic biliary stents in ERCP. The primary endpoint is the duration
      of stent patency and the rate of stent occlusion.The secondary outcomes include the mortality
      of each group、adverse events and the rate of technical success.
    
  