
    
      For all included patients and in the first visit, panoramic x ray is taken then a primary
      impression will be made for the maxillary and mandibular arches using irreversible
      hydrocolloid material. Then, the maxillary and mandibular impressions will be poured with a
      hard stone to get a study casts.

      A double layer wax spaced self-cured acrylic resin will be used to prepare a special tray for
      each patient. The special tray using also irreversible hydrocolloid material makes a
      secondary impression. The secondary impressions will be poured using extra hard dental stone
      to get the master casts.

      At this point the patient is given a number to enter one of the two groups either the
      intervention group or the control group.

      For the intervention group, the framework of the thermoplastic resin is usually thicker than
      that of the metal. At this time the framework wax pattern will be ready for spruing and
      flasking using specially designed flasks. The injection of the thermoplastic resin will be
      started after the elimination of wax and the procedure will be done using thermopress
      machine.

      In the third visit for all patients, the finished denture bases of thermoplastic resin will
      be tried inside the patient's mouth to check its fitting, retention, reciprocation and
      opposing occlusion.

      Then, a face bow record will be taken for each patient which will be used to mount the
      maxillary cast on the articulator. For mounting the mandibular cast, either an intercuspal or
      centric jaw relation will be used. Artificial teeth will be set up and tried in in the
      patient's mouth in the fourth visit to check esthetics, phonetics, lip support, occlusion and
      uneven pairing.

      In The fifth visit, the finished prosthesis will be adjusted and delivered to each patient,
      the outcome data will be collected using a questionnaire, and a salivary swap is taken for
      microbial count detection.

      Complete dentures will be constructed for all patients; Group- I: patients will receive
      complete dentures from thermoplastic material Group- II: patients will receive complete
      dentures from conventional Poly methyl Methacrelate resin.

      Then use Gnatho-dynamometer for measure the biting force for all patients
    
  