
    
      This is a prospective, open-label evaluation of the safety and effectiveness of Algisyl-LVR
      in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy of either ischemic or non-ischemic origin. The
      evaluation for the primary measure of efficacy (Peak VO2) at 6 months will be
      investigator-blinded. The primary safety endpoint, while not blinded, is 30 day all-cause
      mortality and an objective assessment. The remaining study endpoints will evaluate the
      effects of the device through the evaluation of functional, structural, biochemical, and
      electrocardiographic evaluations at 6 and 12 months. Evaluation of adverse events and these
      assessments will also provide evidence of the safety profile of the device in patients with
      dilated cardiomyopathy.

      Pre-enrollment baseline patient evaluation will include clinical assessment, assessment of
      New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class, blood tests, transthoracic
      echocardiography, MRI, electrocardiogram, cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPX), submaximal
      exercise testing, and quality of life assessments. Blinded central evaluation will be
      performed for measures of cardiopulmonary exercise testing and cardiac imaging.

      *Note: The local CPX and echocardiography measurements will be used to determine patient
      eligibility with respect to the peak V02 values, ejection fraction and the left ventricular
      end diastolic dimension indexed to body surface area (LVEDDi). The core lab values for these
      same assessments will be used in all statistical analyses of the study.

      Patient's eligible for this study completed at least 12 months of follow in the control group
      of the lead-in study LSH-10-001 and provided a written informed consent to participate in
      study LSH-001. A written informed consent to be enrolled in study LSH-11-001 is required for
      all patients electing participation in this roll-over study. After written patient informed
      consent has been obtained and verification of eligibility, patients who meet the inclusion
      and exclusion criteria can be included in the study and will have the Algisyl-LVR™ device
      (implants) administered during a surgical procedure. Patients will be considered part of this
      study cohort as soon as they have been hospitalized to receive the Algisyl-LVR device. The
      investigator will complete the "Premature Withdrawal from Follow-up" form in the patient's
      eCRF for study LSH-10-001 and indicate "Patient will receive the Algisyl-LVR device" as the
      reason for premature withdrawal from LSH-10-001. The acute response to device implant will be
      monitored intraoperatively via continuous electrocardiographic cardiac monitoring, arterial
      pressure lines, transesophageal echocardiography (TEE), and pulmonary artery catheter.
      Patients receiving the investigational device are expected to remain hospitalized for 5 to 14
      days.

      Follow-up in this study is divided into two phases. During the first phase, referred to as
      the "efficacy phase", repeat testing of patient functional and cardiac structural parameters
      will be conducted at follow-up visits scheduled at 3 months and 6 months, and every 6 months
      thereafter. Follow-up testing will be supplemented by a 30 day (post implant) telephone
      contact with all patients. The efficacy phase of the trial will end on a common closing date
      after a minimum of 6 months of follow-up (i.e., after the last patient enrolled has been
      completed the 6 month visit). At that point data analysis will be performed and an initial
      study report will be generated. Following completion of the efficacy phase, long-term
      monitoring will continue through each patient's 24-month visit. This second phase is referred
      to as the "extended follow-up phase". During this phase, data collection will be focused on
      long-term safety and will be conducted at 6-month intervals.
    
  