
    
      Cystic Fibrosis (CF) lung disease is characterized by chronic bacterial infection and
      excessive inflammation. The airways of patients with CF contain large amounts of neutrophils,
      neutrophil products, and pro-inflammatory mediators. This inflammatory response may be linked
      to the loss of CFTR function. It is unknown, however, what signaling mechanisms link a loss
      of CFTR function to the excessive inflammatory response. Several signaling pathways are
      dysregulated in CF epithelial cells. Among these is the pathway that leads to the production
      of nitric oxide (NO). Reduced production of NO, which has important antibacterial and
      anti-inflammatory effects in the airway, may contribute to the establishment of the chronic
      bacterial infection and the development of the subsequent overzealous inflammatory response
      in CF.

      NO synthesis in the airway epithelium is regulated by nitric oxide synthase 2 (NOS2). NOS2
      expression is negatively regulated by the Rho GTPases, which are over-expressed in CF and may
      also play a role in the inflammatory dysregulation characteristic of the lung disease.
      Inhibition of the Rho GTPases with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMG-CoAR)
      inhibitors, such as simvastatin (Zocor®), increases NOS2 protein expression in CF airway
      epithelial cells. The statins have also been shown to have potent systemic anti-inflammatory
      effects, many of which may be pertinent to CF. We propose to test the hypothesis that
      HMG-CoAR inhibitors, such as simvastatin, have the potential to correct abnormalities in NO
      production and decrease inflammation in the airways of patients with CF. The following
      specific aims will be pursued in this application: 1) To determine the effect of simvastatin
      treatment on exhaled nitric oxide (eNO) concentrations in subjects with CF; 2) To determine
      the effect of simvastatin treatment on inflammation and NOS2 production in the airway of
      subjects with CF, as determined by quantitative RT-PCR for IL-6, IL-8, and NOS2 mRNA in nasal
      epithelial cells; 3) To determine if quantitative RT-PCR measurements on nasal epithelial
      cells might be used as a surrogate marker of lower airway inflammation by comparing the
      measures obtained from nasal epithelial scrapes with inflammatory measurements obtained from
      induced sputum.

      This study has the potential to identify a new agent that targets a signaling pathway (Rho
      GTPase) that appears to be dysregulated in CF, and thus, may exert multiple beneficial
      effects in the CF airway including increasing airway NO concentrations, decreasing neutrophil
      influx and reducing production of inflammatory mediators. In addition to evaluating the
      anti-inflammatory effects of statins in CF, this study presents an opportunity to evaluate
      alternative outcome measures of CF airway inflammation. The results of this study will
      provide important information regarding the feasibility of using nasal epithelial sampling as
      a relatively non-invasive measure of airway inflammation in CF.
    
  