
    
      People who have had knee replacement surgery typically have worse physical function compared
      to healthy people of similar age. This problem occurs despite completion of standard
      rehabilitation programs. One reason for less-than-optimal restoration of physical function is
      that standard rehabilitation does not effectively address habitual movement patterns that
      persist after surgery. These movement patterns are characterized by patients placing less
      weight on their surgical leg compared to their non-surgical leg after surgery. This
      asymmetrical movement pattern has been identified by researchers and shown to not completely
      resolve after knee replacement surgery, even though the surgery reliably reduces knee pain.
      The persistence of asymmetrical weight-bearing during every day activity may limit the
      stimulus needed for full recovery by the muscles and joints of the surgical leg. By promoting
      increased loading of the surgical leg, a greater stimulus can be provided to promote better
      functional recovery, compared with standard rehabilitation. As a result, people may
      subsequently move more symmetrically with improved recovery of physical function. Improved
      function would in turn promote the person's ability to participate in life events, limiting
      disability. Considering that over 500,000 knee replacement surgeries occur in the United
      States each year, maximizing functional recovery and limiting disability following surgery
      are important goals.

      The investigators propose a new method of exercising following knee replacement surgery. This
      method involves using a commercially available game system to promote "re-loading" of the
      surgical limb. The game system has games designed to allow the person playing to move objects
      or characters on a screen by shifting his/her weight from one leg to another while standing
      on an instrumented "balance board". The investigators have developed an exercise program to
      promote shifting weight to the surgical limb, by choosing appropriate games and manipulating
      the goals of those games. It is the investigators' hypothesis that early application of this
      surgical leg "re-loading" intervention after knee replacement will result in meaningful
      improvement in physical function by improving movement symmetry.
    
  