
    
      Infiltrating ductal carcinoma (IDC) of breast, or sometimes called invasive ductal carcinoma
      of breast, is the most common type of breast malignancy. About 80% of all breast cancers are
      IDCs.

      Once found, IDC usually has already broken through the wall of the milk duct and begun to
      invade the tissues of the breast. Over time, IDC can spread to the lymph nodes and possibly
      to other areas of the body with high frequency.

      According to the statistics of American Cancer Society, more than 180,000 women in the United
      States are diagnosed with IDC each year. Although IDC can affect women at any age, it is more
      common as they grow older. Further, approximately two-thirds of women are 55 or older when
      they are diagnosed with such this symptom.

      The treatments for invasive ductal carcinoma fall into two broad categories. First, local
      treatments for IDC, including surgery and radiation, which treat the primary tumor and
      surrounding areas such as the chest and lymph nodes. Second, systemic treatments for IDC,
      including chemotherapy, hormone therapy and targeted therapy, which are supposed to deliver
      cytotoxicity throughout the body to eliminate any cancer cells that have left the primary
      site and to help minimize the risk of recurrent disease.

      PURPOSE: This randomized phase I trial is to determine the safety, tolerability and efficacy
      of single or concurrent administration of cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, epirubicin,
      fluorouracil and methotrexate (CDEFM) to women undergoing surgery for infiltrating ductal
      carcinoma in situ breast cancer.

      RATIONALE: This is a randomized, controlled, open-labeled and multicenter, pilot study.
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms (arms A or B). Patients accrued as control
      participants are assigned to arm C. to implement the study, the investigators will collect
      surgical samples of the primary tumor and periphery blood from breast cancer patients to
      assess the effects of chemotherapeutic regimens and correlation with post-therapy survival in
      the patient cohorts. Besides the five-year disease-free survival, overall survival and
      five-year metastasis-free survival post treatment, the investigators also analyze and
      evaluate the anticancer agent-induced tumor stroma damage extent, which may provide further
      evidence to confirm the treatment efficacy and appraise the potential influence of a damaged
      tumor microenvironment on disease progression or regression in clinical settings.
    
  