
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the proportion of subjects who achieve a pathologic complete response (CR) or
      partial response (PR) in regimen 1 versus regimen 2 at week 25, based on the resected
      surgical specimen.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the toxicity and feasibility of administration of IRX-2 in subjects with
      confirmed cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) 3 or vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia
      (VIN) 3.

      II. To evaluate multiple parameters to assess the activity of the IRX-2 regimen for the
      treatment of CIN 3 or VIN 3: the occurrence of clinical CRs or PRs at weeks 6, 13 and 25.

      III. To evaluate multiple parameters to assess the activity of the IRX-2 regimen for the
      treatment of CIN 3 or VIN 3: frequency of elimination of human papillomavirus (HPV) in
      cervical or vulvar tissue using a commercial HPV genotyping assay and viral load
      determination by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR).

      IV. To evaluate multiple parameters to assess the activity of the IRX-2 regimen for the
      treatment of CIN 3 or VIN 3: analysis of the immune infiltrates in the resected surgical
      specimens.

      V. To evaluate multiple parameters to assess the activity of the IRX-2 regimen for the
      treatment of CIN 3 or VIN 3: immunophenotypic analysis of peripheral blood lymphocytes.

      VI. To evaluate multiple parameters to assess the activity of the IRX-2 regimen for the
      treatment of CIN 3 or VIN 3: frequency of serum antibodies to HPV E6, E7 and L1 proteins by
      enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).

      VII. To evaluate multiple parameters to assess the activity of the IRX-2 regimen for the
      treatment of CIN 3 or VIN 3: ribonucleic acid (RNA) expression profiling of
      immune-inflammatory markers from post-treatment resected surgical specimens.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      Arm I: Patients receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) on day 1 and IRX-2 via submucosal
      injections in the cervix or subcutaneously (SC) for vulvar lesions on days 4-7. Patients also
      receive indomethacin orally (PO) three times daily (TID), zinc-containing multivitamins (PO)
      once daily (QD) and omeprazole orally (PO) on days 1-21.

      Arm II: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV on day 1 and placebo via submucosal injections
      in the cervix or SC for vulvar lesions on days 4-7. Patients also receive indomethacin PO
      TID, zinc-containing multivitamins PO QD and omeprazole PO on days 1-21.

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 6 weeks for up to 2 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning week 25, patients undergo surgical resection.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1-8 weeks after surgery.
    
  