
    
      In this pilot study the investigators will test an ability of intradural electrical
      stimulation in humans to elicit physiological responses (paresthesia or tingling sensation)
      and decrease pain when placed in the region of the thoracic spinal cord in a controlled
      manner. This subject population is comprised of patients that had previously failed various
      conservative pain management treatment plans and are deemed candidates for treatment of pain
      by spinal cord stimulation. The investigators will use commercially available device to
      deliver an intradural electrical stimulation to the spinal cord. This device is FDA approved
      for intracranial electrophysiological monitoring and delivery of electrical stimulation of
      the subsurface level of the brain.

      As a part of the study, the subject will be offered to complete the following questionnaires
      to assess quality of life and global function. These questionnaires will be completed prior
      the procedure and at specified time periods following the research intervention. The
      experimental portion of the procedure will follow the standard epidural spinal cord
      stimulator testing. Under fluoroscopic guidance, using a paramedian approach and shallow
      entry angle, the device will be placed percutaneously at the lumbar spine at L2-3 or L3-4
      level into the intrathecal cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) space and advanced to the T8-10 disc
      space. The stimulation catheter will run through a standardized experimental algorithm
      further described in greater details. The initial stimulation will last approximately 30
      minutes and involve testing for paresthesias (tingling) and measurement of the threshold
      signal strength for onset of this sensation at 60 hertz (Hz) and 10000 Hz frequences. During
      this portion the subject will be asked to describe the sensations and rate his or her pain on
      a 0 to 10 scale. Following this initial stimulation, the frequency will be changed to 10
      kilohertz (KHz) to run over the period of 4 hours. The investigators will continue evaluating
      the effects of stimulation using visual analogue scores during this period of time.
    
  