
    
      Incidence of Ovarian Cancer:

      Ovarian cancer is the first in mortality rate of the gynecologic malignancies with an overall
      5-year survival rate of only 20-30%. It became a more and more important disease in recent
      years and the incidence of ovarian cancer also increased in recent years in Taiwan. The lack
      of symptoms, difficulties in early diagnosis, insufficient accurate tumor markers, and lack
      of information about ovarian tumor biology contribute to the poor prognosis in ovarian cancer
      patients. The prognostic parameters for ovarian carcinomas are tumor stage, histologic
      subtype, degree of malignancy, and residual tumor after surgical treatment. However, these
      factors present an incomplete picture of the tumor biology of ovarian cancer and are
      frequently interrelated. Thus, the identification of new biologic factors predictive of
      individual disease course and prognosis would be extremely useful. From the above-mentioned
      data, ovarian cancer is indeed a disease that should be respected, however, there has only
      been a little research done focusing on it in Taiwan.

      Treatment of Ovarian Cancer:

      Epithelial Ovarian Cancer (EOC) and extraovarian Müllerian carcinoma are similar pathologic
      entities that share a preference for peritoneal cavity involvement. The spread pattern of
      these tumors presents a challenge and unique opportunities for immunotherapy. Patients with
      EOC who have stage I disease (localized to ovaries) after optimal surgical staging, have a
      5-year survival rate of 90%, with no significant change at 10 years. In contrast, patients
      with spreading beyond the ovaries have median survival rates that decrease to < 10% for
      patients with bulky residual disease after surgery and treatment with platinum-based
      combination chemotherapy. A randomized trial of first-line chemotherapy in patients with EOC
      with residual masses larger than 1 cm after initial surgery, showed a median survival period
      of 38 months for cisplatin/paclitaxel, significantly greater than 24 months for the
      cisplatin/cytoxan treatment arm. In an interim analysis of an equivalency trial, survival
      after carboplatin/paclitaxel was not worse than cisplatin/paclitaxel. Even though early
      diagnosis is an important goal of ongoing clinical research efforts, it is unclear whether
      advanced EOC starts as a multicentric process involving the ovaries and the peritoneal
      surface. It is now established that hereditary factors contribute to the development of EOC.
      Germline BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations account for approximately 10% of all EOC. In a woman with
      a BRCA 1 or 2 mutation, lifetime risk for ovarian cancer ranges from 16%-44%. With the
      commercial availability of genetic testing for BRCA1 and BRCA2, more women are being
      identified as being at high risk for ovarian cancer. There are no clear guidelines on cancer
      prevention for these individuals. Although prophylactic oophorectomy is a reasonable option
      for women who have completed childbearing, these women are still at risk for developing
      peritoneal cancer. Clearly, other options for prevention are needed.

      Immunotherapy for Ovarian Cancer:

      In developing effective immune-based strategies for EOC, there should be a distinction
      between preventative and therapeutic approaches. It is anticipated that immunoprevention
      (immunoprophylaxis) will be developed for women who are at an increased risk for the
      development of EOC. In contrast, immunotherapy would be used as an adjuvant to surgery or in
      combination with chemotherapy or other biologics as chemoimmunotherapy or
      biochemoimmunotherapy. Patients with undetectable disease after being restaged after
      chemotherapy could be considered for immunotherapy with the presumption that a majority does
      in fact have micrometastases. Development of effective immune-based concepts for prevention
      or treatment of EOC will require an understanding of tumor-immunology principles, mechanisms
      of action of the expanding array of immune modulating molecules, identification and
      characterization of tumor antigens, and determination of the microenvironment factors that
      could impact on the different immune-effector mechanisms. The clinical researcher has been
      provided with many immune directed agents, but progress on their integration into standard
      therapies has been somewhat slow.

      Mesothelin:

      Mesothelin is a 40-kDa glycosylphosphatidylinositol-linked glycoprotein. It is synthesized as
      a precursor of molecular mass 69 kDa, which then is proteolytically processed into an N
      terminal secreted form of molecular mass 30 kDa and a membrane-bound form of 40 kDa. In
      normal tissues, the expression of mesothelin has subsequently been shown to be largely
      restricted to mesothelial cells, although immunoreactivity has also been reported in
      epithelial cells of the trachea, tonsil, fallopian tube, and kidney. Hough et al. observed
      that mesothelin was over-expressed in ovarian carcinoma. It seems that mesothelin may be
      utilized as a tumor marker or target antigen for ovarian carcinoma.

      Epitopes of Mesothelin for Human Haplotype:

      The incidence of HLA-A2 haplotype is over 50% in the Western countries. The incidence of
      HLA-A2 and A24 haplotype is around 30% and 15% in Taiwan, respectively. The specific epitopes
      of the mesothelin in the HLA-A2 and A24 haplotype have been identified. There are Mesothelin
      aa20-28 (peptide SLLFLLFSL) and aa530-538 (peptide VLPLTVAEV) for the HLA-A2 haplotype. And
      Mesothelin aa435-443 (peptide FYPGYLCSL) and aa475-483 (peptide LYPKARLAF) are the epitopes
      of HLA-A24 haplotype.

      Our research team has focused on the development of cancer vaccine and immunotherapy for
      several years. Our laboratory facilities have also been set up to evaluate the human
      immunologic assays for human papilloma virus type 16 E7 antigen by the grant supported from
      National Taiwan University Hospital. It is very important to set up various
      mesothelin-specific immunologic assays of human beings to evaluate the effect of cancer
      vaccine or immunotherapy for ovarian cancer in future clinical trials. So we would like to
      provide this proposal to address the development of mesothelin-specific immunologic assays in
      human beings. There are several aims in this project:

        1. to develop and utilize assays to measure CTLs to mesothelin, and

        2. to evaluate the mesothelin-specific immunologic responses between normal controls and
           ovarian cancer patients.
    
  