
    
      While assisting ventilation during general anesthesia or other reasons, patients are often
      intubated with endotracheal tube to secure airway. Endotracheal tube can be placed
      trans-orally or trans-nasally according to surgical conditions, anatomical considerations and
      nursing needs. Except inadequate cuff pressure related complication, nasotracheal intubation
      can cause dysfunction of nasal mucosal cilia, injury and hemorrhage of nasal mucosa,
      turbinate avulsion, obstruction of nasal airway, sinusitis and compression and injury of
      nasal alar, resulting in local erythema, ischemia, pressure sore, necrosis, tissue damage and
      may affect appearance.

      Previous studies focus on the process of nasal tracheal intubation, aim to reduce mucosal
      injury and hemorrhage via specific intubation tool, special endotracheal tube design,
      lubricant and so on. However, evidences in preventing nasal alar injury are limited, in which
      injuries are mostly prevented by self-made special endotracheal tube and artificial leather.
      In general, the etiology of tissue damage is compression pressure exceeding local capillary
      perfusion pressure, resulting in reduced perfusion, ischemia and necrosis. Clinically, health
      providers prevent the injury by standardized endotracheal tube fixation and/or artificial
      leather at sites with potential compression. But the extend of the effect of endotracheal
      tube to trachea mucosa varies, range of pressure affecting capillary perfusion pressure are
      not yet defined, and no routine monitoring for dermis compression. Thus, endotracheal tube
      related skin damage is an important clinical issue without best standard operating procedure.

      In this study, the investigators will place a pressure sensor at the angle of nasotracheal
      tube, measure the actual pressure, define the sites of compression and its pressure, analyze
      the relationship of clinical signs and symptoms, pressure, and duration of nasotracheal
      intubation, and build up optimal clinical routines.
    
  