
    
      The range of changes in epidermal nerve fiber density (ENFD), subcutaneous fat, and
      mitochondrial function induced by stavudine (d4T)-based therapy is currently not known,
      globally or specifically in the Thai population. This study will evaluate ENFD and
      subcutaneous fat and peripheral blood mitochondrial parameters in 4 groups of subjects. Group
      1 will include Thai HIV-positive subjects on long-term d4T treatment with symptomatic
      peripheral neuropathy. Group 2 will include Thai HIV-positive subjects on long-term d4T
      treatment without peripheral neuropathy. Group 3 will include HIV-negative subjects without
      peripheral neuropathy.Group 4 will include Thai HIV-positive subjects on long-term d4T
      treatment with asymptomatic peripheral neuropathy. Information gained from Thai HIV-positive
      subjects on long-term d4T treatment with and without neuropathy in this study will provide
      range of positive control values for subjects in the SEARCH 003 study and other studies
      looking at the influence of antiretroviral agents on peripheral nerve, fat, and mitochondria.
      Information gained from Thai HIV-negative subjects without neuropathy can be used as negative
      control values for subjects in the SEARCH 003 study and other studies looking at the
      influence of HIV or other diseases/pathogens on peripheral nerve, fat, and mitochondria.

      Hypothesis

        1. HIV-positive patients who have been on long-term d4T treatment with symptomatic
           peripheral neuropathy will have less ENFD, increased lipoatrophy, and altered
           mitochondrial function than those on long-term d4T treatment with asymptomatic
           peripheral neuropathy and those on long-term d4T treatment without peripheral
           neuropathy.

        2. HIV-negative patients without peripheral neuropathy will have more ENFD, no lipoatrophy,
           and better mitochondrial function than HIV-positive patients.

      The SEARCH 003 study will assess the extent of deterioration in ENFD induced by short-term
      (from entry to 24 weeks) d4T use and the degree of improvement following discontinuation of
      d4T (from week 24 to 72). However the range of changes in ENFD and in other mitochondrial
      parameters induced by d4T-based therapy in not known, globally or specifically in the Thai
      population.

      This is a cross-sectional study that will enroll 25 HIV-positive subjects on long-term d4T
      treatment with symptomatic peripheral neuropathy, 25 HIV-positive subjects on long-term d4T
      treatment without peripheral neuropathy, 50 HIV-negative subjects without peripheral
      neuropathy and 25 HIV-positive subjects on long-term d4T treatment with asymptomatic
      peripheral neuropathy for a one-time assessment.
    
  