
    
      Autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (autoHSCT) is a standard treatment of
      eligible patients suffering from multiple myeloma (MM). Tandem autoHSCT allows to further
      improve results of the therapy. Nowadays, 99% of the procedures are performed using
      peripheral blood as a source of stem cells. Hence, the crucial point is to harvest adequate
      number of stem cells allowing hematopoietic recovery. The number of 5 × 10^6 CD34+ cells/kg
      is considered the optimal level, as far as double autoHSCT is concerned. There are two main
      mobilization strategies being used: based on G-CSF alone or in combination with chemotherapy
      (cyclophosphamide (CY) at dose range 1.5-7 g/m2 is mainly used in MM setting). However, a
      proportion of patients (5-40%) fail to collect the minimum number of cells required. Novel
      agents, like plerixafor, CXCR4 inhibitor, may enable effective CD34+ cell harvest in "poor
      mobilizers". Nevertheless, the optimal first-line and cost-effective protocol for
      mobilization of hematopoietic stem cells has not been determined so far.

      Randomized trials comparing chemomobilization with use of CY + G-CSF to G-CSF alone, which
      had been conducted so far, did not demonstrate clear advantage of addition of CY to growth
      factor. Intermediate-dose cytosine arabinoside (AraC), 1.6 g/m2 plus filgrastim, has been
      shown to produce very high efficacy as a first or second-line mobilization regimen in
      patients with lymphoid malignancies, including MM. In a retrospective comparison, this
      strategy was significantly more effective than CY + filgrastim. This suggest that the type of
      chemotherapy agent added to G-CSF may play role in mobilization efficacy and that the
      combination of AraC and G-CSF may be more effective than G-CSF used alone. The goal of
      current study is to verify this hypothesis in randomized controlled trial.
    
  