
    
      Cigarette smoke (CS), e-cigarette smoke (EC), hookah smoke (HS), and Little Cigar smoke
      (LCS)-exposed populations will be stratified based on their responses to a smoking diary,
      protocol questionnaire, as well as urine cotinine levels (which should be present in all
      three groups). We are aware that many current smokers are poly-tobacco product users (i.e.
      smoke cigarettes in addition to non-cigarette products), which could be confounding our
      observations. This will be controlled for by having potential volunteers complete a smoking
      diary and provide daily urine samples for 1 week prior to enrolling in the study. Based on
      this diary, subjects will be grouped as CS (cigarettes only), EC (e-cigarette smokers and
      smoking less than ½ pack of cigarettes per week), HS (hookah smokers and smoking less than ½
      pack of cigarettes per week), and LCS (little cigar smokers and smoking less than ½ pack of
      cigarettes per week). Individuals with mixed exposures that exceed those described above
      (i.e. smoking more than ½ pack of cigarettes per week in addition to smoking hookah,
      e-cigarettes, or Little Cigars) will be excluded from the studies. Potential subjects will
      then complete a questionnaire regarding their smoking history, and will undergo urine
      collection for measurement of cotinine for 7 consecutive days. Subjects will be assigned to
      the different groups as followed: Group NS (no routine exposure to tobacco smoke, and average
      log10 urine cotinine/creatinine ratio < 1.0), Group CS (active cigarette smoker and log10
      urine cotinine/creatinine ratio > 4), Group EC (active e-cigarette smokers and average log10
      urine cotinine/creatinine ratio 1-4), Group HS (active routine hookah smokers and average
      log10 urine cotinine/creatinine ratio 1-4), or Group LCS (active routine Little Cigars smoker
      and average log10 urine cotinine/creatinine ratio 1-4).

      Study protocol outline:

      Screening visit (2-4 weeks prior to Day 0): Obtain informed consent, history (including smoke
      exposure questionnaire), physical examination, vital signs (VS), blood draw (for
      anti-influenza antibody titer, HIV and T cell stimulation with flu antigen), urine (for
      cotinine), nasal lavage (NL, for differential cell count, viral culture and antigen
      detection, cytokine panel), nasal epithelial lining fluid (ELF, collected with filter paper
      for cytokine analysis), nasal epithelial biopsy (NB) #1, pregnancy test for females of child
      bearing potential. In addition, smokers will undergo spirometry.

      Subjects will return to the research lab daily the for the week prior to D0 to provide a
      urine sample for cotinine. Subjects will given a daily smoking/exposure diary during this
      time to continue throughout the study.

      Day 0 (Monday): Obtain VS, NL, ELF, urine. Administer FluMist.

      Day 1 (Tuesday): Obtain VS, NL, ELF, urine, NB #2

      Day 2 (Wednesday): Obtain VS, NL, ELF, urine

      Day 8 +/- 1 day (Monday-Wednesday): Obtain VS, NL, ELF, urine, NB #3

      Day 21 +/- 7 days: Obtain VS, blood draw, collect completed smoking/exposure diary
    
  