
    
      Young adults diagnosed with cancer constitute a particularly vulnerable population whose
      medical and psychosocial needs are often overlooked. Those diagnosed with cancer between the
      ages of 18 and 39 face a number of increased risks including an increased risk of
      cardiovascular disease, second cancers, and emotional distress. Despite this, only a very
      small percentage of cancer research has focused on the survivorship issues of young adults.
      The goal of the proposed research is to address some of the unmet needs among young adult
      cancer survivors by developing and pilot testing a physical activity intervention for this
      population. Physical activity was selected as the target behavior as: 1. a high percentage of
      young adult cancer survivors have a sedentary lifestyle and 2. research has shown that cancer
      survivors who increase their physical activity experience improved cardiopulmonary function,
      reduced fatigue, enhanced mood and superior cancer outcomes. The intervention will be based
      on a previously developed, theoretically-grounded, tailored Internet intervention for
      sedentary adults. This previously developed intervention uses components of the
      Transtheoretical Model and Social Cognitive Theory to promote physical activity; for example,
      participants complete monthly questionnaires online and received tailored feedback reports
      addressing their self-efficacy, decisional balance and processes of change. The intervention
      website also includes features such as tips for exercising while caring for young children
      and local physical activity resources. Two key enhancements will be added to the intervention
      website in order to target the young adult cancer survivor population- 1. information
      pertinent to cancer survivors initiating an exercise program and 2. a peer-to-peer support
      component. Once these enhancements have been added, 10 young adult cancer survivors will
      evaluate the intervention and provide qualitative feedback. Additional revisions will be made
      to the intervention, as needed, based on this feedback. The intervention will then be pilot
      tested with a sample of 40 young adult cancer survivors. Participants will be randomly
      assigned to an intervention group (receiving 12 weeks of access to the intervention website)
      or a comparison group (receiving information on three cancer-specific Internet sites). Data
      on intervention feasibility and acceptability will be collected along with preliminary data
      on intervention effects (i.e., on physical activity level, mood, and fatigue). The latter
      will be used for effect size estimates when designing a future efficacy trial.
    
  