
    
      Background:

      The dopamine receptor agonist pramipexole has recently been suggested as a potential novel
      antidepressant drug. While preliminary clinical data hint at its efficacy in treating
      depressive symptoms, our current understanding of its impact on neurocognitive processes is
      relatively limited. This is in part because, so far, mechanistic studies have largely focused
      on the effects of single-dose treatments. However acute administration of dopaminergic drugs
      likely has different cognitive effects than the more prolonged administration that is used
      clinically.

      Aim of study:

      To explore and characterise the effects of a 12 to 15 day regime of pramipexole on
      behavioural and neural measures of reward learning, emotional information processing,
      motivational invigoration, and subjective experience.

      Methods:

      Using a double-blind, parallel-group design, forty healthy volunteers (male and female, aged
      18 to 45 years) will be randomly allocated to a 12 to 15 day regime of either pramipexole
      (maximum daily dose of 1.0 mg pramipexole salt) or placebo. At baseline and after 12 to 15
      days of treatment, a set of previously established cognitive tasks and questionnaires tapping
      into reward learning, emotional information processing, motivational invigoration and
      subjective experience will be administered. Furthermore, at 12 to 15 days of treatment, all
      participants will undergo functional magnetic resonance imaging to compare neural responses
      to reward- and emotion-related information.

      Hypotheses:

      Our working hypothesis is that pramipexole will enhance reward sensitivity, motivational
      invigoration and hedonic experience and might positively bias emotional information
      processing.

      Implications:

      This will be the first study to broadly explore and characterise the neurocognitive effects
      of pramipexole administered for a clinically relevant time period. The results of the study
      will add to our understanding of the cognitive mechanisms through which pramipexole could
      exert both its beneficial as well as its adverse clinical effects.
    
  