
    
      Acute Promyelocytic Leukaemia (APL) has been known as a type of cancer, seriously endangering
      human health especially for young adults. It is of great significance to improve its
      eradication rate. Recent clinical trials show that ATRA plus ATO treatment regimen can result
      in complete response (CR) in 90-94% of patients and 5-year disease-free survival (DFS) in
      more than 90% of patients.

      However, the ATRA plus ATO treatment regimen can achieve considerate survival rate, patients
      still need to receive infusion therapy in hospital. If oral arsenic can replace intravenous
      ATO without reduction of the efficacy, patients would not need to be administered to receive
      treatment, which would highly increase their quality of lives. The research and development
      of oral arsenic has therefore become a hotpoint. Professor Huang, Shilin from he 210th
      Hospital of PLA, according to the Prescription Theory "Jun Chen Zuo Shi", developed and
      designed an oral arsenic, the Compound Realgar-Indigo Naturalis Formula. Phase I, II Clinical
      trials have verified the security and efficacy of the Compound Realgar-Indigo Naturalis
      Formula. Research Team led by Professor Huang, Saijun, Shanghai Institute of Haematology
      (China), studied Compound Realgar-Indigo Naturalis Formula's mechanism of action from vitro
      cell lines and mice.

      In the following Phase II clinical trial, APL patients received Compound Realgar-Indigo
      Naturalis Formula solo treatment regime. It resulted in 96.7% of CR and high safety rate
      Compound Realgar-Indigo Naturalis Formula was approved by the China Food and Drug
      Administration in 2009. Investigators have done a multi-centre, randomized, controlled,
      non-inferiority phase 3 clinical trial in China. 242 newly diagnosed APL patients (with newly
      diagnosed WBC<50×10^9/L) were enrolled. And the result showed that oral arsenic plus retinoic
      acid has an anti-leukaemic efficacy similar to the intravenous arsenic treatment.
    
  