
    
      Background:

      Colorectal surgery is associated with high rates of surgical site infections (SSI) in both
      children and adults, reported in excess of 25%, attracting great interest for patient care
      quality improvement. In a recent NSQIP-Pediatric database review, colorectal procedures
      accounted for 2.5% of the caseload and contributed 7.1% of the SSI burden, making this group
      of procedures an important target for SSI reduction. Some measures under investigation are
      mechanical bowel preparation (MBP) (oral or rectal) and oral non-absorbable antibiotics (OA)
      like neomycin, erythromycin and metronidazole. The former is thought to potentially decrease
      the stool load and decrease contamination during surgery, while the latter is thought to
      decrease SSI by decreasing the bacterial load in bowel. Nichols and Condon popularized bowel
      preparation in 1972 and 1973, after showing reduction of post-operative infectious
      complications with the use of MBP and OA. The regimen extended over three-days, requiring
      hospital admission, diet alteration (low residue / clear diet), oral and rectal MBP and OA.
      This has changed to a shorter prep, yet the regimen of OA (neomycin and erythromycin or
      metronidazole PO, 4 doses starting afternoon before surgery) is still cited as most commonly
      used in adult studies. The possibility of increase in colonic bacterial resistance moved
      surgeons away from OA, but recent adult studies have showed the contrary renewing interest in
      their use. The current adult literature shows clear benefit gained by the use of OA. This is
      less clear in the pediatric literature. Both adult and pediatric literature are lacking in
      the knowledge of benefit added by using MBP to OA.

      Our current practice, as is the case of multiple pediatric center, is to use NO bowel
      preparation in any pediatric intestinal procedure.

      Purpose:

      This is a pilot study to check the feasibility of conducting a randomized controlled trial to
      assess the efficacy of oral nonabsorbable antibiotics, with or without the use of mechanical
      bowel preparation, in reducing the rate of post-operative infectious complications occurring
      within 30 days post-operatively in children and adolescents (aged 6 months to 18 years)
      undergoing elective intestinal surgery.

      The investigator intend to study two subgroups: small bowel surgery and colorectal surgery.

      Post-operative complications include: surgical site infections (incisional, organ-space, and
      anatomic leak), length of hospital stay, readmission, post-operative use of therapeutic
      antibiotics, re-operation, occurrence of electrolyte disturbances (in case MBP was used), and
      occurrence of C. difficile infection.
    
  