
    
      One of the strongest clinical associations with autoantibodies directed to components of the
      Ro/La ribonucleoprotein complex is the development of congenital heart block (CHB) in an
      offspring, an alarming prospect facing 2% of primigravid mothers with these reactivities. The
      risk is 10-fold higher in women who have had a previously affected child. Despite the attempt
      of large multicenter studies to forestall disease by serial in utero monitoring, irreversible
      block and extensive myocardial injury have been documented within 7 days of a normal rhythm
      and PR interval. CHB is associated with a substantial mortality and morbidity. Two recent
      prospective studies (20 mothers from U.S. and 15 from Europe) utilizing an identical protocol
      of IVIG at replacement doses demonstrated 1) this intervention does not prevent the
      recurrence of CHB 2) the recurrence rate of 17-18% is robust 3) recruitment of patients is
      feasible. During the time period of the IVIG trials, basic science exploring the pathogenesis
      of disease supported the notion that Toll Like Receptor (TLR) signaling following ligation of
      ssRNA (hY3) complexed to the Ro protein contributes to fibrosis. This observation led to in
      vitro studies addressing inhibition of endosomal acidification by chloroquine and subsequent
      translation to patients by evaluating the use of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) in an extensive
      retrospective chart review. The combined data suggest efficacy of HCQ. Accordingly, the goal
      of this study is to: To determine whether hydroxychloroquine use during pregnancy prevents
      CHB in a high risk population. The trial is open-label and employs the Simon's 2-stage
      optimal design to allow for early stopping due to absence of treatment efficacy. The first
      stage requires 19 subjects. Despite the rarity of disease and the requirement of a previous
      CHB child, based on the US Research Registry for Neonatal Lupus, this proposal is feasible.
      If 3 or more mothers have a child with 2nd or 3rd degree CHB, the study is terminated after
      the first stage. If this does not occur, funds will be sought to enroll an additional 35
      mothers in the second stage for a total of 54 subjects. Treatment will be considered
      efficacious if fewer than 6 mothers of 54 have a child with advanced CHB. With this design,
      the study has 90% power to conclude that hydroxychloroquine is preventive if the true
      recurrence rate with the treatment is 5%. In addition, the probability of rejecting the
      treatment for further study is 95% if the true recurrence rate is 18%. Serial echocardiograms
      (monitor PR interval) and blood drawing (IFNƒÑƒnsignatures, antibody titers) will be included
      in the protocol. The results of this study are expected to become an integral part of the
      counseling of women with anti-SSA/Ro-SSB/La antibodies who are considering pregnancy.
    
  