
    
      Children who have been subject to physical, sexual or emotional abuse or neglect are at risk
      of developing unhealthy relationships with their caregiver, increasing the likelihood of them
      developing a wide range of mental health problems later in life. Norway offers few
      therapeutic programs for treatment of children and adolescents that focus specifically on
      treating traumatic experiences within attachment relationships. An intervention with this
      focus is Dyadic Developmental Psychotherapy (DDP),where dyad refers to the unit of a child
      and its caregiver(s).

      The Family-Based Treatment Unit (SFB) within the Division for Child- and Adolescent Mental
      Health (ABUP) at Telemark Hospital has started implementing DDP with funding from the "BUP
      Project", resulting in a multi-center implementation plan including local child protective
      services and the office for children, youth and family affairs. This project seeks to
      evaluate the effect and implementation of DDP on the quality of the caregiver-child
      interaction, parental efficacy, parental stress and wellbeing, and child emotional and
      behavioral problems as well as the subjective experience of this implementation among
      caregivers and clinicians. The results of interviews with clinicians and parents will provide
      feedback, guide the implementation, and provide essential knowledge about using DDP in a
      Norwegian setting.

      Child protective services (CPS) in the municipalities of Skien and Porsgrunn as well as the
      office for children, youth and family affairs (Bufetat) will participate in providing DDP,
      include dyads in the study and deliver the DDP intervention. Mixed method assessment will be
      used to study the effects of the implementation.

      The present study will contribute new knowledge of how the intervention is experienced by
      Norwegian children and their families, both in a clinical outpatient setting at Telemark
      Hospital and Skien and Porsgrunn Child Protective Services, and in a clinical inpatient
      setting with the Norwegian Office for Children, Youth and Family Affairs (Bufetat).

      Clinicians' experiences with the implementation and use of DDP is an important dimension for
      its success. No previous studies have investigated the clinicians' experiences with working
      with DDP, underscoring the need for this project. The project will report on what challenges
      arose during implementation in Norway, and how both families and clinicians experienced the
      process of learning, using and receiving DDP. By using the information gained directly into
      the process of this project it can help guide the continued implementation and contribute to
      its success. If DDP is shown to have a good effect there are plans for a multi-center
      randomized controlled trial.

      We will investigate the specific context through participant-observations during project
      meetings, and analyze central documents regarding the implementation and use of DDP.

      Through working closely with Child Protective Services and the Norwegian Office for Children,
      Youth and Family Affairs (Bufetat) we will also be able to explore the experiences of
      implementation of the treatment in different settings, namely outpatient in the hospital,
      outpatient with child protective services, and inpatient in Bufetat.

      Ethical review has been conducted by the Norwegian South East Regional committee for Medical
      and Health Research (REK) as well as the Norwegian Centre for Research Data (NSD) and the
      project has been approved. The participants will receive full information, and be asked to
      give consent both verbally and in writing. They will be assured confidentiality and
      anonymity. They will be informed of their right to withdraw at any time, and that it will
      have no impact on their treatment at ABUP. We do not expect this study to cause any harm to
      participants. The observations are part of routine examination, of short duration and are
      conducted within the security of a familiar institution
    
  