
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the feasibility, toxicity, and antileukemic activity of gemtuzumab
      ozogamicin (CMA-676) with or without mitoxantrone, etoposide, cytarabine, and idarubicin in
      elderly patients with acute myeloid leukemia.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to risk (standard
      risk, defined as age 61-75 and WHO performance status 0-1 vs poor risk, defined as over 75
      years and WHO performance status 0-2 OR under 76 years and WHO performance status 2).
      Frontline therapy: Patients receive gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV over 2 hours on days 1 and 15.
      Stratum I (Standard risk patients): Patients with disease progression at any time during
      frontline therapy may begin induction therapy immediately. Induction therapy begins 7-10 days
      after response assessment regardless of response and in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.
      Stratum II (Poor risk patients): Patients experiencing complete remission with or without
      platelet recovery will begin consolidation therapy within 4-8 weeks of response assessment in
      the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Stratum I Induction therapy: Patients receive
      mitoxantrone IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 3 and 5; etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 1-3; and
      cytarabine IV continuously on days 1-7. Patients experiencing partial response are given a
      second induction therapy course. Patients experiencing complete remission with or without
      platelet recovery after 1 or 2 induction courses begin consolidation therapy within 4-8 weeks
      of response assessment in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Consolidation therapy:
      Patients receive idarubicin IV on days 1, 3 and 5; etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 1-3; and
      cytarabine IV continuously on days 1-5. Stratum II Consolidation therapy: Patients receive
      gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and then 1-3 months later. Patients are
      followed monthly for 1 year, every 3 months for 2 years, and then every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 45-82 (28-49 for stratum I, and 17-33 for stratum II) patients
      will be accrued for this study.
    
  