
    
      CDH is characterized by structural and functional immune and nervous system derangements.
      Specifically, disturbed regulation of the following critically important biochemical
      processes has been demonstrated: 1) inflammation; 2) neuronal membrane excitability; and 3)
      monoamine neurotransmitter signaling. Accordingly, major classes of medications used for
      chronic pain (anti-inflammatories, anticonvulsants, and antidepressants) target these
      processes.

      Foods consist of combinations of nutrient molecules that are incorporated into human tissues,
      and enter into and regulate highly leveraged human biochemical pathways. By altering the
      structure and function of the nervous system and immune system, and regulating biochemical
      processes believed to play causal roles in the development and maintenance of chronic pain,
      dietary choices may play a critical role in the initiation and/or perpetuation of CDH.

      Multifaceted, targeted dietary manipulation, directed towards correcting underlying
      biochemical derangements, represents a novel therapeutic approach to the management of
      chronic pain. Improved understanding of the relationships between dietary selections and
      chronic pain promises to benefit the estimated 10 million Americans with CDH and possibly an
      even larger population with chronic pain from any origin. For a more detailed description,
      please refer to the complete rationale and literature review accompanying grant application.

      Major research questions for this proposal include:

      A. Is it possible to implement a controlled dietary trial comparing two analgesic dietary
      interventions for subject with CDH? and B. What are the preliminary estimates of impact of
      targeted analgesic dietary interventions on headache frequency compared with one another and
      the baseline headache frequency in patients for CDH? C. What is the rate and extent of change
      in %n6 in HUFA with two targeted interventions? There is also an exploratory portion of the
      study to gather more information about the potential relationship between nutrient and pain
      to inform intended future trials. The study is needed to assess the potential utility of a
      dietary approach for chronic pain, which may have major public health implications.
    
  