
    
      Study Design This is a multi-site, prospective, open labeled clinical trial with before-after
      study design. This study will include up to 8 visits at the clinic: initial
      screening/consultation, 5 treatments, visits in 2 week intervals, and 2 follow-up visits at 1
      and 3 months after the last treatment visit.

      Up to 60 healthy subjects age 24-65 with Striae Distensae will be enrolled.

      Study duration:

      Duration of subject's participation: Up to 5.5 months from enrollment to termination

      Blinding Objective assessment of clinical improvement by global assessment scale will be
      achieved by sending before/after pictures (baseline/3months after last treatment) to 3
      blinded reviewers at the end of the study.

      Study Procedures Test Spots Up to 3 test spots will be performed in the selected treatment
      area to determine the optimal parameters / settings

      Treatment visits Each subject will be enrolled and scheduled for 5 treatments at 2 week
      intervals and return for follow-up visits at one month and 3 months after the last treatment
      for evaluation of the treated areas. The duration of the entire treatment visit is
      approximately 60 minutes.

      Treatment The treatment areas are divided into 2 treatment areas: abdomen or thighs. Apply a
      thin layer of IPL gel. Place the applicator in close contact, perpendicular to the skin with
      no pressure applied. Pressing the applicator will fire the IPL pulse.

      Administer pulses throughout the treated area to ensure full coverage of the treated area
      with applicator overlap approximately 1/3 of the previously treated skin.

      A single pass over the area is completed Remove the remnants of the IPL gel and dry
      thoroughly. Cold air or cold, wet but not frozen gauze pads may be placed on the treated area
      for post treatment cooling.

      Typical responses to the treatment are mild erythema and edema.
    
  