
    
      Cancer survivors have substantial residual cardiometabolic risk due to the fact that they are
      living longer and are exposed to the same lifestyle and environmental factors that have led
      to the drastic increase in obesity and diabetes in Western societies over the last four
      decades. In addition, survivors' cardiovascular health is significantly impaired due to
      cancer treatment. Research has shown that physical activity improves quality of life in
      cancer survivors, ameliorates treatment-related side effects reduces the risk of cancer
      recurrence, and extends overall survival. Despite these advantages, most cancer patients are
      sedentary. The early survivor period is a teachable moment to improve healthy behaviors.
      Social Cognitive Theory argues that to change exercise behavior, we must increase behavior
      change self-efficacy of participants (i.e., confidence), increase their outcome expectations
      that changing their behavior will lead to better health, enhance motivation to exercise,
      enhance their ability to regulate their behavior (self-regulation), teach them tangible
      behavior change skills, and help them overcome barriers to behavior change. In this study
      validated patient-reported outcomes will be performed at baseline and at 12 weeks - FACIT-F
      to document general cancer symptoms with additional questions on fatigue, the Beck Depression
      Inventory (BDI-II), and the modified Godin-Leisure Questionnaire as a measure of activity
      level. The investigators will also perform baseline and 3 month weight / BMI and 6-minute
      walk testing as a second well-validated objective measure of fitness. At enrollment and at 3
      months, patients will be queried as to barriers to behavior change. At 3 months, patients
      will be asked by 5-point Likert scale how helpful the program was in increasing their
      physical activity. Six months after enrollment (+/- 4 weeks), level of physical activity and
      use of Fitbit will be determined.
    
  