
    
      This will be a prospective, non blinded randomized controlled trial. We will screen and offer
      enrollment to all patients presenting to Mayo Clinic Arizona for an ERCP who have a native
      papilla and an indication for cholangiography and sphincterotomy. Informed consent will be
      obtained in the preoperative area after obtaining consent for the ERCP. We will randomize all
      patients in whom we fail to deeply cannulate the CBD using a sphincterotome (Autotome, Boston
      Scientific) and 0.035" guidewire (0.035" Jagwire or Dreamwire, Boston Scientific) in over 5
      minutes or with more than 5 attempts and in whom the wire can be passed in a stable
      configuration in the Pancreatic duct (PD). We will exclude patients who have any
      contraindication to undergoing an ERCP, contraindications to sphincterotomy (e,g,, abnormal
      anatomy, uncorrectable coagulopathy) and those who have pancreas divisum. Patients will be
      randomized 1:1 using opaque envelopes in blocks of 4 stratified for gender. (Gender
      stratification is necessary as the risks of ERCP vis pancreatitis are different for males and
      females). In those randomized to the DWT group, the PD wire will be left in place, the
      catheter removed and then reinserted next to the PD wire with a second wire to attempt CBD
      cannluation as previously described (1). In those randomized to TPS, a pancreatic
      sphincterotomy will be performed with the sphincterotome. The catheter will be removed with
      the PD wire left in place. The catheter and a second wire will be inserted and CBD
      cannluation attempted as for the DWT group. All patients will receive a 5Fr pancreatic stent
      and indomethacin 100 mg rectally to reduce the risk of pancreatitis as per our standard of
      care (patients with contraindications to NSAIDs (e.g., sensitivity to Indomethacin, aspirin
      or class, active peptic ulcer disease) will not receive Indomethacin. Patients who fail DWT
      (at least 10 minutes or 10 further attempts) may be crossed over to TPS at the endoscopist's
      discretion. Further care the patients receive will be standard of care. We will contact the
      patients around a months later by telephone to ask about any procedure related complications
      that were not reported to us.

      outcome measures will be assessed on day 1 at the end of the procedure and on day 30.
    
  