
    
      This is a single-arm, open-label, phase II study. Patients must have histologically or
      cytologically confirmed small cell lung cancer (SCLC), both limited or extensive disease,
      relapsed after one or two prior chemotherapy regimens MGMT promoter methylation status will
      be evaluated on a histological tissue sample (after patient signature of a specific informed
      consent form for this biological evaluation) using Pyrosequencing technique and the main 10
      CpG islands of MGMT promoter will be studied. Only patients with MGMT promoter methylation
      will be enrolled in the clinical trial. To be eligible patients may have received 1 or 2
      prior chemotherapeutic regimens. Patients with brain metastases may be enrolled.

      Patients will be informed about the palliative nature of the treatment . Patients will be
      treated with oral Temozolomide 200 mg/m2/die for 5 consecutive days .

      Treatment will be repeated every 28 days and continued until disease progression, intolerable
      toxicity or patient refusal.

      Response to chemotherapy will be monitored every three cycles by CT scan of the chest and the
      abdomen and computed tomography scan or magnetic resonance imaging of the whole brain.
      Response to treatment will be evaluated according to RECIST 1.1 criteria.

      In case of progressive disease (PD) the patients will discontinue treatment. In case of
      stable disease (SD), partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) patients continue
      treatment until disease progression, intolerable toxicity or patient refusal.

      After the end of treatment, if disease progression will not occur, patients will be evaluated
      every 3 months by CT scan of the chest and the abdomen and CT scan or RM of the whole brain
      until disease progression.

      Planned follow-up visits will continue until disease progression and patients will be
      monitored for survival and toxicity .
    
  