
    
      PreVent is a prospective, parallel-group, pragmatic, randomized trial comparing manual
      ventilation between induction and laryngoscopy to no manual ventilation between induction an
      laryngoscopy during endotracheal intubation of critically ill adults. The primary aim of the
      PreVent trial is to compare the effect of manual ventilation between induction and intubation
      versus no manual ventilation on the lowest arterial oxygen saturation experienced by
      critically ill adults undergoing endotracheal intubation. The PreVent trial is anticipated to
      begin enrollment in January 2017 and will enroll adults undergoing endotracheal intubation
      with sedation and/or neuromuscular blockade in participating units. Patients will be
      randomized 1:1 to manual ventilation versus no manual ventilation. In the manual ventilation
      group, manual ventilation using a bag-valve-mask will be provided from the time of induction
      until the time of endotracheal intubation, except during laryngoscopy. In the no manual
      ventilation group, no manual ventilation will be provided between induction and endotracheal
      intubation, except for the treatment of hypoxemia. The primary efficacy endpoint will be the
      lowest arterial oxygen saturation during the procedure. The primary safety endpoints will be
      the lowest oxygen saturation, highest fraction of inspired oxygen, and highest positive end
      expiratory pressure in the 24 hours after intubation. Conduct of the trial will be overseen
      by a Data Safety Monitoring Board. An interim analysis will be performed after the enrollment
      of 175 patients. The analysis of the trial will be conducted in accordance with a
      pre-specified statistical analysis plan made publicly available prior to the conclusion of
      enrollment. The initial planned enrollment of 350 patients was increased by the Data and
      Safety Monitoring Board at the interim analysis to a final planned enrollment of 400
      patients.
    
  