
    
      1. Vaginal atrophy is the most common indication in the treatment of vaginal rejuvenation.
           Its main manifestation is vaginal relaxation syndrome, which may be the early symptom of
           female pelvic floor dysfunction. It is a common gynecological physiological change in
           women. Its clinical manifestations include vaginal wall relaxation, decreased
           elasticity, poor dryness sensitivity, internal environment disorder, and so on. Vaginal
           exhaust, often combined with urinary incontinence, pelvic organ prolapse, chronic pelvic
           discomfort and other symptoms, seriously affecting patients'health and quality of sexual
           life. At present, there are many treatments for vaginal relaxation,vaginal constriction
           and laser therapy are the most effective and widely accepted treatments. It should be
           noted that patients with vaginal constriction need anti-scar training for a long time
           after operation to prevent the effect of vaginal entrance narrowing and vaginal wall
           scar formation on the quality of life of patients during the repair period. Therefore,
           laser therapy with small trauma and short repair time has attracted much attention.

        2. CO2 fractional laser (Acupulse) stimulates fibroblasts to synthesize and secrete
           collagen fibers, elastic fibers, reticular fibers and organic matrix through dot
           exfoliation and thermal stimulation, thus thickening the vaginal wall and achieving
           long-term vaginal tightening effect. The heat effect of CO2 laser can stimulate
           vasodilation, increase blood flow, increase cell oxidation and nutrients, increase
           mitochondrial ATP release, activate cell function, enhance vaginal mucosal secretion,
           enhance secretion, normalize vaginal Internal environment and bacterial flora, and then
           reduce the probability of gynecological infection.

        3. It has been reported that CO2 lattice laser can stimulate collagen synthesis and
           rearrangement. It has also been reported that CO2 lattice laser may have important
           clinical significance in improving the morphology and function of vaginal epithelial
           cells. Our center has also passed the clinical observation ethical review of CO2 lattice
           laser to improve female vaginal relaxation in 2016, and completed the clinical trial at
           the end of 2017. The data further confirm that CO2 lattice laser can improve vaginal
           relaxation and is significantly effective for stress urinary incontinence.
    
  