
    
      It is hypothesized that providing healthy foods may stabilize unhealthy eating patterns for
      diabetics so that HbA1c measurements significantly improve. The UCSD Student-Run Free Clinic
      Project (SRFCP) will offer boxes of nutritious food monthly along with a brief nutrition
      class to its diabetic patients and continue their otherwise usual care. The UCSD SRFCP will
      partner with a large food bank, Feeding America San Diego, that can provide monthly food
      boxes of healthy food along with education about eating healthy on a budget. Food insecurity
      negatively impacts health outcomes in diabetic patients; therefore enhancing food security
      with nutritious food as well as providing education to cultivate healthy eating habits could
      be a cost-effective way to improve health outcomes in diabetics, necessitating the use of
      human subjects for this study. Blood pressure, weight, and LDL cholesterol will be secondary
      outcome measures along with survey measures for diabetes distress, depression, dietary
      quality assessment, medication adherence, hypoglycemia, and food security.

      Diabetics who enroll in this study will be randomly assigned to an initial 3-month period of
      either immediate intervention (the food boxes and education) or a wait list control group.
      The intervention involves receiving a box of nutritious food each month along with brief
      education provided by food pantry staff, in addition to usual medical care. In measuring
      clinical outcomes, this study will not deviate from routine care.

      As a part of routine care screening, all UCSD SRFCP patients will receive the six-item 'Short
      Form' of the USDA Food Security Survey Module to assess their food security upon arrival in
      the waiting area. This survey will be self-administered or orally administered depending on
      patient preference. Regardless of food security status, everyone will be offered referral to
      local food banks and referral for Cal-Fresh (Food Stamps) application if eligible.

      All patients who receive care at the UCSD SRFCP sites with a diagnosis of diabetes,
      regardless of food security status, will be offered these same resources in addition to being
      informed of this study. The investigators will track health outcomes from routine clinical
      visits by querying the electronic health records if patients chose to participate in the
      study. Participants will also be asked to complete a survey at baseline, 3 months, 6 months,
      and 9 months (for the wait list group). Those who are interested in the study will speak with
      a study coordinator and be provided a detailed discussion about the study.

      Once the study is fully explained and ample time is given for patients to make a
      well-informed decision, the informed consent will be obtained in a private room or space with
      study coordinators fluent in the patient's preferred language (English or Spanish) who are
      capable of answering questions about the study. The informed consent forms will be provided
      in English and Spanish. It will be made clear to patients that they are under no obligation
      to participate and that refusal to participate in no way influences the routine care they
      receive at the UCSD SRFCP.

      If patients choose to participate in the study, after signing the informed consent, patients
      will then complete the 'Pre Survey,' which includes measures for diabetes distress,
      medication adherence, depression, dietary assessment, and hypoglycemia. This is available in
      English and Spanish, and it can also be self-administered or orally administered depending on
      patient preference.

      A wait list study design allows for comparison between the immediate intervention arm and the
      wait list intervention arm to isolate the diabetes food boxes as the variable responsible for
      patient improvement, while still allowing all patients who are interested to receive the
      nutritious food boxes on site free of charge. After patient enrollment and completion of the
      'Pre Survey', participants will be randomized into either an immediate intervention arm, in
      which they will receive food and nutrition education within a month, at the next available
      monthly food distribution and nutrition education session, or they will be enrolled in the
      delayed intervention arm when they will begin the food distribution and nutrition classes 3
      months later. The UCSD SRFCP diabetic patients' routine appointments are typically scheduled
      about every three months so this would be after their next scheduled routine appointment.
      Realistically patient visits do not fall exactly 90 days later, so any visit data or lab
      results nearest to the baseline, 3 month, 6 month, and 9 month time frames can be included in
      assessing outcomes for this study.

      To determine sample size, we examined 3-month data from a previous UCSD clinical trial
      conducted by Dr. Cheryl Rock in subjects with type 2 diabetes (Rock et al. Diabetes Care
      2014;37:1573). Assuming mean (SD) HbA1c% reduction from baseline of 0.68 (1.02)% in immediate
      intervention, and 0.0 (0.88)% in the wait list control group, there is 97% power with a
      dropout/nonadherence rate of up to 40% to see a group difference at 3 months if we assign 100
      patients to immediate intervention and 100 to wait list control patients for a total of 200
      patients under study.

      Analysis will examine longitudinal changes over 3 months in HbA1c% (the primary outcome
      variable) and secondary outcome variables (e.g., weight), which will be extracted from
      medical records, allowing for a 45-day window before or after the 3-month time point.
      Statistical analyses will be conducted using SPSS. Any missing data will be imputed and
      primary analysis will be intent to treat. The investigators will use t-tests and χ2 analyses
      to assess between-group baseline differences. Baseline variables that differ between arms
      will be controlled for in subsequent analysis. Outcomes will be transformed as needed to
      better approximate Gaussian distributions or analyzed non-parametrically. Analyses evaluating
      intervention effects will be conducted at the 2-sided 5% significance level. The
      investigators will perform 2-sample t-tests and repeated measures analyses using linear mixed
      models to examine between-group differences and paired t-tests to examine within-subject
      changes. Likelihood ratio tests will be used to assess significance of model terms;
      covariates deemed to be imbalanced across randomization arms will be controlled for in the
      models.

      Participants in the immediate and the waitlist arms of the study will ultimately both receive
      food for the same duration of time (6 months).

      There are approximately 200 patients with diabetes, predominantly Latinos, receiving care at
      the UCSD SRFCP and the investigators wanted to ensure that any patient with diabetes
      receiving medical care at the SRFCP could enter the study to receive additional food
      resources onsite. The investigators have a commitment from Feeding America San Diego of food
      for 200 patients for the duration of the study. The initial enrollment period is estimated to
      be 3-6 months. Participants will receive carts to facilitate carrying home the box of food.

      Brief educational sessions led by food pantry staff will also be utilized to empower patients
      to continue making informed decisions about their health and nutrition after the study ends.
      These sessions will be led by a bilingual person, fluent in Spanish and English. Example
      recipes and nutritional pamphlets will also be provided in the diabetes boxes. The
      investigators would like participants will eat the food that is being provided, although it
      is understood that it may also be used for immediate family members who are eating meals with
      the participant. Food insecurity is measured routinely only at the household level, therefore
      it is appropriate to try to raise the household food insecurity as part of this study.

      The 'Post Survey' will also be administered at 3 months, at 6 months, and (for the waitlisted
      group) at 9 months during the educational sessions. The 'Post survey' consists of the same
      questions from the 'Pre Survey' plus the questions from the initial USDA Food Security
      screening.

      All participants will be assigned to unique study identification numbers in order to
      de-identify patients' medical information. The de-identified dataset will be entered into
      ishare, a UCSD password-secure website utilized by the SRFCP, or REDCap, a secure website and
      research tool for managing surveys and databases. Permission to view the folders containing
      the de-identified database will be limited only to those directly involved in this study.
      This de-identified dataset will then be subject to statistical analysis without the potential
      of a link being made back to the patient's medical record with private health information.
      Data analysis and interpretation will be from the de-identified data only.

      Finally, there are plans to assist participants to continue to eat foods like that which is
      provided in the study, and the barriers that participants face are both fiscal and
      knowledge-based. First, Feeding America San Diego has agreed to continue to provide healthful
      diabetes food boxes after the conclusion of the study for any interested participants.
      Second, the education that is included in this study is designed around empowering
      participants to continue to make healthy food choices on a budget. It is hoped that, by
      exposure to budget-friendly and healthy foods, participants will continue to make these same
      healthy and affordable food choices when doing their own grocery shopping. Third, at the
      beginning of this project, an objective is to not only enroll participants in this study but
      also to expose all UCSD Student-run Free Clinic Project (SRFCP) patients to the other
      available resources, such as facilitation with Food Stamps (Cal-Fresh) enrollment as well as
      local food bank distributions in patients' neighborhoods. Feeding America San Diego, for
      example, has over 100 food bank sites throughout San Diego. Therefore, food resources will
      persist once the study has finished, hopefully leaving participants with lasting nutrition
      education as well as connections with Cal-Fresh and food banks. Making this a successful
      transition will be an emphasis of the research team throughout the study.
    
  