
    
      Bronchiectasis is characterized by airway dilatation with the potential to cause devastating
      illness, including repeated respiratory infections requiring antibiotics, disabling
      productive, mucopurulent cough, shortness of breath and occasional hemoptysis. The damaged
      and dilated airways lead to persisting bacterial infection of the bronchi and bronchioles,
      causing inflammation and retained secretions, which in turn may further damage the airways.
      Patients typically suffer from frequent, severe and refractory episodes of bacterial
      bronchitis, often requiring hospitalization and prolonged courses of antibiotics. The
      pathophysiology of bronchiectasis involves the retention of viscid, tenacious inflammatory
      secretions and microbes leading to a "vicious cycle" of airway obstruction, destruction and
      recurrent infection with further compromise of the mucociliary clearance host defense
      apparatus. It has been widely proposed and recommended that methods of enhancing clearance of
      airway secretions should be an integral component of the care of patients with
      bronchiectasis. Despite these recommendations and a sound pathophysiologic plausibility given
      the central role retention of secretions plays in the disease, the effectiveness of
      interventions targeted toward enhancing bronchopulmonary hygiene has not been systematically
      studied. It is also not known whether the ability to generate an adequate cough would predict
      which patient will benefit from these interventions.

      The mechanical in-exsufflator device assists patients in clearing retained secretions by
      augmenting the expiratory flow and force of the patient's cough with the addition of a cycle
      of positive and negative inspiratory pressure. An effective cough mechanism is actually an
      important and beneficial host defense which aids in mucus clearance along with the
      mucociliary apparatus. We hypothesize that daily, regular use of the in-exsufflator device
      will lead to a reduction in acute bronchiectasis exacerbations- a clinically meaningful
      endpoint- with other possible beneficial outcomes including improved pulmonary function,
      improved health-related quality of life and decreased health care costs.

      Despite the lack of rigorous, well-designed studies supporting the role and most effective
      mode of bronchial hygiene physiotherapy in patients with bronchiectasis, many Pulmonologists
      recommend the flutter valve device as the generally accepted "standard of care" at this time
      due to its relative non-invasiveness, ease of use and high level of patient acceptability.
      The flutter valve is a simple, hand-held, pipe-like device which helps loosen secretions by
      providing an expiratory low-pressure vibratory pulse to the patient's airway when used. This
      study will provide a comparison of the clinical efficacy of these mechanical chest
      physiotherapy devices in the setting of bronchiectasis.
    
  