
    
      Rational: COVID-19 disease is caused by a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) and has received
      worldwide attention. No specific antiviral treatment is recommended for COVID-19 and no
      vaccine is currently available so far. Several strong arguments support the study of
      probiotics for COVID-19: 1) probiotics act on viruses by various well described mechanisms
      (reduction of absorption, cellular internalization of the virus, production of metabolites /
      substances having a direct antiviral effect; and immunomodulation); 2) probiotics are
      considered with a high level of evidence (meta-analysis) to reduce diarrhea (associated with
      antibiotics and Clostridium difficile) and for respiratory tract infections; 3) probiotics
      are affordable and available with low side-effects.

      Objectives:

        1. Evaluate the effect of probiotics on the duration of COVID-19 in symptomatic patients,
           with moderate forms of the disease.

        2. Evaluate the effect of probiotics on the severity of COVID-19 in symptomatic patients,
           with moderate forms of the disease.

        3. Evaluate the effect of probiotics on the evolution of oral and fecal microbiota in
           symptomatic patients, with moderate forms of the COVID-19 disease.

      Population: Men and women, 18 years or older, with a first positive test for COVID-19 in the
      last 5 days, having symptoms of the COVID-19, self-caring at home, living in Quebec for the
      next 60 days, able to take medication alone, with access to a phone or to the Internet.

      Material: After providing consent remotely (electronic or recorded by phone), patients will
      receive by mail at home: : a leaflet explaining the study, the study product (probiotics or
      placebo) for 25 days, a container of maple syrup and a cup, a thermometer, an oximeter, a
      logbook, 2 saliva sample self-collection kits, 2 stool sample self-collection kits and
      instruction sheets.

      Randomization: Patients will be randomized in one of the study groups (stratified by age and
      gender). The randomization is double-blind and uses a ratio 1:1. Group A: will take
      probiotics for up to 25 days / Group B: will take placebo for up to 25 days.

      Follow-up: Upon inclusion in the study, the participant will complete a questionnaire that
      will focus on socio-demographic (age, marital status), medical (weight, height, general
      health, current medication, symptoms…), food intake and other relevant information. The
      participants will fill a daily booklet evaluating their symptoms, compliance to treatment,
      medication intake, temperature, oxygen saturation value, etc. For those who will be admitted
      to hospital, data on their admission, complications and treatments will be collected. At 55
      days after their enrollment, will fill an end of study questionnaire (symptoms, satisfaction,
      well-being, etc.).

      Samples: The study includes the optional collection of saliva and stool samples twice, on Day
      1 (before the first product is taken) and on Day 10.
    
  