
    
      Inclusions are performed by any previously-labeled baclofen-prescribing physician in the
      Hauts-de-France or Normandie French regions.

      INITIAL ASSESSMENT PHONE CALLS

      In the 15 days following the inclusion, participants will receive two successive phone calls.
      The first call will be performed by a physician investigator of the study who will:
      re-explain the principles of the study to patients, check the absence of non-inclusion
      criteria, and note the medical history, date of baclofen initiation and current dose,
      undergoing medications and current doses, occurrence of AEs since the initiation of baclofen,
      birthdate, weight, and height. The physician will also check whether specific safety elements
      important with regards to the baclofen treatment are noticeable in the patient: history of
      seizures, suicide, and other concurrent substance use. The second phone call is performed by
      a clinical research associate (CRA) who will check the absence of non-inclusion criteria, and
      collects the 30 last-days reported alcohol use according to alcohol timeline follow-back
      (A-TLFB) method, date of initiation and current dose of baclofen, severity alcohol dependence
      questionnaire (SADQ), alcohol use disorder identification test (AUDIT), and A-B
      neuropsychological assessment schedule (ABNAS) which scores the current level of sedation in
      patients with psychotropic drugs.

      FOLLOW-UP PHONE CALLS

      During the subsequent one-year follow-up, two types of phone interviews are performed: 1)
      Monthly Standardized Interviews (MSI). MSIs consist in collecting the previous-month daily
      use of alcohol using the A-TLFB, the daily dose of baclofen across the previous month, the
      current ABNAS sedation score, any change in any associated medication, any change in any
      substance use, and any AE reported by the patient. No predefined list of AEs is used, as the
      investigator only asks the patient if he/she has noticed or experienced any unexpected
      symptoms of health issues since the last call. The daily dose distribution of baclofen, i.e.,
      hours and doses of baclofen intakes, are also systematically investigated in the patient. The
      average subjective level of craving for alcohol is self-scored by the patient using a 0-10
      verbal rating scale (i.e., 0 for no craving at all, to 10 for the most severe possible
      craving). The daily hours of maximum craving is also noted.

      2) Semi-standardized Pharmacovigilance Interviews (SPI) which are unscheduled, and are
      performed in the case of an AE reported by the patient to the CRA, or in the case of a direct
      phone call to the pharmacovigilance center by the patient or their baclofen prescriber, with
      the aim to report an AE. Data collected are: current baclofen dose and recent changes in
      baclofen dosing, recent and current drinking patterns, associated medications, type of AE,
      'serious' feature of the AE according to the definition of the Food and Drugs Administration,
      onset date and occurrence conditions. Patients can be secondarily re-contacted to assess the
      final outcome of the AE, and to determine the causality score of baclofen regarding the AE,
      using both the French causality method and the Naranjo's algorithm if applicable.

      DELAYED PHONE CALL IN THE CASE OF BACLOFEN CESSATION

      If baclofen is stopped for any reason during the year following the initiation, a last phone
      interview will be conducted by the CRA 3 months after baclofen cessation.
    
  