
    
      Esophageal atresia a congenital condition requiring surgical intervention. The most common
      configuration is Gross type C, proximal EA with distal TEF (EA/TEF). The operation for type C
      includes tracheoesophageal fistula closure and esophageal anastomosis creation. Although
      mortality has markedly decreased since the operation was first described, overall
      complication rate remains at 62%, with the most common complication being anastomotic
      stricture, 43%.

      During the creation of esophageal anastomosis, two common practices are to either use or not
      use a transanastomtic tube (TT) across the anastomosis. However the utility and benefits of
      TT have not been validated. A recent retrospective analysis by the Midwestern Pediatric
      Surgical Research Consortium identified anastomotic stricture to be the most common
      postoperative complications (43%). On univariate analysis, only utilization of a TT was
      significantly associated with strictures (p=0.013). On multivariate analysis after adjusting
      for both pre and perioperative variables, TT use remained significant with an odd ratio (OR)
      of 1.91 (p=0.04).

      Given the inherent limitations and biases of retrospective analysis, there is a critical need
      for a prospective multi-institutional study to validate this finding. The Western Pediatric
      Surgical Research Consortium (WPSRC) consists of 9 children's hospitals including Phoenix
      Children's Hospital, Doerbnercher Children's Hospital, Primary Children's Hospital, Lucille
      Packard Children's Hospital, Seattle Children's Hospital, Colorado Children's Hospital,
      Children's Hospital of Los Angeles, Rady Children's Hospital, and Benioff Children's
      Hospital. The WPSRC will conduct a prospective randomized control trial comparing the effects
      of TT use. Target enrollment is 150. One group of patients will receive TTs and another group
      of patients will not receive TTs. We hypothesize that the use of TT will result in increased
      anastomotic stricture formation. Primary outcome is symptomatic anastomotic stricture
      requiring dilation within 12 months.
    
  