
    
      Rationale:

      The available evidence suggest that End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) and hemodialysis (HD) have
      harmful effects on the lungs; the investigators hypothesize that these recurring pulmonary
      insults, in an analogous way as recurring myocardial ischemic injury for the heart, cause
      long term impairment in the pulmonary parenchyma, airways and circulation. In addition,
      observational studies have reported that dyspnea is a common symptom among ESRD patients on
      chronic HD treatment; however, no study up to now has directly addressed the issue, so that
      the relationship between dyspnea and pulmonary involvement in the HD population remains
      poorly understood.

      The aim of this study is to explore the pathophysiological basis of dyspnea in patients with
      end stage renal disease on chronic HD, by using state-of-the-art imaging and functional study
      techniques.

      Study Design:

      This is an exploratory study involving a single center recruiting patients from the prevalent
      dialysis population of London, Ontario. 20 patients on maintenance hemodialysis will be
      recruited. The patients will undergo imaging, functional studies and blood sampling at the
      Robarts Research Institute on a non-dialysis day, during the short interval in the dialysis
      schedule, at baseline and after one year.

      Study Procedures:

      Blood Collection: blood will be collected from a venous access for standard-of-care tests,
      uremia and inflammation biomarkers.

      Dyspnea Assessment: dyspnea will be assessed with the following self-administered
      questionnaires: Modified Medical Research Council Breathlessness Scale, the University of
      California, San Diego Shortness of Breath Questionnaire Pulmonary Function Tests: spirometry
      and plethysmography pre and post salbutamol administration, carbon monoxide diffusion (DLCO)
      and the fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO) will be evaluated.

      Six Minute Walk Test: the subjects able to do so will perform a six minute walk test, their
      dyspnea and overall fatigue at baseline and at the end of the exercise will be evaluated
      using the Borg Scale.

      Lung MRI: a proton MRI with ultrashort echo time (UTE) acquisition sequences for the study of
      lung parenchyma and lung water will be employed. Images will be acquired twice, both pre and
      post a bronchodilator (salbutamol) challenge.

      Sodium MRI: a proton T1 weighted fast-low-angle-shot (FLASH)- sequence will be acquired to
      delineate the anatomy of the lower leg. Then, a sodium MRI study of the subjects' legs (~5 cm
      below the knee) will be obtained with the custom-made sodium coil at 3.0 Tesla.

      Water content will also be quantified using proton-MRI with fat-suppressed inversion recovery
      sequence with proton density contrast.

      Chest CT: a high-resolution chest CT scan will be performed using a 64-slice CT scanner. A
      low radiation dose protocol will be employed. A qualitative and quantitative evaluation of
      pulmonary airways, blood vessels and parenchyma will be performed.

      2D Transthoracic Echocardiography: images will be taken in the left lateral decubitus. Images
      and loops from standard parasternal long axis and short axis, subcostal, apical 4, 2 and 3-
      chamber views will be recorded and analyzed for: global longitudinal strain, left ventricular
      ejection fraction, left ventricular mass, left atrial volume, right ventricular diameter,
      right atrial volume, right ventricular wall thickness, tricuspid annular plane systolic
      excursion, pulmonary artery systolic pressure, E/A ratio, E/E' ratio at the basal
      interventricular septum, aortic, mitral, tricuspid and pulmonary valve qualitative and
      quantitative function.
    
  