
    
      Elderly people living in low-income housing facilities represent one of our nation's largest,
      most functionally impaired, economically disadvantaged, and understudied populations that
      account for a disproportionate share of Medicare spending. This trial aims to test whether
      Tai Chi exercises improve the health and reduce the health care utilization of this
      population more than health education and social calls by conducting a cluster randomized
      controlled trial in 16 housing facilities in cities surrounding Boston. The proposal builds
      upon previously successful studies by Drs. Lipsitz, Wayne, and others showing multiple
      benefits of Tai Chi exercises in elderly people with a variety of diseases and disabilities.
      A randomized, controlled pilot study showed that 12 weeks of Tai Chi exercises tailored to
      the abilities of frail seniors living in supportive housing facilities can improve balance,
      gait, and physical function. The proposed study aims are to determine the effects of Tai Chi
      exercises conducted at least twice weekly over a 6-month period on 1) functional performance
      measured by the Short Physical Performance Battery and 2) health care utilization determined
      from self-reported emergency room visits and hospitalizations in poor, multiethnic, elderly
      residents of low income housing facilities. Secondary outcomes will include person-centered
      measures such as physical function, cognition, psychological well-being, falls, and
      self-efficacy. We hypothesize that compared to the control intervention, Tai Chi will
      significantly improve physical function and reduce health care utilization. This study will
      prepare the necessary training and protocol manuals for widespread dissemination of Tai Chi
      programs in housing facilities across the nation. It will also provide estimates of potential
      Medicare cost savings that can be used to justify future health insurance payments for this
      intervention.
    
  