
    
      Investigators will first test a biopsy of the tumor or lymph node that has already been done
      to see if the tumor or tissue cells are EBV positive. If the patient is eligible,
      investigators will then take 60 mL (about 12 teaspoons) of blood from the patient or their
      donor on one or two occasions. They will use this blood to grow T cells. First they will grow
      a special type of cells called dendritic cells or monocytes which will stimulate the T cells.
      Next they will put a specially produced human virus that carries the LMP genes into the
      dendritic cells or monocytes. They will then be used to stimulate T cells. This stimulation
      will train the T cells to kill cells with LMP on their surface. Investigators will then grow
      these LMP specific CTLs by more stimulation with EBV infected cells. These EBV infected cells
      will be treated with radiation so they cannot grow.

      Once sufficient numbers of T cells have been made, investigators will test them to make sure
      they kill cells with LMP on their surface. If the counts are low they may need to obtain
      additional blood samples to make these cells. Prior to giving the patient the CTLs, the cells
      will be tested to make sure they don't attack the tissue.

      The cells will then be thawed and injected into the patient over 10 minutes. Initially, two
      doses of T cells will be given two weeks apart. If after the second infusion there is a
      reduction in the size of the lymphoma on CT or MRI scan as assessed by a radiologist, the
      patient can receive up to six additional doses of the T cells if the patient wishes. This is
      a dose escalation study which means that for some patients the second dose may be larger than
      the first. All of the treatments will be given by the Center for Cell and Gene Therapy at
      Texas Children's Hospital or the Methodist Hospital.

      For follow-up after the CTL infusions, the patient will be seen every 3 months for the first
      year. Then the patient will either be seen in the clinic or they will be contacted by a
      research nurse yearly for 5 years.
    
  