
    
      This is an open-label, randomized, two-way, cross-over study to compare the glucose control
      between closed-loop strategy with and without a learning module. Children and adolescent type
      1 diabetes patients at Camp Carowanis will be enrolled in the study, where they will undergo
      two randomly ordered interventions:

        1. Closed-loop therapy: participants will undergo a closed-loop therapy where insulin
           delivery is determined by the MAP system. The study parameters (basal rates and ICRs)
           will be determined by the camp's physicians on day 1 of camp. The research staff will
           update the pump's settings to reflect the physician's recommendations at the beginning
           of the closed-loop therapy, and each time the physicians update the study parameters.
           Camp physicians will review participants' sensor and insulin data daily, and if
           necessary, adjust participant basal rates and ICRs. The research staff members will
           likewise adjust the pump's basal rates and ICR settings as per physician's
           recommendations. The closed-loop therapy will last 2 days (48 hours).

        2. Closed-loop therapy with learning module: participants will undergo a closed-loop
           therapy where insulin delivery is determined by the MAP system. The study parameters
           (basal rates and ICRs) will be computed by the learning algorithm and updated daily. The
           learning algorithm runs on a computer of the research staff members and requires patient
           data to calculate the optimal basal rates and ICR. Each morning, the research staff
           members will upload patient data onto the computer, run the leaning algorithm, and
           update the pump parameters to reflect the recommendations computed by the learning
           algorithm. Camp physicians will be to review the algorithm's recommendations before they
           are entered into the patient's pump. The closed-loop therapy with the learning module
           will last 8 days (192 hours).
    
  