
    
      This study will collect high-quality randomized controlled data from a nationally
      representative sample of practicing physicians, specifically primary care physicians and pain
      specialists, to determine how they currently manage patients with pain and how the results of
      Ethos' test change their clinical decision making. Data from this study will better
      illuminate the clinical use cases in which the Ethos test has the most significant impact on
      clinical decision making (and thus the largest clinical utility) and the physician
      characteristics (e.g., age, practice setting, training) associated with practice change.

      The study is a prospective cohort trial with six steps:

        1. Enrollment: The study will enroll an estimated 166 practicing primary care physicians
           who practice in the U.S. and are determined to be eligible by an eligibility screener.

        2. Provider survey: Once providers are enrolled in the study, they will be asked to
           complete a questionnaire describing their practice and professional background.

        3. Randomization: The 166 physicians will be randomized into equally-sized control and
           intervention arms.

        4. CPVs (First Round): Physicians will complete three randomly-assigned CPV patient
           simulations. Cases will be identical across the intervention and control arms. All
           interactive cases are presented on an online platform, and are accessible via unique
           weblinks and any internet-connected computer.

        5. Intervention education: Intervention-arm physicians will receive educational materials
           describing the clinical validation and use cases of the Ethos test. This material will
           replicate what physicians would receive as part of an actual marketing push introducing
           them to the Ethos test. These materials may be comprised of a slide deck, fact sheet,
           webinar, and/or case studies.

        6. CPVs (Second Round): All participating physicians will then be asked to complete three
           additional CPV patient simulations. The cases are given to the doctors in a random
           order. Cases will be identical across the intervention and control arms, except that the
           intervention arm will receive Ethos test results at an appropriate point in each
           simulated case in the post-intervention round. Control arm physicians will continue to
           have access to standard of care diagnostic tools, but not the Ethos test results.
    
  