
    
      This is a 6-week pilot and feasibility single-arm, open-label trial of modafinil 200mg orally
      every morning to improve cognitive efficiency in systemic lupus patients with cognitive
      difficulties in daily life.

      Cognitive dysfunction is a well-recognized manifestation of systemic lupus erythematosus
      (SLE) whose reported prevalence ranges from 12-87%. SLE-associated cognitive dysfunction
      often occurs in the absence of frank neuropsychiatric disease (e.g., stroke, depression,
      psychosis, cerebral vasculitis), medications known to have central nervous system effects, or
      increased disease activity or flare. Studies of SLE antibodies (most notably the
      antiphospholipid antibodies) have provided conflicting results with respect to their
      association with SLE-associated cognitive dysfunction. Thus, despite numerous investigations,
      the etiology of SLE-associated cognitive dysfunction remains unclear. There is no known means
      for preventing cognitive dysfunction in SLE. Similarly there are no established or proven
      treatments for cognitive dysfunction in SLE.

      Regardless of its cause, course, or long-term consequences, cognitive dysfunction in SLE is a
      major cause of distress, compromised performance of everyday activities, and decreased
      quality of life. Thus, treatment of decreased cognitive performance in SLE when it occurs, no
      matter how mild, and regardless of its potential for permanence or progression, is of
      paramount importance. It is imperative to provide SLE patients with cognitive performance
      difficulties with the means to functionally cope with their impairments so that they can
      maintain, if not regain their independence.

      Modafinil is a safe, orally administered wakefulness-promoting agent approved for use in
      adults suffering from narcolepsy, idiopathic hypersomnia, obstructive sleep apnea, and shift
      work sleep syndrome. Since its FDA approval, it has been used for many additional varied
      conditions including depression, fatigue, fibromyalgia, myotonic dystrophy, organic brain
      syndrome, sleep deprivation, Parkinson's, and drug-induced somnolence. It has also been used
      in helicopter and airplane pilots to enhance their attentiveness during long flights. Some of
      our SLE patients have been prescribed modafinil for narcolepsy or associated fatigue.

      Modafinil has broad efficacy in health and illness. It enhances cognitive function in normal
      young adult males, as tested by digit span, visual pattern recognition memory, spatial
      planning and stop-signal reaction time. While the majority of patients prescribed modafinil
      received the drug for non-cognitive indications (e.g., fatigue, sleepiness), several have
      reported improved cognitive function, especially with respect to tasks that require attention
      and concentration.

      We hypothesize that Modafinil, an FDA-approved, non-specific wakefulness-promoting agent with
      minimal side effects, is safe and effective when used to improve cognitive efficiency in SLE
      patients who identify cognitive dysfunction in themselves.
    
  