
    
      The lifestyle intervention will enroll 350 participants. The initial lifestyle component of
      this study, which lasts for 4-6 months, will be provided to all participants. Participants
      may chose from one of two intervention formats, each with 4 contacts: individual counseling
      with at least one face-to-face visit and the rest face-to-face or by phone or 4 group
      sessions. The dietary intervention will focus on improving fat and carbohydrate quality. For
      fat intake, the goals include 2-4 servings per day of polyunsaturated fat primarily from
      plant sources and minimal intake of trans fat. For carbohydrate intake, the goals include
      increased intake of whole grains, fruits and vegetables, and beans and reduced consumption of
      refined carbohydrates. The physical activity intervention will primarily focus on walking
      with a goal of 7500 to 10,000 steps per day or, for those who do not wish to use a pedometer,
      30 minutes of walking a day. Muscle strengthening activities will also be recommended. At the
      4-6 month follow-up measures, those who wish to take part in a weight loss study may do so
      and those who do not will continue in a maintenance of lifestyle intervention.

      The investigators anticipate approximately 200 participants will take part in the weight loss
      component of this study, which consists of a 6 month intensive weight loss intervention.
      Participants may choose from two intervention formats: 16 weekly group sessions or 5 group
      sessions and 10 phone counseling sessions. The weight loss goal will be 5% of body weight. At
      the conclusion of this program, those who lose at least 8 pounds and are willing to take part
      in a 1 year maintenance of weight loss intervention will be RANDOMIZED to one of two
      maintenance of weight loss programs. One maintenance arm will receive monthly telephone
      contacts for one year, while the other arm will receive bi-monthly phone contacts.

      Follow-up measures for all participants will be at approximately 6, 12, 18, and 24 months.

      Another related part of the project will use a systems approach to develop models integrating
      clinical and genomic data. Researchers have developed and tested an approach referred to as
      the SAMARA (Supporting A Multidisciplinary Approach to Research in Atherosclerosis) Project
      that applies recent, major advances in biomedical and computational sciences at UNC to
      develop a deeper understanding of human CVD. The Heart-Healthy Lenoir Project will expand
      studies into the community, using this methodology to: 1) determine the prevalence of genomic
      risk signatures in high-risk community populations using genome-wide Single Nucleotide
      Polymorphism (SNP) analysis; 2) develop novel genomic models incorporating high-risk features
      in this population; and 3) determine whether genomic signatures can be used to predict
      responsiveness to interventions that underlie CVD disparities. Participants who consent to
      this component of the project will have a blood specimen obtained at baseline.
    
  