
    
      This will be a prospective observational trial to better understand the range and variation
      associated with bone/soft tissue perfusion in fracture patients and examine the relationship
      between perfusion, measured using quantitative Indocyanine green (ICG) fluorescence and
      complications such as surgical site infection (SSI), persistent SSI, and fracture nonunion.
      Primary outcome measure is complication (either infection, recurrent infection or nonunion).

      Eligible consenting patients will receive standard of care treatment for their fracture or
      infection including irrigation and debridement of their operative site and/or fracture
      fixation. After exposure, 0.1 mg/Kg ICG will be injected intravenously and video rate ICG
      fluorescence images will be acquired 20 seconds before and 4 minutes after the injection,
      each before and after debridement.

      A subset of 30post-fracture complication patients will undergo surgical treatment for their
      infection in Center of Innovation Surgery (CIS) and have either an intraoperative Dynamic
      contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) after exposure but before the ICG
      injection or a preoperative DCE-MRI. Patients receiving surgery in the CIS will be required
      to sign an additional CIS-specific consent document. The need for repeat surgical procedure
      will be left up to the treating surgeon. If repeat procedure is needed, pre- and
      post-debridement quantitative ICG fluorescence images will be obtained at each procedure.

      Study participants will be followed at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, and one year
      from their index study surgery. Complication including index infection, recurrent infection
      or delaying union/nonunion will be identified at the time of diagnosis and/or during each
      participants assessment that occurs during routine outpatient clinic visit. Detailed
      information on the infection including date of diagnosis, participant signs and symptoms,
      culture test results, methodof treatment(s), and date of resolution will be documented.
    
  