
    
      Simultaneous measurements of PET and MR together as is recently became possible have allow
      spatial and temporal correlation between the two modalities opening a window of opportunities
      that was not available so far. The first practical advantage is because most neurological
      patients should go through both MRI and PET scans. Allowing both scans in the occasion
      significantly increase patient comfort. Furthermore, the simultaneous scans in contrast to
      sequential scans allow correlation between PET and MR informaiton without the concern of
      pathological brain modifications between the scans. Currently PET is performed combined with
      CT, which is superior to MR in the field of brain images. MR high soft tissue resolution as
      well as extra information it may provide regarding brain perfusion, diffusion, metabolic
      parameters etc., make the MR a far better modality for brain imaging than CT. In addition,
      the combined tool allow leveraging MR data to improve PET data quantification. PET issues
      such as motion correction, partial volume effect and correct localization of the tracer in
      the brain anatomy that cause PET image degradation and lower accuracy and robustness of PET
      quantitative parameters, can be solved by integrating MR data into the analysis. Several
      recently published articles have demonstrated different correction approaches for motion
      correction and partial volume effect showing an improvement in the PET images both visually
      and quantitatively . PET attenuation correction using MR data have also been studied, however
      this matter still need to be resolved. PET/MR for neurological conditions, in general, and
      specifically for conditions resulting in dementia, is a promising application with a large
      variety of research opportunities and its abilities need to be explored. Optimization of the
      acquisition protocols and even more so, the analysis and quantification protocols still need
      to be performed and will be the focus of this study.
    
  