
    
      Idiopathic subglottic stenosis (iSGS) is a rare disease in which the trachea narrows for no
      known reason. Although uncommon (with an estimated incidence of 1:400,000 persons per year),
      both the disease and its therapies profoundly affect patients' ability to breathe,
      communicate and swallow. Breathing difficulties (i.e. dyspnea) is the hallmark symptom and
      the primary cause of death and disability. However, patients can also experience debilitating
      voice changes and swallowing problems due to the condition or its treatment.

      People with this disease often require several surgeries per year. A variety of treatments
      have been advanced to manage iSGS but are generally categorized into: 1) endoscopic dilation
      of the tracheal stenosis (accomplished with rigid instruments or inflatable balloons); 2)
      endoscopic resection of the stenosis (with prolonged medical therapy after surgery); or 3)
      open neck surgery with resection of the affected tracheal segment with end-to-end
      anastomosis. Each patient can require repeated surgeries to keep their trachea open, which
      increases odds of treatment side effects and complications. All approaches have unique and
      often disabling associated side effects, which can significantly affect a patient's quality
      of life.

      Because the disease is rare, it is difficult for patients to find good information so that
      they can understand the spectrum of treatment options. This is particularly difficult because
      most patients present with severe breathing trouble and need treatment quickly, limiting
      their ability to explore options. Additionally, there is a general lack of high-quality,
      reliable, and accessible data to inform individual patient decision-making. Imperfect
      information and limited evidence on treatment outcomes complicate patient decision-making as
      they try to balance survival, symptoms, and quality of life considerations.

      Beyond the gaps in understanding the relative effectiveness of the different treatments
      available, no studies have explored functional outcomes in iSGS (i.e. how well patients
      breathe, speak, and swallow after treatments). These endpoints are important to patients and
      are arguably a primary determinant in decision-making. Direct engagement with patients is
      critical to understand these quality of life considerations, since patient and physician
      perspectives aren't always the same. For example, results show that endoscopic dilation is
      associated with a higher rate of disease recurrence and thus need for repeated surgery.
      Meanwhile, open tracheal resection is a major surgery with significant immediate
      perioperative risks and has been associated with alterations in voice and swallowing. Open
      tracheal resection appears to reduce the risk of disease recurrence, but the degree of
      benefit, and the trade-offs associated with this approach are unanswered questions.

      The proposed study from the North American Airway Collaborative (NoAAC PR- 02) is designed to
      fill this void. Our prospective study will directly compare the effectiveness of standard of
      care treatments and assess their associated quality of life tradeoffs in iSGS patients.
    
  