
    
      The aim of this study is to compare the effect of endurance and resistance exercises on
      endothelial function in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM). For this purpose, the
      sample size will consist of 15 patients with DM1, aged between 18 and 45 years, which will
      undertake the two types of exercises, randomly distributed. Ergospirometry testing will be
      performed in order to assess possible contraindications to the proposed protocol as well as
      functional capacity, which will be used in prescription of the endurance exercise session.
      Similarly, a strength maximal testing will be conducted and used in the prescription of the
      resistance exercise session.

      The endothelial function will be evaluated by vascular reactivity of the forearm and
      circulating endothelial progenitor cells (EPC) counting. To analyze the vascular reactivity
      of the forearm, non-invasive venous occlusion plethysmography will be used, whereas flow
      cytometry method will be used to the analysis of the number of circulating EPC. The endurance
      exercise session will consist of 40 minutes of cycling on heart rate corresponding to 60% of
      VO2 max. The resistance exercise session will last 40 minutes, consisting of 4 sets of 12
      repetitions at 60% of 1RM, in four exercises for lower limbs. The research will be performed
      at the Exercise Pathophysiology Research Laboratory of the Hospital de Clinicas de Porto
      Alegre. The investigators expect to find greater increase in the number of circulating EPC
      after the endurance exercise session, when compared to the benefits obtained from a session
      of resistance exercise. Likewise, it is expected to find greater benefits in relation to
      vascular reactivity of the forearm after a session of endurance exercise when compared to a
      session of resistance exercise. Considering that most part of the studies that analyze the
      effects of physical exercise on vascular function does not involve patients with DM1, this
      project aims to provide a clearer picture of the benefits of different exercises in the acute
      response of endothelial function in these patients.
    
  