
    
      200 patients with primary liver cancer who meet the standard are included. According to the
      random number, the patients are divided into lidocaine group and conventional analgesia
      group. Changes in liver and kidney function, blood routine, blood coagulation function and
      tumor marker alpha-fetoprotein(AFP) are collected before surgery. Preoperative CT reports on
      liver mass size, location, relationship with surrounding tissues, hepatitis related virus
      titer and preoperative medication are recorded.

      General anesthesia induction in the conventional group: midazolam 2mg, propofol 1.5-2.5mg/kg,
      sufentanil 0.2-0.3ug/kg, cisatracurium 0.2mg/kg, 50mg flurbiprofen injection or 40mg
      parecoxib sodium injection(exclude use contraindications). During the operation, propofol,
      desflurane or sevoflurane are maintained. Intraoperative analgesia: nitrous oxide, compound
      remifentanil 0.1-0.2ug/kg.min, remifentanil 50-150ug or sufentanil 0.1ug/kg for the necessary
      time. At the end of the operation: the incision is locally infiltrated with 0.5% ropivacaine
      (20ml) and dexmedetomidine (1ug/kg). If the operation time is longer than 5 hours, the
      patient should be re-injected with 40mg parecoxib sodium injection, and connect with the
      patient-controlled intravenous analgesia(PCIA) that drug formula is sufentanil 2ug/kg,
      dexmedetomidine 200ug and granisetron 12mg until postoperation 3 days. In the lidocaine
      group, general anesthesia is induced by slow intravenous lidocaine at 1.5mg/kg, followed by
      continuous injection of lidocaine at 2mg/kg.h with micropump and other anesthesia induction
      is maintained as the conventional group. At the end of the operation, the PCIA with lidocaine
      is used with a dose of 30mg/kg(no more than 2000mg at most), and the other formula is the
      same as that of the conventional group. In patients with contraindications to NSAIDs drug
      use, dezocine 5mg or hydromorphone 2mg should be given intravenously 30 minutes before the
      end of surgery. The plasma concentration of lidocaine is measured immediately postoperation
      and within the postoperative first 24 hours. Natural killer cells, cytokines l-6, TNF-a and
      C-reactive protein in peripheral blood at postoperative 24h. Changes of liver and kidney
      function indexes at postoperative 24 hours .

      Visual analogue scale (VAS) is used to evaluate pain at resting state and light activities at
      postoperative 24, 48, 72 hours. The recovery time of postoperative gastrointestinal function
      is calculated: the first time of exhaust and defecation; postoperative hospital stay;
      complications, such as surgical site infection, respiratory tract infection, thrombosis,
      incision debridement, postoperative bleeding, serious cardiovascular complications, death,
      etc. The incidence of lidocaine toxicity within postoperative 72 hours, including
      neurological manifestations such as vertigo, tinnitus, and convulsions, cardiac
      manifestations such as bradycardia, and new severe atrioventricular block. Follow-up after
      discharge: changes in tumor markers and barrier-free survival at 1 month after surgery;
      chronic pain at postoperative 3 months and 6 months; tumor markers at postoperative 6 months,
      1 year, 3 years and 5 years, relapse-free, barrier-free, and overall survival rates based on
      enhanced CT, MRI, or ultrasound diagnosis.
    
  