
    
      Coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19) first broke out in Wuhan and Hubei China during december
      2019. On 30 January, WHO declared it a Public Health Emergency of International Concern
      (PHEIC) .

      Currently, the number of cases worldwide stands stands at more than 76 million confirmed
      cases according to the World Health Organization (WHO) records. First documented case in
      Israel was reported on 21st of february 2020.

      During the months of February and April, due to continued rise in confirmed cases, rigid
      "stay at home" restrictions were issued. These restrictions have had a significant effect on
      daily life. Under these new "stay at home" policies, many aspects of everyday life were
      greatly diminished and restricted under threat of heavy fines. This effect also extends to
      reduction in healthcare seeking. decline in emergency department (ED) visits was reported. A
      drop in routine cancer screening appointments was reported.

      Delayed healthcare seeking also had an affect on the severity of various medical conditions
      on presentation. fear of the COVID-19 pandemic may have resulted in delayed diagnosis, and
      therefore higher complication rates in common medical conditions.

      acute appendicitis (AA) is among the most common causes of lower abdominal pain leading
      patients to attend the emergency department. As such, AA could serve as a good indicator for
      the possible effect that the fear of the COVID-19 pandemic had on patients tendency for late
      diagnosis and complication rate.

      Gomes Laparoscopic Grading System of AA, classifies appendicitis into five laparoscopic
      grades according to gross morphologic findings during surgical laparoscopy. grades 1 and 2
      regarded as non-complicated appendicitis, while grades 3, 4 and 5 regarded as complicated
      appendicitis.

      Following the restrictions imposed during the COVID-19 pandemic, we noticed a rise in
      complicated appendicitis cases presenting to our medical center. We collected objective data
      on all patients admitted to the surgical department with appendicitis during February 2020 -
      March 2020 compared to the same 2 month period in 2019. Data such as the time period from
      onset of symptoms to presenting to the ED, inflammatory markers, complicated appendicitis (if
      any), type of complication, post operative complications. We aim to assess whether the "stay
      at home" restrictions had any adverse effects on severity or outcomes of AA.
    
  