
    
      People with severe obesity who are scheduled to undergo either primary gastric bypass or
      primary sleeve gastrectomy will be recruited from the Bariatric Clinics at University College
      London Hospital (UCLH) and the Whittington Hospital and asked to participate in an
      observational cohort study. Eligible patients will be given a participant information sheet
      (PIS) for BARI-LIFESTYLE Observational Study and informed consent will be sought. Recruited
      patient will attend for 4 research visits, timed to coincide with their clinic visits, at
      approximately 6 weeks before surgery (Visit 1), 3 month post-surgery (Visit 2), 6 months
      post-surgery (Visit 3) and 12 months post-surgery (Visit 4). Each research visit will include
      assessment of body weight, body composition (using bioelectrical impedance analysis),
      physical fitness and activity levels, obesity-associated co-morbidities, HRQoL and usual care
      laboratory investigations. Dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scanning will be undertaken
      at Visit 1 and Visit 4, which is not a usual assessment for the post-surgery standard care.
      All of the research assessments will be done as part of this observational cohort study.

      Immediately after surgery has been undertaken, BARI-LIFESTYLE Observational Study
      participants will be randomised to continue to receive usual care, or usual care plus
      lifestyle intervention (nutritional and behavioural tele-counselling, self-monitoring and a
      12-week supervised tailored exercise programme). However, to avoid contamination between the
      intervention group and the usual care group, only those randomly allocated to the lifestyle
      intervention group will be informed of this. They will be given a PIS (BARI-LIFESTYLE
      Intervention Study) and informed consent will be sought. If the participants decline to take
      part in the lifestyle programme, they will remain in the control group (observational cohort
      study).
    
  