
    
      Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) is considered the gold standard in
      diagnosing and treating biliary and pancreatic diseases. In fact, with the wide use of ERCP,
      many critical patients in whom conventional surgery was a high-risk procedure could be
      managed by endoscopic treatment.

      Compared to other endoscopic procedures, ERCP is considered a relatively longer and more
      complex one, with a substantially higher complication rate. Anesthetic techniques must
      facilitate the success of this procedure without adding to morbidity.

      Patients planned for ERCP often have additional comorbidities that make them high-risk
      candidates for general anesthesia so; the optimized choice of the anesthetic technique
      represents a real challenge.

      Many anesthetic techniques are used, ranging from conscious sedation to general anesthesia.
      The worldwide accepted method is deep sedation in the presence of an anesthetist without
      endotracheal intubation. Intubation is recommended in very exceptional cases, for example is
      morbidly obese patients.

      According to some authors, general anesthesia is less used as an anesthetic technique in
      ERCP; drawbacks of GA include: the lengthier time required for induction of and recovery from
      anesthesia which affects patients' turnover, the risk of residual neuromuscular blockade, the
      higher cost as well as ERCP is usually a day case procedure favoring the sedation technique.
      On the other hand, monitored anesthesia care or deep sedation in remote locations can avoid
      these drawbacks.

      For ERCP cases, which can be very challenging, few studies have addressed what is the best
      anesthetic choice, i.e. deep sedation or general anesthesia with intubation. Significant
      complications such as aspiration, hypoxemia, and hypotension are potential risks in patients
      undergoing ERCP procedures, and important factors that can modify these events' severity
      include patients' ASA status, patients' hydration and oxygenation status, and monitoring
      techniques used during the procedure.

      Perioperative pulmonary aspiration (POPA) may lead to clinically significant morbidities
      and/or mortality. The risk factors for pulmonary aspiration are usually overlooked unless the
      patient has a history of gastrointestinal diseases (for example gastroesophageal reflux
      disease, upper gastrointestinal bleeding, or intestinal obstruction). However, aspiration
      pneumonia is seldom observed in healthy patients undergoing regular endoscopy. On the other
      hand, prolonged or difficult procedures may be associated with increased risks of
      regurgitation and aspiration.

      Apparent aspiration is a notable adverse event during gastrointestinal endoscopy, on the
      other hand, microaspiration is an underreported complication, and data about it is scarce.
      Since hypoxemia is a common manifestation of pulmonary aspiration and pulse oximetry
      monitoring is a routine practice, therefore, postoperative hypoxemia (POH) can be used as a
      potential signal for POPA.

      There is no conclusive data to support or refuse the need for endotracheal intubation to
      avoid microaspiration during ERCP; therefore, the participants in the study decided to
      prospectively compare both techniques as regards the risk of microaspiration.
    
  