
    
      If you agree to participate in this study you will be asked to undergo a blood test to find
      out if you are eligible. Approximately 2 tablespoons of blood will be drawn. The blood test
      will check your health and menopausal status. This test will aslo be used to help measure any
      additional effects of the study drug on your body. If you have had a blood test recently, it
      may or may not have to be repeated. If these tests show that you are eligible to participate
      in the research study, you will begin the study. If you do not meet the eligibility criteria,
      you will not be able to participate.

      Because no one knows which of the study options is best, and all of the options are
      considered likely to work, you will be "randomized" into one of the study groups: melatonin
      or placebo.

      Randomization means that you are put into a group by chance. It is like flipping a coin.
      Neither you nor the research doctor will choose what group you will be in. You will have an
      equal chance of being placed in either group. Neither you nor the research doctor will know
      what group you are in. You will not know the identity of your study treatment until after the
      final research analysis has taken place. Once this has happened, you will be mailed a letter
      from the principal research doctor telling you which study drug you received while on study.

      You will be given a study drug and it will either contain melatonin or placebo (pills with no
      medical effect). You will take one tablet by mouth every night as close to 9:00 pm as
      possible. You should not make up missed doses. You will be given enough study drug to last 4
      months. You will also be given a study medication-dosing calendar to write down times you
      took the study drug for each month you are taking the study drug.

      Before taking the study drug, you will have blood tests to look at the level of estrogen and
      IGF in your blood. Approximately 2 tablespoons of blood will be drawn. At this visit, you
      will also be asked to complete a questionnaire that will take approximately 15 minutes.

      A member of the research study staff will check in by telephone once a month to monitor your
      experiences on the research study. You may also contact a member of the research study staff
      at any time if you have any questions or concerns.

      You should tell your research doctor if you are currently taking black cohosh, flaxseed or
      soy in pill or supplement form, as it may affect your participation in this research study.

      After you have completed approximately 4 months of study drug, you will return to clinic to
      see a member of the research study staff. At this visit you will have the following tests and
      procedures: You will have blood tests to look at the level of estrogen and IGF in your blood.
      Approximately 2 tablespoons of blood will be drawn. You must return your study
      medication-dosing calendar and all of your pill bottles at the end of the research study to a
      member of the research study staff. You wil also be asked to complete a questionnaire that
      will take about 15 minutes.
    
  