
    
      Objective:

      Assess the 'real world' effectiveness, safety and cost-effectiveness of home BP
      telemonitoring in combination with protocolized pharmacist case management in
      community-dwelling seniors with diabetes and hypertension.

      Background:

      Hypertension, present in over 70% of seniors, causes devastating cardiovascular complications
      and premature death. Despite its critical importance to health, high BP is uncontrolled in
      about 35% of seniors with diabetes (i.e., undertreatment). Conversely, antihypertensive drug
      therapy can excessively lower BP, causing serious adverse effects that warrant drug
      discontinuation or dose reduction (i.e., overtreatment). Both undertreatment and
      overtreatment lead to potentially preventable harms and thus need to be minimized.

      Office BP measurements are currently used to monitor the vast majority of Canadians with
      hypertension; however, they are inaccurate and Canadian guidelines (May 2015) instead
      strongly endorse use of home BP because home readings are more accurate and more convenient
      to measure. Home readings can be taken in 3 ways: 1. by the patient alone (who bears
      responsibility for giving the readings to their provider); 2. via telemonitoring, in which
      readings are automatically summarized and sent to the care provider; 3. through
      telemonitoring plus protocolized case management, in which the summarized readings are
      reviewed by a case manager (usually a nurse or pharmacist) authorized to adjust treatments.
      Telemonitoring and case management is not being used in Canada because validation data in
      this country are lacking and the pre-requisite tech infrastructure does not exist. The
      patient alone method is being used exclusively but has many barriers and pitfalls (including
      failure to take the proper number of readings, report all readings, calculate mean BP, or use
      this information to optimally manage both inappropriately high and low BP).

      Design:

      In this 1-year pragmatic, prospective, randomized open label trial with blinded ascertainment
      of endpoints, 200 patients will be randomly assigned (1:1) to one of 2 study arms: enhanced
      usual care (home BP monitoring alone) or home BP telemonitoring plus protocolized case
      management. Randomization will be performed independent of the study team (by EPICORE Centre)
      through a centralized computerized concealed process, stratified by baseline BP (above versus
      below 140 mmHg systolic BP). Outcomes assessors and analysts will be masked to allocation
      status. Blinded assessment of the primary endpoint (24-hour ambulatory BP) will be performed.

      Methods:

      All participants will receive a validated electronic upper arm oscillometric BP device (A&D
      Ltd. UA-651BLE; San Jose, CA) and a set top box (a hub for wireless data transmission to a
      secure server). Participants without internet access will also receive a cellphone with a
      data plan. Pushing a single button activates the device and initiates a BP measurement, which
      is auto-transmitted to the set top box via a bluetooth connection. The academic research team
      in collaboration with TeleMED, a Canadian based telemedicine company, will build data
      transmission protocols (using Secure Sockets Layer [SSL] encrypted data transmission) and
      TeleMED will build and maintain the health portal platform.

      Four BP measurements will be taken daily for 1 week (home BP series). If BP is high or low,
      the home BP series will be done each month until BP is in the therapeutic range. Once
      controlled, the protocol will be repeated every 3 months, as recommended by guidelines.

      Teletransmitted BP readings will be summarized within a secure health portal using TeleMED
      software, which will be used to calculate an overall weekly mean. Temporal trends will be
      plotted. BP teletransmission will occur in all study arms but will be used differently in
      each.

      Consecutive, consenting seniors (≥65 years) with hypertension, will be recruited from seniors
      supportive living residences including (but not necessarily limited to) 43 Greater Edmonton
      Foundation (GEF) Seniors Housing (www.gef.org) and Rosedale Seniors' Living
      (rosedaledevelopments.com) residences; none of these residents currently receive
      telemonitoring or case management. They will be followed by the study team for a period of 1
      year; outcome assessments will occur at 6 and 12-months post randomization.
    
  