
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that is characterized by
      motor control impairments, such as gait disturbances and postural instability. Beneficial
      effects of exercise are attributed to mechanisms of neuroplasticity, and task-specific motor
      training (repeated practice of a skill) is consequently considered to be a motor learning
      process. Importantly, the formation (acquisition) and consolidation of motor memories is
      impaired in PD compared to healthy individuals of similar age.

      Thus, it is crucial to identify strategies to enhance motor learning in people with PD.
      Recent studies have accumulated evidence to show that acute (single bouts of) cardiovascular
      exercise can facilitate motor skill learning. However, this evidence is mainly derived from
      studying healthy individuals. In a first study including PD patients, we recently found
      improved motor memory consolidation, but not skill acquisition, when practice was preceded by
      a single bout of cardiovascular exercise.

      These results suggest that acute exercise may enhance motor memory formation processes, but
      could potentially interfere with motor skill acquisition when performed prior to practice.
      Consequently, the present study investigates whether performing a single bout of
      cardiovascular exercise immediately following skill practice will enhance motor memory
      consolidation without affecting skill acquisition in PD.

      In an experimental trial, participants will be randomly allocated to one of two groups. Both
      groups will practice balancing on a stability platform (motor learning task). The
      experimental group will additionally perform a bout of aerobic exercise (cycle ergometer)
      immediately following motor practice, while the control group will rest. Subsequently, motor
      skill retention will be tested after 24 hour and seven-days.
    
  