
    
      The International Subarachnoid Aneurysm Trial (ISAT) was a turning point in modern
      neurosurgical history (1). The trial showed that for 2143 subarachnoid hemorrhage
      (SAH)patients eligible for both surgery and endovascular coiling, randomized allocation to
      coiling was associated with better one year clinical outcomes, defined as survival without
      dependency (absolute risk reduction (ARR) of 7.4% (95%CI; 3.6 - 11.2, p=0.0001). Because ISAT
      was a positive pragmatic trial, the interpretation of the trial results was that coiling
      should be adopted as the first-line treatment for ruptured lesions, for patients with the
      types of aneurysms included in ISAT, of which the great majority were small (≥10 mm) anterior
      circulation aneurysms.

      Although ISAT was well-designed, conducted, and reported, trial results were not always
      properly interpreted, and endovascular coiling was perhaps inappropriately extrapolated
      beyond what ISAT demonstrated. Endovascular treatment for ruptured aneurysms has now become
      first-line treatment in many centers (2), which may be appropriate for small, anterior
      circulation lesions, but there is no evidence to support this practice for the wide spectrum
      of non-ISAT patients and aneurysms. A recent pre-randomized study of coiling as
      first-intention (3)showed better results for those ruptured aneurysms felt to be readily
      coilable; however, the optimal management of more difficult-to-coil ruptured aneurysms
      remains unclear.

      Further compounding the problem are the concerns that aneurysm coiling may not be as durable
      in the long-term as surgical clipping, leading many neurosurgeons to continue to clip most
      ruptured aneurysms in spite of ISAT results.

      Proponents of endovascular treatment sometimes justify this extrapolation of ISAT results on
      the basis of improved catheter and coil technology, although this has never been
      demonstrated. However, the addition of stents and flow-diverters, which were not tested in
      ISAT, may increase endovascular treatment risks, especially when combined with dual
      anti-platelet agents. The introduction of these devices allowed for the expansion of
      indications of EVT to include wide-necked aneurysms, lesions which would not have been
      included in ISAT. The wider spectrum of patients and aneurysms now considered for EVT may not
      all experience the same degree of benefit as seen in the original ISAT trial (4). Considering
      the relatively small ARR of 7.4% favouring coiling, when the additional risks due to stents
      are included, the balance may have tipped to favour surgical clipping.

      These new questions deserve formal study in the context of a randomized clinical trial.
    
  