
    
      In December 2019, the first cases of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) were diagnosed in
      Wuhan, China. Within a couple of weeks, the highly contagious disease spread across the
      world, requiring rapid and drastic measures, unparalleled in recent decades. Currently, there
      have been approximately 97.8 million cases, including 2.1 million deaths, reported to the WHO
      (website accessed January 25th, 2021, https://covid19.who.int). Data from published
      epidemiology and virologic studies show that the virus is mainly passed on by respiratory
      droplets, by direct contact with infected people, or by contact with contaminated objects and
      surfaces. The severity of the disease greatly differs between people. It ranges from
      non-symptomatic contamination or minor symptoms, such as a cold or sore throat, to
      life-threatening pneumonia and death. Especially, the elderly population and people with
      underlying comorbidities are vulnerable and experience more severe symptoms. In addition,
      studies have shown that males have a higher mortality risk.

      COVID-19 is currently diagnosed using reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction
      (RT-PCR). In the beginning of the pandemic the use of chest computed tomography (CT) was more
      common, since CT can capture imaging features from the lung associated with COVID-19 early in
      the course of the disease. However, performing a CT-can takes remarkably longer than current
      RT-PCR tests. While the epidemic continues, the consequences are slowly becoming more
      apparent. As the true population infection rate is unknown, the proportion of patients
      requiring hospital admission is difficult to estimate. In a meta-analysis including 1481
      unique publications a pooled rate of ICU admission of 10.9% and the pooled rate of mortality
      was 4.3%. The negative effects of an ICU stay strongly depend on the length of the stay and
      include, but are not limited to, risk of lung emboly, severe muscle loss, dysphagia and
      psychological problems, often necessitating a long period of rehabilitation.

      To minimize long-term health consequences early prognosis of the severity of the disease
      would be beneficial. The link between the severity of COVID-19 and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA),
      Nuclear SNPs, imaging features and radiomics has not been studied yet. However, literature
      about mechanistic insights in the functioning of the immune system and its link to genetic
      variation, including mtDNA, are promising. In addition, studies focusing on imaging features
      and radiomics have yielded interesting findings.
    
  