
    
      Cyber-bullying, defined as intentional harm of others through computers, cellphones, and
      other electronic devices, is increasingly common. Approximately one quarter of American
      adolescents report that they have been cyber-victims in the past year (with rates ranging
      from 6-72%, depending on the study). Being a victim of cyber-bullying is strongly associated
      with multiple negative consequences. Cyber-victimization predicts depressive symptoms and
      suicidality; it correlates with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) symptoms, alcohol and
      other drug use, physical peer violence, and dating violence. Emotional regulation skills and
      positive social supports may be protective. Development of an acceptable, effective, and
      potentially disseminable secondary prevention tool, to decrease both the frequency and
      consequences of cyber-victimization, is therefore of high public health importance.

      Effective, acceptable, and easily disseminable secondary prevention tools are needed to
      improve adolescent resilience and reduce the negative effects of cybervictimization.
      Ninety-five percent of adolescents have access to a smartphone. Our team recently conducted
      an NICHD-funded pilot of an in-person brief intervention + automated 8-week interactive
      text-message program ("iPACT"), to reduce cyber-victimization among youth recruited in a
      pediatric clinic. Pilot testing of iPACT showed high acceptability (89% responses to daily
      messages), and preliminary signals of efficacy (e.g. improved use of bystander behaviors).
      However, our team identified two elements for improvement. First, the in-person brief
      intervention was difficult to deliver during a clinic visit due to patients' time
      limitations. Second, our and others' work suggests that at-risk youth are more commonly
      witnesses of cyber-victimization, than victims themselves, and therefore need greater content
      focused on bystander intervention. Third, at-risk youth may be more easily identified online
      than in person.

      Participants will be identified through targeted Instagram advertisements. If eligible,
      participants will complete an online assent form followed by a series of comprehensive
      questions to assess for capacity to assent. Participants will complete a baseline assessment
      and will be randomized to experimental (IMPACT, n=40) or connection to Enhance Online
      Resources (EOR, n=40).

      This study will pilot an enhanced intervention, "IMPACT" is a two-part remotely-delivered
      intervention for youth reporting online victimization, derived from iPACT's existing
      structure, to promote pro-social behavior and enhance wellness among at-risk adolescents. We
      will deliver a brief, computer-guided discussion (an adaptation of iPACT's in-person
      intervention) remotely via video chat; and deliver 8 weeks of automated, enhanced message
      content that helps participants identify, intervene in, and effectively reduce the impact of
      witnessed or experienced cyberbullying. EOR group participants will receive standardized
      information on cyberbullying.

      Participants will complete assessments at baseline, 8 weeks, and 16 week to measure
      cyberbullying, peer violence, and cognitive/behavioral skill sets. At the 8 week follow-up,
      we will assess for efficacy, acceptability, usability, and feasibility through standardized
      qualitative and quantitative measures.
    
  