
    
      Marfan syndrome is an inheritable disorder that affects the body's connective tissue. An
      abnormal protein results in connective tissue that is weaker than normal. Because connective
      tissue is found throughout the body, Marfan syndrome can affect many body systems, including
      the skeleton, eyes, nervous system, skin, lungs, heart, and blood vessels. Overall, heart and
      blood vessel abnormalities are the leading cause of death in individuals with Marfan
      syndrome. A common blood vessel abnormality associated with this disease involves the aorta,
      which is the large artery that carries blood away from the heart to the rest of the body. The
      aortic root, the portion of the aorta that is attached to the heart, may enlarge and tear or
      even rupture. A tear or rupture is considered a life-threatening emergency. Recent studies
      have shown that the medication losartan may reduce aortic root growth and improve heart
      function. The purpose of this study is to compare the effectiveness of losartan versus
      atenolol at slowing aortic root growth in individuals with Marfan syndrome.

      This 3-year study will enroll individuals with Marfan syndrome. Participants will be randomly
      assigned to receive either losartan or atenolol on a daily basis. All participants will
      initially receive a low dose of their assigned medication. This dose will be gradually
      increased every 3 to 4 weeks until the maximum tolerated dose is reached. A continuous
      electrocardiogram (ECG) that monitors heart rate and activity in 24-hour intervals will be
      used to determine the proper dose increase for each participant. Participants will then
      receive the maximum tolerated dose for the remainder of the study. Study visits will occur at
      baseline and Months 6, 12, 24, and 36. Each study visit will include a physical examination,
      a medical history review, an ECG, an echocardiogram, and questionnaires. Additionally, at the
      baseline study visit blood will be collected for laboratory testing.
    
  