
    
      Neck Pain is very common and is now considered a public health issue. It poses significant
      health and economic burden, being a frequent cause of disability. A significant proportion of
      direct health care costs associated with neck disorders are attributable to visits to health
      care providers, to sick leave, and to the related loss of productive capacity. Mechanical
      neck pain affects between 45-54% of people in the general population .This can result in
      severe pain and disability. Mechanical neck pain described as a reduction in the mobility of
      cervical spinal segment is often the focus of manipulative physical therapy interventions.
      Most neck pain is not attributed to diseases but rather caused by muscular and postural
      condition. The cervical pain is a mechanical problem .It is therefore sense that a mechanical
      treatment works better than pharmacological treatment.

      Cervical spine often impairs flexibility of key muscles related to cervical spine .
      Stretching exercise is beneficial for increasing flexibility as well as muscle performance.

      The normal function of cervical spine is complex and requires a large variety of activities
      to be coordinated in order for an individual to perform daily activities with the least
      amount of strain and potential injury. When the dysfunction develops in the cervical spine, a
      chain reaction may develop which can affect the whole neck and even the entire body.

      Commonly used approaches to treatment include rest, therapeutic massage, application of
      physical agents like heat, cold, TENS, and ultrasonic various types of mobilizations,
      manipulations (by physical therapists, chiropractors, osteopaths and others), therapeutic
      exercises, postural care and off course medication and surgical interventions. However,
      studies of their effectiveness have generally been short-term and inconclusive. The aim of
      the study is to compare which treatment either Passive Vertebral Mobilization or
      Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation, whether itself or in combination, is more
      effective and beneficial in the treatment of mechanical neck pain.

      Several studies have been reported to determine the effectiveness of manual therapy/ passive
      vertebral mobilization but with largely inconclusive results. However there are few studies
      if any to compare PNF exercise with PVM in terms of their effectiveness. PNF are simple and
      requiring low level expertise as compare to PVM.
    
  