
    
      Mandibular advancement devices (MAD) serve as an adjunct to the treatment of snoring as well
      as mild-moderate OSA. It is widely accepted that upper airway muscle activity decreases
      during sleep, leading to increased collapsibility of the pharyngeal tissues, mandibular
      opening and posterior displacement of the tongue. These changes result in narrowing of the
      oropharyngeal and hypopharyngeal airway (Hudgel 1992). Their primary action is to advance the
      mandible and tongue to increase the upper airway size. Recent systemic review on the
      effectiveness of MAD in treating OSA by Torres et al in the Laryngoscope showed that 16 out
      of 18 large scale studies showed significant improvement in Apnea-Hypopnea index (AHI).

      There are a wide variety of MAD commercially available and they can be broadly divided into
      custom made vs prefabricated makes as well as titratable versus non-titratable types. It is
      shown that custom made, titratable fitted MADs are superior in efficacy as compared to their
      counterpart models. However, high cost, delayed waiting times and multiple clinic visits are
      required for patients to be fitted with custom MADs by a professional orthodontist. Newly
      developed direct to consumer thermoplastic MADs (MyTap) brings the benefit of mouldable bite
      and form "custom" fit with the option of titration to the user at a lower cost, technical
      ease of use and fit in the clinic setting.

      Participants who are diagnosed with simple snoring or mild to moderate OSA are able to trial
      use thermoplastic MADs to have a sense of the level of comfort and effectiveness MAD can
      bring to improve their OSA, serving as a bridging device prior to committing to the use of
      custom made MAD.

      The investigators aim to evaluate the effectiveness of the use of Prefabricated adjustable
      thermoplastic mandibular advancement devices(PAT-MADs)(MyTAP) in the treatment of OSA and its
      role for predicting treatment success, compliance and comfort in an Asian population.
    
  