
    
      1. Diagnostic criteria for cardiac arrest Sudden loss of consciousness, carotid or femoral
           artery pulse disappeared, ECG showed ventricular asystole or ventricular fibrillation or
           ventricular tachycardia.

        2. Diagnostic criteria for ROSC Recovery of complexion, autonomous aorta pulse can be
           detected, blood pressure> 90/60 mmHg, the condition above maintained stable for more
           than half an hour, defined as ROSC, otherwise as failed.

        3. Clinical treatment CPR was applied according to the AHA2010 guidelines. Patients were
           admitted to SICU or EICU after confirmation of ROSC, and physical cooling machines were
           set at 33 degrees Celsius to protect brain within 24h after ROSC. Standard treatments
           for life support were performed for all the included patients.

        4. Methods 4.1 Clinical data Data such as patient's age, gender, contact information,
           previous disease information, the major reason causing cardiac arrest, initial rhythm,
           the total time of CPR, utilization of an automatic chest compression device, time from
           cardiac arrest to ROSC and time from cardiac arrest to ICU admission was collected from
           each patient who was included in the study. Follow-up data for APARCHE II (acute
           physiology and chronic health evaluation scoring system) score, survival of 24 hours
           after cardiac arrest, survival of 48 hours after cardiac arrest, survival of 28 days
           after admission, CPC score 2 weeks after cardiac arrest and CPC score 6 months after
           cardiac arrest were collected.

      4.2 Cerebral Performance Category (CPC) CPC is a 5-category scale for measuring neurological
      status 2 weeks after cardiac arrest and CPC score 6 months after cardiac arrest. The 5
      categories are: CPC 1, conscious and alert with good cerebral performance; CPC 2, conscious
      and alert with moderate cerebral performance; CPC 3, conscious with severe cerebral
      disability; CPC 4, comatose or in persistent vegetative state; and CPC 5, brain dead,
      circulation preserved.

      4.3 Sample collection and processing Whole blood sample was collected into Ethylene diamine
      tetra-acetic acid (EDTA) -anticoagulant tube from each patient immediately at the beginning
      of CPR, 24h, 48h and 7 days after cardiac arrest. Samples were centrifugated and the
      supernatant was stored in EP tube with out RNA enzyme at -80 degree Celsius.

      4.4 Detection of miRNA and circRNA Patients were divided into two groups according to the
      Cerebral Performance Category （CPC） after half a year, "CPC 1-2 Group" and "CPC 3-5 Group".
      Five samples for 48h time point in each group were randomly selected and detected miRNA and
      circRNA with chips.The real-time quantitative PCR were used to detect the quantity of the
      selected miRNAs and circRNAs for each time point. The plasma concentration of NSE for each
      time point was tested by laboratory department.
    
  