
    
      Acute traumatic injury, including both blunt and penetrating injury, is often associated with
      severe uncontrolled bleeding which can lead to hemorrhagic shock. During shock, inadequate
      blood flow results in local ischemia and tissue hypoxia (insufficient oxygenation) of
      critical organs, which can be detected by an increase in serum lactate levels in these trauma
      victims. Despite optimal care, more than 10% of trauma victims who reach hospital alive will
      die, and many will suffer from organ failure. Death and significant, persistent morbidity are
      consequences of trauma, and traumatic injuries are associated with lost productivity, reduced
      quality of life, and direct costs to patients and health care systems worldwide.

      The primary treatment of trauma is to support ventilation and oxygenation, limit blood loss,
      and maintain cardiovascular function so that organs are perfused. The patient's airway may be
      intubated to allow oxygenated airflow to the lungs. Mechanical ventilation is used if the
      patient cannot maintain oxygenation and carbon dioxide elimination. Damage-control surgery is
      used to limit blood loss and to intentionally delay definitive repair until the patient can
      better tolerate procedures. Blood transfusions are provided to maintain the oxygen-carrying
      capacity of the circulation. Platelets and coagulation factors are infused to correct any
      coagulopathy from dilution of blood and consumption of clotting factors. Vasopressor and
      inotropic agents may be used to support low cardiac output or blood pressure. Renal
      replacement therapy may be instituted if kidney failure occurs.

      Despite optimal care, organ dysfunction is present in many patients. Hypoperfusion and
      anaerobic metabolism of organs and tissues can be detected by the presence of lactic
      acidosis. Current therapy is aimed at supporting failing organs, but an agent that
      accelerates the repayment of an oxygen debt and prevents or shortens the duration of organ
      failure is sought. Blood transfusion improves circulation of oxygen-carrying red blood cells
      but is insufficient if lactic acidosis is present, even when the hemoglobin level has been
      restored. Studies in critically ill intensive care patients have demonstrated that elevated
      initial and 24-hour lactate levels are significantly correlated with mortality, and prolonged
      elevation of blood lactate levels after trauma has been correlated with increased organ
      failure and mortality.

      Support for the efficacy of MP4OX in resuscitation of severe hemorrhage shock comes from
      several preclinical studies in hamster, rat, and swine. Using a swine model of uncontrolled
      hemorrhage and resuscitation, survival was greater and restoration of hemodynamics and
      acid-base status were improved with MP4OX relative to equivalent volume of crystalloid,
      pentastarch, or unmodified hemoglobin. Administration of MP4OX improved 24-hour survival,
      stabilized cardiac output and arterial pressure at nearly normal levels, and reduced lactate
      more effectively than control fluids. Importantly, these benefits of MP4OX were observed with
      or without co-administration of autologous blood, suggesting that blood alone is not
      sufficient to achieve resuscitation, and that the effects of MP4OX are additional to those of
      blood.

      Additional support comes from a recently completed phase IIa trauma study in 51 patients with
      lactic acidosis due to severe hemorrhage. MP4OX treatment was associated with a more rapid
      and sustained reduction of high lactate levels, and a greater proportion of MP4OX-treated
      patients who normalized lactate by four hours after dosing. There was also a trend toward
      shorter median hospital stay and a greater proportion of MP4OX-treated patients being
      discharged from hospital alive by Day 28. These phase IIa results suggest improved oxygen
      delivery and utilization by ischemic tissues in the MP4OX-treated patients, based on the
      reversal of lactic acidosis, and support the positive results from the preclinical models of
      hemorrhagic shock resuscitation.
    
  