
    
      1. Clinical transplantation of two cord blood units: one ex vivo expanded while another
           unmanipulated unit to function as a back-up.

        2. Ten patients will be selected from those for whom:

             -  Allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplant is indicated (see details)

             -  No matched sibling or matched unrelated donor is available quickly enough for the
                transplant (no fully matched donor found within 1 month of initiation of donor
                search or donor found but not available for donation within 3 months of donor
                search).

             -  At least three unrelated donor cord blood unit can be identified with less than 2
                antigens mismatches with the patient but with insufficient cell dose to meet the
                patient's requirements. If clinical efficacy of this protocol is demonstrated, we
                will proceed to a multicentre clinical trial with more patients.

        3. The investigators will obtain haplo-identical MSC from the bone marrow of
           sibling/parent/offspring of the patient. Although there will be some MSC co-infused with
           the cord blood cells, this has been shown to be safe in trials of MSC given for patients
           with graft versus host disease (GVHD) and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) matching of MSC
           and recipient has been shown to be not important. bone marrow mesenchymal stroma cells
           (BM-MSCs) derived from related donor bone marrow with a minimum of 2/6 HLA match have
           been safe for use in patients.1 If the haplo-identical MSC donor is not available,
           matched unrelated donor MSC would also be used.

        4. Efficacy will be assessed by the following and compared to published literature as well
           as historical controls:

             -  Neutrophil and platelet engraftment

             -  Post transplant 100-day mortality

             -  Overall and progression-free survival If clinical efficacy of this protocol is
                demonstrated, the investigators will proceed to a multicentre clinical trial with
                more patients.
    
  