
    
      Hip fractures and related disabilities are important public health issues for elderly people
      around the world. Attending the progressive aging of the population, an increase in the
      number of hip fractures is expected. In fact, some studies estimate that, globally, the
      incidence will exceed 6 million in 2050. In Spain, approximately 33,000 hip fracture occur
      annually, with an overall incidence of 517 cases per 100,000 elderly people. 90% occur in
      people over 64 years of age and the incidence increases exponentially beyond 80 years (> 64:
      97/100000 inhabitants-year;> 85: 1898/100000 inhabitants-year).

      Regarding the functional prognosis, those patients who survive the episode of the fracture
      often suffer a functional impairment. Outcomes for people who survive hip fracture are of
      concern, with more than one-quarter dying within a two-year period, and most of them not
      recovering their previous functional level. More than 10 % of survivors will be unable to
      return to their previous residence.

      Vitamin D deficiency (serum 25 hydroxyvitamin D, 25OHD, level < 30 ng/mL) is commonly
      associated with hip fracture in elderly people. Without preventive treatment, however,
      vitamin D deficiency following hip fracture may result in proximal muscle weakness, pain,
      reduced dynamic balance and performance speed.

      It is not clear how much Vitamin D must be taken in order to reach the optimal level.
      Although the benefits of supplementing patients with at least 800 to 1000 units (U)/day
      Vitamin D3 may be recognized, there is little information available to guide physicians
      regarding the appropriate management of hip fracture patients who may be severely Vitamin D
      deficient, specially in acute hip fracture patients.

      A randomized controlled trial, including 50 older adults (aged 75 or over) who having
      suffered a hip fracture and with vitamin D deficiency, will be carried out. After surgical
      treatment, participants with vitamin D deficiency (25OHD < 30 ng/mL) will be randomly
      allocated to an intervention group or control group. For the intervention group, participants
      will receive 16.000 U Calcifediol oral daily along 5 days. For the control group will receive
      16.000 U Calcifediol oral weekly along 5 weeks.

      Functional status will be evaluated using Barthel Index, as well the proportion of patients
      reaching an optimal level of 25OHD (> 30 ng/mL) will be determined at discharge from hospital
      (1 month approximately), 3, 6 and 12 months of follow up.

      Secondary measures include the Timed Up and Go test, gait speed test, Short Physical
      Performance Battery to compare the effect of the Vitamin D supplementation strategies on
      functional and muscle strength scales. In addition, to measure the strength and muscle mass
      will be used handheld dynamometer and bioimpedance analysis respectively
    
  