
    
      The Common Elements Treatment Approach (CETA) is a trans-diagnostic psychotherapeutic
      intervention.

      Results from qualitative interviews following the randomized controlled trial (RCT) of CETA
      for adults (IRB # 00003601) and during the scale-up of CETA services have indicated that
      there is a major need for mental health services for children and adolescents in Myanmar, as
      currently there are no evidence-based psychotherapy services for children and adolescents in
      the country. Specifically, since the initial trial the research team has received requests
      from community-based organizations to implement CETA for children and adolescents in Kachin
      language-speaking communities in northern Myanmar. Local partners and the Applied Mental
      Health Research group (AMHR) at Johns Hopkins University (JHU) believe that CETA is amenable
      for use with children and adolescents and that this population would benefit in similar ways
      to adults. A qualitative study has since been conducted (IRB# 00006933), and the data used to
      develop and validate an assessment instrument with children and adolescents in Kachin state
      (IRB# 00006929).

      The JHU research team will work with the local partner organization, Kachin Baptist
      Convention (KBC), to implement this project. KBC is a well-established community-based
      organization that currently provides emergency relief services to approximately 20,000
      displaced Kachin people living in 42 camps. Their community outreach activities are
      non-denominational.

      Participants will mostly be accessed through schools and in partnership with the local
      implementing partner. Their teachers, secondary caregivers and persons from the local partner
      organization who work with them regularly - all of whom are involved in the study as key
      community informants - will identify and refer the potential child/adolescent participants
      for screening into the study. Screening will otherwise be open to all children/adolescents,
      and those who are eligible will be asked to participate in the trial. Informed consent will
      be obtained from the parent/guardian and informed assent from the child. Participants will be
      randomly assigned to either receive CETA immediately or be put on a waitlist to receive
      treatment later.

      Counselors will be current employees of the local partner organization who have participated
      in a 2-week initial training followed by 8-10 weeks of supervised practice. Counselors will
      receive weekly clinical supervision for the duration of the trial.

      During the RCT, 10-12 weekly CETA sessions will be delivered individually in private spaces
      either at schools, homes, or in the community. In most cases, the children are living in the
      camps with their parents/guardians. Counselors will also follow-up with control children on a
      weekly basis to assess their symptoms using a client monitoring form. Both treatment and
      control participants will be reassessed using the same assessment instrument following the
      treatment period.
    
  