
    
      1. What are the characteristics of joint replacement patients (DRGs 209 & 210) served in
           IRFs and SNFs? How are they similar or different?

           We need to know if there are systematic differences among joint replacement patients
           served in both settings and take these into account when evaluating outcomes and cost
           effectiveness as outlined below. See also Question 6.

        2. How are the interventions and processes of care for joint replacement patients different
           in IRFs and SNFs?

           How can we best characterize the differences in the care received in an IRF vs. a SNF?
           What makes the care in an IRF and a SNF different? What do they do similarly and what do
           they do differently? Consider all interventions, e.g., nursing services, physician
           interventions, physical and occupational therapies, nutritional support, medications,
           passive motion exercises, weight-bearing exercises. Also consider timing, intensity,
           frequency, and duration of therapies.

        3. What specific interventions or combinations of interventions in IRFs and SNFs make the
           biggest difference in outcomes for joint replacement patients taking into account
           patient differences?

           The relevant outcomes for this study include: (1) the onset of complications during the
           course of treatment, (2) change in severity of illness from admission to discharge, (3)
           discharge destination (including unscheduled discharges to acute care), and (4) change
           in functional status from admission to discharge. We will consider (5)
           rehospitalizations or readmissions in the first 3-6 months following discharge from
           post-acute care.

        4. Which joint replacement patients do better in an IRF and which do better in a SNF?

           How can we best characterize the differences between patients who do better in one
           setting or the other? How can these characterizations assist in developing post-acute
           placement criteria and in characterizing the patient mix that should be used in defining
           an IRF pursuant to the 75% rule?

        5. What is the relative cost-effectiveness of IRF and SNF care for joint replacement
           patients?

           For which patients is it more cost-effective to be placed in an IRF and which patients
           in a SNF taking into account outcomes both at discharge and rehospitalizations during
           the first 3-6 months following discharge?

        6. Are comorbidities among joint replacement patients an adequate indicator of additional
           medical need during the rehabilitation process? Can a severity-of-illness measure serve
           as a better indicator of medical need? Are patients with greater medical needs served
           better in an IRF or a SNF?

           Do comorbidities or a severity of illness indicator have better predictive validity in
           terms of service utilization, costs, and outcomes?

        7. Can we design a more efficient course of rehabilitation interventions for joint
           replacement patients in IRFs and SNFs to reduce the length of stay and costs?
    
  