
    
      Anemia is a significant problem for pre-term infants and a major risk factor for preterm
      babies mortality and morbidity in neonatal intensive care unit(NICU). the majority of
      pre-term babies will require one or more blood transfusions during in NICU. Blood transfusion
      is a safe procedure but like all therapeutic interventions has risks associated with it and
      effort is made to reduce the number of transfusions that infants require during their stay on
      the neonatal unit.

      Delayed cord clamping has a beneficial effect on prevention of anemia in later infancy
      because of increased iron stores at birth. However there are controversies in incorporating
      delayed cord clamping practice in the management of third stage of labour globally.
      Concerning about the need for urgent resuscitation and temperature management, attendants
      encouraged to clamp the umbilical cord immediately so that post-natal resuscitation and care
      can start as soon as possible.However,umbilical cord milking allows for swift intervention
      and resuscitation and attention to thermal care and should take less than 10 seconds to
      complete.

      The specific aim of this study is to investigate the effects of umbilical cord milking on
      preventing and decreasing anemia in very pre-term infants.

      Primary Outcomes:

      Hemoglobin (Hb), Hematocrit (Hct) and serum iron levels at birth, at 1 week,at 2 weeks of
      age.

      Secondary Outcomes:

        -  Hemoglobin,hematocrit levels at 6 months of age.

        -  Anemia at 1 week of life and 6 months follow-up, defined as hemoglobin levels below the
           respective cutoffs.

        -  number of blood transfusions until 3 months corrected gestational age (CGA).

        -  short term clinical profile of neonates like jaundice, polycythemia etc.

        -  preterm infant complications such as lung function as assessed by oxygen dependency at
           36 weeks corrected gestational age (CGA), and cardiovascular function as assessed by the
           need for volume expansion, inotropes, or clinically suspected patent ductus
           arteriosus(PDA )requiring intervention prior to discharge home,incidence of
           intraventricular hemorrhage and late-onset sepsis,etc.
    
  