
    
      A disorder that often affect older adults is age-related hearing loss. It is estimated that
      about two-thirds of persons aged 70 years or older exhibit hearing problems. Left untreated,
      age-related hearing loss can affect an individual's ability to communicate and to interact
      with his/her environment and can contribute to psychological symptoms such depression,
      anxiety, isolation, paranoia, and possibly dementia.

      Because (1) the neuropsychiatric symptoms associated with dementia could be exacerbated by
      poor communication resulting from hearing loss and (2) it has been widely accepted that
      hearing aids (HAs) are effective in improving communication function and reducing the
      psychosocial consequences associated with hearing loss for older adults without dementia, it
      seems reasonable to use HAs to treat the hearing loss of adults with Alzheimer's Disease and
      related dementias (ADRD). However, it has been argued that because the pathology of ADRD
      could involve central auditory pathways and nuclei, HAs-the devices that improve audibility
      at the peripheral level of the auditory system-may not be an effective management for ADRD.
      To date there is no high-quality evidence to support or negate the benefit of HA intervention
      on adults with dementia in reducing communication difficulty, dementia-related symptoms, and
      caregiver burdens. Therefore, the benefit of HA intervention on adults with ADRD remains
      unknown. Further, the best service model to provide HAs for older adults with ADRD is
      unknown. On one hand, it is likely that customized HAs fitted by audiologists using best
      practices could generate optimal outcomes. However, implementing the best-practice audiology
      services is challenging in this population. On the other hand, recent literature suggests
      that audiologists could fit low-cost, pre-programmed, non-customized amplification devices to
      adults with ADRD to reduce the cost of HA intervention, while yielding reasonable outcomes.To
      date there is no high-quality research rigorously examining the outcome, value, and candidacy
      of different HA service-delivery models for older adults with ADRD.

      This is a pilot study with the aim of evaluating the feasibility of the procedures of a
      future clinical trial that will help determine the impacts of hearing aid interventions on
      older patients with ADRD. We expect that at least a total of 30 patients will complete the
      pilot study. The collected data will provide valuable information for us to formulate or
      revise the hypotheses, conduct power analysis, and finalize the research protocol for the
      future clinical trial.
    
  