
    
      Study design and participants This pretest and posttest prospective study was conducted as
      randomized controlled between February 2019 and October 2019 in the outpatient and inpatient
      clinics of the Department of Rheumatology of a university hospital in Edirne, Turkey.

      Two study groups, control (n = 40) and intervention (n = 40) were randomized controlled
      groups with 80% power analysis and 95% confidence interval. A single-blind technique was used
      to eliminate any bias. The patients were not informed of the group to which they belonged.
      The patients were selected using a simple random sampling method and divided into
      intervention and control groups using the Research Randomizer program. In the intervention
      group, 40 women with RA were interviewed at baseline (first interview). In the 3rd month
      (last interview), eight patients were excluded for the following reasons: four did not wish
      to continue the study, three could not be reached, and one patient did not complete the
      forms. Therefore, 32 women with RA were finally included in the intervention group. In the
      control group, 40 patients were interviewed at baseline. In the 3rd month (last interview),
      seven patients were excluded for the following reasons: four patients did not wish to
      continue the study and three patients could not be reached. Therefore, 34 women with RA were
      finally included in the control group. The study included a total of 66 women with RA,
      including intervention (n= 32) and control (n= 34) groups. Flow chart of data collection for
      women with RA is presented Figure 1.

      Data collection tools Data were collected by The Patient Information Form, Rheumatoid
      Arthritis Quality of Life Scale, the Health Assessment Questionnaire, and the Hospital
      Anxiety Depression Scale.

      Patient Information Form: Our study was developed by researchers in line with a literature
      review on the subject. (Bozbas & Gurer, 2018; Fall et al., 2013; Moghadam et al., 2018; Neto
      et al., 2009). The form consisted of eight questions about sociodemographic characteristics
      (age, marital status, education, etc.), clinical diagnosis, treatment of RA, concomitant
      chronic disease, and deformity affected by arthritis.

      Rheumatoid Arthritis Patient Education Booklet: The content of the booklet was prepared by
      researchers in line with the literature. (arthritis.org; Moghadam et al., 2018; nras.org.uk;
      Rahim & Cheng, 2018). The education topics included description, symptoms, and signs of RA,
      diagnostic methods, treatment choices, information on medications, RA in pregnancy, disease
      management information, nutritional recommendations, emotional health, and support in daily
      living.

      Data collection Patients were interviewed twice, at baseline and at the 3rd month. All forms
      were applied to the patients in the intervention and control groups at baseline. The patients
      were assigned to the intervention group at random and participated in a one-to-one training
      program consisting of a 30-min onset session. The Rheumatoid Arthritis Patient Education
      Booklet prepared by the researchers was administered to patients in the intervention group
      during education. The inpatients were given one-to-one training in the patient's room during
      quiet periods. The outpatients were trained in the outpatient clinic, as tis was considered a
      suitable venue. In the 3rd month, all forms were applied again to the patients in the
      intervention group, and the same forms were applied to the untrained patients in the control
      group. The application of the forms took approximately 15 min, and the interviews were
      conducted face-to-face with the patients.

      Data analysis Data were analyzed using IBM SPSS 20.0 program. Socio-demographic data were
      analyzed using the mean, standard deviation, and frequency. The Mann-Whitney U paired-group
      test was used to compare results that did not show a normal distribution. The Fisher's exact
      test, Pearson chi-square test, and continuity correction test were used. The Wilcoxon
      signed-rank test was used for the paired comparisons in the comparison of qualitative data.
      The significance level was set at p < 0.05.

      Ethical considerations A University Research Ethics Committee was confirmed the study
      protocol, which adhered to the Helsinki Declaration (Approval number: 2018/344). Before
      taking part in the study, all of the patients signed consent forms. Participants were
      informed that their personal information and privacy would be protected. Patients who did not
      want to continue to participate in the study were free to leave the study at any stage.
    
  