
    
      Study results from randomized controlled trials (RCTs) usually have been found not adequately
      inform practice. A RCT is optimized to determine efficacy. Such trials were performed with
      relatively small samples at sites with experienced investigators and highly selected
      participants, they could be overestimating benefits and underestimating harm. Real-world
      study is conducted in a routine care setting aimed to determine effectiveness. Thus, it is
      necessary to evaluate the pragmatism of clinical trials for a better understanding of the
      external generalizability. Nonetheless, comparative pragmatic features of RCTs and real-world
      studies still lack well elucidation. Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a malignant head and
      neck cancer with the highest incidences in endemic regions such as Southern China, where over
      60,600 new cases were diagnosed in 2015 representing 40% of all cases worldwide. Studies
      conducted in China are critical in optimizing clinical decision-making of NPC. In the past
      two decades, the recommendation level of induction chemotherapy (IC) + concurrent
      chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) has been improved evidently from Category 3 to 2A, and CCRT alone
      has long been a stable (Category 2B) and classic treatment option of NPC and therefore
      becomes the most commonly used control group in comparative studies. By capitalizing on a
      NPC-specific big-data, real-world database via a cancer registry in Southern China and
      individual patient data extracted from the three landmark RCTs, investigators conducted the
      direct comparison on IC+CCRT cohort or CCRT cohort of clinical trial versus real-world
      settings, and examined the comparative pragmatic features and their influences on survival
      outcomes, safety profile, and the probability of returning to society, with the aim to
      provide new insight into the optimization of trial design and the translation of study
      evidences into tangible benefits.
    
  