
    
      This study focuses on the unique experiences of people of color (e.g., Asian American,
      Black/African American, Latinx, Native, Multiracial), ways they manage coping with
      race-related stress, as well as evaluating the effectiveness of a brief, one-hour
      intervention focused on coping with racism. First, the study will evaluate the acceptability
      and impact of a brief, single-session, 1-hour intervention aimed at addressing strategies for
      coping with racism compared to a waitlist-control condition. The intervention will integrate
      culturally-adapted approaches for enhancing compassionate awareness, emotional acceptance,
      valued actions, and coping flexibility (CAAVAF). The study will also evaluate whether the
      brief CAAVAF program will be associated with increased use of CAAVAF strategies
      (compassionate awareness, emotional acceptance, valued action, and coping flexibility) in
      response to racial discrimination over time and whether the brief CAAVAF program improves
      mental health outcomes at the two-week follow-up. Second, the study aims to evaluate the
      impact of CAAVAF strategies on mental health outcomes in response to momentary reports of
      coping with discrimination and from pre- to two-week follow-up.

      All participants will be asked to complete an online screening questionnaire, which will
      include informed consent, demographic questionnaires, past experiences of discrimination, and
      trait measures of coping. Participants will be randomized into a.) a CAAVAF program, b.) a
      waitlist control condition with EMA, or c.) a control condition without the CAAVAF program or
      EMA. Participants in the CAAVAF condition will watch a scripted CAAVAF psychoeducation video
      during an initial laboratory session; in contrast, participants in the waitlist control
      condition will watch the video in a second session (after two weeks of ecological momentary
      assessment). Participants in both the CAAVAF program and waitlist control condition will be
      given instructions on using an EMA cellphone application during the initial session for
      repeated momentary assessments. Following this session, participants in the EMA conditions
      will monitor their experiences of discrimination over two weeks, and report their mood and
      strategies used. Participants will then return to the lab and complete a final battery of
      questionnaires and a qualitative exit-interview. Participants in the control condition will
      only complete pre questionnaires and questionnaires at a two-week follow-up.Study findings
      will contribute to the existing literature by evaluating whether CAAVAF strategies are
      effective buffers against racism-related mental health outcomes, and whether our CAAVAF and
      EMA program facilitates the use of these strategies.
    
  