
    
      Rationale: Endometriosis affects 10% of reproductive aged women and causes severe pain and
      impaired quality of life (QoL). Surgery for endometriosis results in long term symptom relief
      in only 40% of women. QoL in endometriosis improves after surgery, but not to the level of
      healthy women. Mediators in QoL include pain intensity, pain cognitions, and stress. In a
      preliminary study, patients with negative pain cognitions reported higher pain intensities
      compared to patients with positive pain cognitions. This indicates that psychological factors
      explain considerable variance in pain, suggesting that changing these factors by
      psychological interventions may contribute to improving QoL. Cognitive behavioral therapy
      (CBT) is proven effective as a psychological treatment for pain-related symptoms. QoL after
      surgery for endometriosis should be improved. Pain cognitions could be psychosocial targets
      in the treatment of endometriosis related symptoms. We hypothesize that CBT focusing on
      cognitions towards pain for women undergoing surgery for endometriosis improves pain
      cognitions, leading to improvement of QoL.

      Objective: The primary objective of this study is to investigate whether usual care combined
      with CBT improves QoL in patients undergoing surgery for endometriosis compared to usual care
      only. Secondary objectives are to investigate whether pain intensity, pain cognitions,
      perceived stress, fatigue and objectively measured cortisol levels mediate the effects of CBT
      on QoL in both groups.

      Study design: In a randomized controlled trial, 100 endometriosis patients undergoing surgery
      will be randomized between usual care with CBT (CBT group) and usual care only (control
      group). Women in the CBT group will receive, in addition to usual care, one pre-surgery and
      six post-surgery sessions of CBT, aimed at positively influencing mediators of QoL. Women in
      the control group will receive only usual care. Follow-up will be 7,5 months. In both groups
      QoL, pain intensity, pain cognitions, fatigue, perceived stress (using questionnaires) and
      objective stress (assessing cortisol in a hair sample) will be assessed at baseline
      assessment, T1 (two weeks after completion of all CBT sessions) and T2 (follow-up).
      Recruitment and treatment of patients will take place in Rijnstate hospital and Radboud
      University Medical Center (UMC).

      Study population: Healthy female volunteers aged 18-50 years with an indication for
      endometriosis surgery due to endometriosis associated pain.

      Intervention: Cognitive behavioral therapy administered in a total of seven sessions.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The difference in Quality of Life at the last measurement
      compared to baseline assessment.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: The control group will receive usual care. The intervention group will receive
      usual treatment plus a total of seven sessions of CBT. In addition, all participants are
      asked to fill in seven questionnaires at baseline assessment, T1 (two weeks after completion
      of all CBT sessions) and T2 (follow-up): the EHP-30, SF-36, PSC, PASS, CIS, NRS and PSS.
      Furthermore, the researcher will carefully collect a scalp hair sample of at least 0,5 cm
      thickness. This will be done at baseline assessment, T1 and T2. The hair sample will be
      analyzed for cortisol levels in a laboratory.
    
  