
    
      Coeliac disease is the most common chronic inflammatory bowel condition encountered by
      physicians. Internationally the prevalence estimated by serological screening in healthy
      volunteers is between 0.5-1.0%. Historically, patients with adult coeliac disease complained
      of symptoms suggestive of mal-absorption, diarrhoea, weight loss or anaemia. This manner of
      presentation is now described as the classical (typical) form. Failure to recognise this
      disease may be due to the insidious nature of its presentation. Individuals with undiagnosed
      coeliac disease may have numerous hospital attendances, prior to diagnosis.

      Although the presentation of patients with coeliac disease may be protean, serological
      markers have provided a cheap and non-invasive method by which clinicians in both primary and
      secondary care can initially recognise patients who may have coeliac disease. The aim of this
      study is to assess the clinical utility of the whole blood transglutaminase-based rapid test
      against current serological tests and the gold standard of duodenal biopsy.

      Methods:

      Study design and Participants Group 1 was a multicentre retrospective analysis of all
      patients with anaemia attending a gastroscopy with duodenal biopsy at four UK hospitals
      (Addenbrooke's, Bradford, Hull and Whipps Cross) over a 12 month period ranging from 2012 to
      2014. The availability of coeliac serology prior to gastroscopy was reviewed.

      Group 2 was a prospective study comparing the sensitivities of Simtomax to conventional
      serology in an iron deficient cohort. We prospectively recruited 133 consecutive patients
      (age range: 18-89 years, median 53) with iron deficiency with or without anaemia attending a
      single coeliac disease research endoscopy list at the tertiary referral centre Royal
      Hallamshire Hospital between 2013 and 2015. All recruited patients were consented for the
      study prior to the gastroscopy. The patients concurrently undertook the point-of-care test,
      Simtomax, conventional coeliac serology (IgA-TTG, IgA-EMA) and total IgA levels at the
      endoscopy unit. All patients then had a gastroscopy with quadrantic duodenal biopsy from the
      second part of the duodenum and at least one duodenal bulb biopsy. Patients were excluded
      from the study if they were known to have coeliac disease or were on a gluten free diet.
      Patients with coagulopathy, active gastrointestinal bleeding or a suspected carcinoma
      observed during the examination were also excluded. Clinical information of the patients was
      available to the endoscopist, however the endoscopist was blinded to the results of the
      Simtomax test.

      Group 3 was a retrospective histological analysis of patients attending a separate
      non-coeliac specific iron deficiency anaemia clinic at the Northern General Hospital in
      2013-2014. We reviewed their duodenal histology and hospital case notes to determine the
      yield of alternative causes other than coeliac disease in the context of iron deficiency
      anaemia.

      Point-of-care test, Simtomax:

      Simtomax is a point-of-care test for coeliac disease manufactured by Augurix Diagnostics,
      Switzerland. It detects both IgA and IgG antibodies to DGP, as well as the total IgA level.
      The assay is based on lateral flow immunochromatography using colloidal gold antihuman
      antibodies as a signal detector. A sample of 25 μl of capillary venous blood is required
      which can be obtained through a simple finger prick technique. The assay can also be
      performed using a plasma sample either in ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) or heparin
      as well as a separated serum sample, although a smaller sample volume of 20 μl is required.
      The blood sample is then applied to the test device, followed by the application of 5 drops
      of the provided buffer solution. The result can be read after 10 minutes. Positive results
      are indicated by the presence of a solid red test line for IgA and/or IgG-DGP positivity. A
      second single red line indicates the presence of IgA. An in-built red control line ensures a
      correctly functioning test.

      Serology:

      Total IgA was measured on a Behring BN2 nephelometer. IgA-TTG antibodies were evaluated using
      enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kits (Aesku Diagnostics, Wendelsheim, Germany). An IgA-TTG
      titre of > 15 U/ml before 20/5/2014, a new cut off level of >9 U/ml from 20/5-11/12/2014, and
      then >7 U/ml from 12/12/2014 onwards, were regarded as positive as per the manufacturer's
      guidance. IgA-EMA was detected by immunofluorescence on primate oesophagus sections (Binding
      Site, Birmingham, UK).

      Biopsies and histology

      In total, at least five biopsies were taken from the duodenum, including at least one from
      the duodenal bulb, with each biopsy fixed in formalin at the time of the gastroscopy.
      Specimens were then processed, orientated and embedded in paraffin wax by the pathology
      department. Standard 3 µm thick sections at three levels were stained with haematoxylin and
      eosin, and reported routinely by gastrointestinal histopathologists without knowledge of the
      Simtomax results. Villous atrophy was graded according to the modified Marsh criteria.

      Diagnosis of coeliac disease:

      The presence of villous atrophy (Marsh 3a-3c) on histology with a positive IgA-EMA or IgA-TTG
      were required for the diagnosis of coeliac disease. In cases of seronegative villous atrophy,
      human leucocyte antigen (HLA) genotyping was performed, with a negative HLA DQ2 or DQ8
      phenotype used to rule out coeliac disease. Supporting information such as family history and
      response to a gluten free diet were also taken into account.
    
  