
    
      Investigational Product: Furosemide Injection, 8 mg/mL, (total dose =80 mg) administered
      subcutaneously by the sc2Wear Furosemide Infusor using a biphasic profile with 30 mg over the
      first hour and then as 12.5 mg per hour over the subsequent 4 hours. Participants may be
      prescribed a total of 3 days initial treatment followed by an optional additional 4 days of
      sc2Wear furosemide treatment based on initial clinical response.

      Study Objectives: 1.) Evaluate the clinical effect of sc2Wear furosemide Infusor in the
      in-home management of mild to moderate decompensated heart failure.

      2.) Evaluate the safety and tolerability of sc2Wear furosemide Infusor in the in-home
      management of mild to moderate decompensated heart failure.

      Screening Phase:

      The cardiology service will screen patients with mild to moderate fluid overload. Patients
      who present with other serious or life threatening condition for which hospitalization would
      be indicated are excluded. Women of child bearing potential will be screened for pregnancy
      with a urine pregnancy test. Eligible participants will be educated on device preparation,
      placement, removal and care in accordance with the Instructions of Use Manual. The screening
      phase includes evaluation of the home situation to ascertain that sufficient support is or
      can be made available for at home treatment as an alternative to inpatient care. In
      appropriate settings, lay caregiver will also be trained.

      Pilot Phase. Patients will be visited daily by Steward Home Care and Hospice for home health
      nursing services in accordance with standard procedures. Nursing services will include
      checking vitals, obtaining blood samples and evaluation for clinical improvement or
      worsening. The first visit will be performed within 24 hours after enrollment.

      Study Procedures: The first sc2Wear Infusor will be prepared and placed on the patient as
      part of the training. The patient will go home with the sc2Wear furosemide Infusor in place
      on the abdomen to be activated upon arrival at home. Participants will be treated with the
      sc2Wear furosemide Infusor daily for 3 consecutive days at home. Participants will be
      evaluated by the cardiology service of SEMC within 24 hours after the 3rd dose of sc2Wear
      furosemide. If a patient was found to have responded satisfactorily but requires additional
      parenteral diuretics an additional 4 days may be prescribed for a total of 7 consecutive
      treatments. If additional units are prescribed patients are to be evaluated the cardiology
      service of SEMC within 24 hours after the last dose of sc2Wear furosemide Infusor. If the
      subject requires further parenteral diuresis after the 7 days of at home treatment, they will
      be converted to usual care at that time, which may require inpatient care. Participants will
      be instructed to record daily morning weights during and after treatment until the second
      post treatment evaluation. Interim clinic visits and laboratory assessments may be required
      based on clinical considerations.

      The following parameters will be studied at Baseline and follow-up treatment visits.

        -  Body Weight

        -  Vital signs

        -  HF Physical examination

        -  Dyspnea scale

        -  Routine laboratory panel (incl. electrolyte, pro-BNP)

        -  Adverse events

        -  Injection site assessment Participants will visit the clinic 30 ± 3 days after the start
           of the study for a post treatment evaluation.
    
  