
    
      Part 1:

      Eligible subjects will be assigned, successively in order of accrual, to one of the three
      cohorts, to receive intramuscular (IM) injections of EF-022, once weekly for two courses of
      treatment. Each course will consist of 4 injections with one week intervals (total: 8 weeks
      of treatment).

      Dose escalation will only proceed in the absence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) during
      course 1. For this purpose, each cohort will only begin its first course of EF-022 when the
      cohort preceding it has successfully completed its first 4-week treatment course without any
      signs of DLT. During this first course, should 1/3 patients experience DLT, dose escalation
      for the next cohort will not be authorized; the next cohort will receive the same dose as the
      one preceding it. If 2 patients or more of all patients treated with a given dose develop
      DLT, dose escalation will be halted and no more patients will be treated at the DLT dose. The
      value of MTD will be defined as the EF-022 dose below the dose at which DLT was seen for at
      least 2 subjects. Upon determination of the MTD, an additional cohort will be opened
      (confirmatory cohort) and treated with two courses of that dose.

      Part 2:

      During the expanded cohort, 24 Patients will be allocated to receive either 100ng, 500ng or
      1000ng weekly treatment as detailed below: The first 18 patients will be assigned to
      alternating doses of either 100ng or 500ng in a sequential manner (each patient will be
      assigned to a single dose), with the caveat that given indications should be assigned
      equally, as much as possible, between these two doses.

      Interim analysis will be performed once the 12th patient reaches Day 57 and the CT results as
      well as PD analysis are available for at least 12 patients, while at least 18 patients have
      begun study treatment. A decision regarding adding a 1000ng dose cohort vs. continuing with
      the 100ng and 500ng doses will be based on a discussion of the interim analysis results.

      Each patient will receive 2 courses of treatment, i.e. weekly injections for a total period
      of 8 weeks, followed by a follow-up period of up to 12 months from the start of treatment
      (Day 1).

      Continuation of treatment after the second course will be at the discretion of the
      investigator. Patients who will continue extended treatment post course 2 will keep the
      weekly injection dosage mode and continue therapy until disease progression, development of
      unacceptable toxicities, non-compliance, inter-current illness that prevents treatment
      continuation, withdrawal of consent, or change in subject condition that renders the subject
      unacceptable for further treatment.

      All study patients who completed at least two courses of treatment will be followed up until
      12 months from day 1 of treatment.
    
  