
    
      In Waldenström's macroglobulinemia (WM) conventional chemotherapy induces only low complete
      remission (CR) rates and responses of short duration compared to other indolent lymphomas.
      Thus innovative approaches are needed which combine excellent activity and tolerability in
      patients with WM, who are mostly of advanced age. Today, chemotherapy in combination with the
      anti-cluster of differentiation (CD) 20 antibody rituximab is still the backbone of treatment
      in patients with WM and is recommended as first line in national and international treatment
      guidelines. With the approval of Ibrutinib by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) 2015 for
      patients with relapsed WM or for patients not eligible for chemotherapy with treatment naïve
      WM treatment landscape has changed in this lymphoma subtype and there is an urgent need to
      evaluate to which extent chemotherapy-free approaches add clinical benefit to the patient.
      The treatment in the "European Consortium for Waldenström's Macroglobulinemia" (ECWM)-2 trial
      will test, whether the chemotherapy-free approach, which is given orally (ibrutinib) and
      subcutaneously (bortezomib and rituximab from cycle 2 onwards) (B-RI) will approach the
      efficacy of chemotherapy containing treatment concepts, but avoids chemotherapy associated
      toxicity. From the perspective of single agent ibrutinib, this regimen tests whether
      ibrutinib can be further optimized by adding rituximab and bortezomib. The combination of
      rituximab and ibrutinib was tested in comparison to rituximab/placebo in a large
      international phase III trial on behalf of the European Consortium for Waldenström's
      Macroglobulinemia in relapsed and first line WM, and results were recently published: in this
      trial no unexpected toxicity of the combination ibrutinib/rituximab was reported.
      Furthermore, ibrutinib/rituximab was significantly superior to rituximab/placebo with regard
      to response rates and PFS. From the perspective of the established rituximab/bortezomib
      regimen, the combination of B-RI will evaluate whether adding ibrutinib to this combination
      will add any benefit for the patient.

      To this end, the aim of the study is to assess the toxicity and efficacy of B-RI in an
      exploratory phase II trial.
    
  