
    
      BACKGROUND:

      There was an urgent need to design more effective stroke prevention strategies. Previous
      prevention strategies including blood pressure control and anti-platelet therapy resulted in
      only a 43% reduction in stroke risk in a multi-center study, PROGRESS. Other proposed
      potentially modifiable mechanisms that mediated endothelial cell injury and activation
      leading to accelerated atherosclerosis including dyslipidemia, oxidative stress, endothelial
      dysfunction, inflammation, and renin-angiotensin system (RAS) activation were candidate
      strategies. Plasma markers of these various proposed mechanisms were studied to see if they
      predicted recurrent stroke. Since strokes kill 5 million people each year, at least one third
      of the 15 million others who sustain a non-fatal stroke suffer permanent disability, and
      those who have a transient ischemic attack (TIA) are also likely to have a recurrent event,
      identifying potentially modifiable risk factors would significantly reduce morbidity and
      mortality due to strokes worldwide.

      The study was based on plasma samples taken on enrollment from a subset of the 6,105 subjects
      in the Perindopril Protection Against Recurrent Stroke Study (PROGRESS). The PROGRESS was an
      international, randomized, double-blind controlled study of a perindopril-based blood
      pressure lowering regimen among individuals with stroke or transient ischemic attack within
      the previous five years. Coordination and monitoring for PROGRESS were maintained through two
      international coordinating centers, one in Sydney, Australia and the other in Auckland and
      through seven regional coordinating centers in Beijing, Glasgow, Melbourne, Milan, Osaka,
      Paris and Uppsala. There were 172 local clinical centers distributed through 10 countries:
      Australia, Belgium, China, France, Ireland, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, Sweden and the United
      Kingdom.

      The study was in response to a Request for Applications entitled "NHLBI Innovative Research
      Grant Program" released in July, 2001. The purpose of the initiative was to support new
      approaches to heart, lung, and blood diseases and sleep disorders that used existing data
      sets or existing biological specimen collections whether obtained through National Heart,
      Lung, and Blood Institute support or not.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This was a nested case-control study. Plasma samples were obtained from 6,105 subjects
      enrolled in the PROGRESS study, The nested case-control study included 1773 patients: 591
      were cases (83 hemorrhagic strokes, 472 ischemic strokes, and 36 of unknown type), and 1182
      were controls who did not subsequently become cases. Controls satisfying all matching
      criteria were found for 572 of these cases; 19 were incompletely matched. After the addition
      of cases who acted as matched controls for other cases and taking account of controls who
      acted for >1 case, there were 33 cases with 1, 213 with 2, and 345 with 3 matched controls.
      Altogether, 89 cases served as controls for 1 other case. The data were related to clinical
      markers of cardiovascular risk on enrollment. The study was designed to determine which of
      these plasma markers provided an independent measure of risk of recurrent stroke. In
      addition, the study determined those plasma markers that provided an independent measure of
      reduction in risk of recurrent stroke by perindopril-based antihypertensive therapy, thereby
      providing a means to identify those subjects most likely to benefit from such therapy, and
      conversely, those subjects in whom alternative preventative strategies were required. In
      addition, plasma markers that predicted risk of recurrent stroke may have indicated novel
      therapies to prevent this condition.

      Specific aims included identifying whether nuclear magnetic resonance-determined lipoprotein
      profiles, and plasma levels of homocysteine, protein carbonyls, chlorotyrosine, soluble
      vascular cell adhesion molecule (sVCAM-1), C-reactive peptide (CRP), active renin, and the
      amino-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) predicted recurrent stroke in
      PROGRESS study participants and whether these measures predicted benefit from
      perindopril-based antihypertensive therapy.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  