
    
      Objective

      This pilot clinical trial will aim to determine the feasibility and potential toxicities
      associated with treating patients with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) with
      polyomavirus (PyV)-specific partially matched polyclonal allogeneic T cells. It will further
      provide initial efficacy data for this indication.

      Study Population

      Up to 18 subjects with definite PML, defined as clinical signs and MRI compatible with active
      PML and the presence of JCV by PCR in CSF. Subjects must be 18 years of age or older and must
      have a first degree, partially HLA- matched relative able and willing to act as a donor of
      lymphocytes. Subjects with underlying reversible immunosuppression (i.e.- HIV or MS status
      post treatment with natalizumab), or subjects with uncontrolled malignancy will be excluded.
      Subjects with evidence of active CNS inflammation as determined by presence of significant
      contrast enhancement within the PML lesions by MRI will also be excluded because it is
      assumed such patients are already mounting an adequate immune response against the infection.

      Design

      This will be a first-in-human pilot study assessing the feasibility and toxicity profile of
      NIH PyVST cellular product in subjects with PML. Subjects will be screened under the existing
      NIH Natural History study of PML (13-N-0017). Sequential enrollment will be spaced at least
      28 days apart. An initial fixed dose PyVST infusion (target dose of 1 x 10(6) PyVST/kg (+/-
      10%)) will be administered by intravenous (IV) infusion, followed by 2x 10(6) PyVST/kg
      (+/-10%) up to 2 times to each subject if needed.

      Outcome Measures

      Safety will be monitored to 28 days continuously with stopping rules based on the
      treatment-related serious adverse event rate. Secondary outcomes include survival, assessed
      at day 28 and at 1 year following the last infusion. CSF viral titers, MR imaging, and
      clinical disability scales will also be collected.
    
  