
    
      For Americans age 65 and older, falls are the leading cause of fatal and nonfatal
      unintentional injury. Although they only comprise about 5% of the elderly population, 20% of
      all fall-related elderly deaths are of continuous-care facility residents. In the five years
      after a fall, 75% of fallers in institutional care will die, while only 58% of age-matched
      non-fallers will die. The increased risk observed in such facilities is a product of a high
      fall incidence (26-56%) and fall rate (1.4-2.0 falls per person or bed). The incidence of
      recurrent falling in this population is about 33-40%, with 28% of fallers having five or more
      falls. Roughly 12-33% of falls result in serious injuries such as fracture, head trauma,
      soft-tissue injury, or severe lacerations. About 1-4% of falls result in fracture, an injury
      which comprises the majority (75%) of fall-related admissions from continuous-care facilities
      to hospitals. Such hospital admissions cost over $31,000 per admission, which contributes to
      an estimated medical cost of about $1,200 per fall. The proposed research is significant
      because it addresses the high incidence of fall-related injury and death, in turn reducing
      notable medical costs.

      Based on a rigorous review of more than 1200 participants, supervised exercise has not
      significantly reduced the rate of falls (rate ratio: 0.74-1.35) or number of fallers (risk
      ratio: 0.88-1.21) in continuous-care facilities15. The most effective exercises focus on
      control of upright posture and the response to small gait disturbances (rate ratio:
      0.24-0.85, risk ratio: 0.43-1.19). However, the efficacy of these interventions can be
      improved by safely increasing the magnitude of disturbances (i.e. greater intensity) and
      focusing on the skills necessary to recover from common fall causes (i.e. greater
      specificity). Compensatory step training safely induces a fall by delivering large postural
      disturbances, in turn requiring subjects to arrest a fall through timely, well-placed steps
      and reduced trunk rotation. Similar demands on step placement and trunk control are evident
      when recovering from a trip or slip, the most common fall-causes of older adults in the
      community. Obstacles and slippery surfaces are prevalent causes of falls within care
      facilities suggesting that trips and slips are also problematic in this environment. For
      community-dwelling older women, compensatory step training has significantly improved step
      and trunk kinematics and reduced falls due to trips in the laboratory (odds ratio = 0.13).
      Furthermore, preliminary evidence suggests that training reduces their fall incidence by 17%
      in the community. Published and unpublished data have shown that compensatory step training
      has improved the compensatory stepping response, undisturbed gait, and fall incidence of
      those with lower extremity amputations. It is likely that such training can benefit the high
      fall incidence observed in care facilities. The proposed research is innovative because it is
      a novel application of a state-of-the-art intervention that will likely improve the efficacy
      of supervised exercise as a means to reduce falls in continuous-care facilities.

      A widely implemented prevention strategy in institutional settings is to target residents at
      high risk of falling. As assessed by subjective measures or fall history, the relative fall
      risk of high-risk residents is up to 3 times higher than that of low-risk residents. The fall
      incidence of low-risk residents, as determined by an objective functional test, has not been
      reported. Recording these statistics would provide perspective on this subpopulation relative
      to community-dwelling older adults, establishing a benchmark for evaluating the long-term
      effect of interventions for high-risk residents. Identifying the short-term, functional
      improvements associated with such interventions may reveal the mechanisms of training-based
      improvements, informing protocol development and improving its efficacy.

      The primary objective is to evaluate the effect that compensatory step training has on the
      fall incidence of long-term care facility residents at high risk of falling. The
      investigators hypothesize that compensatory step training will prospectively reduce the fall
      incidence of high-risk residents to a level not inferior to the fall incidence of low-risk
      residents.

      The study is a non-inferiority trial intended to show that the training of high-risk
      residents yields a fall incidence not worse than that of low-risk residents. Although such
      trials are less credible than other designs, the study demands fewer resources.

      Functional assessments of fall risk will occur at the care facility. These assessments
      include the functional reach test, unipedal stance test, tandem stance test, figure-eight
      walking test, time-up-and-go test, step-up test, Activities-specific Balance Confidence
      questionnaire, grip strength test, maximum voluntary step length test, and fall history
      assessment.

      Based on the results of the functional reach test and unipedal stance test, subjects will be
      identified as low-risk (functional reach > 8" AND unipedal stance > 5 s) or high-risk
      (functional reach ≤ 8" OR unipedal stance ≤ 5 s). Those at low risk of falling and those at
      high risk of falling who do not qualify for training will have their falls recorded for one
      year. Those at high risk of falling who qualify for training will undergo compensatory step
      training, undergo a second set of functional assessments, and then have their falls recorded
      for one year.

      For high-risk subjects, health screenings will be assessed by a medical physician or nurse
      practitioner. If the subject does not meet the exclusion criteria, then no training will take
      place and the subject will have their falls monitored for one year. For high-risk subjects
      who otherwise pass all exclusion criteria, hip bone mineral density will be assessed using
      DXA in the Mayo Clinic Charlton Clinical Research Unit. If the subject does not meet the bone
      mineral density exclusion criterion (femoral neck or total hip bone mineral density t-score
      less than -2.5), then no training will take place and the subject will have their falls
      monitored for one year. If a DXA scan is of poor quality (e.g. there is artifact from subject
      movements), it will be repeated. At most, two DXA scans will be taken for each subject.

      Subjects will participate in compensatory step training for up to 6 sessions in 7 to 30 days.
      Each session is comprised of anterior and posterior step training on a
      microprocessor-controlled treadmill (ActiveStep®, Simbex, Lebanon, NH). Training consists of
      a progression of anterior or posterior treadmill belt movements applied as the subject is
      standing or walking. The training intensity (magnitude of disturbance delivered) is
      progressive and dependent on subject performance. Subjects will be instructed to respond with
      single or multiple steps in order to prevent a fall. All subjects will be outfitted with a
      safety harness to prevent injury. This training specifically focuses on aspects important to
      trip and slip recovery. Up to 72 disturbances will be delivered each session.

      Falls will be recorded for one year as per facility operations and with fall-tracking
      questionnaires.

      Adults 50 years or older living in continuous-care retirement facilities will be recruited
      for this study. The investigators anticipate that 150 subjects will participate in the study,
      with 30 of those subjects participating in the compensatory step training.
    
  