
    
      Diabetic maculopathy due to diabetic macular edema (DME) is the leading cause of visual
      impairment in the working-age population in developed countries. DME is the swelling of the
      retina resulting from the exudation and accumulation of extracellular fluid and proteins in
      the macula. Structural changes in the endothelium of retinal vessels lead to a breakdown of
      the blood-retina barrier and increase vascular permeability, resulting in exudation. The
      standardized treatment of DME is a focal laser or GRID-laser treatment with or without
      combined triamcinolone intravitreal injections. Those laser treatments produce scars in the
      central retina and are not always very effective. In cases of macular traction or taut
      posterior hyloid vitrectomy and retinal surgery are necessary.

      Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) has been implicated as an important factor in the
      occurrence of vascular permeability in DME. In patients with DME, VEGF levels are
      significantly elevated, compared to patients without ocular disease. Therefore, anti-VEGF
      treatment has been implicated as an important treatment of DME and recently intraocular
      anti-VEGF-treatment with ranibizumab (Lucentis®, Novartis Pharma) in diabetic macular edema
      has proven to be very effective. Just like in patients with age-related macular degeneration
      (AMD), anti-VEGF treatment was given 3 times every 4-6 weeks. The same treatment was repeated
      at a relapse of the disease, again 3 times every 4-6 weeks. One study group treated DME with
      0.5mg ranibizumab intravitreal injections and the other compared 0.3mg to 0.5mg of
      ranibizumab intravitreal injections. An optimal treatment dose has not been found yet.

      Visual acuity assessment is currently used to determine the functional damage caused by
      edema, although it may not completely describe the functional condition of the patient.
      Furthermore, visual acuity alone does not seem to be the best parameter to define the effect
      and continuation of treatment. Retinal thickness, as measured by the noninvasive optical
      coherence tomography (OCT) can deliver detailed information about the retinal situation
      during and after treatment. Also a fundus related perimetry, known as microperimetry (MP), is
      a useful noninvasive examination method in determining the site of relative and absolute
      scotomas and also fixation characteristics. With MP the macular sensitivity can be measured
      to further assess the macular condition.

      Using the newest technology of a high-definition OCT (Cirrus-OCT, Carl Zeiss Meditec Inc.) to
      determine the retinal thickness, and a MP with automated correction for eye movements (MP-1,
      Nidek Technologies) to determine retinal sensitivity, we intend to analyze this new treatment
      option for DME, and find the optimized dose for intravitreal injection of ranibizumab in
      cases of ineffective laser treatment.
    
  