
    
      ABSORB III RCT:

      A. Primary Objective: The pivotal trial to support the US pre-market approval (PMA) of Absorb
      BVS. ABSORB III will evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the Absorb BVS System compared
      to the XIENCE in the treatment of subjects, including those with diabetes mellitus, with
      ischemic heart disease caused by up to two de novo native coronary artery lesions in separate
      epicardial vessels.

      B. Powered Secondary Objectives:

        1. Lead-In Phase Objective: To evaluate the applicability and transferability of the
           didactic Absorb BVS physician training plan to US clinical practice.

           The lead-in phase is a non-randomized, single-arm, open label group of up to 50 subjects
           treated with Absorb BVS at up to 35 US sites. The Lead-In phase will enroll/register
           subjects prior to the randomization phase of ABSORB III.

           The Lead-In Phase allows the treatment of up to two de novo native coronary artery
           lesions in different epicardial vessels with reference vessel diameter (RVD) ≥ 2.75 mm
           to ≤ 3.25 mm and lesion lengths ≥ 8 to ≤ 14 mm.

        2. Imaging Cohort Objective: To evaluate long-term vascular function and patency of the
           Absorb BVS treated segments compared to XIENCE treated segments in the treatment of
           subjects with ischemic heart disease caused by up to two de novo native coronary artery
           lesions in separate epicardial vessels.

      The imaging cohort-phase is a prospective, randomized (2:1 Absorb BVS to XIENCE),
      single-blind, multi-center trial, registering approximately 200 subjects. This includes 150
      subjects for the angiographic/intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) endpoints analysis and
      approximately 50 subjects for optical coherence tomography (OCT) endpoints analysis. The 200
      subjects are separate from the 2000 subjects included in the primary analysis. Data from two
      powered secondary endpoints from this cohort will support label claims of superiority of
      Absorb BVS as compared to XIENCE specific to vasomotion and late lumen enlargement.

      All other subjects in ABSORB III unless specified will receive treatment of up to two de novo
      native coronary artery lesions in different epicardial vessels with RVD ≥ 2.5 mm to ≤ 3.75 mm
      and lesion lengths ≤ 24 mm.
    
  