
    
      Childhood adversity (e.g., abuse, neglect, or household dysfunction), is a common experience
      significantly contributing to the leading causes of death and increased US economic health
      burdens. Childhood adversity causes long-term alterations on the nervous, endocrine, and
      immune systems well into adulthood, including dampening of the neuropeptide oxytocin (OXT). A
      healthy OXT system facilitates responsive social engagement and promotes maternal-infant
      (M-I) synchrony (reciprocal gaze, affect speech, and touch). Optimal M-I synchrony fuels
      early brain development and prevents low empathy, disruptive behavior, poor social
      adaptation, cognitive deficits, and psychopathology in children. The investigators posit that
      mothers with childhood adversity will have more difficulty with M-I synchrony, due in part to
      a dampened OXT system, and will benefit from interventions that improve responsive,
      nurturing, engagement by epigenetic regulation of the OXT system. Most interventions are
      costly, complex, and time-consuming. The investigators aim to fill this gap by testing
      whether a simple early behavioral intervention (ATVV) will improve OXT system function and
      M-I synchrony in mothers with childhood adversity.

      The ATVV (Auditory, Tactile, Visual, Vestibular) is a 15-minute behavioral intervention that
      is a multisensory infant massage contingent on infant cues. The investigators extend the
      known success of ATVV with preterm infants to full-term infants. The investigators will
      compare M-I synchrony at 3 postnatal months in 250 first-time mothers (and their full-term
      infants) randomized to apply ATVV daily from birth to 3 months (n =125) or receive infant
      care education in an attention control group (n = 125). The investigators apply a rigorous
      measure of M-I synchrony that micro-codes video-recorded M-I behavior quantifying shared
      gaze, affect, speech, and touch. Coding requires only 3-minutes of interaction and is valid
      when infants can reliably interact starting by 3 months of age. The investigators will also
      assess ATVV's effect on maternal and infant peripheral OXT level, a known biomarker of M-I
      synchrony. OXT levels relate to quality of M-I synchrony, yet the investigators extend this
      knowledge to identify an epigenetic role of the oxytocin receptor gene (OXTR). The
      investigators will analyze maternal plasma for OXTR methylation, OXTR gene expression, OXTR
      protein, and oxytocin peptide in pregnancy, and at 1, 2, and 3 postnatal months (along with
      infant saliva OXT).

      The investigators propose a single-site, randomized, two-group, attention-controlled clinical
      trial (N=250 M-I dyads) to test the efficacy of the ATVV multisensory behavioral intervention
      to improve OXT system function and M-I synchrony. Adult, nulliparous, English or Spanish
      speaking women carrying a single fetus, and scoring 2 or higher on the Adverse Childhood
      Experiences scale will be enrolled. The investigators will obtain baseline OXT, demographics
      and survey data in the third trimester. Soon after birth (pre-hospital discharge), M-I dyads
      who continue to be eligible (e.g., full-term gestation) are randomized into the intervention
      group (n = 125) and taught to administer ATVV daily for 3 months or randomized into the
      Attention Control group (n = 125) and taught normal safe infant care. There are postnatal
      study visits at 1, 2 and 3 months. The investigators follow-up with a phone call at 6
      postnatal months (3-months after the intervention period ends) to assess self-report
      parenting behavior (a proxy for quality of M-I interaction) that the investigators also
      measure at postnatal months 1, 2, and 3.

      Aim 1: Evaluate the efficacy of daily ATVV over 3 postnatal months among mothers with
      childhood adversity. The investigators hypothesize that compared to the Attention Control
      group (n=125), M-I dyads in the ATVV group (n=125) will exhibit:

      H1: Higher oxytocin function (i.e., decreased OXTR methylation at candidate sites, and
      increased OXTR messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA), OXTR protein, and OXT in maternal plasma,
      and increased OXT in infant saliva) at 1, 2, and 3 postnatal months.

      H2: More synchronous eye-to-eye gaze [primary], positive affect [primary], speech, and touch
      at 3 postnatal months.

      Aim 2: Identify molecular mechanisms in the OXT system underlying M-I synchrony (N=250).

      H1: Lower M-I synchrony will be associated with dampening of the OXT system, evidenced by
      increased OXTR methylation at candidate sites, and decreased OXTR mRNA, OXTR protein, and OXT
      in maternal plasma, and decreased OXT in infant saliva at 3-postnatal months.

      Regression based methods (including covariates) will assess ATVV effects on M-I synchrony and
      OXT measures, and identify relations among M-I synchrony and oxytocin measures. Clustering
      methods will be used to discover molecular profiles. An early behavioral intervention that
      successfully promotes M-I synchrony in vulnerable women through epigenetic regulation of the
      OXT system can then be tested in a multi-site clinical implementation trial with other
      high-risk groups.

      Protocol: The Recruiter will introduce the study to potentially eligible pregnant women.
      Eligible women who are interested in joining will be consented and scheduled for a 3rd
      trimester baseline study visit at the university. The investigators will draw blood for OXT
      measures, and collect data in REDCap on demographics, maternal characteristics, and
      self-report surveys. Research team members will keep track of when participants have given
      birth and meet them in a study site hospital before discharged. The investigators will
      collect data on mother and infant health, birth events, and other covariates. At the hospital
      visit, women are randomly assigned to either the ATVV group and taught how to administer the
      intervention on a daily basis, or are randomly assigned to the Attention Control group and
      taught safe infant newborn care.

      All participants will receive daily texts to measure daily stress, and intervention
      participants also document frequency of the intervention. Using Participatory Guidance to
      address women's needs, the investigators will call women each week after birth for a
      check-in. In the intervention group, any challenges with the intervention will be discussed
      and problem-solved. In the Attention Control group, age-appropriate safe infant care will be
      discussed.

      After the hospital visit, monthly study visits at 1, 2, and 3 months include collecting
      maternal blood and infant saliva, and self-report surveys in REDCap. Women will either
      complete REDCap surveys online before each visit, or complete them at the study visit. To
      check intervention fidelity, mothers in the ATVV group demonstrate how they perform the
      intervention with their infant. The team member instructs mothers how to adapt the ATVV to
      their maturing infant and discuss any challenges with the intervention. Mothers in the
      Attention Control group are taught age-appropriate safe infant care.

      At the 3rd month study visit, the investigators collect behavioral outcome data on M-I
      synchrony. All M-I dyads will be video recorded freely interacting with each other for 4
      minutes (coding occurs on the last 3 minutes). Video recording occurs when the infant is
      alert and ready to interact, > 30 minutes after the end of a breastfeeding or formula
      feeding, and data collection order may be adjusted if the baby is sleepy or fussy.
      Interactions are micro-coded frame by frame on a computerized system (Noldus, Wageningen, The
      Netherlands), consistent with previous research on parent-infant synchrony. Coders, blinded
      to group assignment, are trained to 90% inter-rater reliability. Our last interaction with
      participants is a phone call at 6-postnatal months to explore duration of the intervention's
      effect using the Parenting Stress Index.
    
  