
    
      Background: Biliary fistula (BF) is one of the most common sources of post hepatectomy
      morbidity. International Study Group of Liver Surgery (ISGLS) define BF as increased
      bilirubin concentration in the drain at least 3 times greater than the serum bilirubin
      concentration on or after postoperative day (POD) 3. BF is graded into grade A, B and C,
      based on the clinical impact on the postoperative course. Considering ISGLS definition, the
      incidence of BF ranges from 4,4% to 27,2%. The definition developed in Humanitas Research
      Hospital (HRH), defines BF as bilirubin concentration in the drain fluid greater than 10
      mg/dL on or after POD 3. In this case, the incidence is around 8%. Various topical
      haemostatic agents have been developed for liver resection area management their usefulness
      in preventing BF by using a sealing product on the resection surface still remains unclear
      and needs to be assessed.

      Objective: this study aimed to assess the clinical validation of Hemopatch to prevent
      post-operative biliary fistula. Secondarily, it is aimed to evaluate the clinical validity of
      the two proposed definition of biliary fistula.

      Methods: According to the incidence of BF in our previous series (considering ISGLS
      definition), we designed a randomized controlled study on 220 patients, who underwent hepatic
      resection from 2018 to 2020. Patients were randomized to treatment group A (Hemopatch) and
      standard group B (Tisseal and Tabotamp). Both ISGLS and HRH definitions of BF were
      considered. All patients were systematically drained. Drains were maintained at least 5 days,
      and bilirubin was measured on PODs 3, 5, and 7. Drains were removed if the bilirubin
      concentration in the drain fluid was less than 10 mg/dL on POD 7. A statistical analysis to
      compare perioperative variables between two groups was performed. Then, a multivariate
      analysis was performed to identify potential risk factors for BF.
    
  