
    
      The proposed study is designed to assess performance and safety data for the MedHub Autocath
      FFR device.

      The study is a prospective, multi-center, single-arm, post-marketing study. A total of 488
      subjects will be enrolled in the study. The study population who represent the target
      population for this procedure consists of subjects with known or suspected coronary artery
      disease (CAD) who are scheduled to undergo a coronary angiography procedure and on whom
      invasive FFR will be measured in vessels with meaningful coronary lesions. Patients of both
      genders, all ethnicities, >18 years of age will be recruited to the study. Study subjects
      will be enrolled from numerous hospitals in Israel.

      Investigators will screen subjects based on the inclusion/exclusion criteria described below.
      General patient demographics, medical history, concomitant medications, C-arm angiography
      system used, FFR pressure wire used, etc., will be obtained for study subject.

      Subjects with known or suspected coronary artery disease who are scheduled for clinically
      indicated invasive coronary angiography will comprise the patient population. Coronary
      angiography will be performed in a routine fashion in patients with suspected coronary artery
      disease. The collected diagnostic angiography images will be processed using the Medhub
      Autocath FFR device to generate the Autocath FFR. Based on operator's discretion, the
      location of the stenosis and when clinically indicated, invasive FFR will be measured using a
      coronary pressure wire and hyperemic stimulus.

      The patient's angiographic images will be processed using the MedHub Autocath FFR device.
      Based on AMAR approval, MedHub Autocath FFR measurements may be used to determine
      revascularization in lesions found in the Left Anterior Descending (LAD) coronary artery.
      Consequently, invasive FFR will not be mandatory for lesions in the LAD, and it will be at
      the discretion of the physician whether or not to perform the invasive FFR procedure. Lesions
      in the Right Coronary Anterior (RCA) and Left Circumflex (LCX) arteries, when clinically
      indicated, will be required to undergo an invasive FFR procedure in order to determine
      revascularization. That is, in these cases the MedHub Autocath FFR measurements will not be
      used for diagnostic or clinical decisions, but solely as a supportive tool. The MedHub
      Autocath FFR measurement per vessel will be compared to the invasive FFR measurement in the
      RCA and LCX lesions and in LAD lesions, for which invasive FFR measurements are available.

      The dichotomously scored MedHub Autocath FFR per vessel will be compared to the invasive FFR,
      where an FFR ≤ 0.80 will be considered "positive", while an FFR > 0.8 will be considered
      "negative". The sensitivity and specificity of the MedHub Autocath FFR will be calculated.
      Furthermore, the MedHub Autocath FFR accuracy, positive predictive value and negative
      predictive value per vessel and per lesion will be determined.

      Usability of the MedHub Autocath FFR device will also be assessed including User Manual
      comprehension and usability of the device in the hands of the users (i.e., interventional
      cardiologists).

      Details on the timing of all study procedures are given in the Time and Events Schedule in
      Attachment B of the Protocol. The anticipated enrollment period is approximately 6 months and
      therefore, the complete duration of the study is expected to last 8-9 months, during which
      time 488 patients will be enrolled at 3-5 sites.
    
  