
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  IL-15 is a stimulatory cytokine that activates the immune system, inducing proliferation
           of T lymphocytes and NK cells. Administration of recombinant human IL-15 (rhIL-15) has
           been shown to result in a dramatic increase of circulating CD8+T cells and NK cells;
           these changes in immune cell populations suggest potential for anti-tumor activity.

        -  Immune checkpoint inhibitors, including nivolumab (anti-PD-1) and ipilimumab
           (anti-CTLA-4), block the engagement of specific T-cell signaling pathways by tumor
           cells. These regulatory pathways typically act to downregulate T cell activity and are
           co-opted by tumors to allow the malignant cells to evade the immune response.

        -  The combination of rhIL-15 with two checkpoint inhibitor therapies has potential to lead
           to enhanced immune activation, resulting in anti-tumor T cell responses that are
           effective in refractory cancers.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      - Determine the safety, toxicity profile, dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) and maximum tolerated
      doses (MTD) of subcutaneous administration of rhIL-15 given in combination with the anti-
      CTLA-4 antibody ipilimumab and the anti-PD-1 antibody nivolumab in patients with metastatic
      or treatment-refractory cancers.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

        -  Assess the clinical activity of rhIL-15, ipilimumab, and nivolumab combination therapy
           as characterized by RECIST 1.1 and immune RECIST (iRECIST) response rate of patients
           treated in this trial.

        -  Investigate the biological effects of this combination on circulating T cell subsets and
           on PD-1/PD-L1 expression and immune cell activation in tumor tissue.

      ELIGIBILITY:

      - Patients greater than or equal to 18 years of age with histologically confirmed solid tumor
      malignancy that is metastatic or treatment-refractory cancers.

      STUDY DESIGN:

        -  The first 4-6 patients enrolling in the study will be placed into lead-in doublets with
           a combination of rhIL-15 and either nivolumab OR ipilimumab; once toxicity is cleared in
           both doublets (i.e., 2 of the 3 patients enrolled on each doublet remain free of DLTs
           for 6 weeks) and a safety analysis is reviewed and approved by the IRB, new patients
           will be enrolled directly onto the triple agent combination.

        -  For the first four 42-day cycles on the triplet, patients will receive SC rhIL-15 on
           days 1-8 and 22-29, intravenous (IV) nivolumab on days 8, 22, and 36, and IV ipilimumab
           on day 8. Cycles 5 and onwards will not include treatment with rhIL-15.

        -  Patients will be encouraged to report any and all adverse events, given the high
           likelihood of toxicities with the triplet combination therapy.

        -  Blood for PD endpoints will be collected throughout the study and tumor biopsies will be
           collected pretreatment and on C1D42 (optional during the doublets and triplet escalation
           phase, mandatory during the triplet expansion phase)
    
  