
    
      A phase II, single-arm trial to examine the efficacy of prophylactic low-level laser therapy
      (LLLT) to reduce the incidence of oral mucositis and adverse events in patients receiving
      combined modality therapy consisting of chemotherapy and radiation therapy for head and neck
      cancer.

      Patients meeting the eligibility criteria will be enrolled to receive prophylactic LLLT in
      addition to standard of care measures for oral mucositis or other toxicity of therapy. The
      radiation and chemotherapy dose, schedule, modality, technique, and any required adjustments
      will not be influenced by this protocol and will follow standard existing institutional
      practices.

      Patients will receive LLLT three times per week concurrently with chemoradiotherapy. LLLT may
      be delivered either immediately prior to or after the patient's daily fraction of
      radiotherapy. Patients will be treated extra-orally with a THOR® LED cluster for one minute
      along the buccal mucosa on each side and intraorally for one minute to the tongue and soft
      palate. During each LLLT treatment session a thorough oral exam will be performed to identify
      any areas of mucositis. If the patient should develop intraoral lesions they will be targeted
      directly with the intraoral probe for one minute to each site of mucositis. The laser
      settings to be used are as follows: frequency 2.5 Hz; wavelength 660 nm; and power 75 mW, for
      an energy of 4.5 J.

      Patients will be evaluated prior to therapy, weekly during therapy, two weeks after the
      completion of therapy, and three months after the completion of therapy. During each
      assessment, the following toxicities will be assessed: pain, mucositis, dysphagia,
      xerostomia, dysgeusia, dermatitis, trismus, and quality of life.

      Previous studies indicate that approximately 40% of patients will experience severe mucositis
      with radiation and concurrent chemotherapy. The hypothesis in this trial is that the addition
      of LLLT to this treatment regimen will decrease the rate of severe acute OM to 20%. We plan
      to enroll 50 patients at our institution.
    
  