
    
      With healthcare expenditures rising as our population ages, there have been significant
      efforts targeted towards streamlining costs associated with various medical treatments. One
      area of substantial spending in the orthopaedic surgery field is total joint replacements.
      The effort to reduce costs has sparked a renewed interest in the use of allpolyethylene (AP)
      tibial components in total knee arthroplasty (TKA).

      In recent years, there has been ample research demonstrating that AP tibial components have
      performed as good as, or better, than metal-backed (MB) tibial components. Some studies have
      estimated that cost savings could be as high as 50% with routine use of AP tibial components.
      While sufficient literature exists demonstrating the equivalence or superiority of AP versus
      MB designs, there is a paucity of work done comparing different types of AP tibial
      components.

      Tibial components in TKA can be of the posterior stabilizing (PS) or cruciate retaining (CR)
      variety. To date, we are unaware of any study that directly compares AP tibial PS components
      to AP tibial CR components.

      Radiostereometric analysis (RSA) has evolved as an exceptionally precise and reliable method
      for assessing the migration of components in total joint arthroplasty. Using RSA data, it is
      possible to accurately predict, within the first 24 months post-operatively, the survival of
      a total joint arthroplasty. Furthermore, the use of RSA outcomes in arthroplasty research
      allows for adequately powered studies with significantly smaller sample sizes than previously
      required.

      The main objective of this project will be to determine which AP tibial component offers the
      greatest stability. Additionally, we will seek to determine whether patient body mass index
      (BMI) significantly impacts the stability of AP tibial components.

      We will prospectively enroll patients who will be undergoing a total knee arthroplasty by one
      of the study investigators. Potentially eligible patients will have the project explained to
      them during their preadmission clinic visit prior to surgery and if interested a member of
      the research team will perform the informed consent process. Should a patient elect to
      participate in the study they will sign the informed consent form and complete demographics
      and baseline health related quality of life questionnaires including Oxford Knee, EQ-5D, and
      the VR-12, in addition to the Western Ontario McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index
      (WOMAC) which is already completed as per standard of care. The baseline demographic
      characteristics that will be collected include age, BMI, gender, and relevant medical
      comorbidities. Patients will be randomized to have either a PS or CR all-poly tibial
      component used during surgery. Randomization will be stratified by BMI to ensure equal
      distribution in both groups.

      During surgery the surgeon will insert 6-9 tantalum beads in the proximal tibial, 6 beads in
      the polyeythylene tray, and another bead into the tip of the polyethylene stem. These beads
      will be used to measure migration of the implants on RSA imaging (radiostereometric
      analysis).

      The RSA x-rays will be taken at baseline (2 weeks) and at the 6-week, 3 months, 6 months and
      1 year and 2 year follow-up appointments. These images will be taken at Robarts Research
      Institute in the RSA analysis suite. At the 3month, 6 month, 1 year and 2 year visits we will
      also collect health related quality of life questionnaires including the WOMAC, Oxford Knee,
      EQ-5D and the VR-12.

      Patients and data collector will be blinded to treatment arm. The person who will analyze the
      RSA images will be able to see which treatment arm participants belong to (based on viewing
      xrays) however the hypothesis of the study will not be revealed to them prior to analysis.

      Intra-operative cost information will also be collected using institutional cost data in
      order to compare differences in OR costs between the two implant designs and across BMI
      categories.
    
  