
    
      In this study, we investigate the use of 3D models during pre and intra-operative planning
      could improve the success of hip arthroscopy and reduce the incidence of revision cases. By
      adding an adjunct to the common suite of pre-operative imaging modalities (X-ray, MRI and
      CT), we can change the surgeon's understanding of each patient's individual morphology with a
      tactile physical model. This study will compare the success of hip arthroscopy in patients
      with or without 3D printed models (in addition to traditional pre-operative imaging).

      This will be a single-center, blinded observer, randomized controlled trial of 80 patients
      performed at the Halifax Infirmary, Queen Elizabeth II Health Sciences Center in Halifax,
      Nova Scotia. Patients with cam-type FAI involved in the study will be approached by the
      surgeon, Dr. Ivan Wong, or a delegate regarding the study during a pre-operative visit.
      Following a detailed discussion of the risks/benefits/alternatives of this study, the patient
      will be provided with a copy of the informed consent to review, if they demonstrate an
      interest in the study. If the patient wishes to be enrolled in the study, the research team
      will obtain patient consent for the study according to the Division of Orthopaedic Surgery
      and Nova Scotia Health Authority (NSHA) institutional protocols.

      In the pre-operative period, there will be no additional time requirements for the
      participant, except for the informed consent process for the study. Routine X-ray
      radiographs, as well as a pre-operative MRI and CT scan, will be obtained for all subjects
      undergoing FAI surgery. The participants will not be exposed to any additional radiation.
      Subjects will complete a structured clinical examination conducted by a sports medicine
      fellowship-trained orthopaedic consultant. The patient will also complete pre-operative
      questionnaires.

      Patients that have consented to the study will be randomized into two groups with a 50%
      chance of being in either group. Randomization will be done with a computer random number
      generator. Both groups will undergo routine pre-operative imaging but one group will also
      have a 3D print made from the 3D CT reconstruction. All patient groups will undergo hip
      arthroscopy for the treatment of their FAI.
    
  