
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the response rate to aflibercept as a single agent in adult patients with
           advanced refractory, relapsed, or untreated acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

        -  To determine the 3-month progression-free survival following treatment with at least 4
           courses of aflibercept in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  To determine if there is any correlation between pre-treatment expression of VEGFR1 or
           VEGFR2 by marrow myeloblasts and disease response to aflibercept.

        -  To determine if bone marrow microvessel density (MVD) pre-treatment correlates with
           disease response to aflibercept, and if any decrease in MVD following treatment
           correlates with changes in bone marrow blast percentage (disease response).

        -  To assess changes in circulating endothelial cells (CEC) and circulating endothelial
           progenitor cells (EPC) as pharmacodynamic markers of aflibercept activity and possible
           correlates of disease response to aflibercept.

        -  To measure blood levels of free VEGF versus VEGF bound by aflibercept post-treatment to
           determine if the chosen dose of aflibercept is sufficient to bind all detectable soluble
           VEGF in these patients.

        -  To characterize the population pharmacokinetics of aflibercept with its associated
           interpatient variability and to explore for demographic and clinical covariates.

        -  To derive individual estimates of the duration over which VEGF-saturating aflibercept
           concentrations were systematically present and to examine their distribution across the
           population.

        -  To explore the potential relationship between the systemic-free and bound aflibercept
           levels and safety and efficacy data.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive aflibercept IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 4
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo bone marrow and blood sample collection periodically for
      pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic studies. Samples are analyzed for peak plasma-free
      aflibercept levels after the first infusion, trough plasma-free and bound aflibercept levels
      prior to each subsequent infusion and 60 days after the last infusion, and anti-aflibercept
      antibody via ELISA methods; circulating endothelial cells (CEC's) via ELISA and flow
      cytometry to determine if there is correlation between changes in circulating endothelial
      cells and changes in bone marrow blast percentage (i.e., disease response); myeloblast
      expression of VEGFR-1 and VRGFR-2 via immunohistochemistry (IHC); endothelial progenitor
      cells colony forming units (EPC-CFU's) to determine via in situ staining if changes in
      circulating endothelial progenitors following treatment with aflibercept correlates with
      disease response, and if there is a subpopulation of patients identified by pre-treatment
      circulating EPC-CFU's that may benefit from aflibercept; and bone marrow microvessel density
      (MVD) determination via immunohistochemistry.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 60 days.
    
  