
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Paclitaxel is designed to block the mechanisms of cell division in cancer cells, which may
      cause them to die.

      Bevacizumab is designed to prevent or slow down the growth of cancer cells by blocking the
      effects of Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a blood-vessel stimulating agent that
      plays an important role in the growth of both normal and abnormal blood vessels.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, on Days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of each
      28-day study "cycle", you will receive paclitaxel through a needle into your vein over 1
      hour.

      On Days 1 and 15 of each cycle, you will receive bevacizumab by vein. The first dose of
      bevacizumab will be given over about 90 minutes. If the first dose is well tolerated, the
      second dose may be given over about 60 minutes. If this is well tolerated, the third and any
      other doses may be given over about 30 minutes.

      Before you receive the study drugs, you will receive premedication (selected by your doctor)
      to help prevent or lessen any side effects from the study drugs.

      Study Visits:

      About every 4 weeks, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including a pelvic exam and measurement of your vital
           signs.

        -  You will have a performance status evaluation.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to test how your blood
           clots.

        -  You will be asked if you have experienced any side effects.

      About every 8 weeks, you will have a chest x-ray and a computed tomography (CT) or magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) scan of your abdomen and pelvis to check the status of the disease.

      Length of Study:

      You may stay on study for as long as you are benefitting. You will be taken off study early
      if the disease gets worse or you experience intolerable side effects.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      After you go off study, you will have an end-of-study visit. At this visit, the following
      tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including a pelvic exam and measurement of your vital
           signs.

        -  You will have a performance status evaluation.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests and possibly blood clotting
           tests.

        -  You will have a CT or MRI of the abdomen and pelvis to check the status of the disease.

        -  You will be asked if you have experienced any side effects.

      This is an investigational study. Paclitaxel is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of breast cancer, nonsmall cell lung cancer, ovarian cancers, and treatment of
      AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma (KS). Bevacizumab is FDA approved and commercially available
      for use in combination with chemotherapy in patients with colon cancer, but its use in this
      combination for this type of cancer is considered experimental.

      Up to 20 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  