
    
      This will be a 2-year multi-centre clustered open-label clinical trial examining the
      therapeutic use of a drug called Gastrografin in reducing the length of hospital stay, time
      to feeding, and rate of surgery in children with a small bowel obstruction. Each
      participating centre will select which of the two treatment options they will offer to
      patients at their centre. The patients at each centre will be aware of the treatment offered
      at thier centre before making the decision whether to participate in the study. The two arms
      of the study are: Gastrografin or Control (saline solution). If a patient declines
      participation in the arm offered at their centre they will not be enrolled in the study. The
      investigators have chosen an open-label cluster study design instead of a randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) because it is common for RCTs to be stopped early due to poor
      recruitment rates within paediatric surgery. A 2018 systematic review reported that of the
      137 eligible RCTs within paediatric general surgery only 19% successfully achieved the
      projected recruitment number and further, only 53% of studies that provided an expected
      completion date achieved the target. Based on the power calculation for this study, the
      investigators require a total of 146 patients (73 in each group) to achieve 80% power.
      Therefore if a RCT design is used, estimating a typically recruitment rate of 40-50%, it
      would take over 8 years to reach the required sample size between the participating centres.
      With a prospective, open-label design, the investigators anticipate the total number of
      possible patients that can be approached to participate in the study across all centres to be
      between 152-160 patients over the two years. The investigators estimate large centres will on
      average recruit between 10-12 patients per year, medium centres 6-8 patients per year, and
      small centres 2-4 patients per year.

      Consent/Assent will be obtained from the parents/caregivers prior to participation in the
      study. Assent, in addition to parental/caregiver consent, will be used for patients between
      the ages of 7 and 11. Prior to the patient participating in any study-related activities,
      consent will be obtained. Patients will be included in this study if they are between the
      ages of 6 months and 18 years of age, are diagnosed with a small bowel obstruction, and have
      undergone 24 hours of monitoring and non-surgical management. Patients will be excluded from
      the study if they have thyroid stimulating hormone or thyroxine levels outside of the normal
      range, are taking any thyroid replacement medication, have previously had thyroid surgery,
      have an allergy to the medical or non-medical ingredients in Gastrografin, and weigh less
      than 10kg at the time of diagnosis.

      Recruitment will begin following a positive diagnosis of a small bowel obstruction secondary
      to previous surgery, assessment by the surgical team, and after the patient has been admitted
      to the hospital for a twenty-four hour period of non-surgical management, which includes
      nasogastric (NG) decompression, fluid resuscitation, and maintenance. The patients will be
      assessed by the surgical team on a regular basis during this time as part of standard care
      and enrollment in the study does not preclude urgent or emergent surgical intervention. After
      24 hours of admission, the patient will be approached to participate in the study. The study
      will be explained to the patient and their parents/caregivers by the research team. The
      patient and their family will be given as much time as required to talk among themselves
      about the study and ask any questions about the study to the research team. Depending on
      which study arm is offered at their hospital, they will either receive one dose of saline
      solution via their NG tube plus non-surgical management (Control arm) or one dose of
      Gastrografin via their NG tube plus non-surgical management (Gastrografin arm). At any point
      during the study if the patient's clinical condition changes and the surgical team thinks the
      patient needs an operation then it will occur regardless of enrollment in the study.

      Prior to the patient receiving Gastrografin or saline solution, the investigators will
      confirm that the patient does not have an allergy to iodine, as Gastrografin contains high
      levels of iodine, and that they have normal thyroid hormone levels. The investigators will
      test the patient's levels of thyroxine (T4) and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) by blood
      draw, as excessive iodine exposure can block thyroid hormone synthesis in young children. The
      investigators will be able to test thyroid hormone levels from the patients initial blood
      work at admission, which occurs as part of the patient's standard care. This way there will
      be no delay in the treatment of the small bowel obstruction (SBO) due to waiting for lab
      results and the patient can receive either treatment at 24 hours post admission. Thyroid
      hormone levels will be tested throughout the study for the Gastrografin group from routine
      blood draws that are part of standard care when a patient is NPO. Therefore no additional
      blood draws will be required as part of the study. If the patient's thyroid hormone levels
      are normal they can be enrolled in the study. If not, they will not be eligible to
      participate in the study.

      Twenty-four hours following admission and consent, patients will either receive Gastrografin
      or an equivalent volume of saline (Control arm) via the NG tube, depending on the arm offered
      at their centre. In both cases, the NG tube will be clamped for 30 minutes to one hour. Doses
      of Gastrografin will be proportional to the patient's age and will be based on the
      recommendations from the manufacturer (i.e., product monograph) and published studies.
      Dosages will range from 30ml for children up to 5 year of age to 60ml for children between
      5-18 years and will not be diluted. The manufacturer only recommends diluting Gastrografin if
      the patient is of low-birth weight or is considered debilitated. Since none of the patient
      recruited for this study will meet these criteria, Gastrografin will not be diluted. Patients
      who do not receive Gastrografin will receive an equivalent volume of saline solution via the
      NG tube in addition to non-surgical management, which includes NG tube decompression, NPO,
      and IV fluids. At this time (24 hours post admission) an x-ray will be completed for both
      study arms.

      After the patient receives Gastrografin or saline solution they will continue to be monitored
      for the duration of the study. The patients in both groups will receive an abdominal x-ray at
      12 hours after they have been given Gastrografin or saline (36 hours since admission). If
      Gastrografin is present in the cecum, feeding will be initiated and the patient will be
      observed closely to monitor the success of Gastrografin administration. If not viewed at 12
      hours post administration, non-surgical management will be maintained until resolution of the
      bowel obstruction or surgical intervention. Standard procedure for initiating feeds will be
      used on all children included in the study. The initiation of feeding is up to the discretion
      of the attending paediatric surgeon and is typically determined based on resolution of the
      bowel obstruction, decrease in NG tube drainage, the degree of abdominal distension, and the
      passage of stool. Patients given saline via the NG tube as part of the Control arm will also
      receive an x-ray at 12 hours post saline solution and will continue to receive non-surgical
      management until resolution or surgical intervention.

      The data collection period is from admission to discharge; there will be no data collection
      at any follow-up appointment. Patients will be seen in clinic for follow-up post SBO at the
      discretion of the attending surgeon and this will not differ based on study group
      (Gastrografin vs. Control). The majority of the information will be collected from the
      patient's chart and will not require directly consulting with the patient or their
      parents/caregivers. In order to have an equal number of patients in each group, the
      investigators will set a cap of 73 patients per group. Once one of the study arms reaches 73
      patients, the investigators will stop enrolling into that arm of the study and only offer the
      other arm to potential patients. This will help to ensure that the expected sample is
      achieved in each group and that groups are not uneven. Enrollment rate are expected to be
      fairly even between study arms, as the treatment arm is non-invasive, has a strong body of
      evidence around its effectiveness in other conditions, and has a very low complication rate.
      Additionally, the fact that it is being used outside of the study at the participating
      centres at the discretion of the paediatric surgeons may provide an added level of
      reassurance for the patient and their family.
    
  