
    
      A computer-generated randomization plan was used for assignment of subjects to one of six
      treatment sequences (4 subjects per sequence): oxymorphone/propoxyphene/placebo,
      oxymorphone/placebo/propoxyphene, placebo/oxymorphone/propoxyphene,
      placebo/propoxyphene/oxymorphone, propoxyphene/oxymorphone/placebo, or
      propoxyphene/placebo/oxymorphone. One dose of blinded study drug (opana, propoxypehen, or
      placebo) was given at study days 1, 5, and 9. The primary endpoint was time to first symptoms
      of moderate intensity (NRS ≥ 4/10) during treadmill ambulation. Ambulation assessment was
      performed during the screening visit. Ambulation assessment was also performed 90 minutes
      after administration of study drug on days 1, 5 and 9, to evaluate pain intensity associated
      with walking as well as distance covered by the patients. Quantitative assessment of
      ambulation was conducted on a treadmill at 0° ramp incline at 1.2 miles per hour (mph).
      Measurement of self-reported symptom severity using the NRS at baseline, and every 30 seconds
      for a maximum of 15 minutes was recorded. The following information was also recorded: time
      to first symptoms, total ambulation time. The examination was stopped after 15 minutes or at
      the onset of severe symptoms. Severe symptoms were defined as the level of discomfort that
      would make patients stop walking in usual life situations. No one was encouraged or prompted
      to continue walking beyond this point. Patients were instructed to walk with an upright
      posture. They were not permitted to lean forward or hold onto the handrails during the
      examination. Secondary outcome measures included area under the curve of present pain
      intensity with ambulation at each specified time point, final pain intensity with walking,
      walking tolerance, time to return to baseline pain level after ambulation, as well as the
      results of a series of pain related questionnaires including: Visual Analog Scale (VAS),
      Patient Global Assessment (PGA), NRS, Roland Morris Disability Questionnaire (RMDQ), modified
      Brief Pain Inventory short form (mBPI-sf), Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), and Swiss Spinal
      Stenosis (SSS).
    
  