
    
      The investigators will examine the response to P4 peptide of alveolar macrophages from
      bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) and neutrophils from peripheral blood collected from patients
      with severe pneumonia admitted to the ITU.

      The investigators expect to show improved phagocytosis, oxidative burst, cellular activation
      (flow cytometry, electron microscopy, cytokine production, transcriptomics) and bacterial
      killing when P4 is used to stimulate immune cells and this may lead to a novel approach to
      the treatment of severe infections.

      The investigators will also examine the effect of P4 on alveolar macrophages and neutrophils
      from healthy volunteers in order to ensure comparability with previously published results
      and extend observations using S.pneumoniae to other causes of severe pneumonia including
      E.coli, Salmonellae, M.tuberculosis and Pseudomonas.

      Augmented passive immunotherapy (API) is a novel potential treatment strategy to combat
      fulminant bacterial infections. It consists of two components

        1. a peptide that enhances bacterial uptake and killing by phagocytes.

        2. exogenous antibody (provided with intravenous immunoglobulin, a licensed medicinal
           product) which optimizes the phagocytosis. Previous studies of API have included
           extensive murine studies of acute and chronic bacterial infection with several different
           organisms. P4 has also been tested in aged mice and in mucosal administration.

      The investigators will recruit patients with severe community acquired pneumonia on ICU and
      healthy volunteers using carefully established inclusion and exclusions criteria.

      This research seeks to establish proof-of-concept for augmented passive immunotherapy in
      patients with severe pneumonia. Patients with mild to moderate pneumonia often respond to
      antibiotic therapy but those with severe community-acquired pneumonia who require admission
      to Intensive Care have a hospital mortality of 49.4%, despite antibiotics and optimal
      supportive care. These patients represent 6% of all admissions to Intensive Care Units in the
      UK. Strategies to improve clinical outcome for this group of patients are much needed and the
      investigators' research cohort has been selected to represent this group. The immunological
      characteristics of patients with overwhelming sepsis are likely to differ from patients with
      milder infection. Immune cells taken from patients with milder forms of sepsis may not
      respond to in vitro stimulation in the same way as cells taken from severely septic patients
      and therefore should not be used to establish proof-of-concept for a therapy intended for
      critically ill patients on Intensive Care.
    
  