
    
      Acute Mountain Sickness (AMS) is a well described disease process that occurs as a result of
      rapid exposure to high altitude. High altitude headache (HAH) is defined as the presence of
      headache in the setting of a recent increase in altitude. When HAH is associated with nausea,
      vomiting, fatigue, weakness, dizziness, lightheadedness or poor sleeping, AMS is diagnosed.
      While benign, AMS is very common, afflicting up to 80 % of travelers who ascend rapidly to
      14,000 ft, and can be debilitating. AMS is thought to occur secondary to hypoxia-induced
      cerebral vasodilation. The antiemetic metoclopramide has been well studied and is commonly
      administered for treatment of migraine headaches in emergency departments across the U.S. The
      symptoms of migraine headaches are often similar to those of AMS. The mechanism of
      metoclopramide"s beneficial effect in this indication appear to be a result of its antagonism
      of central and peripheral dopamine receptors,most notably by blocking stimulation of the
      medullary chemoreceptor trigger zone. No studies have yet evaluated the potential benefits of
      metoclopramide for the relief of AMS. In contrast, ibuprofen has been well studied and found
      to be an effective treatment for the relief of symptoms of high altitude headache and AMS.

      The study will be a convenience sample of trekkers traveling through the Annapurna Circuit in
      Nepal during the 3 month time period of March-May, 2012. Subjects will be recruited from
      visitors to Manang, Nepal staying in local hostels, those visiting the Himalayan Rescue
      Association clinic in Manang, and those responding to locally posted signage regarding study
      enrollment.

      Eligible patients will be consented and enrolled in the study. Patients will be randomized to
      receive either Ibuprofen 400mg or Metoclopramide 10mg by mouth. Investigators will be blinded
      as to which arm of the study the patient is enrolled. Participants will be assessed by Lake
      Louise Score and Visual Analog Scale for headache and nausea severity immediately prior to
      ingestion of study medication, and then serially at 30, 60, and 120 minutes following
      medication ingestion. Standard statistical analysis of the Lake Louise AMS scores and visual
      analog scales will be used to determine which medication is more effective in treating acute
      mountain sickness.
    
  