
    
      The SARS-CoV-2 pandemic represents an extraordinary challenge for global health, it has
      caused more than 97 million cases of Covid-19 and 2 million deaths worldwide as of January
      22, 2021. Vaccination against Covid-19 is an essential weapon to mitigate the consequences of
      the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic. Its effect in reducing mortality is of course expected in people
      most vulnerable to Covid-19 such as immunocompromised people.

      In general, the immunogenicity of vaccines in immunocompromised populations is conditioned by
      the nature and intensity of the chronic pathology (s), the age and the treatments received.
      In addition, the emergence of new variants of SARS-CoV-2 is a major concern today. Three new
      variants that have rapidly become dominant within their countries have aroused concerns:
      B.1.1.7 (also known as VOC-202012/01), 501Y.V2 (B.1.351), and P.1 (B.1.1.28.1) and questions
      are raised about their potential to escape from vaccine-induced immunity. It is therefore
      important to be able to assess vaccine efficacy in subjects who are fragile with respect to
      these variants.

      We are proposing the establishment of a multicenter cohort study of immunocompromised people
      vaccinated against Covid-19 with the aim to know the humoral and cellular response to
      BNT162b2 vaccination against SARS-CoV-2 variants. The primary objective is to evaluate the
      neutralizing capacity of the antibodies regarding different variants of SARS-CoV-2 after
      vaccination on 1 month after the first injection, then on 1, 6 and 12 months after the last
      injection. In-depth immunophenotyping of immune blood cells which analyzes in detail the
      subpopulations of T lymphocytes and their responses to SARS-CoV-2 will be also analyze before
      vaccination and after vaccination on 1 month after the first injection, then on 1 month after
      the last injection. Extensive explorations of the humoral and cellular response to BNT162b2
      vaccination will provide crucial data on the potential efficacy of the BNT162b2 vaccine on
      the recently identified SARS-CoV-2 variants, as well as innovative data on the dynamic of the
      functional responses of T cells and of the TCR repertoire, the dynamic of which (increase
      after vaccination, remote contraction) makes it possible to link them to a vaccine response,
      as has already been done in the context of other vaccination.

      This study will provide a better understanding of the biological response to BNT162b2
      vaccination in immunocompromised people with respect to the English VOC 202012/01, South
      African 501Y.V2 variants and any other variants that may emerge. In particular, we are
      waiting to be able to estimate the proportion of patients whose immunogenicity suggests a
      reduction in the frequency of severe forms of COVID-19. Conversely, we are waiting to
      estimate the proportion of patients with a level of immunogenicity too low to hope for good
      clinical protection against COVID-19. In addition, there are no data on the durability of the
      biological response to BNT162b2 vaccination.

      It is possible that these observations could lead to the implementation of reinforced
      vaccination protocols for this population, as is already the case for vaccination for
      hepatitis B vaccination.
    
  