
    
      Biofeedback can be described as "operant conditioning of physiological activity", by which
      "the patient learns to self-regulate his or her physiological processes with the help of
      feedback information", and can comprise different sites, modalities, and procedures.
      Biofeedback instruments measure physiological activity such as brainwaves, heart function,
      breathing, muscle activity, and skin temperature and rapidly and accurately provide feedback
      information to the user. There are various aims biofeedback can target, e.g., developing more
      awareness or control for physiological processes and thus, consciously reducing muscle
      tension. Previous research has shown findings of higher baseline muscle activation and
      abnormal EMG as a response to stress in chronic back pain patients.

      Studies using biofeedback for the treatment of chronic back pain have shown inconsistent
      results and it is difficult to draw conclusions based on previous studies due to variability
      in sample size and characteristics, biofeedback modality, treatment conditions, and control
      groups. Thus, the effectiveness of biofeedback in reducing the symptomatology of back pain
      patients remains unclear. The investigators therefore are planning to conduct this pilot
      efficacy study, to examine the effects of EMG-biofeedback (EMG-BF) on pain-related outcomes
      in a cohort of Chronic Low Back Pain (CLBP) patients.

      This randomized clinical trial has two study arms. Participants in the first arm will receive
      the experimental condition (EMG-Bf) and those in the second will continue their usual care
      and serve as a control group. Both groups will be asked to complete self-report
      questionnaires before their first visit and after the last visit at 8 weeks. Further, both
      groups will undergo Quantitative Sensory Testing (QST) before their first visit and after the
      last visit at 8 weeks. The specific aims of this study are to examine the impact of EMG-BF on
      pain intensity and sensitivity and on physical functioning, sleep, pain catastrophizing,
      anxiety and depression. We will not modify pain medication regimens in any of the trial arms
      and no pain medication prescriptions will be issued by the research team at any time.

      Experimental Condition:

      This study will include 2 in-person office visits separated by 8 weekly virtual therapy
      sessions. During the in-person visits, participants will undergo sensory testing procedures
      described below. On visit 1 a member of the research staff will train patients on the basic
      functionality of the JOGO Digital Therapeutics EMG Biofeedback device. Virtual sessions 1-8
      will be held via Partners Healthcare Secure Zoom. During these, participants will receive
      guided EMG biofeedback intervention with a therapist and will be instructed to use the device
      at home.

      Home practice will be monitored via electronic practice logs recorded on REDcap. Patients
      will be trained to relax their muscles under the guidance of a doctorate level therapist by
      monitoring progress through virtual feedback in the form of graph.

      Treatment as Usual: Patients in this group will undergo sensory testing procedures described
      below at baseline and after 8 weeks but will receive no active treatment.

      EMG-Biofeedback EMG-BF facilitates neuromuscular retraining and muscle relaxation by using
      audio and visual stimuli using an EMG surface electrode-based biosensor and a software
      installed on a tablet or smart phone. During the 8 weekly sessions participants will be
      instructed on how to use the device by a trained biofeedback instructor. Further, in each
      session participants will have the opportunity to discuss possible
      difficulties/obstacles/progress using the device. Each session will additionally include
      relaxation techniques (such as Progressive Muscle Relaxation). Sessions are estimated to last
      40-45 minutes.

      Standardized Quantitative Sensory Testing (QST) QST is a non-invasive method for measuring
      pain sensitivity and pain modulation. Our QST testing protocol will measure mechanical pain
      sensitivity (pain threshold). This protocol has been used in various studies the
      investigators have conducted in the past. During the psychophysical testing procedures,
      participants will be informed that they may terminate the procedure at any time. The
      intensity of pain stimulation will be determined for each subject individually to minimize
      potential for tissue damage. The methods used have been thoroughly tested and validated for
      the study of experimental pain. All subjects will be examined during the study to document
      the presence or absence of tissue injury at the sites of noxious stimulation. If there is any
      evidence that the protocol causes more than minor, reversible bruising or sensitization, the
      protocol will be amended to decrease the frequency and/or intensity of the noxious stimuli.
      Outcome monitoring and adverse events will all be reported through appropriate channels of
      the Human Studies Committee.
    
  