
    
      An adequate level of bowel preparation before colonoscopy has an extremely relevant impact on
      lesion detection and procedure success. The inpatient status represents a well-known
      independent predictor for inadequate colon cleansing. A recent prospective, multicentre,
      Italian study among inpatients showed that an adequate colon cleansing was achieved in 60-70%
      of patients, far below the ideal threshold of 90%. Such a low efficacy has several negative
      consequences: first, it leads to repetition of colonoscopy, therefore prolonging patients'
      in-hospital stay and increasing the risk of adverse events and costs; second, it augments the
      risk of missing colorectal lesions, negatively affecting patients' management and increasing
      costs due to the need for adjunctive diagnostic studies.

      Current recommendations on bowel preparation among difficult-to-prepare patients are mostly
      based on expert opinions, the high-volume 4L polyethylene glycol (PEG)-based prep being
      considered as the gold standard, possibly with further additional solution. On the other
      hand, compliance to the bowel preparation has been related to an adequate colon cleansing,
      and it may be argued that inpatients might find it difficult to take high-volume purge. A
      recent Italian prospective multicentre study among inpatients showed similar rates of
      adequate bowel preparation between patients who underwent bowel preparation with and without
      additional solution. Interestingly, a higher rate of adequate colon cleansing was reported
      for a very low-volume (1L) polyethylene glycol (PEG)-based preparation when compared to 4L
      and 2L PEG-based solutions. However, this finding has to be confirmed as the study was not
      controlled and the PEG-1L group was much smaller than the other two.

      Aim of the present randomized multicenter controlled study will be to assess and compare the
      efficacy and safety of a novel very-low volume (1L) PEG-based preparation vs.
      standard-of-care low-volume (2L) and high-volume (4L) PEG-based purge, among inpatients.
    
  