
    
      PRIMARY AIM / OBJECTIVE:

      Our study aims to observe the prevalence of CIPN-related pain in cancer breast patients who
      have received Paclitaxel based adjuvant chemotherapy where we define CIPN-related pain as -
      "possible" neuropathic pain in patients scoring more than 12 on Leeds Assessment of
      Neuropathic Symptoms and Signs pain scale (LANSS).

      SECONDARY AIM / OBJECTIVE Since its introduction in the 1970s, Paclitaxel has been used as an
      effective anticancer agent against lung, breast, ovarian, leukopenia and liver cancer. But,
      Paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy is the major dose-limiting side effect of
      paclitaxel.Paclitaxel induced peripheral neuropathy most commonly presents as

        1. Pain

        2. Burning,

        3. Tingling ("pins and needles" feeling) or electric/shock-like pain,

        4. Hyperalgesia,

        5. Allodynia,

        6. Increased sensitivity to cold or heat These symptoms are classically seen symmetrically
           in the distal extremities (glove and stocking distribution).

      Most adverse effects associated with chemotherapy are ameliorated after cessation of the
      therapy, but CIPN may persist in the longterm, with 30 % patients having CIPN related
      symptoms beyond 6 months after completion of chemotherapy7.Understanding the epidemiology of
      neuropathic pain in breast cancer patients has high clinical and public health significance.

      MATERIALS & METHODS:

      The cohort will consist of women with early breast cancer (stages I through III) who had
      received Paclitaxel chemotherapy for breast cancer as per the Institutional guidelines within
      the preceding two years. History suggestive of pre-existing neuropathy will be noted.

        1. All patients (who fulfill the inclusion criteria) visiting Tata Memorial hospital during
           Feb2017 2016 to June 2017 will be examined in the Medical Oncology OPD by one of the
           investigators and the current CIPN and CIPN-related pain score will be documented by
           using the NCI-CTCAE and LANSS scale. Then, the patients will be questioned for
           thepresence of similar neuropathic symptoms before starting, after starting and during
           Paclitaxel the chemotherapy and their replies will be recorded in the.

        2. Patients who had received adjuvant chemotherapy with Paclitaxel but who could not
           complete their chemotherapy due to Paclitaxel induced adverse effects other than
           peripheral neuropathy for eg hypersensitivity to Paclitaxel will be screened but their
           data will be excluded from final data assessment.

      2. Use of 1. Acetyl-L-carnitine (ALC) 2. Amifostine 3. Amitriptyline 4. CaMg 5.
      Diethyldithio-carbamate (DDTC) 6. Glutathione (GSH) 7. Nimodipine 8. All-trans-retinoic acid
      9. rhuLIF 10. Vitamin E during Paclitaxel chemotherapy will be noted based on history and
      examination of charts.

      For CIPN-related pain: The Leeds Assessment of Neuropathic Symptoms and Signs pain scale
      (LANSS) is a simple and valid 7-item tool for identifying patients whose pain is dominated by
      neuropathic mechanisms. Each item is a binary response (yes or no) to the presence of
      symptoms (5 items) or clinical signs (2 items). If score > 12, neuropathic mechanisms are
      likely to be contributing to the patient's pain.

      NCI-CTCAE : The National Cancer Institute - Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
      v4.0, NCI-CTCAE most recently updated in 2010, will be used for grading CIPN. The CTCAE
      displays Grades 1 through 5 with unique clinical descriptions of severity for CIPN.
      Paclitaxel induced CIPN is defined as NCI-CTCAE Grade 2 or above.
    
  