
    
      Aim:

      Assess the diagnostic accuracy of 3D Ultrasound, compared to MRI and final histology with
      respect to myometrial invasion of endometrial cancer.

      Background:

      When a diagnosis of endometrial cancer is confirmed on biopsy, women get staged to assess the
      level of spread. Current gold standard is an MRI. A proportion of women, are unable to
      undergo or complete an MRI scan due to their morbid obesity or claustrophobia. To this end,
      many have assessed the role of ultrasound in staging endometrial cancer as a cheaper and
      easier alternative to an MRI. In the last 20 years there has been a rise in the use of 3D
      ultrasound as it has become commercially available. There is, however a paucity of data on
      the role of 3D ultrasound in the assessment of myometrial invasion and lymph node metastasis.
      This research project will assess whether 3D ultrasound is a safe, effective alternative to
      MRI to assess the depth of spread of womb cancer.

      The study:

      All women with suspected endometrial cancer will receive a pelvic (internal) ultrasound as
      per routine care. In addition to the normal 2D ultrasound, women will receive a 3D ultasound
      and images will be saved. This adds an additional 1-2 minutes scan time.

      In those women with confirmed cancer on histology an MRI is performed to assess stage of
      cancer (current routine standard of care). This will include T1, T2, DWI and contrast
      enhanced sequences. Patients referred to Hammersmith Hospital from other trusts will also be
      able to undergo a 3D ultrasound if this was not already performed. Definitive management of
      endometrial cancer includes a hysterectomy and the surgical specimen will be examined for
      depth of myometrial invasion and lymph node involved (if removed). In the meantime, the saved
      3D ultrasound images will be analysed and rendered to predict the stage of the endometrial
      cancer and lymph node involvement. The results of 3D ultrasound, and MRI will be compared
      against the stage found on the gold standard test (on histological examination).
    
  