
    
      PWUD remain a priority population as they represent a critical conduit for new HIV
      infections, which are transmitted through preventable drug- and sex-related HIV risk
      behaviors. Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) - the daily self-administration of antiretroviral
      medication - has enormous potential to bolster primary HIV prevention outcomes among PWUD.
      PrEP is a FDA-approved biomedical HIV prevention strategy recommended by the CDC and WHO for
      key populations, including PWUD. Despite unequivocal evidence supporting PrEP, its scale-up
      has been nearly absent among high risk PWUD. Moreover, adherence to PrEP is crucial if it is
      to be effective with high risk individuals. Recent research, however, indicates that optimal
      PrEP adherence may be compromised by neurocognitive impairment (NCI), particularly among
      PWUD. Due to chronic drug use, related lifestyle experiences, and other health challenges,
      many PWUD experience NCI to the extent that it impedes medication adherence, HIV risk
      reduction, and treatment retention. In a recent HIV prevention trial, over a third of high
      risk PWUD on opioid replacement therapy (ORT) had moderate to high levels of NCI and,
      moreover, were less likely to reduce their HIV transmission risk vs. those without NCI. The
      potentially disruptive impact of NCI must therefore be addressed when designing contemporary
      intervention strategies targeting PWUD. Contemporary approaches must also be cost-effective
      and usable in real-world treatment settings, such as methadone maintenance programs (MMPs)
      where high risk PWUD are concentrated and can be readily reached with primary prevention. To
      date, however, primary prevention efforts have largely relied on singular strategies (e.g.,
      methadone or PrEP alone) with modest HIV risk reduction outcomes for PWUD. Instead, advancing
      combination approaches capable of harnessing the synergy and efficiency possible via multiple
      evidence-based strategies is most effective. This combination strategy is especially
      important when intervening with high risk PWUD with NCI due to the potential decreased
      effectiveness of PrEP when adherence is suboptimal, thereby necessitating behavioral
      interventions that focus on reducing HIV risk and increasing PrEP adherence. Building on
      promising preliminary work, the proposed trial will fill a critical void by testing an
      integrated bio-behavioral approach that incorporates the use of PrEP with an evidence-based
      behavioral approach and, using innovative strategies, enhances PrEP adherence and HIV risk
      behavior in a manner that accommodates NCI among PWUD.
    
  