
    
      Menorrhagia are one of the main symptoms that are managed in Gynecology. The evaluation of
      the volume of menorrhagia is performed by a PBAC score (pictorial bleeding assesment chart).
      The one described by Higham allows to quantify and qualify periods as being hemorrhagic when
      the score is above 150.The surgical treatment of choice has long been hysterectomy.

      Many studies evaluating the efficacy, safety and cost of different techniques were performed.
      A recent review of the literature identified eight randomized clinical trials that showed a
      slight advantage to the hysterectomy, in comparison with the ablation of the endometrium, for
      the improvement of symptoms and the patient's satisfaction. Hysterectomy is however
      associated with a longer surgery duration and a longer recovery period. Moreover, most
      adverse events (major and minor), were significantly more common after hysterectomy.

      A retrospective study examined the long-term results of hysteroscopic endometrectomies.
      During the monitoring, carried out over 4 to 10 years, menorrhagia stopped in 83.4% of cases.
      Over the same period, 16.6% of the patients had to undergo hysterectomy because menorrhagia
      had returned.

      In terms of cost, one study showed that the total direct and indirect cost of an
      hysteroscopic treatment of menorrhagia was significantly lower than that of
      hysterectomies.Endometrial ablation thus offers an alternative to hysterectomy as surgical
      treatment of menorrhagia.

      Several instances and authors recommend this surgery as first line when medical treatment has
      failed.Initially, the hysteroscopic surgical treatment of menorrhagia was performed by
      monopolar endoscopic ablation, which requires the use of glycine as a distension medium.
      Complications proper to the monopolar ablation were described. Because of these
      complications, the use of bipolar energy has been developped since several years.

      Other techniques known 2nd generation techniques have emerged: use of microwave, radio
      frequency, thermal destruction of the endometrium. They are all comparable in efficiency with
      a success rate of around 70% with the disadvantage of not having a comprehensive histology
      and be much more expensive. This diminishes their use because of the cost of purchase of the
      device.

      Although hysteroscopic bipolar ablation is now a routine technique, there are until now no
      studies in the literature comparing the efficacy of treatment when using monopolar or bipolar
      energy, for the endometrial resection by hysteroscopy, for menorrhagia management.The goal of
      this study is to compare these two energies, by measuring the amount of bleeding calculated
      by the Higham score 12 months after the intervention.
    
  