
    
      An observational study of a series of 20 cases will be carried out based on the casuistry of
      minimally invasive cardiac surgery of the investigator's center. The performance of analgesic
      blockade called ESP with catheter placement for continuous analgesia, at the level of the 6th
      thoracic vertebra in adult patients, ASA physical status I-III, which will undergo minimally
      invasive cardiac surgery, will be part of the multimodal analgesia strategy.

      After compliance with the inclusion criteria, with the acceptance and signature of the
      informed consent by the participating patients, the following procedure will be followed:

        1. Patients will be routinely assessed by an anesthesiologist of the service, later they
           will enter the operating room, where the vital signs will be monitored and the usual
           anesthetic technique will be used for minimally invasive cardiac surgery, that is,
           general anesthesia.

        2. The erector block of the spine and the catheter installation for continuous analgesia
           will be performed in the operating room, after induction of general anesthesia. Patients
           will be placed in the left lateral decubitus position, and under sterile technique with
           asepsis of the thoracolumbar area, erector spine block and catheter placement will be
           performed for continuous analgesia prior to the surgical procedure. The spinal erector
           musculature will be located at the level of the transverse process of the 6th left
           thoracic vertebra.Initially a volume of 20 ml of Levobupivacaine 0.25% will be
           administered. Subsequently a 22G (Gauge) catheter will be introduced and fixed 10-12 cm
           from the skin. The surgery will begin according to the usual practice. At the end of the
           surgery, an elastomeric pump will be installed at a flow rate of 7 ml / hr with a 1.3%
           Ropivacaine solution.

        3. During and after the surgery, the intravenous analgesic protocols already established by
           the anesthesiology service will be used, so that the realization of the blocking in the
           plane of the erector musculature will not modify the prescribed analgesic or rescue
           regimens employees for minimally invasive cardiac surgery, these include the use of an
           opioid pump on demand by the patient. After the surgery, the intensity of postoperative
           pain during the first 48 hours will be observed and recorded by the Acute Pain Unit of
           the Anaesthesiology Service, blind to the study objectives, following its usual practice
           and assessment.

        4. Researchers will record those variables aimed at evaluating the intensity of acute
           postoperative pain after minimally invasive cardiac surgery after performing spinal
           erector block and catheter placement for continuous analgesia in the study period, such
           as NRS (Numeric rating scale), Paired intravenous analgesia and opioid use.

      These results will be included, anonymously, in an Excel database made for this purpose for
      further analysis. The variables will be recorded in a single intervention
    
  