
    
      What will be assessed: Kidney pathology will be assessed. Specifically, optical coherence
      tomography (OCT) will be used to observe the pathology of the kidney uriniferous tubules. The
      proximal convoluted tubules that make up most of the kidney uriniferous tubules and
      parenchyma in the outer cortex of the kidney (i.e., the portion of the kidney subjacent to
      the outer kidney capsule) are sensitive indicators of damage to the kidneys. When damaged due
      to ischemia (i.e., a lack of blood flow), these tubules swell and cellular debris is released
      into the lumens of these tubules.

      Why is this data important: Damage to the kidney proximal tubules, known as acute tubular
      necrosis (ATN), is the most common cause of poor post-transplant kidney function following
      transplant. It has been shown that determining the extent of ATN is a good indicator of
      post-transplant renal function.

      How will the data be collected: The histopathology describe above (i.e., the pathology of the
      kidney tubules) will be collected using optical coherence tomography (OCT). OCT is a rapidly
      emerging imaging modality that can function as a type of "optical biopsy", providing
      non-invasive cross-sectional images of tissue architectural pathology in situ and in
      real-time. OCT is similar to ultrasound, but uses light waves instead of sound waves to
      obtain high-resolution imaging. The ability of OCT of obtain high-resolution images is
      necessary in order to observe the pathological changes describe above (i.e., damage to the
      kidney tubules). Algorithms will be developed as a result of this investigation in order to
      assist in the prediction of ATN and post-transplant kidney function.

      What factors will be measured to determine post-transplant kidney function: The factors that
      will be used to measure post-transplant renal function include serum creatinine, BUN and
      glomerular filtration rates (GFR). This data will be collected by examining the surgical and
      laboratory reports for each patient. The data will be collected daily for the first two weeks
      following transplant and biweekly for the next six months following transplant. Six months
      following transplant, this data will be collected every 3 months until conclusion of study
      (i.e., 4 years). The patient data will be stored on password-protected files on a
      password-protected computer. The data will be available only to the principal investigator
      and the co-investigators in this study. A nephrologist fellow who will report directly to the
      principal investigator will collect the data. The principal investigator will verify data
      accuracy and protocol compliance. A biostatistician who will be blinded as to patient
      identity will independently analyze the data. If the data is published, only the parameters
      listed above and related to post-transplant renal function will be reported. No names will be
      associated with publication of the collected kidney transplant data. The principal
      investigator and the biostatistician will monitor this data and any indications of potential
      harm to the patient will be reported immediately to the Institutional Review Board (IRB).
    
  