
    
      Diagnostic markers in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) have become a rapidly growing research
      field. Potential disease-modifying drugs like the antibiotics rifampicin and doxycycline,
      highlight the need of improved diagnostic accuracy and offer the potential to examine how
      these treatments may actually exert their clinical effects.

      Cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers (the 42 amino acid form of β-amyloid (Aβ), total tau, and
      phosphorylated tau) have been evaluated in scientific studies. Tau proteins are considered
      "state" markers, whereas Aβ(1-42) proteins can be used as "stage" markers. These CSF markers
      have high sensitivity to differentiate early AD from normal aging, depression, alcohol
      dementia and Parkinson's disease. When these biomarkers are used in combination with a
      medical history, clinical examination, laboratory tests and brain imaging, the diagnostic
      accuracy is improved.

      Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) dysregulation is thought to contribute to a variety of
      pathological conditions such as arthritis, cancer, atherosclerosis, aneurysms, nephritis,
      tissue ulcers, and fibrosis. In addition, MMP involvement has been demonstrated in the
      pathogenesis of a variety of CNS disorders, including bacterial and viral disorders, stroke,
      multiple sclerosis, ALS, and AD.

      There is an inflammatory response in AD. This includes complement activation, elevated
      C-reactive protein (CRP), elevated pro-inflammatory cytokines (including IL-1-β, IL-6, TNF-α,
      TGF-β, S100-β), chemokine alterations (IL-8, MIP-1-α, MIP-1-β, MCP-1), and microglial.

      We are measuring the biochemical markers of Aβ(1-40) and Aβ(1-42), P-tau and T-tau, matrix
      metalloproteinases (MMP-2, MMP-9), pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1beta, TNF-alpha), and
      anti-inflammatory cytokines (IL-4 and IL-10) at the start and one year after treatment in the
      multi-centered, randomized, controlled, trial of disease-modifying drugs rifampicin and/or
      and doxycycline to slow the progress of Alzheimer's disease by affecting the production of
      these biomarkers.
    
  