
    
      In United States, the prevalence of renal stone is 8.8% with slight predomination in male
      than female. They can be symptomatic marked by symptoms of flank pain, hematuria or urinary
      tract infection, or completely asymptomatic and incidentally discovered. Three modalities are
      accepted as treatment options for renal stone, including shockwave lithotripsy (SWL),
      percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PNL) and ureteroscopy (URS). While some standard guidelines
      were proposed for appropriate treatment selection with regard to stone size, no
      recommendations or guidelines exist for the surgical management of 1-2 cm renal stones. Both
      PNL and URS are equally accepted as treatment options for stones at this size. The selection
      of either procedure currently is left to the treating surgeon can be influenced by anatomical
      or stone factors as well as patient preference. For URS, frequent requirement for
      postoperative ureteral stents may result in significant morbidity and a detriment to quality
      of life owing to irritating bladder symptoms caused by the stent itself. PNL rarely requires
      postoperative ureteral stent but it may bring longer operative time and hospitalization. PNL
      therefore may be a treatment option that preserves quality of life compared to URS for
      patients presenting with the 1-2 cm sized kidney or ureteral stone.

      One reasonable way to evaluate efficacy of treatment options is to assess patient's quality
      of life resultant from the selected modality. Quality of life for renal stone formers is an
      important but under-studied facet of nephrolithiasis management that should be incorporated
      into clinical decision making.

      The short form-36 health survey questionnaire (SF-36) is a patient-reported survey of health
      status. It has been validated and is commonly used to determine the efficacy of a given
      health treatment in many settings, including urologic intervention. The Ureteral Stent
      Symptom Questionnaire (USSQ) is a validated and widely accepted instrument to evaluate the
      impact of ureteral stents on quality of life. The investigators plan to use these two
      questionnaires as a standard outcome measurement to compare impact on quality of life in
      patients randomized to undergo two different modalities (PNL versus URS) of stone treatment.
    
  