
    
      The purpose of this investigation is to compare new bone formation through histomorphometric
      analysis following maxillary sinus augmentation using three different bone graft materials.
      Null Hypothesis is that there is no histomorphometric difference in new bone formation in
      maxillary sinuses augmented using three different materials; anorganic bovine bone graft
      (Bio-Oss), anorganic equine bone graft (Equimatrix) and mineralized bone allograft (OSSIF-i
      sem). Patients who require sinus augmentation prior to implant placement will be selected to
      participate in this study. All patients will be randomly placed into three groups according
      to bone graft materials that will be used. Group A (Control group,n=10): Maxillary sinus
      augmentation using anorganic bovine bone graft (Bio-Oss), Group B (Test group,n=10):Maxillary
      sinus augmentation using anorganic equine bone graft (Equimatrix), and Group C (Test
      group,n=10):Maxillary sinus augmentation using mineralized bone allograft (OSSIF-i sem). All
      the patients will be treated with the same surgical technique consisting of sinus floor
      augmentation via a lateral approach.After a full-thickness flap reflection to expose the
      lateral wall of the sinus each antrostomy will be outlined with a carbide round bur and sinus
      membranes will be carefully elevated. If a perforation to the sinus membrane occurs, and if
      the perforation is < 5 mm in diameter and is able to be repaired, the surgeon will continue
      the procedure. Any perforation > 5 mm will be excluded from this study. Bone graft materials
      will be placed into the each sinus compartment for the three groups. After 8 months of
      healing, biopsy specimen will be collected from the previous antrostomy sites.
      Histomorphometric measurements of the percentage of vital bone of the area of bone. The
      percentage of non-bone material (allograft or xenograft) and the percentage of connective
      tissue will be also analyzed. Then the primary hypothesis will be analyzed statistically.
    
  