
    
      Significant advancements in acute medical management have shifted stroke from an acute
      condition with a high prevalence of mortality to a chronic condition with high prevalence of
      morbidity. One of the leading causes of chronic illness and disability worldwide, stroke
      results in residual sensorimotor, cognition, and communication impairments. These impairments
      reduce over time, but few people have complete restoration of function. Hence, people with
      stroke-related disability do not resume pre-stroke levels of community participation
      (education; paid or volunteer work; civic, social, and religious activities; and leisure).
      Low levels of community participation are associated with inactivity, sedentary behavior, and
      social isolation, each contributors to cardiovascular disease, diabetes, obesity, pulmonary
      conditions, depression - and secondary stroke. These consequences are particularly
      problematic for people with low income who have limited resources.

      Investigators at the University of Pittsburgh, Washington University, and the University of
      Illinois at Chicago have designed a self-management training program that uses social
      learning, motivational interviewing, and guided discovery to help people with mild to
      moderate stroke-related disability resume community participation, and to develop a strong
      network of social support. However, the combination of these elements has yet to be studied
      in people with chronic stroke-related disability who live with low income - one of the most
      vulnerable segments of the population. By partnering with the Community Research Fellows
      Program at Washington University and the Community PARTners Program at the University of
      Pittsburgh, this multi-site team seeks to design and implement a culturally-responsive
      program to promote community participation among people with stroke-related disability and
      low income. This new collaboration is the next logical step in the development and
      examination of community-based interventions to promote self-management and community
      participation after stroke.

      The overall purpose of this research study is to examine the feasibility, safety, and
      acceptability of a multi-site community-based intervention to promote self-management of
      community participation after stroke, with a particular focus on the needs of people with low
      income. The study will also characterize variances in intervention response.
    
  