
    
      The Primary end point is to evaluate the rate of cerebral ischemic events (stroke or
      transient ischemic attack) in patients with asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis > 60%
      (Nascet criteria) in a 5-year follow-up period. It is a prospective observational study
      conducted on patients enrolled from January 2019 to March 2020 and with the end of follow-up
      scheduled in 2025.

      The medical therapy recommended includes antihypertensive drugs to maintain good blood
      pressure control, statin therapy and antiplatelet administration.

      Secondary end points are the evaluation of plaque progression, the identification of
      comorbidities or plaque characteristics associated with a higher risk for cerebral ischemic
      events and the patient adherence to the best medical therapy in a real world scenario. The
      global survival and the factors influencing survival will be investigated as well.

      Separate analyses are performed for patients with total carotid occlusion or carotid artery
      re-stenosis.

      Patient's cohort: with the hypothesis of 3 neurologic (transient ischemic attack or stroke)
      events per 100 patients/year during a 5 years follow-up period and consequently a number of
      40-50 events (primary outcome), the study cohort with a native asymptomatic carotid artery
      stenosis will include at least 300 patients. Patients with carotid occlusion or restenosis
      are evaluated separately for a secondary analysis only.

      Patients are prospectively identified and enrolled in a single center vascular surgery
      ambulatory and a duplex ultrasonography (DUS) laboratory. Carotid artery stenosis are
      identified and the degree of stenosis >60% (NASCET criteria) is evaluated according to the
      current guidelines for stenosis identification through blood flow velocities. Patients
      enrollment goes from January 2019 to March 2020. The investigators prospectively complete the
      dedicated database including clinical characteristics, cardiovascular risk factors, medical
      therapy in use, features of the carotid plaque and contralateral carotid status.

      Clinical characteristics included in the database: age, sex, hypertension (systolic blood
      pressure ≥140 or/and diastolic ≥90 mmHg, or specific therapy), dyslipidemia (total
      cholesterol ≥200 mg/dl or low density lipoprotein ≥120 mg/dl or specific therapy), diabetes
      mellitus (pre-diagnosed, in therapy with oral hypoglycemic drugs or insulin), current
      smoking, coronary artery disease (defined as a history of angina pectoris, myocardial
      infarction or coronary revascularization), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (defined as
      chronic bronchitis or emphysema), chronic kidney disease (glomerular filtration rate <60
      ml/min), contralateral carotid occlusion, stenosis and atrial fibrillation (paroxysmal or
      permanent).

      Medical therapy: antiplatelet types, anticoagulant therapy, statin therapy, anti hypertensive
      medical therapy.

      Carotid plaque characteristics for the analysis: degree of stenosis (flow measurement
      analysis), plaque ulcerations and echoluncency.

      The follow-up consists of a telephone interview any six months and an annual clinical and
      duplex examination until a 5-years follow-up is reached or the patient withdraws from the
      study.

      Patients that will be enrolled will sign specific consents. Sensitive patient information
      will not be available during data analysis. The clinical study will be carried out according
      to the ethical principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and following the active regulations
      on observational studies.

      Patients who underwent a transient ischemic attach or a stroke within the 6-months before the
      enrollment are excluded from the study. Any neurological symptom occurred during the
      follow-up needs to be certified by an in hospital neurologist physical examination.

      Statistical analysis: Continuous variables were described with mean and standard deviation.
      Continuous variables were compared by unpaired Student' t test in case of normal
      distribution, otherwise by Mann-Whitney's test. The differences between percentages were
      assessed using Fisher's test or Chi-square test, when appropriate. Univariate analysis will
      be performed by Kaplan Meier analysis (log-rank test) and single factor Cox analysis .
      Multivariate analyses with Cox analysis will be performed including factors considered
      statistical significant (P value ≤ .05) at the univariate analyses. Risk factors were
      reported as hazard ratio (HR) and 95% of confidence interval (CI). A value of p ≤ .05
      (two-tailed) was considered to be significant. The statistical tests were performed using
      SPSS® 21.0 for Windows® (SPSS, Chicago, Il, USA).
    
  