
    
      To assess quality of life and side effects in participants with up to 5 metastatic cancer
      lesions treated with a comprehensive oligometastatic SABR treatment program. Secondarily, the
      investigators will document the disease free and overall survival.

      Rationale:

      The oligometastatic state was first defined in 1995 and refers to a stage of disease where
      cancer has spread beyond the site of origin, but is not yet widely metastatic. In such a
      state of limited metastatic disease, it is hypothesized that eradication of all sites of
      metastatic disease could result in long-term survival, or even cure, in some participants.
      Ablation of metastatic deposits can be achieved through several techniques, including
      surgery, radiofrequency ablation (RFA), or through Stereotactic ablative body radiotherapy
      (SABR), a new radiotherapy technology that delivers very large, hypofractionated doses of
      radiotherapy to small tumor targets, with high rates of local control.

      Clinical evidence to support the presence of an oligometastatic state is controversial.
      However, there is emerging low quality evidence in both the surgical and SABR literature that
      this state may exist. In a study of over 5200 participants with lung metastases who underwent
      surgical resection, a 5-year survival of 36% was reported in participants who achieved a
      complete resection, much higher than would be expected for stage IV disease.3 Similarly, in
      participants treated with SABR for 1-3 lung metastases from a variety of primary tumors,
      local control with SABR was 96% at 2-years, and 2-year survival was 39%. Long-term survival
      has been demonstrated in participants treated for oligometastases with surgery or SABR at
      several other tumor sites, including liver, brain, bone, and adrenal metastases. The risk of
      further metastases after ablative treatment is up to 60-80% in some studies. SABR can also be
      used for further salvage at newly progressive sites (oligoprogression).

      Despite the apparent achievement of long-term survival with ablative treatment for
      oligometastatic disease, the level of evidence to support such treatments is weak, often
      based on single-arm studies without appropriate controls. Participants included in such
      reports are highly selected, based on good performance status and slow pace of tumor
      progression. It has been suggested that the long-term survival achieved with treatment of
      oligometastases is a result of the selection of fit participants with very slow-growing
      tumors, rather than the result of treatment intervention.

      Randomized trials are therefore necessary to establish the utility of ablative treatment of
      oligometastatic disease, and therefore the BCCA oligometastatic SABR group, recommends that
      participants be considered for a randomized control before being offered SABR on this current
      trial. In some circumstances, participants may not be comfortable with this approach, or
      their physicians do not have clinical equipoise, and therefore SABR for oligometastatic
      disease may be appropriate. BCCA has decided that given the limited evidence for SABR in this
      setting, it will not be offered off trial. The main focus of this trial is to assess the side
      effects and quality of life post SABR. This trial aims to provide a clear informed consent
      process, including the limited evidence for SABR off trial, and potential harm from SABR, for
      participants opting to pursue SABR for oligometastases.

      This is a non-randomized phase II trial where all participants will receive experimental SABR
      to all sites of metastatic disease. The investigators will accrue 200 participants to assess
      toxicity associated with this experimental treatment.
    
  