
    
      Approximately 11,000 Veterans present to a VAMC annually with an acute ischemic stroke or
      TIA. The cornerstone of secondary stroke/TIA prevention includes delivering timely,
      guideline-concordant vascular risk factor management. Over the past decade, OSA has been
      recognized as a potent, underdiagnosed, and inadequately treated cerebrovascular risk factor.
      OSA is very common among patients with stroke/TIA with a prevalence of 60-80%. Despite being
      highly prevalent, 70-80% of patients with OSA are neither diagnosed nor treated. Untreated
      OSA has been associated with poor outcomes among patients with cerebrovascular disease
      including higher mortality and worse functional status. The mainstay of OSA therapy is
      positive airway pressure (PAP). PAP reduces recurrent vascular events, improves neurological
      symptoms and functional status among stroke/TIA patients with OSA. The evidence favoring
      neurological recovery is strongest when interventions are applied early post-stroke/TIA.
      Guidelines recommend diagnosing and treating OSA for stroke and TIA patients; however, within
      VHA, very few stroke or TIA patients receive OSA screening. This guideline recommendation was
      informed in part by clinical trials utilizing an acute OSA assessment protocol developed and
      implemented by the investigators' group. To address the observed gap in care, the
      investigators propose a Hybrid Type I, randomized, stepped-wedge trial at 6 VAMCs to increase
      the rate of timely, guideline-concordant diagnosis and treatment of OSA among Veterans with
      ischemic stroke/TIA and thereby reduce recurrent vascular events and hospital readmissions.
      The investigators will identify matched control sites for each ASAP implementation site to
      examine temporal trends in outcomes among non-intervention sites. For example, the
      investigators will use administrative data to examine the use of polysomnography across
      stroke/TIA patients in the VA system and compare changes in matched controls versus the
      intervention sites on the diagnostic rate. The same adjustment approach will be used for ASAP
      intervention sites and for control sites.
    
  