
    
      Intraocular injection of a VEGF inhibitor on a repeated basis has become the standard of care
      for the treatment of Age-Related Macular Degeneration (AMD) following pivotal studies which
      demonstrated that vision could be stabilized in 90% of treated patients. Most patients
      require injection, on average, every two months indefinitely.

      The incidence of intraocular infection (endophthalmitis) following intraocular injection is
      approximately 0.2%. Current injection protocols involve the use of topical poviodine prior to
      injection based on evidence that this significantly reduces the bacterial flora on the
      conjunctiva. Following injection there is often some reflux of vitreous fluid from the cavity
      of the eye into the subjunctival space. For this reason many Ophthalmologists have patients
      use topical antibiotics for 2-3 days post injection with the expectation that this may reduce
      the risk of infection as the eye is healing.

      Ta et al have demonstrated that following a 3 day course of topical antibiotic the incidence
      of resistant strains of bacteria in the conjunctival sac does not significantly increase (159
      patients).There are no longitudinal studies which examine the effects of repeated short term
      antibiotic exposure on the conjunctival flora over time.

      This is a prospective, randomized, comparative study which will follow the conjunctival flora
      of patients undergoing induction treatment with a VEGF inhibitor for AMD. The incidence of
      resistant organisms in the group receiving antibiotics will be compared to that in a similar
      group who do not receive antibiotics. Following informed consent, patients will have a
      conjunctival swab taken by the treating Ophthalmologist after instillation of sterile topical
      anesthetic but before application of poviodine. The swabs will be cultured in thyoglycollate
      broth. Bacteria present and resistance to the antibiotic used will be identified. This
      process will be repeated each visit during the induction phase of treatment which consists of
      four sequential injections each a month apart.

      Patients in the antibiotic arm will be asked to use topical Moxifloxacin drops 4 times a day
      for 3 days following injection. The control group will not receive antibiotics.
    
  