
    
      The primary objective of the study is to investigate the relative bioavailability of
      estradiol and nomegestrol of 2 film-coated tablet formulations with estradiol 1.5 mg and
      nomegestrol acetate 2.5 mg and to demonstrate bioequivalence of both formulations in terms of
      rate and extent of absorption:

        1. Test Product: new product manufactured by Laboratorios Andrómaco S.A.

        2. Reference Product: Stezza [Trademark], product of Merck Sharp & Dohme Farmacêutica Ltda.

      The 90% confidence intervals for the intra-subject coefficient of variation (Test versus
      Reference Product) for the main pharmacokinetic parameters area under the plasma
      concentration-time curve from time zero to time t (AUC0-t) and from time zero to 72 hours
      (AUC0-72), and maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) for total estradiol/estrone and
      nomegestrol will be determined.

      Participants will be confined in the study site for approximately 36 hours during each study
      period (for 12 hours pre-dosing and for 24 hours post dosing) during which pharmacokinetic
      (PK) blood samples will be obtained. Three blood samples will be taken before the film-coated
      tablet is administered (at pre-dose: -1.0, -0.5, and 0 h) and 16 samples up to 24 hours after
      the administration in each period. Participants will return to the site to provide additional
      blood samples at 36 h, 48 h, and 72 h post-dose.

      The washout period between the two study periods will be at least 21 days.

      The samples from each participant will be analyzed with 2 methods of high-performance liquid
      chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry bioanalytical assays to quantify total
      estradiol/estrone and nomegestrol in plasma with citrate phosphate dextrose anticoagulant.
      The blood samples taken at pre-dose will be taken to establish the baseline concentrations of
      total estrone and estradiol. The baseline-corrected and uncorrected AUCs and Cmax will be
      calculated.

      The safety objective is to evaluate the tolerability of both formulations in post-menopausal
      women by collecting adverse events.
    
  