
    
      A prospective randomized controlled clinical trial of 120 adult patients will be conducted
      from June 2015 to June 2017 (2 years). Study participants will be recruited from the
      University of Arizona Medical Center, South Campus clinics (Endocrine clinic, family medicine
      clinic and general medicine clinic).

      Eighty patients with HbA1c* >6.0% will be randomized to receive either metformin or a similar
      inactive placebo for 6 weeks. The response of these patients will be compared to 40 patients
      with normal HbA1c <5.6% who will not receive either study medication.

      Twenty four-hour urine samples will be analyzed to measure metformin-MG adducted product
      (IMZ) at baseline (D0) and at the end of the study period (D42). Blood sample will be
      analyzed at the baseline to measure the plasma methylglyoxal concentration (baseline MG
      concentration- D0) and re-measure it at the end of the study period(D42). Mass spectrometry
      will be performed for samples analysis to detect the plasma methylglyoxal (MG) level.
      Metformin-MG adducted product (IMZ) will be measured using Multiple Reaction Method (MRM).
      Also, Mass spectrometry will be performed to detect plasma protein modifications at baseline
      and at the end of the study period (after 6 weeks). Investigators will measure the
      concentrations of IMZ and MG in the human urine and plasma of our cohort in the nM and μM
      range, respectively via mass spectrometry. Investigators will be normalizing these values by
      specific gravity.

      A logbook will be provided to each participant to record their blood sugar measurements at
      home. Investigators will provide glucometer (One Touch glucometer), strips and lancets to
      patients who never had glucometer before enrolling to our study. Participants taking
      metformin or placebo will be asked to perform an 4-point self-measured blood sugar profile
      with measurements taken as indicated in the table (once a week). Investigators will contact
      study participants (treatment and placebo group only) by phone at the mid of the study period
      (D21) to follow up on the recorded fasting blood glucose levels and development of side
      effects. The results of the blood sugar measurements will help the study physicians to adjust
      diabetes therapy (metformin or the other concomitant diabetes medications) in order that the
      study subjects maintain appropriate blood glucose control (target pre-meal and bedtime
      glucose between 90-180 mg/dL).

      The participants in the non-diabetic group, they will not receive either metformin
      hydrochloride or placebo. Their fasting blood glucose, plasma MG level and urine IMZ level
      will be measured during the study. They will not be required to perform 4 point testing. They
      will have all the same clinic visits and lab orders as diabetic patients except receiving the
      study medication.

      It is hypothesized that plasma MG level in the metformin treatment group will be less than in
      the group taking the placebo pills, while there will be no significant difference in MG level
      between the metformin treatment group and the volunteers without diabetes.
    
  