
    
      This cross-over trial pilot study will assess the effectiveness of massage therapy for
      inducing and maintaining sleep in preterm infants. Massage therapy promotes relaxation and
      lowers stress levels, evidenced by increased vagal activity and lower cortisol levels. Safer
      methods of inducing sleep without drugs would be beneficial for infants who require sedation
      for diagnostic studies. The sample will include infants over 3 days old and between 32-40
      weeks adjusted gestational age in a Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU). Infants who are
      clinically unstable, require surgery, have major congenital anomalies or have a history of
      severe birth asphyxia will be excluded.

      After parental consent, infants will be randomized to receive massage on study day 1 or study
      day 2. Standard care will be provided on the alternate study day. A minimum of 30 infants is
      required to complete the study. The primary outcome measure used to document the response to
      massage will measured by the Motionlogger® Micro Sleep Watch® Actigraph (Actigraph). The
      actigraph will be placed on the infant's ankle approximately following the 9 am feed and will
      record lower extremity activity until approximately the 12 pm feed. Massages will occur after
      a minimum of 30 minutes following the morning feeding when the infant is in a quiet alert
      state and will be approximately 10 minutes in length. Baby lotion used as standard care in
      the NICU will be used to facilitate ease of massage.

      Primary outcome measures will include data recorded by the actigraph: (a) sleep onset
      following massage intervention, (b) sleep end time, (c) number of awakenings and duration of
      awakenings during the study interval, (d) the duration of the longest sustained sleep period,
      and (e) sleep efficiency. Secondary outcomes will include oxygen saturation and heart rate
      during massage and for 30 minutes after massage.
    
  