
    
      This is an open-label, phase II study that will evaluate how safe and well the combination of
      niraparib, dostarlimab, and Radiation Therapy (RT) works in metastatic triple negative breast
      cancer.

      Niraparib is a type of drug called a "PARP inhibitor", which blocks DNA (the genetic material
      of cells) damage from being repaired or may prevent damage from occurring in the first place.
      In cancer treatment, inhibiting PARP may help kill cancer cells by not allowing the cancer
      cells to repair its DNA damage or prevent DNA damage associated with metastatic triple
      negative breast cancer from occurring.

      Dostarlimab is a type of immunotherapy. It is believed to work by inhibiting (stopping) a
      protein called PD-1 from working. The PD-1 protein controls parts of the immune system (the
      system in a person's body that fights against diseases) by shutting down certain immune
      responses that are responsible for recognizing and destroying cancer cells.

      The investigators believe that dostarlimab may inhibit the PD-1 protein on triple negative
      breast cancer cells, thus allowing the immune cells to recognize and destroy cancer
      cells.Radiation therapy is a standard-of-care treatment that is given to stop the growth of
      tumors. Radiation therapy can also stimulate the immune system, which leads to the
      destruction of tumor cells in the treated areas. Combining radiation therapy with anti-cancer
      drugs like dostarlimab and niraparib may increase the ability of the immune system to control
      or destroy cancer cells throughout the body.

      The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including
      evaluations and follow up visits.

      Participants will receive the study drugs for up to 2 years or until their triple negative
      breast cancer worsens Participants will then be followed for up to 5 years.

      It is expected that about 32 people will take part in this research study.

      The FDA has not approved niraparib for metastatic triple negative breast cancer, but it has
      been approved for other uses.

      The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved dostarlimab as treatment for any
      disease.
    
  