
    
      This study is a prospective, observational, molecular stratification profiling study.

      mCRPC patients who have received at least one standard treatment for mCRPC will be approached
      to participate in MAESTRO. Patients must have archival tumour available and be willing to
      undergo a fresh tumour biopsy for molecular analyses. Following consent to MAESTRO, tumour
      tissue (archival and fresh), along with the research blood samples and saliva sample will be
      sent to the central laboratory for analysis to identify molecular aberrations through
      targeted or broader genomic analyses (e.g. exome, transcriptome) and orthogonal assays (e.g.
      immunohistochemistry; digital droplet PCR).

      Patients will not receive any treatment as part of MAESTRO. Results of the molecular
      characterisation will be provided to the treating investigator to be fed back to the patient,
      depending on patient's choice on disclosing the results.

      The following research samples are collected under as part of this study:

        -  Where available, excess archival tumour tissue from previous biopsies or routine
           surgical procedures will be retrospectively collected.

        -  Fresh tissue specimens will be obtained for patients who are undergoing standard of care
           interventions OR patient will undergo a bone marrow biopsy or an ultrasound /CT guided
           tumour biopsy of a safely accessible lesion. Fresh tumour specimens will be processed
           and/or frozen.

        -  Sequencing analysis of tissues will be done and results will be made available in real
           time. Clinically significant results will be disclosed to patients and their clinicians
           as per patient consent.

        -  Research samples for blood, serum, plasma and saliva will be collected at the time of
           the biopsy.

      Patients who elected (optional consent) to receive sequencing results regarding incidental
      clinically significant findings, will be referred for genetic counselling.
    
  