
    
      Prostate cancer is the most common cancer diagnosed in men, and is increasingly managed with
      effective treatment strategies, including surgery. Although active treatment provides
      excellent cancer control, issues related to the functional and health-related quality of life
      outcomes following treatment persist. Surgical therapy (radical prostatectomy) is a commonly
      used treatment but is associated with erectile and sexual dysfunction, in addition to urinary
      incontinence. Substantial efforts have been made to reduce rates of incontinence and
      impotence following surgery. Nerve-sparing prostatectomy has been the most successful
      technique for preserving erectile function in sexually active men; however, issues such as
      the quality of the nerve-sparing, surgeon experience, and case complexity continue to impact
      the outcomes of many men treated with radical prostatectomy. In addition, for patients with
      low-risk, early-stage prostate cancer, there is currently debate regarding the extent of
      dissection and tissue removal around the prostate. Specifically, the necessity of complete
      removal of the seminal vesicles (paired structures located adjacent to the prostate and
      posterior to the base of the bladder that are responsible for the majority of ejaculate
      volume) is not clear. This is potentially important for functional and health-related quality
      of life outcomes because the nerves responsible for erectile function course immediately next
      to the seminal vesicles. Complete dissection and removal therefore risks injury to these
      nerves, and may decrease the overall quality of nerve sparing during prostatectomy. Our
      objective is to determine if seminal vesicle-sparing, in addition to nerve-sparing, results
      in relatively preserved post-surgery functional and health-related quality of life outcomes
      (erectile function and urinary continence) compared to nerve-sparing alone in select patients
      with low-risk, early-stage prostate cancer treated surgically with prostatectomy. In order to
      evaluate this objective, we will randomize a series of men with recently diagnosed, low-risk,
      early-stage prostate cancer who choose surgical therapy to either standard nerve-sparing
      prostatectomy or seminal vesicle-sparing prostatectomy. We will then compare sexual and
      urinary function post-operatively to determine if there is a difference in treatment
      approach.
    
  