
    
      Laparoscopic surgery has been shown to improve patient recovery from surgical intervention,
      however it has a significant learning curve. This is related to the technical obstacles that
      need to be overcome and visually, losing the depth perception that accompanies its two-
      dimensional imaging. The advent of Robotic Surgery has demonstrated technical advantages due
      to the wristed instruments and three-dimensional imaging ability. The 3D vision or stereopsis
      of the robot significantly improves surgical performance, independently of the robotic tool
      advantages. Early investigators of three-dimensional imaging systems versus classical
      laparoscopic surgery did not demonstrate any significant benefit. This is likely to be
      related to the imaging capture and projection technology, which caused significant discomfort
      and eyestrain to the operator. In the last few years, there have been enormous leaps into the
      world of 3D vision and technology, associated with the film industry. Now 3D can be
      appreciated by mass audiences using polarising glasses that are simple to wear, without
      causing intolerable side-effects. The use of 3D technology has been compared with classical
      laparoscopy in many lab-based experiments and has shown to reduced technical errors and time
      of skill acquisition in trainees. These lab-based tests have also been completed by expert
      surgeons as part of PhD project undertaken by our previous research fellow, and although the
      data is unpublished yet, the results showed a 35% reduction in time and 60% reduction in
      errors in tests performed in 3D vs 2D. It is possible that 3D imaging will reduce operating
      time and improve patient safety in the operating theatre. We will be applying this research
      to true operations to show whether there is transference of these beneficial outcomes. With
      regard to surgical error, the assessment of surgical performance has led to several
      techniques which have been validated in the literature. We intend to utilise Human
      Reliability Analysis tools for the assessment of surgical error. The aim of this study is to
      address whether such a significant difference in performance will be observed in true surgery
      with these advances in 3D technology. This will be done by objectively assessing technical
      errors and operative time during routine gallbladder operations performed in 2D and 3D. There
      is no pilot study data, we are using the lab-based studies for the basis of calculations of
      power for numbers to be enrolled in the trial.
    
  