
    
      This 16-week multicenter, open-label study was designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety
      of a loading dose of 80 mg adalimumab, followed by 40 mg adalimumab every other week in the
      treatment of psoriasis in patients with a sub-optimal response to etanercept, methotrexate
      (MTX), or Narrow band Ultraviolet - B (NB-UVB).

      Approximately 150 participants were planned for 3 sub-studies: 80 participants with
      sub-optimal response to etanercept, 40 participants with sub-optimal response to MTX, and 30
      participants with sub-optimal response to NB-UVB. Actual enrollment was 82 participants with
      sub-optimal response to etanercept, 41 participants with sub-optimal response to MTX, and 29
      participants with sub-optimal response to NB-UVB.

      Screening was performed at least 96 hours and no more than 31 days before the Baseline visit
      (Week 0). A participant who was eligible for the study based on sub-optimal response to one
      treatment (MTX, NB-UVB, or etanercept) was required to discontinue that treatment within a
      specified time before first dose of adalimumab (see descriptions of sub-study groups). In
      addition, if the participant was also receiving another qualifying treatment, he/she was
      required to have discontinued the other treatment at least 30 days before the Baseline visit
      (Week 0).

      Adalimumab was administered by subcutaneous (SC) injection. At the Baseline Visit (Week 0),
      all participants received an initial dose of 80 mg adalimumab SC. Every other week
      (odd-numbered weeks) from Week 1 to Week 15, participants received 40 mg adalimumab SC.

      This was a single group assignment study, that is, all participants received the same
      treatment; however, data were summarized for 3 groups (sub-studies) that were defined by
      psoriasis treatments participants received before entering this study: methotrexate,
      etanercept, or narrow-band, ultraviolet-B.

      Efficacy was evaluated using the Physician's Global Assessment (PGA) of disease severity, and
      patient-reported outcomes: Patient's Global Assessment (PTGA) of disease severity, the
      Psoriasis-related Pruritus Assessment, the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI), a visual
      analog scale (VAS) for plaque psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis pain, the Medical Outcomes
      Study (MOS) Sleep Scale, and the Work Productivity and Activity Impairment Questionnaire:
      Specific Health Problem (WPAI: SHP).

      Serious and nonserious adverse events were summarized by sub-study of participants
      (suboptimal response to MTX, suboptimal response to NB-UVB, and suboptimal response to
      etanercept).
    
  