
    
      Living Green and Healthy for Teens (LiGHT) is a Canadian smartphone app-based program that
      combines health promotion (healthy eating, active living, screen time and sleep) with
      additional novel motivators such as environmental stewardship (e.g. reduce prepackaged foods,
      walk rather than drive) and cost-savings (e.g., eat at home rather than restaurants), that
      may further increase the likelihood of behaviour change.

      The primary aim of the trial is to determine, among youth aged 10-16 years, if randomization
      of their family to the use of the interactive gamified Living Green and Healthy for Teens
      (LiGHT) app over a 1-year period, compared to a control app, increase the proportion of youth
      engaging in a composite of healthy active living behaviours. Additional outcomes will include
      youth anthropometrics, diet quality, fitness, quality of life, and parental health behaviours
      and cardiovascular risk.

      Using a single-centre randomized, parallel, controlled single-blind design, 376 eligible
      youth-parent dyads stratified by youth (gender, and age <13.5/≥13.5y) will be allocated 1:1
      to receive intervention or control apps that provide information and tips on healthy eating
      and activity in different ways. Participants will be followed for 1 year.

      Participants will be recruited from the community in Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. The target
      population is the general population of youth and their families. Therefore, entry criteria
      will be broad. Youth aged 10-16 years of age who identify a need or potential to improve
      health behaviours will be included if one parent is willing to attend all study visits and
      use the app, there is at least one internet enabled device in the household, and there are no
      contraindications to healthy eating and activity, and no family member is participating in a
      weight management program or other clinical trial.

      Participants will be blinded to treatment group. Both apps have appealing interfaces, and
      both provide information, tips and interactivity (though to different degrees). Every effort
      will be made to keep research staff who help participants with the app separate from staff
      who collect data, and the latter will be trained to avoid discussing the intervention.

      Evaluations at baseline, 6 months and 1 year will include a youth questionnaire including
      questions about food intake , screen time, physical activity, health related quality of life,
      and resilience, and measurement of height, weight, body fat percentage using bioelectrical
      impedance assessment, blood pressure, hand grip strength using a dynamometer and leg strength
      using a standing long jump test, and cardiorespiratory fitness using a step test. They will
      also provide a urine sample and wear an accelerometer for 7 days. Parents will complete a
      questionnaire including questions about sociodemographics, their own food intake, screentime,
      physical activity, parental role modelling and logistic support. Parents will also complete
      the non-laboratory based INTERHEART risk score questionnaire and have their waist and hip
      circumference measured. Participants and parents will complete questionnaires about youth
      experience of online bullying and access to undesirable online content. 18 months after
      randomization, participants and parents may be invited to complete the same study
      questionnaires online.

      This trial will demonstrate whether a relatively long term use of a rigorously-designed,
      evidence-based, user-friendly app is able to help families with teenagers improve health
      behaviours of youth and have any early impact on CV risk factors. Conducting an RCT in the
      context of the full range of youth in the community has the potential to inform
      population-scale implementation as a public health tool for sustainable obesity prevention
      across Canada.
    
  