
    
      Rationale: Research indicates that the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), or a
      substance made by cells that stimulates new blood vessel formation, plays an important role
      in the growth and metastasis of many cancers, including pancreatic carcinoma. Both VEGF and
      its receptors are overexpressed in pancreatic cancer. Bevacizumab works by blocking VEGF and
      the growth of cancer cells in the process. The current study combines bevacizumab with two
      commonly used pancreatic cancer drugs, gemcitabine and infusional 5-FU. Previous studies
      indicate that bevacizumab combined with other anti-cancer drugs such as 5-FU improves patient
      survival. In addition, other research suggests that the drug administration schedule of the
      current study may improve patient outcomes compared to other types of administration and
      sequencing.

      Purpose: The primary objective of this study is to assess the rate of progression free
      survival at 6 months in patients with advanced pancreatic cancer given gemcitabine,
      infusional 5-FU, and bevacizumab. Secondary objectives of this study include measuring
      response rates, 6 month and 1-year survival rates, and median overall survival.

      Treatment: Study participants will be given bevacizumab, gemcitabine, and 5-FU. These drugs
      will be administered through intravenous infusions in that order every other week on days 1
      and 15. Treatments will be given in 28-day cycles. Participants will therefore receive study
      drugs during weeks 1 and 3, and then receive no study drugs during weeks 2 and 4. Imaging
      exams will be performed every 8 weeks to assess disease size. Several other tests will be
      given throughout the study to closely monitor patients. Tumor level markers will be assessed
      every 4 weeks, but will not be used to measure response. Study treatments will be
      discontinued due to disease growth or severe adverse effects.
    
  