
    
      Malignant obstruction of the extra-hepatic bile duct often leads to jaundice and pruritus and
      occasionally results in cholangitis and bacteremia. Pancreatic cancer accounts for a large
      proportion of patients presenting with malignant extra-hepatic biliary obstruction. Most
      pancreatic cancers are unresectable at presentation, and palliation, including biliary
      decompression, is often a goal of therapy. Over the last decade, biliary decompression with
      endoscopically-placed stents during endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) has
      largely replaced surgical bilioenteric diversion. Biliary decompression via endoscopic
      stenting alleviates cholestatic symptoms and improves quality of life. When compared to
      surgery, endoscopically placed plastic stents result in decreased morbidity and a trend
      towards decreased 30 day mortality. However, surgery is associated with a lower risk of
      recurrent biliary obstruction.

      Stent diameter is an important factor in determining duration of biliary luminal patency. All
      plastic biliary stents will ultimately occlude due to deposition of bacterial biofilm. The
      original plastic biliary stents were 7 French (Fr) in diameter, with a patency rate of about
      4 weeks. With increases in the size of the working channel of duodenoscopes, the limiting
      factor in what diameter stent can be deployed, 10 Fr stents were developed, with patency
      rates of approximately 15 weeks (3-4 months). Until recently, the largest stent that could be
      deployed with the current endoscopic technology using a conventional duodenoscope of
      acceptable outer diameter was 11.5 Fr; the limited available data suggest that these stents
      do not offer more prolonged luminal patency interval compared to 10 Fr stents.

      In the early 1990s, self-expandable metal stents (SEMS) became available for use in
      palliation of malignant biliary obstruction. Once deployed, SEMS achieve larger diameters
      than plastic stents, which results in a longer median patency interval of approximately six
      to eight months.[3, 6, 9-12] Although effective, metal stents are eight to ten times more
      costly than plastic stents.

      Recently, a large working channel duodenoscope with an acceptable outer diameter has been
      developed. This prototype duodenoscope allows passage of larger stents, which the
      investigators have successfully placed in select cases using this prototype. This
      duodenoscope, manufactured by Olympus Medical Systems Corp., is FDA approved.

      The investigators hypothesize that, with the substantially increased luminal diameter, larger
      plastic stents will provide more prolonged relief of obstructive jaundice in patients with
      malignant distal common bile duct strictures. If this proves to be true, larger plastic
      stents may constitute a cost-effective alternative to SEMS, especially in health care systems
      that cannot afford SEMS.
    
  