
    
      Objectives Intense itch on the legs sometimes associated with redness can be adverse effects
      of WBV according to the investigators observations and numerous posts in non-professional
      online-blogs. To the investigators knowledge, the appearance of itch and/or a rash during WBV
      exercise has not yet been described.

      The objectives of this study are:

        1. to determine the effect of WBV on itch rating and its unpleasantness and on skin
           changes.

        2. to determine the effect of WBV on serum tryptase.

      Hypothesis The working hypothesis is that repeated WBV leads to an increase of itching and
      erythema. Further investigators hypothesize that repeated WBV does not lead to an increase in
      serum tryptase.

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria will be evaluated. Subjects will be instructed to not shave
      their legs one week before the intervention day and to shave only the left leg from the ankle
      to the knee on the day prior to the intervention day.

      On the intervention day, subjects will be informed in detail about the study protocol and
      written informed consent will be collected. If a pregnancy cannot be excluded (days from last
      menstruation) subjects are instructed to do a pregnancy test. Then, a blood sample will be
      taken. Subsequently, subjects will be instructed to stand on the vibration plate (Galileo
      900) in a slightly crouched position with their hands loosely resting on the rail. Subjects
      will complete ten 1-minute WBV repetitions interspaced by 1-minute breaks in seated position.
      During each break, subjects will rate the itch intensity, and skin changes will be captured.
      Sixty minutes after the last WBV repetition, another blood sample will be taken. Subjects
      will rest until itch and erythema return to baseline. During resting phase subjects will fill
      in the Eppendorf itch questionnaire and the Erlanger atopy score.
    
  