
    
      This study aims to use a randomized controlled trial design to investigate the effects of
      thoracic spinal manipulation in conjunction with core strengthening exercises when compared
      to a sham manipulation and core strengthening exercises on patients with low back pain. Core
      strengthening exercises have been shown to improve pain and functional status in patients
      with non-specific low back pain when compared to conventional exercise. However, there is
      strong evidence to suggest that exercise alone is not adequate for the management of low back
      pain. Spinal manipulation has demonstrated promising results for the management of low back
      pain, but it is unclear whether the targeted location of manipulation is important. It is
      hypothesized that thoracic manipulation when combined with core strengthening exercises will
      have positive short term improvements in pain and function for patients with LBP as compared
      to a sham manipulation combined with core strengthening exercises based on the theory of
      regional interdependence. The specific aims of the study are as follows:

        1. To determine the effects of thoracic spine manipulation and core strengthening exercise
           on function in individuals with low back pain, specifically measured by changes in
           Modified Oswestry Low Back Pain Disability Questionnaire (MODQ).

        2. To determine the participant's perception of improvement following thoracic spine
           manipulation and core exercises, measured by global rating of change (GROC), when
           compared to a sham manipulation.

        3. To determine the effects of thoracic spine manipulation and core exercises on fear
           avoidance, measured by fear-avoidance belief questionnaire (FABQ), on individuals with
           low back pain.

        4. To determine the effects of thoracic spine manipulation and core exercises on pain using
           numeric pain rating scale (NPRS).

      The ability to demonstrate the effectiveness of a manipulation targeted at the thoracic spine
      in conjunction with core exercises could provide clinicians a simple, effective treatment
      strategy for low back pain that not only has minimal injury risk, but has the potential to
      improve pain and function, ultimately decreasing the healthcare costs associated with low
      back pain.

      The effects of treatment on disability, fear-avoidance, and pain will be analyzed using a 2x2
      repeated measures multivariate analysis of variance (MANCOVA), with pre/post-test measures
      and time as the two factors and duration of symptoms serving as a covariate. An independent t
      test will be used to determine differences for the Global Rating of Change between groups at
      follow up, and the number needed to treat (NNT) will be calculated. Spinal manipulation has
      some potentially serious risks including, fracture, numbness, tingling, or injury to the
      spinal cord. However, these risks are very low in the thoracic spine where manipulation is
      targeted during this study. In a recent systematic review which evaluated the safety of
      thoracic spine manipulation, the authors found only seven cases of serious trauma which have
      resulted from thoracic spine manipulation. The majority of these cases were performed by a
      chiropractor and it is unsure whether participants had contraindications to manipulation. In
      order to mitigate these risks, participants will be thoroughly screened for contraindications
      to spinal manipulation. If an adverse event does occur, the participant will be referred to
      the appropriate provider and their participation in the study will be discontinued.
    
  