
    
      A previous Clinical Trial (AGL2012-39503-C02) evidenced the beneficial synergic effects upon
      bone remodeling and cardiovascular risk of a beverage, based on juice and milk, and enriched
      with PS and β-Cx. "In vitro" and "in vivo" (clinical) studies have confirmed low absorption
      of PS and β-Cx in this beverage, with possible slight modification of the sterols and
      metabolites by the intestinal microbiota. PS and β-Cx can reach the colon and be transformed
      by the intestinal microbiota with resulting beneficial effects.

      The new Clinical Trial aims to determine whether the presence of galactooligosaccharides
      (GOS) in a beverage containing PS and β-Cx might modulate the biological effects of these
      latter components at either intestinal level (modification of microbiota and inflammatory
      markers) or systemically (blood cholesterol-lowering effect and bone turnover).

      In the present clinical interventional study we will evaluate the systemic biological effects
      of a beverage containing GOS, PS and β-Cx, as well as its intestinal effects and its
      influence on the microbiota in postmenopausal women. Furthermore, we will study the stability
      and bioavailability of PS and β-Cx in the beverage.

      The clinical study will help to confirm whether the new GOS-containing beverage has effects
      upon cardiovascular risk markers, bone remodeling and inflammation at least equivalent to
      those observed with the beverage studied in the previous Clinical Trial.

      The results obtained will generate interesting information for improving beverage formulation
      with bioactive components that might be relevant for food industry. Furthermore, clarifying
      the beneficial effects of the studied beverages is relevant not only for healthy subjects but
      also for those with certain disease conditions (i.e., intestinal inflammation diseases), and
      may contribute to improve their wellbeing and health, with the consequent social and economic
      benefits.

      DESIGN OF THE CLINICAL STUDY:

      Single and combined randomized, double-blind, crossover multiple-dose supplementation trial
      will be carried out with two beverages (250 ml/day): PS-enriched skimmed milk based fruit
      beverage rich in β-Cx (sham beverage) and a similar skimmed milk based fruit beverage rich in
      PS and β-Cx supplemented with GOS (active beverage),as diet supplementation in healthy
      post-menopausal women.

      The Clinical study will take place at the Vitamins Unit of the Clinical Biochemistry Service
      of the Hospital Universitario Puerta de Hierro-Majadahonda (Madrid, Spain).

      Sample size assessment:

      The sample size was calculated taking into account the results of total PS and cholesterol
      obtained in a previous clinical trial (no. NCT01074723). From previous assumption we choose
      the more conservative option to assure detection of a 7% reduction of cholesterol levels in a
      mild hypercholesterolemic subjects (e.g. 15 mg/dl) with a type I error of 0.05 and a
      statistical power of 80%. Furthermore, taking into account that 45% of western population
      might presented some polymorphisms implicated in the cholesterol absorption process, and
      assuming a drop-out of 10%, the final sample size should included 40 subjects.

      Standard Operating procedures:

      Two periods of intervention of 6 weeks separated by a wash-out period of 4 weeks.

      During the first trial period, 20 subjects daily will consume the active beverage and 20
      subjects will consume the sham beverage for 6 weeks, and after a what-out period of 4 weeks,
      the type of beverage to be consume during other 6 weeks period will be change (two-by-two
      cross over assignment). All participants receive sham beverage and active beverage B at some
      point during the trial but in a different order, depending on the group to which they are
      assigned.

      Sample collection (serum and faeces) will be performed before and after each 6 weeks
      treatment periods.

      All subjects should give written consent to participate in the trial.

      The participants will be provided with a list of foods and beverage rich in β-Cx to be
      avoided during the trial period and will be asked not to change its usual diet and physical
      activity, to record any side effects during the study, and to complete a semi-quantitative
      Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ) at the end of each intervention period. Question on the
      organoleptic properties of the beverages will also be included.
    
  