
    
      Background: Readmission and mortality are high after heart failure (HF) hospitalization.
      Heart Failure Multi-discipline disease management program (HFDMP) has shown to decrease 30%
      in readmission for decompensated heart failure or other cardiovascular causes. This was
      associated with a decreased in medical cost of care and a trend towards a lower mortality
      rate. Despite evidence that HFDMPs is effective, however, they are not widely employed in
      Taiwan. Some HFDMPs did not show improved health status compared with usual care. The "best
      way" to design and implement a HFDMP is not clear. It is still not clear if HFDMP would
      benefit all heart failure patients or should instead be targeted to specific subsets. Lysyl
      oxidase-like 2 (Loxl2) is enzyme, which crosslinks collagen in fibrotic processes such like
      liver cirrhosis or lung fibrosis. Recently, Lysyl oxidase-like 2 (Loxl2) was also found to
      participate the process of cardiac interstitial fibrosis and heart failure. Interestingly,
      the serum level of Loxl2 is in good correlation with the severity of heart failure. However,
      there is still unknown whether Loxl2 is useful biomarker for predicting the long-term outcome
      in patient with heart failure. From the mechanism of Loxl2 in the process of heart failure,
      the serum level of Loxl2 may be a good maker for predict the degree of cardiac remodeling.
      Our animal study showed the correlation between myocardial fibrosis and Loxl2 serum level.
      Therefore, The investigator will investigate whether serum Loxl2 level is a good maker for
      predictor the long-term outcome in patient with heart failure and predictor of cardiac
      remodeling. The correlation between this novel cardiac biomarker and endothelial function,
      cardiopulmonary function test will also be evaluated.

      Objectives: The investigator will investigate the predictors includes cardiac biomarkers (
      such as serum Loxl2 level, B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP), soluble ST2), endothelial
      function and cardiopulmonary exercise test in prediction of cardiovascular outcome and
      reverse remodeling in patients with heart failure discharged from hospital.

      Design: A prospective cohort study
    
  