
    
      1. Dura mater is an important structural cell layer on the surface of brain serving as an
           important barrier for brain protection. Dural defects could be caused by a vast variety
           of factors, including trauma, tumor invasion, increased volume of the intra-cranial
           contents, certain congenital diseases, surgical procedures and etc. Most of dural
           defects may lead to subcutaneous effusion and CSF leakage, which may result in
           infection; besides, direct adhesion of brain tissues with sub-scalp tissues also
           increase the risk of epilepsy, in severe cases, dural defect is considered a
           life-threatening condition. Repairing of dura mater to restore its full integrity is
           proved to reduce the incidences of its complications, such as CSF leakage, epilepsy and
           etc. In particular, the outcomes of neurosurgeries are largely dependent of the
           post-operative integrity of dura mater.

        2. most of the currently available products require surgical dural suturing, which elongate
           the duration of operation; nevertheless, some surgical site are unsuitable for suturing.
           The currently marketed non-suture dural substitutes and mainly made of a single material
           with a single-layered structure, which are significantly different from the natural
           structure of extracellular matrix, poorly mimicking the microstructure of dural mater;
           hence, the structures and surface properties of such products do not meet the
           requirements for local cellular regeneration post dural repairs, resulting in poor
           repair outcomes. Besides, the increased contractility of these products after water
           absorption also impose a certain extent of risk in practical application, since dural
           repairing surgeries are mainly conducted on the defective site of soft cerebral tissues.

        3. As a product prepared by using bionic technology, Dural Repair Patch manufactured by
           Guangzhou Medprin Regenerative Medical Technologies Co., Ltd. is able to mimic porous
           fiber biomimetic structure that facilitate the cellular growth on the stent. Through
           effective control over the bionic technology parameters, the diameter, aperture and
           porosity of the fiber are almost identical to the in vivo tissue structure, so as to
           improve the cellular adhesion and growth on the sten. Increased strength, suitable
           ductility and improved hydrophilicity all contribute to the excellent flexibility and
           adhesiveness of the finished product able to adhesive closely to the autologous tissues,
           meeting the clinical requirements. Being made of absorbable polymer materials widely
           accepted in clinical product, the product has a highly bionic 3-dimensional structure
           which is proved to facilitate migration and growth of regenerative cells, as well as to
           accelerate the growth and repairing of regenerative meninges. While the material is
           degraded gradually and absorbed by the body, regenerative meningeal tissue is gradually
           formed, achieving true reconstruction of the dura mater.

        4. Design and methods

      4.1 Subjects who meet the inclusion criteria are randomized in accordance with the admission
      time; routine blood test, liver and kidney function test, as well as cellular and humoral
      immunity test are conducted prior to the surgery.

      4.2 Location, characteristics and size of the defects,as well as the conditions of surgical
      incision are all observed intra-operatively.

      4.3 Dura mater membrane repairing surgeries are conducted by closely attaching either an
      appropriately-sized test product or reference product to the defected part of dura mater
      membrane, before the incision in the skull is closed by using a conventional approach.

      4.4 The subjects'conditions are reviewed on Day 1, 3, 5, 7 and 10 post operations,
      respectively.

      4.5 Lumbar puncture is conducted on Day 10±2 post operation based on the subject's
      conditions, in order to measure the intracranial pressure and test for cerebrospinal fluid
      leakage; routine blood, liver and kidney function, as well as cellular and humoral immunity
      are re-tested on Day 10±2 post operation and the values obtained are compared with the
      pre-operative baseline measurements and recorded, so as to evaluate the clinical
      significance; On Day 10±2 post operation, cerebrospinal fluid leakage or subcutaneous
      effusion are examined by CT scan and clinical examinations, so as to assess the relationship
      of such events to the test/reference product.

      4.6 For subjects who received a re-operation in the same location or a second neurosurgery,
      the conditions of test product or reference product in the repairing site is observed, e.g.
      examine (combined with histological test) product adhesion with cerebral tissues and etc.

      4.7 The subjects are asked to attend a return visit or a telephone follow-up session on Day
      90±10 and 180±20 post operation.
    
  