
    
      The purpose of the TCU DRR Project is to develop and test an intervention designed to
      increase positive decision-making skills among offenders for healthy living, including skills
      for making decisions for reducing disease risk behaviors. This project focuses on risky
      sexual and drug use behaviors during re-entry, including problem recognition, commitment to
      change, and strategies for avoiding behavioral risks of infections. Motivational and planning
      sessions will be delivered near the end of criminal justice (CJ) institution-based substance
      abuse treatment, and they will also bridge into re-entry care services during community
      transitional treatment by using a self-study toolkit for released offenders that emphasize
      applications of DRR principles. This 5-year project has been funded by the National Institute
      on Drug Abuse.

      The intervention has two components - an in-prison and a post-release component.

      • The in-prison component, WaySafe, is a six session, manual-based training on
      decision-making skills that occurs during the last several months of treatment before release
      from incarceration. It is a group-based, interactive curriculum based on TCU Mapping Enhanced
      Counseling strategies, which are used to visually enhance communication between clients and
      counselors. Homework assignments are given to be completed between the weekly sessions. The
      six hour-long WaySafe sessions are conducted by current counselors at the facility who have
      been trained in the curriculum.

      For comparison purposes, some offenders who voluntarily agree to participate in the DRR study
      are randomly assigned to attend "treatment as usual." All participants in the study first
      sign an Informed Consent document indicating that their participation is voluntary and that
      they have been informed about their rights as research participants. They are also asked to
      complete a brief pre-test at the beginning of the study and a brief post-test at the end of
      the six-week period. A signed Certificate of Completion is given to all participants who
      complete the study.

      • The post-release component, Keep It Safe, is a self-study toolkit given to offenders when
      they are released from incarceration, using mapping principles similar to those in the
      WaySafe sessions. It is designed to reinforce decision-making skills during this transition
      period and includes multiple assignments on topics such as risk taking, making better
      decisions regarding risky behaviors, and decisions regarding HIV testing.

      For comparison purposes, some offenders are randomly selected to receive a booklet that
      includes readings on HIV and Hepatitis B&C derived from National Institutes of Health (NIH)
      and Center for Disease Control (CDC) materials, with short quizzes after each section. Both
      the Keep It Safe and CDC Readings booklets are designed to take about five hours to complete
      including a final follow-up survey in each booklet. Offenders are asked to mail their
      completed booklets directly to TCU in a provided pre-addressed, franked envelope. A
      Certificate of Completion is mailed directly to the participant when the completed workbook
      and follow-up survey is received at TCU project offices.
    
  