
    
      OBJECTIVES: Primary I. Assess the response probability (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete
      and partial responses) and 3-month progression-free survival rate in patients with metastatic
      or recurrent nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) who are treated with bortezomib.

      Secondary I. Estimate 1-year progression-free survival and assess quantitative toxicities in
      this group of patients treated with bortezomib.

      II. Evaluate the response probability (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial) in
      the subset of patients who progress on bortezomib, with measurable disease at the time of
      progression, and go on to receive bortezomib and gemcitabine hydrochloride combination
      therapy.

      III. Estimate 1-year overall survival of all patients treated with this regimen.

      IV. Estimate 6-month progression-free survival from the start of combination therapy and
      assess quantitative toxicities in the subset of patients who progress on bortezomib and
      receive combination therapy.

      V. Explore, in a preliminary manner, the relationship between changes in Epstein-Barr virus
      DNA level, NF-kB DNA-binding activity, and methylation status of E-cadherin promoter with
      clinical outcomes.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study of bortezomib.

      Patients receive bortezomib IV on days 1, 4, 8, and 11. Treatment repeats every 21 days in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving a complete
      response (CR) receive 2 additional courses of treatment with bortezomib.

      Patients who experience disease progression on single-agent bortezomib and did not receive
      prior gemcitabine hydrochloride may begin combination therapy within 10-28 days of the last
      dose of bortezomib. Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1
      and 8 and bortezomib IV on days 1, 4, 8, 11. Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving a CR receive 2 additional
      courses beyond the confirmed CR.

      After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 3
      years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 50 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  