
    
      During the last decade, yoga has become increasingly popular in Western cultures. The 2017
      NIH report indicated that 14.3% of the adult population practice yoga in the USA. The most
      common yoga styles tested in randomized clinical trials (RCTs) are Hatha, Iyengar, and
      Patanjali.

      One key physical component of yoga is the stretching that occurs during different postures.
      Based on animal studies, it is plausible to think that the physical intensity of stretching
      may affect systemic inflammatory outcomes, i.e. SICs and SPMs. However, human studies have
      not isolated and quantified the impact of stretching. In consequence, it is not known to what
      extent the benefits of yoga can be attributed to the physical aspect of stretching. One way
      to explore the effect of yoga would be to isolate the stretching element and compare two
      stretching protocols with yoga-based postures on SICs and SPMs.

      In previous preclinical studies using an ex-vivo stretching model of mouse connective tissue
      (AICUC: 04996), the investigators found that fibroblasts are actively involved in the
      regulation of connective tissue tension, demonstrating that fibroblasts have a more elaborate
      scheme of responses to mechanical stress than was previously thought.

      Later, in the inflammatory active stretch rat model (AICUC 04995), the investigators found
      that after 10 minutes of an active stretch there was a significant reduction in the
      inflammatory lesion size area measured with ultrasound and a reduction of infiltrating
      neutrophils. The SPM Resolvin 1 (RvD1) was also measured and showed a significant difference
      between the stretch and no stretch group. These promising results encouraged the
      investigators to keep exploring the fundamental innate mechanism by which the body enhances
      the healing of an inflammatory process regardless of its etiology; e.g., a mouse breast
      cancer model with active stretch showed that with four weeks of stretching once a day, tumors
      were reduced roughly to the half comparing with the no-stretch group and a pig study
      currently underway is exploring the effects of active stretching on SPMs production and
      determining changes in Polymorphonuclear Neutrophil (PMN) and macrophages migration toward
      the inflammatory stimulus.

      These pre-clinical results motivated the research group to move forward with a translational
      pilot study to explore first the feasibility and second, the effect of stretching on the
      connective tissue and muscles of healthy humans. The investigators presume to find an effect
      of stretching on a systemic level. Hence, they propose to measure levels of SICs and SPMs, as
      well as their changes over time after one acute session of yoga-based stretching postures.
      The investigators plan to collect blood samples at baseline pre-intervention and then at 0
      minutes, 30 minutes, 1, 2, and 3, and 24 hours after the intervention. Samples will be
      analyzed using flow cytometry and ELISA.
    
  