
    
      The purpose of this study is to demonstrate the safety, tolerability, efficacy and
      pharmacokinetics of aplindore in 5 groups of 8 patients each with early stage Parkinson's
      Disease (PD) based on Modified Hoehn and Yahr 1-3, who are not currently taking any dopamine
      agonists or who are able to wash off dopamine agonists for 14 days prior to baseline. Of the
      8 patients in each cohort, 6 will be randomized to receive aplindore and two will receive
      placebo. The initial cohort of patients will be in the study unit from day -1 through day 15
      (~2 weeks). After a review of safety labs and ECGs for Day -1, patients will begin twice a
      day dosing of investigational product on Day 1 with dosing to be given at within 30 minutes
      of completing breakfast and dinner, approximately 0700 and 1900.

      A full UPDRS evaluation will be conducted at screen and on days -1, 7 and 14. In addition
      part 3 of the UPDRS (Motor) will be collected daily 2 hours after the morning dose of
      aplindore/placebo. At screening through discharge patients will be asked to self rate their
      level of sleepiness on a standardized rating scale (Epworth Sleepiness Scale) and their level
      of nausea daily 2 hours after the time of the morning dose of aplindore/placebo.

      Safety endpoints will include adverse events (AEs), clinical laboratory data, vital signs
      (blood pressure, orthostatic blood pressure and heart rate), ECGs, physical examinations and
      self rated scales.

      This study is a Phase II, dose-ranging, multi-center, placebo-controlled, double-blind,
      titration study to determine the safety, tolerability, efficacy and pharmacokinetics of
      aplindore in 5 groups of 8 patients each with early stage Parkinson's Disease (PD) based on
      Modified Hoehn and Yahr 1-3, who are not currently taking any dopamine agonists or who are
      able to wash off dopamine agonists for 14 days prior to baseline. Of the 8 patients in each
      cohort, 6 will be randomized to receive aplindore and two will receive placebo. The minimum
      number of patients required to initiate a cohort is 6 patients (4 randomized to aplindore and
      2 to placebo). The patients in each cohort will be randomized in blocks of 4. Each site will
      recruit a full cohort of 6-8 patients per dose-titration regimen. There will be no sharing of
      cohorts/dose regimens across sites.

      Early PD patients will be screened and 6-8 eligible patients will be housed in the study unit
      from day -1 through day 15 or until dismissed by the investigator. After a repeat of safety
      labs and ECG, patients will begin q12h dosing of investigational product (IP) with dosing to
      be given at within 30 minutes of completing breakfast and dinner, approximately 0700 and 1900
      starting on Day 1. Doses will be escalated according to a predefined schedule. Two hours
      after each morning dose, a UPDRS part III will be performed. Safety will be ascertained by
      adverse events, ECGs, orthostatic vitals, physical and neurological exams, safety labs,
      Epworth Sleepiness Scale and Non Motor Symptoms Questionnaires. One blood sample for PK will
      be taken on each escalation day, 11 samples at steady state. ECGs and vital signs
      (semi-reclined and standing) will be collected each day at 2 hours post morning dosing.
      Adverse events will be collected throughout the inpatient stay. Patients will be down
      titrated upon reaching an intolerable dose. Patients on prior dopaminergic medications will
      resume their prior therapies on Day 15. Those patients not on prior dopaminergic medications
      will be down titrated over 5-7 days in the research clinic. Outpatient safety follow up will
      be 7-21 days after the last dose of study medication.
    
  