
    
      Comparison between interlocking multi-twisted wires and Eight figure of sternum closure post
      open heart surgery in egptian patients

      Midline sternotomy, first described by Milton in 1887 [4,7,8] remains the most popular
      technique of cardiac exposure because of its quick and easy performance, excellent access to
      the heart and great vessels. Effective prevention methods for disruption and infection of
      median sternotomy continue to be debated. The most important factor in preventing PSWC is a
      stable sternal approximation, as bony union depends on adequate reduction and immobilization
      of the stern costal junctions. Strict adherence of preoperative aseptic technique is crucial.
      Careful attention to homeostasis and meticulous surgical technique remain the mainstays of
      prevention and must include precise sternal alignment and stable closure. While biomechanical
      studies appear to be valid, their general value is limited Different sternal closure
      techniques

        1. Trans-sternal/peristernal wiring

        2. Bilateral and longitudinal parasternal running wires (described by Robicsek)

        3. Double wires

        4. Steel band

        5. Figure of eight The figure-eight closure is described as faster, simpler, and more
           reliable than its trans-sternal counterpart; with only oblique forces sutures are less
           likely to loosen or fracture the sternum. The advantage of figure-eight closure is that
           it allows oblique and horizontal angle of shearing forces instead of direct
           perpendicular forces. Thus these wires are less likely to loosen or fracture .

        6. Interlocking multi-twisted wires One of recent way in closure of sternal gives more
           stabilization. At least 6 wires have to be passed. The wires should run around the
           sternum in the intercostals spaces except in the manubrium where it has to be passed
           through the bone . Adjacent wires on the surgeon's side are wrapped around each other.
           The wires on the surgeon's side are then pulled towards the assistant so that the
           sternum is re-approximated. Alternatively the surgeon can also pull the wires at the
           assistant's side towards himself or herself approximating the sternum. Adjacent wires on
           the assistant's side are then wrapped around each other. The wrapped wires on both sides
           are then wrapped around each other the wrapped wires are then twisted around with a
           twister, closing the sternum tightly and the ends buried

      6- Alternative techniques

      Techniques utilizing lateral sternal support are first-line options in preventing SD and
      wound infections. The need to provide lateral reinforcement of the sternum has led to the
      development of several techniques, such as A-the use of lateral staples and lateral plates
      B-H-shaped titanium plates C- Reinforced sternal closure system D-thermo reactive clips E-
      Rigid plate fixation change

      The purpose of this report was to analyze (I) the efficacy of most used ways in sternal
      closure in our center ( interlocking multi-twisted wires and Eight figure )for the prevention
      of Post sternal wound complication in adult egyptian patients and find the way more efficient
      in sternal closure.
    
  