
    
      Current trends in perioperative pain management stress the importance of multimodal analgesia
      in an effort to reduce the dependence on opioid pain medications. Adverse effects of opioids
      include sedation, respiratory depression, nausea, vomiting, constipation, itching, and, most
      importantly, the potential for tolerance and abuse. Multimodal analgesia attempts to utilize
      multiple techniques, including medications and nerve block procedures, to improve
      postoperative analgesia. Improved postoperative pain control can enable an earlier return to
      normal activities for patients, not only improving patient satisfaction, but also reducing
      postoperative morbidity and adverse effects of opioids.

      Approximately 350,000 to 500,000 ventral hernia repairs are performed each year in the United
      States. Surgeries completed laparoscopically are typically performed on an outpatient basis,
      allowing patients to return home the same day of surgery and treat their pain independently
      with prescribed pain medications. Utilization of a regional anesthesia technique may allow
      prolonged numbing of the nerves postoperatively and decrease the reliance on oral pain
      medications. Transversus abdominis plane (TAP) blocks have been shown to decrease pain scores
      and opioid consumption following ventral hernia repair. Quadratus lumborum (QL) blocks are
      newer iterations of the TAP block.

      There are currently three types of the QL block, all targeting the thoracolumbar fascia
      surrounding the quadratus lumborum muscle. Injection within this fascial plane may allow
      local anesthetic spread into the paravertebral space, possibly explaining why QL blocks have
      been mapped from the T7 to T12/L1 dermatomes, covering the entire abdomen. Conversely, TAP
      blocks have been mapped from the T10 to T12/L1 dermatomes, only covering the abdomen below
      the umbilicus. In the first, the Quadratus lumborum 1 block (QL1), the local anesthetic is
      injected within the fascial plane lateral to the QL muscle. In the second, the Quadratus
      lumborum 2 block (QL2), the needle trajectory is more superficial, and the local anesthetic
      is injected along the posterior border of the QL muscle. The third iteration, the Quadratus
      lumborum 3 block (QL3), involves a deeper, transmuscular approach with injection along the
      anterior border of the QL muscle. Our study would utilize the QL2 approach as the dermatomal
      distribution of the QL1 and QL2 blocks appear to be more widespread than the QL3 block, and
      the QL2 block may be a safer approach due to the more superficial angle of the needle 3.

      Additionally, the QL block has been shown to have a longer duration of analgesia when
      directly compared to the TAP block. A study of pediatric lower abdominal surgery revealed
      improved pain scores and parent satisfaction with care in the QL group compared to TAP block.
      This improvement persisted to the 24 hour mark. In a study of postoperative pain following
      cesarean delivery, pain scores were improved and opioid consumption decreased with the QL
      block compared to the TAP block. The differences were not significant at the 1 and 6 hour
      marks, but were significant at the 12, 24 and 48 hour marks, highlighting the analgesic
      duration of the QL block 8.

      This study aims to evaluate the efficacy of the QL block using the QL2 approach on recovery
      profile after laparoscopic ventral hernia repair, a commonly performed surgery, as well as
      contribute to the understanding of the block and its distribution of anesthesia.
    
  