
    
      Movement disorders are a group of neurological conditions that alter human movements. They
      lead to functional impairments, diminished quality of life, and significant societal,
      economic, and familial burden. Due to the increase in population and longer life expectancy
      [1], more and more people will have to live with movement disorders. However, access to
      movement disorder specialists is already limited and will get worse [2]. Therefore, there is
      an urgent need to develop tools to aid non-specialist medical professionals identify and
      manage the symptoms (both motor and non-motor) of those disorders such that specialist can
      focus on more severe and complex cases. While there are several conditions that can be
      classified as movement disorders, the current proposal will focus on six disorders that have
      overlapping symptoms and could prove difficult to differentiate for non-specialists and/or
      clinicians that do not readily have access to genetic testing or imaging facilities:
      Essential tremor (ET), Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD), primary focal
      dystonia (PFD), spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA), and functional movement disorders (FMD). While
      trained movement disorder specialists may correctly identify each of these disorders and
      provide optimal treatment, general practitioners and clinicians living in rural areas that do
      not have access to the most up-to-date diagnostic tools, such as neuroimaging and genetic
      testing, may face difficulty when treating those patients due to symptom variability and
      overlap in symptom presentation between different disorders; leading to sub-optimal treatment
      outcomes. As such, the development of simple, accurate, and inexpensive tools to help guide
      their clinical decisions is warranted. The ubiquity of mobile technology and wearable sensors
      may enable the development of such a tool. In recent years, our group and others have used
      mobile phones and wearable technology to assess symptoms in a multitude of disorders. This
      highlights the feasibility of our proposed system for the assessment and monitoring of
      symptom severity in individuals with movement disorders.
    
  