
    
      The investigators propose to evaluate a method for prescribing opioid pain medications in the
      acute post-operative period. This approach consists of giving patients smaller amounts of
      narcotics with easier access to refills. The investigators hypothesize that in this system,
      patients will ultimately obtain fewer pills from the pharmacy, and will have fewer pills left
      over following their post-operative recovery. To test this hypothesis, a randomized
      controlled trial has been designed. The investigators have chosen patients undergoing open
      reduction and internal fixation of distal radius fractures and patients undergoing first
      carpometacarpal joint arthroplasty as the study population. In the literature, the
      investigators experience, anecdotally, and as was demonstrated with a brief informal survey
      that was collected, these groups of patients have similar opioid needs postoperatively, and
      that need is relatively high when compared to other hand and upper extremity surgeries.

      Intervention:

      Patients will be consented on the day of surgery. Patients who consent in the preoperative
      area will be sequentially randomized to one of two treatment groups. The first treatment
      group will be the control arm. On discharge following their surgery, these patients will
      receive a single prescription for 225 Morphine Milligram Equivalents (MMEs). This corresponds
      to #30 pills of 5mg oxycodone/acetaminophen, #45 pills of 5mg hydrocodone/acetaminophen, or
      #30 pills of 7.5mg Morphine.

      Patients who are randomized into the second group will also receive prescriptions for 225
      MME's on discharge following their surgery, however their medications will be broken up
      equally into 3 separate scripts, each for 75 MME's. This corresponds to 3 scripts for #10
      pills of 5mg oxycodone/acetaminophen, 3 scripts for #15 pills of 5mg
      hydrocodone/acetaminophen, or 3 scripts for #10 pills of 7.5mg Morphine. Each script will be
      post-dated to ensure that patients wait the appropriate amount of time between filling their
      scripts, and that they cannot fill multiple scripts on the same day or at the same time.
      Patient consent, randomization, surgery, and discharge with their scripts will all occur on
      the day of their operation.

      Should a patient call in or come to clinic requesting more narcotic medication, the study
      policy will be that all patients are eligible to receive additional scripts in increments of
      75 MME's regardless of their initial randomized group (an additional #10 pills of 5mg
      oxycodone/acetaminophen, #15 pills of 5mg Hydrocodone/acetaminophen, or #10 pills of 7.5mg
      Morphine). The number of additional scripts that patients may receive will be at the
      discretion of the surgeon who performed the procedure. Patients will have to make separate
      requests for each additional script - the investigators will not give multiple additional
      scripts at once. If the physician and patient feel that it is in the patient's best interest,
      they may transition from one narcotic to another at the time of a refill.

      The investigators will assess the patients post-operative narcotic use including the number
      of pills distributed from the pharmacy to each group, number of pills consumed, and number of
      pills retained after the patient is no longer requiring them. The investigators will also
      assess patients general pain control, comfort level, and standard outcomes during the
      recovery period.
    
  