
    
      Study eyes will be assigned randomly (1:1 ratio) to one of the following 2 treatment arms.
      Randomization of PDR subjects will be limited to 50% of each arm.

      Group 1

      Year 1 Subjects will be seen every month, 28 days (+ 7 days), for 52 weeks. All subjects will
      receive IAI at baseline, after eligibility is confirmed. Week 4 through week 48, subjects
      will be seen monthly and treated with IAI PRN (pro re nata) according to, same day, central
      reading center (CRC) determined DRSS level. Monthly treatment with IAI will continue until a
      greater than or equal to 2 step DRSS level improvement is achieved, relative to
      screening/baseline DRSS based on CRC assessment OPTOS fundus photos (FP). Subjects who have
      baseline proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) (DRSS Level 61-71) will continue to receive
      monthly IAI until a greater than or equal to 2 step DRSS improvement is achieved as
      determined by CRC assessment of OPTOS fundus photos relative to screening/baseline DRSS, and
      PDR is quiescent according to the treating investigator. Treatment with IAI will be
      reinitiated if a 1 step worsening of DRSS occurs compared to best DRSS score achieved,
      determined by CRC evaluation of OPTOS fundus photos. If such worsening is detected, the
      subject would resume monthly IAI until best DRSS score or greater is achieved, as determined
      by CRC assessment of OPTOS fundus photos. In addition, retreatment will also be re-started if
      new onset neovascularization is identified and is continued until the PDR is quiescent
      according to the treating investigator.

      Year 2 Beginning in year 2 (week 52) subjects will be seen every 56 days (+ 14 days) and
      treated with IAI PRN (pro re nata) utilizing the same criteria from year 1. All subjects will
      have a mandatory week 104 visit, where treatment will not be given.

      Group 2

      Year 1 Subjects will be seen every month, 28 days (+ 7 days), for 52 weeks. All subjects will
      receive IAI at baseline, after eligibility is confirmed. Week 4 through week 48, subjects
      will be seen monthly and treated with IAI PRN (pro re nata) according to, same day, CRC
      determination of DRSS initially, and subsequently of leakage index.

      Monthly treatment with IAI will continue until a greater than or equal to 2 step DRSS level
      improvement is achieved, relative to screening/baseline DRSS based on CRC assessment OPTOS
      fundus photos (FP). Subjects who have baseline proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) (DRSS
      Level 61-71) will continue to receive monthly IAI until a greater than or equal to 2 step
      DRSS improvement is achieved as determined by CRC assessment of OPTOS fundus photos relative
      to screening/baseline DRSS, and PDR is quiescent according to the treating investigator.

      Leakage index as determined by CRC assessment of OPTOS WF-FA at the visit at which a greater
      than or equal to 2 step DRSS level improvement is achieved will be considered the threshold.
      Treatment with IAI will be reinitiated if the leakage index increases to 33% above the
      individual subject threshold leakage index level as determined by CRC evaluation of OPTOS
      WF-FA. If such worsening is detected, the subject would resume monthly IAI until the
      threshold leakage index as determined by CRC assessment of OPTOS WF-FA is reached. In
      addition, retreatment will also be re-started if new onset neovascularization is identified
      and is continued until the PDR is quiescent according to the treating investigator.

      Year 2 Beginning in year 2 (week 52) subjects will be seen every 56 days (+ 14 days) and
      treated with IAI PRN (pro re nata) utilizing the same criteria from year 1. All subjects will
      have a mandatory week 104 visit, where treatment will not be given.

      If images of insufficient quality are unable to be obtained, in Group 1 or Group 2, subjects
      will undergo treatment with IAI at principal investigators discretion or designee.

      Subjects can have both eyes in the study, if eligibility is met. If both eyes are eligible,
      one eye will be randomized to group 1 while the other is randomized to group 2. If only one
      eye is eligible IAI will be provided for the fellow eye as needed according to the treating
      investigator.
    
  