
    
      BACKGROUND Resistance exercise training with free weights or weight machines clearly improves
      glycemic control in type 2 diabetes (T2D). However, many patients with T2D would prefer not
      to, or are not able to attend an exercise facility,for reasons of cost, comfort or
      convenience. Coinvestigator Dr. Jonathon Fowles developed a home-based exercise program for
      people with T2D using resistance bands. Before-after studies using this intervention have
      found improvements in glycemic control, strength, and blood pressure. However, the effects of
      resistance-bands training (RBT) on glycemic control in T2D have not been evaluated in a
      high-quality randomized trial.

      RESEARCH QUESTIONS To determine the effects of six months of progressive home-based RBT plus
      aerobic exercise, versus home-based aerobic exercise alone, in previously-sedentary people
      with T2D.

      METHODS After a 2-week run-in period to assess adherence, 100 T2D subjects not currently
      engaging in regular exercise will be randomized in equal numbers to 2 arms: primarily
      home-based RBT (RBT-H) or aerobic only control (ATO) . Both groups will complete aerobic
      training: accumulation of 150 minutes per week of walking or jogging, measured by
      accelerometers. The RBT workout will include 12 distinctive exercises, targeting all major
      muscle groups. Subjects will be trained in groups led by a Kinesiologist (exercise
      specialist) twice per week for two weeks during run-in. After randomization, the RBT-H group
      will perform RBT three times per week. RBT-H participants will perform RBT three times per
      week primarily at home, with supervised group sessions weekly in weeks 1-4, every 2 weeks in
      weeks 5-8, and every 4 weeks thereafter to ensure proper form and appropriate progression.
      Adherence to RBT will be verified through direct supervision of group sessions, and
      completion of detailed exercise logs for home-based and group sessions. Participants will
      photograph the log after each session and email the photo to a designated email address.
      Study outcomes will be assessed at baseline, 12 and 24 weeks post-randomization. Dietary
      advice will be standardized through repeated sessions with a dietician, and doses of
      medications altering glucose, lipids and BP will be held constant unless change is medically
      urgent. Primary analyses will be intention-to-treat, using repeated measures mixed modeling.
      Per-protocol analyses will be done including only subjects who completed >70% of prescribed
      exercise sessions and all end-of-study outcome measures.

      SIGNIFICANCE The global burden of type 2 diabetes is increasing, and complications of the
      illness occur primarily in those whose glycemic control is fair or poor. If home-based
      exercise training with resistance bands improves glycemic control and other vascular risk
      factors, it could be beneficial to the large numbers of patients who prefer not to have to
      travel to a gym or cannot afford gym membership. If resistance exercise is then adopted by
      more patients, it is likely that the morbidity associated with type 2 diabetes will be
      decreased. This is particularly true if such training also improves quality of life, and more
      people are thus inclined to continue exercising in the long term.
    
  