
    
      Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (HDP) affect 3-15% of pregnancies. Gestational
      hypertension is new-onset blood pressure (BP) > 140/90mmHg after 20 weeks gestation.
      Pre-eclampsia is gestational hypertension with proteinuria (> 300mg / 24 hours). HDP are the
      second commonest direct cause of maternal death in the UK and USA, and the leading cause of
      maternal death in Latin America and the Caribbean.

      HDP persist postpartum, and complications can occur during this time. Most women with HDP
      will be treatment-free by 3 months postpartum. This rapidly changing BP, with shifting
      medication requirement, poses a challenge in terms of how best to manage this down-titration.
      Both NICE guidelines and a Cochrane review highlight that few clinical studies have addressed
      the management of BP postpartum. In practice clinical care is to continue antepartum
      anti-hypertensive medication and monitor BP in the community with a focus on prevention of
      over-treatment.

      Approximately 30% of eclamptic seizures occur postpartum: studies suggest that half occur
      more than 48 hours after birth. A case series of patients who sustained a stroke in
      association with HDP, showed that more than half occurred postpartum.

      Severity of hypertension in later life may be predicted by BP during the first 6 weeks
      postpartum. Several retrospective cohort studies and a meta-analysis have suggested that HDP
      are associated with an increased risk of future cardiovascular disease (CVD) in the mother.
      The 2011 American Heart Association guidelines for the prevention of CVD in women cite a
      history of HDP as a major risk factor for CVD, and advocate enquiring about pregnancy
      complications during the evaluation of CVD risk.

      Home BP readings have been shown to be more strongly related to indices of target organ
      damage and have better prognostic value in essential hypertension than office BP measurement.
      Voluntary home BP monitoring by patients with essential hypertension is becoming increasingly
      common. The European and American Societies of Hypertension now recommend home BP measurement
      in the routine diagnosis and monitoring of essential hypertension.

      Self-monitoring and self-titration of anti-hypertensive medications in essential hypertension
      has been shown to be both feasible and more effective than usual care. Women with HDP would
      seem to be an ideal cohort in whom to apply these experiences: the disease has, in general, a
      limited time course meaning that intensive monitoring is more reasonable and more likely to
      be adhered to. Pregnant women are in a younger age group than the majority of those with
      essential hypertension, and may be more comfortable with the use of technology to assist in
      disease monitoring. Women might also be more empowered in the setting of a recent pregnancy
      to take greater responsibility for their health.

      Evidence exists to support the accuracy of home BP recordings in hypertensive pregnant women.
      Studies to date in antenatal women suggest a low non-concordance rate and low rate of
      inaccurate recordings. Studies have also suggested: better correlation between home BP
      recordings and indication of the need for anti-hypertensive medication; reduced number of
      hospital admissions in women with mild HDP who undertook home BP monitoring.

      If self-management in the postpartum period proves to be feasible, acceptable and successful,
      it could lead to a reduction in the length of inpatient stay, readmissions and the number of
      postpartum visits, with cost-saving implications. Furthermore as the importance of BP control
      in the immediate postpartum period has already been demonstrated to affect women's CVD risk
      up to 15 years after delivery, any strategy, which successfully increases women's adherence
      to an effective treatment regimen, has the potential to influence their healthcare needs well
      into the future.

      The proposed trial aims to apply the research experience regarding self-management in
      essential hypertension to postpartum women with HDP where both high and low BPs can lead to
      adverse outcomes, and where detection of on-going hypertension is essential. This study is a
      pilot study: it has been set up in order to inform the planning of a large-scale multi-centre
      randomised controlled trial by testing the feasibility of methods and procedures for later
      use on a large scale. We want to increase our experience of applying this management approach
      in this subset of patients; to select the most appropriate primary outcome measure and to
      estimate the effect size of this intervention; to assess recruitment potential; and to
      evaluate the feasibility of coordinating this trial across several centres. The primary
      objective of the large-scale trial will be to determine whether the self-management approach
      can improve BP control in women with medicated HDP in the postnatal period.

      The study is a non-blinded randomised controlled trial. To assist with recruitment numbers,
      and assess the feasibility of running a multi-centre trial, we are planning to run this study
      in several hospitals. Women who have developed HDP requiring medication will be approached
      during the antenatal period: they will complete an informed consent form and undertake a
      screening appointment. Following birth, whilst they remain in hospital, consent will be
      confirmed and a baseline appointment will take place. At this visit women will be randomised
      to one of two treatment arms: usual care, or self-management.

      All women will be followed up at 10 days, 4 and 6 weeks, then 3 and 6 months postpartum and
      have their BP measured by one of the study team. All participants will be asked to complete
      the EQ-5D-5L Health Questionnaire to assess their quality of life at visits 1, 5 and 7.

      At visits 2, 6 and 7 women will be weighed using a standardised set of scales in order to
      evaluate whether the extent and speed of return to booking weight correlates with resolution
      of gestational hypertension.

      To follow on from the work that suggests that those with above-average BP at six weeks
      postpartum have an approximately 30% increase in aortic stiffness, we are planning to conduct
      a sub-study to analyse markers of vascular risk in women from both groups. As it may be
      assumed that the baseline characteristics of the two groups are then similar, if we
      demonstrate a treatment effect from the intervention, then it will allow us to analyse the
      relationship between BP control in the postnatal period and markers of vascular risk to help
      determine if it is the severity of pathology or effectiveness of control that determines long
      term outcome. Women will consent to an optional extended visit at baseline and 3 months where
      measures of arterial stiffness and microvascular changes will be taken (cardio-ankle vascular
      index, radial arterial tonometry and capillaroscopy). We will take a blood sample to measure
      circulating biomarkers relevant to cardiovascular health and pre-eclampsia. We aim to recruit
      a minimum of 15 women from each group.

      We plan to run a second embedded sub-study to examine participants' health experiences. We
      aim to recruit a minimum of 50% of participants in each group. We will conduct structured
      interviews with participants in both arms, who consent to participate in the qualitative
      sub-study, to assess their experience of either usual care or self-management of BP in the
      postnatal period, and to identify and explore factors related to the successful (or
      unsuccessful) implementation of the intervention. This study will provide data regarding the
      views of patients as to the acceptability of self-monitoring in the routine management of
      gestational hypertension and pre-eclampsia after birth once they have been discharged from
      hospital. Baseline data (5 questions) will be collected at visit 1. The structured interviews
      will be done at visits 4 and 7, and will take 10-15 minutes on each occasion. There will be 5
      questions for both groups, and an additional 5 questions for the intervention group.
      Structured responses will be entered on to a pre-coded scoring sheet. Free text responses
      will be audio-recorded.

      Safety reporting will be from baseline to the 26 week follow up visit. Adverse events may be
      recorded by the participant using the trial telephone number, email, or via the text message
      service or smart phone app. Participants will be directly asked about adverse events at each
      study visit. All serious adverse events, whether 'expected' or 'unexpected', need to be
      reported. All serious adverse event (SAE) information will be recorded on the Primary Care
      Clinical Trials Unit (PC-CTU) SAE report form by the site or the Chief Investigator (CI) and
      faxed to the PC-CTU dedicated fax line. SAEs will be reported to the PC-CTU as soon as
      possible, preferably within 24 hours. The PC-CTU will perform an initial check of the report,
      request any additional information from the reporting clinician and ensure that the CI or
      safety delegator reviews and evaluates the report for expectedness and relatedness. All SAE
      reports will also be reviewed routinely by the Independent Safety Review Committee. All SAEs
      will be followed up until resolution or the end of the study period.

      A SAE occurring to a participant should be reported to the REC and Sponsor where in the
      opinion of the Chief Investigator the event was 'related' (resulted from administration of
      any of the research procedures) and 'unexpected' in relation to those procedures. Reports of
      related and unexpected SAEs should be submitted within 15 working days of the CI becoming
      aware of the event.

      A formal sample size calculation is not required for this pilot study. The analysis will be
      carried out on the basis of intention-to-treat. The analyses for this pilot study will be
      primarily descriptive and will not include any hypothesis testing or presentation of P-values
      for group comparisons. Continuous variables will be reported as means with standard
      deviations (or medians with Interquartile ranges if skewed). Categorical variables will be
      reported as counts and percentages. Differences between groups will be calculated and
      described with 95% confidence intervals only and will not include significance tests with
      P-values.

      The delivery of the intervention will involve patient home visits. To facilitate these visits
      the study team will require access to patient identifiable data. The consent from will
      clearly list the data to be collected and for what purpose. The identifiable data will be
      held securely at the PC-CTU, separately from other trial data, with access to this data
      restricted to appropriate members of the study team identified on the delegation log.
      Identifiable data will be anonymised as soon as no longer required.

      All study data required for analysis will be recorded on paper Case Report Forms (CRFs) and
      returned to the study team for data entry. CRFs will be held securely in locked filing
      cabinets, located within office space with restricted entry. All data points will be
      transferred from paper CRFs to a secure database management system (CDMS) hosted by the
      PC-CTU. Within the CDMS patients will be identified solely by a unique study identification
      number. No patient identifiable data will be held within the CDMS. At the conclusion of the
      trial, following database lock and final analysis all documents will be appropriately
      archived for at least five years.

      The CI will ensure the study is conducted in accordance with the current approved protocol,
      PC-CTU SOPs and all applicable local and national guidelines and regulations. The PC-CTU has
      conducted a risk assessment prior to study commencement, which will inform the level and
      nature of monitoring required for this study. Direct access will be granted to authorised
      representatives from the Sponsor or host institution for monitoring and/or audit of the study
      to ensure compliance with regulations.

      A Trial Management Group will be established to support the CI in overseeing the progress and
      conduct of the study.
    
  