
    
      Objectives

      The purpose of this study is to test the feasibility of using tDCS as a pre-treatment adjunct
      to intensive physiotherapy (the 'physio+tDCS' protocol) for children with ABI in the
      inpatient brain injury program at Holland Bloorview. The primary objectives of our study are
      to answer the following questions:

        1. Is it feasible to implement a 'physio+tDCS' protocol within an existing inpatient ABI
           rehabilitation program based on participant eligibility, recruitment, tolerance,
           retention, and adherence to treatment protocol (e.g. session frequency and completion
           timelines)?

        2. What is the effect of using tDCS as an adjunct to intensive physiotherapy on the
           recovery of gross motor function in children with moderate to severe ABI, as measured by
           individualized goal achievement and standardized gross motor outcome measures? METHODS
           Trial design Using a feasibility randomized control trial (RCT) study design, 30
           children with moderate to severe ABI, enrolled in intensive brain injury rehabilitation
           at Holland Bloorview Kids Rehabilitation Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, will be randomized
           to the active or sham (control) tDCS intervention, which will be paired with
           individualized intensive physiotherapy (i.e., 'physio+tDCS' and 'physio+sham').

      Randomization and Blinding Once enrolled in the study, an independent research assistant (RA)
      will randomly assign each child to the "sham" or "active" tDCS treatment group using a
      computer randomization web-based program and approach described below. Only the RAs involved
      in the study will be aware of each participant's treatment group assignment. The participants
      and the assessing/treating PTs will be blinded to the participant's treatment group.

      Intervention tDCS Treatment- Depending on treatment group allocation, participants will
      receive 20 minutes of active tDCS or sham tDCS (provided by a trained RA) immediately prior
      to four of their physiotherapy sessions each week over 4 weeks for a total of 16 sessions.
      Children and PTs will be blinded to their tDCS/sham allocation. Two electrodes (5x7cm) in
      size will be used such that the anodal electrode will be attached to the Cz position on the
      scalp, to target the lower extremity region of bilateral primary motor cortices, and the
      cathodal electrode will be attached to the central supraorbital (Fpz) area of the forehead
      (20). Each tDCS treatment will consist of up to 2.0 mA of stimulation, adjusting for the
      child's age, head size, and tolerance as required. Participants will be told which treatment
      group they were allocated to after completing their final assessment (3 months after
      completing the treatment protocol). Participant symptoms and safety will be tracked before,
      during, and after each tDCS session. Adverse events reported via a REB-approved standard
      process to an independent in-house safety monitoring committee (SMC).

      Physiotherapy Intervention- The physiotherapy treatment paired with the tDCS/sham consists of
      the typical motor skills-based physiotherapy children receive in the in/day-patient brain
      injury program at Holland Bloorview. Each 45- minute physiotherapy session promotes motor
      learning by focusing on functional tasks related to the child's personalized motor goals.
      Therapists individualize the program by adapting the tasks, instructions, feedback, and the
      level of challenge based on the child's needs.

      Outcomes Feasibility- Feasibility of study implementation and tDCS will be evaluated by
      tracking process, resource, and treatment indicators. A priori feasibility targets are as
      follows: 20% of children admitted to the program will be eligible for the study, 70% of
      eligible children will be recruited; 80% of children will tolerate at least 1.0mA for 10
      minutes of each tDCS session, 75% of treatment sessions will be completed, 95% of first
      reassessments will occur, and 80% of follow-up reassessments will occur at 3 months
      post-treatment. Adherence to the study protocol will be tracked by the number of tDCS and
      physiotherapy sessions scheduled per week and the number actually completed. Reasons for
      cancelled sessions or decreased number of sessions booked will be documented. Because tDCS
      should optimally occur in the half hour prior to physiotherapy, the start time and duration
      of stimulation will be documented, as well as the start time and duration of each
      physiotherapy session, on tracking sheets that will be completed by the RA/therapist
      conducting each tDCS/physiotherapy session. Eligibility data will be tracked across the
      study's duration to determine the proportion of children in the brain injury program who are
      eligible for the study, and the number who enrol and reasons for being excluded from the
      study will be documented.

      Gross Motor- Baseline assessments will be conducted by a blinded independent PT assessor
      within four days of beginning the study treatment protocol. The first reassessment will be
      conducted by the same blinded PT assessor within four days after their last study
      intervention session. Three months after completion of the study treatment, a second
      reassessment will take place, involving the same outcome measures. Additional information
      regarding the participant's physiotherapy services (e.g., frequency, duration, focus of
      intervention) and amount of daily physical activity (e.g., frequency, duration, intensity,
      type) since study completion will also be recorded.

      A priori targets for the co-primary gross motor outcomes are as follows: The active tDCS
      group should have at least 5 mean points of change more than the sham group on the Gross
      Motor Function Measure (GMFM) and at least 2.0 mean points of change more than the sham group
      on the Canadian Occupational Performance Measure (COPM).
    
  