
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)/recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of
      pevonedistat in combination with cytarabine and idarubicin in newly diagnosed high-risk acute
      myeloid leukemia. (Phase Ib) II. To determine the composite complete response rate (complete
      remission [CR] or complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery [CRi]) of
      pevonedistat in combination with cytarabine and idarubicin in newly diagnosed high-risk acute
      myeloid leukemia. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate plasma pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of pevonedistat when used in combination
      with cytarabine and idarubicin in the phase Ib part of the study.

      II. To evaluate the relapse free (RFS), overall survival (OS), safety and tolerability of
      pevonedistat in combination with cytarabine and idarubicin in the phase II part of the study.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the pharmacodynamics (PD) effects of pevonedistat in combination with
      cytarabine and idarubicin in acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) blasts.

      II. To evaluate potential predictive biomarkers of response to pevonedistat in combination
      with cytarabine and idarubicin in AML.

      III. To determine the CR without minimal residual disease rate (CR MRD-) of pevonedistat in
      combination with cytarabine and idarubicin in newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase Ib, dose escalation study of pevonedistat followed by a phase II
      study.

      INDUCTION: Patients receive idarubicin intravenously (IV) over 10-15 minutes on days 1-3,
      cytarabine IV over 1-3 hours on days 1-7, and pevonedistat IV over 60 minutes on days 1, 3,
      and 5. Patients with gross residual disease on day 14 bone marrow may receive a second course
      of induction chemotherapy.

      CONSOLIDATION: Patients who achieve CR and will not undergo bone marrow transplant receive
      cytarabine IV over 3 hours every 12 hours on days 1, 3, and 5. Treatment repeats every 28-35
      days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unaccepted toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for at least 30 days, and then
      every 3 months for 2 years.
    
  