
    
      The design of the digital intervention module is considered to follow the just-in-time
      adaptive intervention framework (JITAI). JITAI is an intervention design aiming to provide
      the right type/amount of support, at the right time, by adapting to an individual's
      circumstances. It has enormous potential for promoting health behavior change, which in this
      study is supposed to be medication compliance. Based on the JITAI's conceptual model, there
      are the following components:

        1. Decision points (DP) DP is a time when an intervention decision is made. Considering the
           nature of JITAIs which are delivered through mobiles, DPs are much more rapidly than is
           standard interventions. In iMedA, DP is considered to be daily and accompanied by the
           time of medication intake question, i.e. "Did the participant take the anti-hypertensive
           medication today?".

        2. Intervention options (IO) IOs are a set of possible interventions that are going to be
           delivered at DPs. In JITAI, IOs can be various types of support (information, advice,
           feedback, etc), source of support (mobile, nurse, physician, etc), amounts of support
           (intensity, dose, etc), type of media/channel (phone call, SMS, etc).

           From the conducted literature review, the investigators summarised all types of digital
           interventions to hypertensive patients as:

             -  Reminders for medication intake (daily), BP measurement (monthly), PA (biweekly)

             -  Informational contents regarding hypertension and all its facts, consequences,
                treatments, risks, medications and side-effects, lifestyle, and so on (text,
                videos, etc)

             -  Trends on medication intake/PA/BP/etc

             -  Motivational messages

        3. Distal outcomes (DO) DO is the ultimate goal that the intervention is trying to achieve.
           In iMedA, the investigators considered primary and secondary DOs. Primarily the
           investigators aim at improving medication adherence. Then in the long term, blood
           pressure control is considered as secondary DOs besides the increased quality of life,
           assessment of the lifestyle behavior (smoking, alcohol consumption, physical activity,
           and food intake), and communicative and critical health literacy.

           In order to measure MA, the investigators consider (1) self-reported medication intake
           through a mobile app; (2) MUAH-16 which is a medication adherence questionnaire for
           hypertension; and (3) pickups from pharmacies. The self-reported values are supposed to
           be collected every day. MUAH-16 is measured pre- and post- intervention.

           BP is considered to be measured every month. There are automatic devices in every
           primary care center that people can go and measure their BP free of charge.

           QoL and HL are measured through EQ5D and HL respectively and pre- and post-
           intervention. Lifestyle assessments are measured (bi)weekly through self-report values.

        4. Proximal outcomes (PO) POs are the short-term goals of the interventions. They can be
           mediators and/or intermediate measures of the DOs. Medication intake rate is considered
           to be the main PO, which is measured daily. Physical activity rate which is measured
           (bi)weekly is another PO.

           Since most of the contents are educational and they try to increase the hypertension
           knowledge of the participants, the investigators will add a PO to measure how much their
           knowledge has increased. The investigators consider two methods to measure it. First,
           after showing the content, the investigators will ask "Did the participant know …?".
           Second, a simple gamification test will be designed to be delivered biweekly.

           To prevent poor adherence to the interventions, it is recommended to define a few POs
           related to intervention engagement and fatigue. Therefore, the investigators consider
           the number of clicked interventions, number of watched videos, like/dislike feedbacks
           per each intervention as POs related to intervention adherence and retention.

        5. Tailoring variables (TV) TVs are information about the participant that are used to
           decide when to provide which intervention. In other words, they are used to personalise
           the interventions and make them adaptive to the individual's circumstances. They can be
           measured actively or passively or both. Active assessments require an individual's
           engagement in measuring, for example through self-reports, while passive assessments
           require minimal/no individual engagement, for example through mobile phone's sensors.
           POs are often used as TVs.

           From baseline information, a few TVs can be selected including alcohol consumption,
           smoking, specific diet (vegetarian, vegan, etc), age, and gender, in order to
           personalise the interventions.

           All of the POs are also considered as TVs. From the MUAH-16 questionnaire, the
           investigators start to know more about individual's beliefs, barriers and behaviour
           about medication adherence. It has four subscales regarding (1)positive attitude towards
           healthcare and medication; (2) lack of discipline; (3) aversion towards medication; and
           (4) active coping with health problems. Each subscale contains four questions. At the
           beginning of the intervention, MUAH-16 questions are used as TVs. Then during the
           intervention period, and based on the previously delivered informational contents to the
           individual, the answers to "Did the participant know …?" questions will be used as TVs.

        6. Decision rules (DR) DRs are the adaptation engine of JITAIs. They are used to determine
           which IO to deliver to whom and when. They are the links between IOs and TVs.

      DRs in iMedA will be probabilistic rules from experts modified by "suggestions" from
      reinforcement learning.
    
  