
    
      The study was a randomized control trial with a 12-month follow-up that compared active early
      intervention using medical yoga with exercise therapy and self-care advice. The medical yoga
      intervention was a standardized program based on Kundalini yoga. The group was led by an
      experienced yoga instructor. The exercise therapy was a standardized strength training
      program led by a trained physiotherapist. Both medical yoga and exercise interventions were
      held in groups and included two sessions per week over six weeks. After the sixth week,
      participants were instructed to continue practicing at least twice a week on their own. In
      the medical yoga group, the participants received written information and a disk providing
      additional guidance. In the exercise therapy group, the participants received tailored
      written information on exercise. The third group, evidence-based self-care advice, was
      physically examined by experienced back pain experts (an orthopedic specialist and a licensed
      chiropractor), and received an oral recommendation to stay active and a booklet containing
      evidenced-based self-care advice.

      The participants were randomized to one of these three treatment groups after undergoing the
      initial examination and receiving the evidence-based information on self-care and staying
      active. The form of randomization was block randomization using the pre-randomization
      technique, in which for each participant an opaque envelope was picked, in consecutive order,
      by an external research assistant who had no contact with the participants. After
      randomization the back pain specialist met with the participants and gave them background
      information about the intervention they were being offered. Previous studies [19, 20] have
      shown that expectations of treatment and response levels differ depending on, whether the
      treatment is physically or psychologically oriented. Therefore, the two training
      interventions (yoga and exercise therapies) were both presented as well established training
      therapies, to improve the level of participation and to equalize the participants'
      expectations of the treatment and its outcomes. After the assignment of study participants to
      intervention groups, the statistician who performed the analyses on the intervention outcomes
      was "blinded". This implies that the statistician while assessing the outcomes of the
      interventions was not aware of the assigned intervention of participants and therefore, was
      not influenced in any way by the knowledge of which group was the intervention or the
      control.

      Ethical consideration All three groups received treatments based on ethical grounds. The
      study was approved by the Regional Ethics Committee (2010/108-31/3) and registered in the
      clinicaltrials.gov protocol registration system (NCT01653782).

      Data collection Participants were recruited through the Occupational Health Services (OHS)
      and by advertisement in the local media in Sweden's Stockholm County. People of working age
      with neck/back pain were invited to apply for participation in the study. Then, a screening
      questionnaire was mailed to those who responded to the invitation to participate in the
      study. Those who scored 90 points or more, i.e., fulfilling the requirements for a yellow
      flag, on the Örebro Musculoskeletal Pain Screening Questionnaire (OMPSQ) [25] were invited
      for further physical examination.

      The inclusion criteria were having non-specific low back pain, being with the age range of
      18-60, having scored 90 points or more on the OMPSQ screening questionnaire and having a
      sufficient command of Swedish. The exclusion criteria were pregnancy, comorbidities that
      could affect the ability to perform exercise, ongoing regular weekly yoga practice or
      strength training and ongoing sickness absences of eight weeks or more.
    
  