
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the safety and feasibility of surgical resection for pre-recurrent brain
      tumors.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether there are differences in overall survival for patients who receive
      radiation therapy (RT) prior to surgery as compared to patients who receive RT after surgery
      or patients undergoing no further surgery.

      II. To determine for patients having pre-recurrent surgery whether there is a longer interval
      to local/regional progression, any central nervous system (CNS) progression or need for
      subsequent intracranial treatment compared to patients receiving post-operative RT, time to
      each will be separately documented.

      III. To determine for patients with pre-operative as compared to post-operative fractionated
      radiation for brain metastases (mets) whether there is a decreased rate of local recurrence.

      IV. To determine for patients with pre-operative as compared to post-operative fractionated
      radiation for brain mets whether there is a decreased rate of leptomeningeal disease.

      CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the genetic and molecular alterations occurring in radiated brain and
      radiated tumor tissue compared to nonradiated tissue specimens (subjects will be matched to
      Mayo Clinic Cancer Center Neuro-Oncology Program Registry for the study of Nervous System
      Tumors 12-003458).

      II. To investigate the relative sensitivity of radiated human CNS tumors to senolytic or
      other therapies in ex vivo assays targeting radiation-induced biology to promote synthetic
      lethality using cryopreserved or fresh tissue.

      III. To investigate the availability and utility of candidate biomarkers reflective of tumor
      burden and therapeutic susceptibility, from tissue, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and peripheral
      blood.

      IV. Patients self-reported outcomes may be obtained through the Neurosurgery Registry
      program. As available, these data may be referenced as a screening tool for any impact on
      quality of life (QOL) associated with trial participation as compared to matched controls.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo surgery as indicated clinically when applicable.

      After completion of surgery, patients are followed up at 3 and 6 months, and then every 6
      months thereafter.
    
  