
    
      The World Health Organization Ensuring Quality in Psychological Support program is currently
      developing a Universal Foundational Helping Skills Training package. This training package
      will be freely available for use by all health professionals and other service providers
      seeking to develop basic skills in mental health and psychosocial support. These foundational
      helping skills are based upon common factors in the mental health and psychological services,
      which have been widely researched and identified as essential and universal prerequisites for
      the effective delivery of any psychosocial or psychological components in health
      interventions. These are also foundational skills are also part of the competencies for
      non-specialists to deliver psychological interventions in global mental health. Competent use
      of these skills by providers improves outcomes for people accessing all fields of health
      services--ranging from surgery to pain clinics--support greater treatment adherence. A
      foundational helping skills training curriculum is needed to promote competency in the
      provision of warm and trusting relationships between health care providers and people
      accessing health services. Other foundational helping skills include rapport building, the
      demonstration of empathy, using culturally or age-appropriate terminology and concepts for
      distress, and ensuring communication of hope. This training guidance will fill the gap many
      training programs for providers who are not mental health specialists, and the training
      guidance will be feasible for implementation in low-resource settings. The training will be
      aligned with the World Health Organization competency framework for the health sector that is
      under development, which stipulates foundational helping skills as essential for all health
      cadres. The World Health Organization Universal Foundational Helping Skills Training package
      has the potential to improve competency for basic mental health and psychosocial support
      services delivered by any health cadres. This training package, alongside other quality
      improvement activities, will lead to more effective delivery of quality care for clients and
      will be one step closer to achieving the global communities' and World Health Organization's
      goal of universal health care. The goal of this study is to conduct a mixed-methods
      evaluation of the Foundational Helping Skills curriculum by observing outcomes for trainees
      in the program who not have prior mental health and psychosocial support skills training.
    
  