
    
      The present study was initially approved by and conducted at The Pennsylvania State
      University in 1972 for the senior author's (Rodger J McCormick) D.Ed. thesis in Biological
      Sciences; funding support was provided by the US National Institute of Arthritis, Metabolism,
      and Digestive Diseases Grant AM-08311 and National Institutes of Health Grant 01748. Data
      re-analysis and representation of that study was first approved in 2011 by and conducted at
      the FSRG deGruyter-McKusick Institute of Health Sciences for partial fulfillment of an MS in
      Clinical and Applied Physiology being pursued by the junior author (Mikaela I Poling). No
      funding was received for this use of existing data.

      Importance of Present Study:

      Several heat tolerance studies, including Kenny, Gagnon, Dorman, Hardcastle, and Joy (2010),
      have indicated that middle-age men can perform hard work in hot environments nearly as well
      as younger men. Dufour and Candas (2007), in comparing passive heat responses and sudomotor
      function in young, middle aged, and older men, found only local, not global, decreases in
      sweat gland output in the two older groups, suggesting at least some significant preservation
      of sudomotor function. Since most studies employed subjects with lean normal body types,
      their results in terms of physiological reactions to heat stress may not be applicable to
      obese middle aged men. Other studies have demonstrated degraded heat stress exercise capacity
      in obese persons.

      Within high heat stress areas such as in the steel, fiberglass, aluminium, mining,
      professional sports, and defense industries, lean and obese middle aged men can readily be
      observed performing the same work task in the same hot environment. Little attention has been
      given to differences between the lean and obese middle aged men in their physiological
      responses to the combination of internal heat production from the work task performed and the
      heat load imposed from the external environment.

      In the present study, occupational heat stress endurance differences between lean and obese
      middle aged men and effect of obesity are investigated under laboratory simulated conditions
      to test the following hypotheses: (1) with greater baseline cardiovascular demands, it is
      expected that obese middle aged men will have reduced environmental heat tolerance and will
      gain and store more total heat; (2) poorer environmental heat tolerance of obese middle aged
      men will be greatly magnified by work (producing added metabolic heat); (3) lean middle aged
      men will thermoregulate well; (4) lean middle aged men will show few, if any, major signs of
      inability to compensate for added cardiovascular demands; (5) obese middle aged men will be
      functioning at a higher percentage of their maximal ventilation of expired oxygen; and (6)
      obese middle aged men will have poorer pulmonary fitness, as measured by maximal ventilation
      of expired oxygen, than lean middle aged men.
    
  