
    
      This is an open-label, multi-center, study to determine the short and long term safety of
      fixed doses of durvalumab 1500 mg + tremelimumab 75 mg combination therapy or durvalumab 1500
      mg monotherapy in patients with advanced solid malignancies. This study is modular in design,
      one or more of the modules will be opened in a given country / region based on local patient
      population prevalence, and results of feasibility studies. The total number of patients to be
      enrolled overall and in each module will depend on the types and number of tumor modules
      added to the main study and country-specific ancillary studies. The number of patients and
      sites to be involved in individual countries will be dependent on each module or ancillary
      study. This study consisted of a screening period, a treatment period, a 90 day safety
      follow-up period and a survival follow-up period. Patients will receive the investigation
      product (IP) via intravenous (IV) infusion once every 4 weeks (Q4W) in combination therapy or
      monotherapy as mentioned below - Combination therapy: Durvalumab 1,500 mg + tremelimumab 75
      mg on Week 0, for up to a maximum of 4 doses (or cycles) followed by durvalumab 1,500 mg
      starting 4 weeks after the last infusion of the combination or discontinuation of
      tremelimumab.

      Monotherapy: Durvalumab 1,500 mg on week 0.

      Patients will attend a safety follow-up visit 90 days after study treatment discontinuation.
      Thereafter, patients will be contacted by phone or electronic communication every 3 months
      for survival status up to 5 years following date of first patient treatment initiation. All
      patients will be followed for a minimum of 6 months following enrolment of last patient. It
      is anticipated that the total enrolment period for the overall study will be approximately 2
      to 3 years, with an overall duration of approximately 5 years
    
  