
    
      Caffeine is one of the most frequently consumed pharmacologic active substances in the world.
      The potential effects of caffeinated beverages and chocolate on human health remains of great
      interest. The increased prevalence of cardiac arrhythmias in the general population has
      resulted in greater concern about the potential effects of caffeine on cardiac arrhythmias.
      Patients diagnosed with a cardiac dysrhythmia are generally informed by their physician to
      restrict or even abstain from caffeine, despite a lack of evidence of this causal
      relationship.

      Although there have been numerous reports published on the effects of caffeine on human
      health, there have been few reports on the relation between caffeinated beverages and
      chocolate in different subgroups of patients with previously diagnosed cardiac arrhythmias,
      including supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), atrial fibrillation (AF), atrial flutter, and
      ventricular arrhythmias. These patients frequently undergo interventional ablation
      procedures, and have a potential for a recurrence of their arrhythmia. A greater knowledge of
      the effects of caffeine in different subgroups of patients with cardiac arrhythmias is thus
      essential to properly guide patients and physicians in their treatment.

      The objective of our study is to evaluate the effects of caffeine through noninvasive and/or
      invasive means on patients with documented symptomatic cardiac arrhythmias.

      One group will consist of 80 patients with Supraventricular Tachycardia (SVT): This group
      will undergo Invasive testing, which will be completed in the electrophysiology laboratory
      prior to their ablation procedure to evaluate the electrophysiologic effects of caffeine or
      placebo on the human heart. This testing will include a measure of the effective refractory
      periods, inducibility of tachyarrhythmias, and conduction intervals during programmed
      electrical stimulation.

      The other group will consist of up to 80 patients with Atrial Fibrillation: This group will
      undergo non-invasive testing, consisting of two consecutive 48-hr Ambulatory monitors while
      they consume caffeinated or noncaffeinated products.
    
  