
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the activity of A6, as measured by the 6-month progression-free survival (PFS)
      rate and objective tumor response (complete or partial) rate, in patients with persistent or
      recurrent ovarian epithelial, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal carcinoma.

      II. To determine the frequency and severity of adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v3.0.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize the duration of PFS and overall survival. II. To identify biomarkers of
      drug effect on peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs).

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore whether genes identified as being up- or down-regulated by exposure of human
      PBMCs to A6 in vitro are also up- or down-regulated following treatment of patients with A6
      in vivo.

      II. To explore whether there is an association between the expression of candidate A6
      receptors in the tumor prior to treatment with A6 (as determined by IHC) and response and
      PFS.

      III. To explore whether there is an association between change in expression of candidate
      biomarkers in PBMCs between 0-24 hours following the first dose of A6 and response and PFS.

      IV. To explore whether there is an association between change in expression of candidate
      biomarkers in PBMCs over the course of the first one month cycle (course 1) and response and
      PFS.

      V. To determine whether there is an association between plasma A6 levels measured on days 2
      (24 hours after the first dose and 4 hours after the second dose) and 8 (prior to injection
      of A6) of course 1 and levels of expression of candidate biomarkers in PBMCs collected on the
      same days.

      VI. To explore whether there is an association between plasma A6 levels measured on days 2
      (24 hours after the first dose and 4 hours after the second dose) and 8 (prior to injection
      of A6) of course 1 and response and PFS.

      VII. To explore whether there is an association between candidate serum biomarkers and
      response and PFS over the course of A6 treatment.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive A6 subcutaneously once daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  