
    
      Postnatal gestational age dating methods are needed in low/middle income settings as
      ultrasound is often unavailable, last menstrual dates uncertain, and physical/neurological
      scoring complex. The disappearance of anterior lens capsule vascularity (ALCV), a normal
      embryological process, has a high correlation with gestational age at delivery among preterm
      neonates. We will use an observational method-comparison study to establish the validity of
      smartphone ophthalmoscope ALCV gestational age estimates among preterm infants at delivery
      compared to the referent standard of ultrasound gestational age estimates. Study objectives
      and methods include the following: Objective 1. Develop an ALCV biomarker dataset from
      smartphone ophthalmoscope images using automated image analysis software. The dataset will
      include image features including: vessel quantity, lens clearing, tortuosity, vessel
      thickness, and branching angles and coefficients. Methods: (1) capture ALCV images via
      smartphone ophthalmoscope within 24 hours of delivery, and (2) segment ALCV images using
      software developed for the assessment of retinal vasculature. Proposed software will convert
      images into graphs and automatically find the vasculature based on the Dijkstra's
      shortest-path algorithm. The proposed software is tested for video-indirect neonatal
      ophthalmoscope images. Objective 2. Develop an algorithm to predict gestational age at
      delivery from 26 to 42 weeks' gestation with the ALCV biomarker dataset combined with key
      neonatal biophysical measures. Methods: (1) conduct descriptive and univariate analyses of
      predictors and assess linear model assumptions, and (2) fit a constrained linear regression
      model by selecting and shrinking estimated model coefficients from a fully specified model in
      the original sample to optimize predictive accuracy and model parsimony. Objective 3. Assess
      the performance of ALCV gestational age estimates compared to referent standard ultrasound
      estimates. Methods: (1) compare distributions of gestational age and the mean difference in
      days between dating methods, (2) test agreement between dating methods using Lin's
      concordance correlation coefficient and Bland-Altman plots with limits of agreement (3)
      internally validate test agreement using a bootstrap procedure for optimism correction of the
      agreement statistics. All statistical analyses will be performed in SAS 9.4 (SAS, Cary, North
      Carolina, USA).
    
  