
    
      In previous reports, many predictors of early deterioration after ischemic stroke have been
      proposed and studied, yet the results remain controversial. For example, several studies have
      been performed to ascertain whether cerebral or systemic causes are the major determinants of
      stroke deterioration. The findings, however, have been inconsistent. Measures of overall
      status and stroke severity (low initial Canadian Stroke Severity score, low initial National
      Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score, early CT findings of stroke severity, and changes in
      cerebral blood flow affecting the ischemic penumbra as measured by positron emission
      tomography and single photon emission computed tomography imaging have been shown to predict
      early deterioration. Laboratory tests for coagulation markers (fibrinogen, D-dimers),
      inflammatory markers (increased interleukin-6, decreased interleukin-10), serum glucose at
      admission, hematocrit and physiological parameters, such as blood pressure (both elevated and
      decreased), and body temperature have been identified as predictors of early deterioration.
      In addition, patient medical history (diabetes mellitus, atherosclerosis, chronic heart
      disease) has also been associated with early stroke deterioration. These differing findings
      may be due to variations in study design, patient populations, selection and exclusion
      criteria, and the criteria used for defining early deterioration.

      A further complication in trying to determine predictors of early deterioration after stroke
      is that different stroke subtypes may manifest differently in terms of clinical changes
      before deterioration. In most of the aforementioned studies, no attempt was made to
      differentiate among stroke subtypes. While others have shown that some proposed markers are
      statistically significant only for certain stroke subtypes. A predictor of early
      deterioration that is equally applicable to all stroke subtypes is needed.

      The investigators studied laboratory measurements and previously identified risk factors to
      identify factors predictors of early deterioration following stroke. A prospective
      observational study of 196 patients with first-time acute ischemic stroke was performed.
      Following multivariate analysis, only a Bun/Cr >15 was independent predictor of SIE. These
      patients were 3.41-fold more likely to have SIE (P=0.008). The elevated Bun/Cr ratio
      indicates relative dehydration of the patients.

      Monitoring of hydration status would also appear to be critical in these patients. Being able
      to accurately identify patients at risk for early deterioration following stroke will allow
      for the design of clinical trials of stroke intervention targeting patients with SIE. The
      investigators need further tests to confirm if the maintenance of proper hydration improve
      outcome in patients with a Bun/Cr ratio higher than 15.
    
  