
    
      Herpes simplex encephalitis (HSE) remains the most common cause of sporadic fatal
      encephalitis in the world. This study is a phase III, double-blind, placebo controlled study
      of long term therapy with valacyclovir as a treatment of herpes encephalitis. The primary
      objective of this study is to assess the impact of valacyclovir (VACV) therapy (following
      standard intravenous acyclovir therapy) on neuropsychological impairment at one year post
      therapy, based on the cumulative scores of the Mattis Dementia Rating Scale (MDRS). The
      secondary objectives of the study are to: assess the effect of therapy on neuropsychological
      impairment at various time points; assess the effect of therapy on quality of life, based on
      the SF-36 Quality of Life Assessment; measure the effect of therapy on herpes simplex virus
      (HSV) deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) in the cerebral spinal fluid (CSF); and assess the safety
      and tolerability of long term VACV therapy in patients with HSE. The tertiary objective of
      the study is to determine the frequency of symptomatic relapse/recurrence of HSE. Study
      participants will include 120 males and females, 12 years of age and older, diagnosed with
      HSE; laboratory confirmed CSF positive for HSV DNA by polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
      Consenting study participants will be randomized (1:1) to either valacyclovir (active drug),
      500 mg tablets, four tablets three times daily for 90 days or placebo (identical to active
      drug in appearance), 500 mg tablets, four tablets three times daily for 90 days. The primary
      endpoints of the study are to assess the impact of valacyclovir therapy [following standard
      intravenous acyclovir (ACV) therapy] on neuropsychological impairment at one year post
      therapy and survival with no or mild neuropsychological impairment at 12 months after
      initiation of study medication, as measured by the MDRS. The secondary endpoints include:
      survival with no or mild neuropsychological impairment at 90 days and at 6, 12 and 24 months,
      as measured by the MDRS, the Mini-Mental Status Examination (MMSE), and the Glasgow Coma
      Scale; effect of study medication on quality of life measurements; effect of antiviral
      therapy on HSV DNA in CSF (measured quantitatively by PCR at Day 0 and Day 90); and safety
      and tolerance of VACV administered at a dose of 2.0 grams given orally three times a day for
      90 days. Each study participant will participate for approximately 24 months.
    
  