
    
      24-hour pH monitoring is often considered the "gold standard" in the diagnosis of GERD and is
      increasingly utilized in patients with extra-esophageal symptoms (1). However, the clinical
      utility of pH monitoring in this patient population remains controversial. An important
      limitation of traditional pH catheters is their suboptimal sensitivity especially in patients
      with extraesophageal GERD. Vaezi et al. tested reproducibility and reliability of the
      proximal and distal esophageal pH probe in 32 patients (2). Among these patients,11 were
      controls, 10 had distal reflux, and 11 had both proximal and distal reflux. In this group of
      patients the sensitivity of distal and proximal pH probes were 70% and 55%, respectively.
      Additionally, a more recent study by Shaker et al. showed the number and duration of
      hypopharyngeal reflux events to be similar between the control subjects and patients with
      reflux laryngitis and vasomotor rhinitis (3).

      Poor sensitivity of catheter based pH monitoring in detecting acid reflux may be due to day
      to day variability of test, its less than adequate reliability as well as possible
      intermittent nature of the reflux events (not recorded in only a 24-hour period) (4).
      Additionally, since the traditional ambulatory device is commonly placed transnasally through
      the oropharynx into the esophagus, patients often complain of throat and nose discomfort and
      usually restrict their daily activity. This potentially leads to false negative findings and
      reduced test sensitivity. Furthermore, incorrect results may be collected if the pH electrode
      slips away from the initial manometrically determined placement site. In light of these
      limitations, a new wireless (catheter free) pH monitoring device was developed to improve
      patient comfort and increase test sensitivity. The Bravo pH monitoring system (Medtronic Inc,
      Minneapolis, MN) uses a radiotelemetric capsule temporarily attached to the esophageal mucosa
      which transmits pH data to a receiver carried on patient's belt.

      Although well studied in the distal esophagus, there are currently no studies in adults
      assessing the feasibility and patient tolerance to placement of this device more proximally.
      Such a placement may increase the sensitivity of the test and add to our ability to study
      potential predictors of treatment response in patients with extraesophageal GERD.
    
  