
    
      Photorefractive keratectomy (PRK) is a popular method for the correction of refractive
      errors. Compared to laser-assisted in situ keratomileusis (LASIK), PRK is often associated
      with more discomfort and requires more downtime. However, it is oftentimes considered the
      preferred method of refractive surgery for patients with dry eye syndrome, high refractive
      errors, thin corneas, or those with more active lifestyles who may be more prone to
      dislodging their LASIK flaps. It can also avoid other complications associated with LASIK
      including striae, folds, diffuse lamellar keratitis, and epithelial ingrowth. As a result,
      improved management of post-operative pain in patients undergoing PRK is critical in order
      encourage utilization and patient preference of this procedure.

      The current standard of care for pain management after PRK is the use of a bandage soft
      contact lens (BSCL). BSCLs may speed reepithelialization and function as an adjunct for pain
      control.

      Using a BSCL soaked in proparacaine has not yet been studied as a pain management method
      after PRK. Our hypothesis is that combining these two methods will result in greater pain
      reduction than using a BSCL alone, which is the current standard of care. Furthermore,
      soaking the BSCL in anesthetics will reduce the chance that patients can abuse anesthetic
      medication postoperatively, which is the concern when patients are sent home with anesthetic
      drops as is noted in several prior studies.

      This study aims to explore the potential of an anesthetic soaked bandage soft contact lens in
      reducing pain levels compared to a bandage soft contact lens alone after PRK.

      Study Goals:

        -  To assess the perception of pain following photorefractive keratectomy with the
           utilization of an anesthetic soaked bandage soft contact lens versus control (BSCL only)
           using the Visual Analog Pain Scale.

        -  To assess the effect of an anesthetic soaked bandage soft contact lens on
           re-epithelialization following photorefractive keratectomy versus control. This will be
           assessed on post-operative day 5 as whether there is a persistent epithelial defect or
           not, a binary outcome.
    
  