
    
      Thiazide diuretics when used in the treatment of hypertension are associated with many
      metabolic side effects, including hyperuricemia, gout, insulin resistance, and
      hyperlipidemia. Each of these conditions is already highly prevalent in African Americans.
      Our hypothesis is that thiazide-induced hyperuricemia decreases the efficacy of thiazides in
      controlling BP, leads to endothelial dysfunction, and increases the incidence of insulin
      resistance and impaired glucose tolerance. This hypothesis will be tested in a randomized,
      double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial of 8-10 weeks duration in which a total of
      100 African American patients with hypertension will be enrolled, randomized, and treated as
      follows:

        1. Subjects with untreated stage I hypertension will receive chlorthalidone (25 mg/day) and
           potassium chloride (40 mEq/day) for 4 weeks. Serum potassium levels will be obtained
           after four weeks on chlorthalidone. If the level is below 3.5 mEg/L, a bolus of 40 mEq
           potassium 2 to 3 times daily will be given for 2 to 3 days, or as clinically indicated.
           A maintenance dose of 50 mEq will be initiated. After at least 7 days, they will then be
           randomized to add-on allopurinol (300 mg/day) or placebo. Treatment will continue for
           8-10 weeks with the chlorthalidone, potassium chloride, and allopurinol/placebo regimen.

        2. Subjects with hypertension controlled (i.e. BP <140/90) or no higher than stage 1
           hypertension (i.e., <160/100) on a single antihypertensive agent or two antihypertensive
           agents will be switched from their prior antihypertensive agent to chlorthalidone 25
           mg/day, and potassium chloride (40mEq/day) for 4 weeks. Serum potassium levels will be
           obtained after four weeks on chlorthalidone. If the level is below 3.5 mEg/L, a bolus of
           40 mEq potassium 2 to 3 times daily will be given for 2 to 3 days, or as clinically
           indicated. A maintenance dose of 50 mEq will be initiated. After at least 7 days, they
           will then be randomized to add-on allopurinol (300 mg/day) or placebo. Treatment will
           continue for 8-10 weeks with the chlorthalidone, potassium chloride, and
           allopurinol/placebo regimen.

      The allopurinol (or placebo) dose will be adjusted to achieve serum uric acid levels between
      4 and 5.5 mg/dL after 2 weeks on drug. All subjects will receive a low-sodium diet. The
      primary endpoint is reduction in systolic BP. Secondary endpoints measure endothelial
      function, ambulatory blood pressure, body composition, systemic inflammation, metabolic
      parameters, oxidant stress, and renal hemodynamics.
    
  