
    
      Background: Non-specific mechanical low back pain (LBP) is highly prevalent, recurrent and is
      a leading cause of disability worldwide. Despite increased efforts in improving care, the
      self-reported levels of disability in individuals with LBP have not improved in the last
      decade. In order to more effectively manage LBP through non-pharmacological approaches,
      evidence endorses the use of classification systems to support diagnosis and guide
      treatments. However, this approach to care is not without limitations and a more
      comprehensive and broader perspective is needed. Hence, we recently proposed and validated
      the Low Back Pain and Disability Drivers Management (PDDM) model, which aims to identify the
      domains influencing pain and disability to create a profile or phenotype to guide clinical
      decisions. The objective of this study is to assess the feasibility of conducting a trial and
      to gather preliminary effect outcomes of the intervention in clinical setting.

      Methods: The design is a prospective single arm experimental design. Physiotherapists (PTs)
      working with a population suffering from musculoskeletal disorders and patients presenting
      with non-specific mechanical LBP from two different clinical settings will be recruited. The
      intervention consists of a one-day training workshop for PTs on using the PDDM to guide
      management decisions. PTs will then perform a 6-weeks follow-up with their participating
      patients. This feasibility study will assess recruitment and retention rates as well as PTs'
      acceptability and patients' satisfaction outcomes related to the intervention. Preliminary
      effect outcomes will also be gathered.

      Discussion: This study will inform the feasibility and acceptability of the intervention and
      gather preliminary outcomes to conduct a future randomized controlled trial to measure the
      effectiveness of the intervention in managing non-specific mechanical LBP.
    
  