
    
      In France, to promote the quality of cancer care, decisions have currently to be made
      according to clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) during regularly organized multidisciplinary
      staff meetings (MSMs). Dissemination of textual CPGs has a poor impact on clinical practice
      as opposed to the use of clinical decision support systems (CDSSs) known to improve
      compliance with CPGs. OncoDoc2 is a CDSS providing patient-specific recommendations based on
      CPGs for non-metastatic female breast cancer management elaborated by the CancerEst
      INTERMEDICAL collaboration.The main goal of the study is to evaluate the effect of the
      routine use of OncoDoc2 during MSMs on compliance of MSM decisions with local CPGs. Impact
      will be measured by the compliance rate of MSM decisions with OncoDoc2 recommendations. The
      design of the study relies on a cluster randomized controlled trial. Under the assumption of
      a baseline compliance rate of 70% without intervention, an expected compliance rate of 90% in
      the intervention group (α = 5%, β = 20%), an inter-cluster variability of 5%, and 59
      decisions per center, the required number of centers is 3 in each group, or 177 decisions in
      each arm. The study will be conducted in cancer care centers (public and private) from Paris
      area, France.This prospective trial will be conducted in two steps. First, baseline
      compliance rates will be measured in each center. Then, the 6 centers will be randomized into
      2 arms. In the intervention arm, OncoDoc2 will be used during MSMs at decision time. Every
      case of non-adherence with system recommendations will have to be justified by clinicians. In
      both arms and after each MSM, MSM decisions will be recorded as well as patient
      characteristics and OncoDoc2 will be used for each patient case to get system
      recommendations. In the intervention arm, OncoDoc2 recommendations obtained by MSM will also
      be recorded, as well as the reason for non following recommendations in case MSM decision
      does not comply with guidelines.
    
  