
    
      Living kidney donation has become an important source for kidney transplantation because of
      insufficient numbers of post mortem kidney donations. To reduce the surgical trauma of the
      donor operation and improve postoperative recovery minimal invasive techniques have
      developed. Especially the laparoscopic and the hand-assisted laparoscopic technique gained
      wide popularity. Minimal invasive open techniques have had less publicity. One of those open
      techniques is to perform the open donornephrectomy by means of an anterolateral approach. A
      transverse subcostal incision of 10 cm or less is made. The abdominal wall is opened by
      splitting the muscles and sparing the nerves. Staying in the retroperitoneal space the kidney
      is freed and taken out. Laparoscopic approaches have especially become more popular after the
      hand-assisted technique had developed. By means of an 8 cm transverse suprapubic skin
      incision and a vertical midline fascia incision the abdominal cavity is opened and a hand is
      inserted in the abdomen through an air tight sleeve. Three more trocarts are needed for the
      insufflation, the video camera and surgical instruments to perform a transperitoneal
      donornephrectomy. The hand in the abdomen assisting in the procedure has especially increased
      the sense of safety compared to the full laparoscopic technique without compromising the
      advantages of the laparoscopic technique.

      So far no prospective or retrospective study has been done comparing the hand-assisted
      laparoscopic with the mini-incision muscle-splitting technique. Most studies that have been
      done comparing the (hand-assisted) laparoscopic technique with more invasive open techniques
      resulted in favour of the former technique.

      Comparison(s): The study compares the effects of hand-assisted laparoscopic and mini-incision
      muscle-splitting donornephrectomy on living kidney donors.
    
  