
    
      Youth with brain-based disabilities (BBD) see a variety of pediatric doctors and health care
      providers during their childhood years. Pediatric doctors and care teams are trained to
      manage the health of children, including physical, behavioural, and mental health issues.
      Typically by their eighteenth birthday, youth in Canada will need to leave their pediatric
      doctors and health care providers and go to adult providers instead. Generally, there are
      more expectations for youth to take charge of their own care when they see an adult care
      provider. Yet, if youth are not ready for this responsibility, or it is not clear where youth
      should go for care as adults, their health can sometimes be affected (for example when
      appointments or medications are missed). We also know that this change can be especially
      difficult and stressful for youth with BBD and for their families.

      In the first part of this project, researchers, healthcare professionals, technology
      designers, youth and families have worked together to co-create an e-health application
      called MyREADY Transition[TM] BBD App. In this next part of the project, pediatric health
      care providers will be asked to share it with their patients who are between 15 and 17 years
      of age, and who have one of the following conditions: autism spectrum disorder, cerebral
      palsy, epilepsy, spina bifida, or fetal alcohol spectrum disorder. The MyREADY Transition[TM]
      BBD App is designed to help youth with health care transition planning, in preparation for
      their transfer out of the child health system and into the adult health system. The study
      team wants to see how youth will use the MyREADY Transition[TM] BBD App as they are getting
      ready to go from pediatric to adult health care services. And, the study team wants to see if
      it will help them to be more prepared and knowledgeable to manage their own health. The study
      team hopes to see youth taking steps to be better managers of their health. For example, this
      would include knowing about their condition or knowing when to ask for help from
      parents/caregivers and health care providers. After the completion of the study, the
      researchers will explore the potential to make the App more widely available.
    
  