
    
      Postural Tachycardia Syndrome (POTS) is one of the most frequent forms of chronic orthostatic
      intolerance and affects an estimated 500,000 people in the United States alone. This disorder
      is a common source of disability in young adults, with a strong predilection for
      premenopausal women. POTS is characterized by an excessive increase in heart rate (>30 bpm)
      on assuming the upright position that is associated with orthostatic symptoms that are
      relieved by lying down. These symptoms include palpitations, chest pain, lightheadedness or
      dizziness, blurred vision, nausea and fatigue. In addition, POTS patients commonly report
      mental clouding or "brain fog" even while lying down or seated, which can pose significant
      limitations to daily life.

      Although mental clouding is an almost universal complaint among POTS patients, this
      phenomenon is poorly understood. As a result, the optimal treatment strategies to manage
      cognitive dysfunction in this condition remain unknown. The purpose of this study is to
      better define the mental clouding associated with POTS and to determine whether the
      psychostimulant modafinil is a viable therapeutic option to improve cognitive function in
      these patients. The investigators hypothesize that acute modafinil administration will
      improve seated measures of cognitive function in POTS patients. The specific aims are:

        1. To assess whether acute modafinil improves seated measures of cognitive function,
           particularly measures of attention and executive function, in POTS patients compared to
           placebo.

        2. To assess whether propranolol, either alone as an active control or in combination with
           modafinil to mitigate potential heart rate increases, can improve cognitive function in
           POTS.

      Patients will be studied on 4 separate days with oral administration of: placebo, modafinil
      (200 mg), propranolol (20 mg) and the combination of modafinil (200 mg) and propranolol (20
      mg). The order of administration will be randomized in a double-blind manner. Patients will
      be seated during the study and cognitive testing will begin approximately 2.5 hours after
      medication administration. Cognitive testing will consist of the CogState computerized brief
      battery. Patients will also be asked to stand for 10 minutes (or as long as tolerated) at 1,
      3 and 4 hours post medication, with some of the cognitive tests repeated while standing at
      the 4 hour time point.
    
  