
    
      IBS (irritable bowel syndrome) patients will be recruited from the out-patient clinic of
      North Zealand University Hospital, capitol region of Copenhagen, Denmark. Project
      investigator will give the patients all relevant information and forms needed to obtain a
      written informed consent. 104 IBS patients with diarrhoea or mixed type predominance will be
      included. Before enrollment, Patients will receive education on IBS and good toilet habit
      (squatty potty) etc. They will hereafter self-measure on a web-program the first 4 weeks in
      order to capture intra individual variation on the web and giving the patients time to learn
      how to use the 'tool': ibs.constant-care.com, in particular the primary end point IBS-SSS
      will be filled out several times during the first 4 weeks. The web algorithm for
      ibs.constant-care.com is specially designed for this trial. After 4 weeks on the 'web' IBS
      patients will be randomized to either Low FODMAP diet (LFD) or VSL#3 probiotic treatment (900
      billions live bacteria/day) for 4 weeks. Patients randomized to the LFD group will be
      educated by a nutritionist in the diet and taught how to use a Danish Low FODMAP diet app in
      order to adhere to the LFD.

      Non-responders (IBS-SSS<50) after 4 weeks intervention will have a 2 weeks wash out period
      and crossed over to the other intervention. LFD Responders (IBS-SSS ≥50) will be taught by a
      nutritionist at North Zealand University Hospital how to re-introduce foods high in FODMAPs
      and while re-introducing tightly monitor on the web-program. If LFD responders during the
      reintroduction period (10 months) will encounter a symptom flare individually defined as
      either Yellow or Red (that is > 175 on IBS-SSS) they will start on a strict LFD until symptom
      remission (<175 IBS-SSS) and so forth during the rest of the year. Responders to VSL#3
      (IBS-SSS ≥50) will self-monitor on the 'web' and if the patients experience a symptom flare
      (again individually defined as either Yellow or Red - that is > 175 on IBS-SSS), they will be
      offered another 4 weeks VSL#3 treatment.

      20 healthy controls will consecutively be included in the study and followed for a year on
      the web as well - they will not fill out as many questionnaires and is primarily included to
      have a background population and variation regarding the microbiome.

      Patients will at inclusion receive their personal log in (Two Factor Authentication, 2FA) to
      ibs.constant-care.com and Calprosmart. Patients will register the below listed:

      Severity scores system for IBS (IBS-SSS), web IBS-QoL (Quality of life), web Copenhagen IBS
      disease course, web Bristol Stool Chart and frequency, web FODMAP adherence rating scale
      (FARS), web Medication Adherence Rating Scale (MARS), web Evaluation questionnaire of the web
      program, web Evaluation questionnaire on food habits, web Fecal calprotectin (FC) on any
      smart Phone (CalproSmart app) Microbiome (patients will send in 2 fecal samples every time
      they send in samples - one for microbiome analysis (research biobank) and another one for a
      fecal biobank for future use. Weight, web IBS-SSS, QoL, BSC and frequency, FARS, MARS, FC,
      weight/BMI will be illustrated longitudinally to the patients in a traffic light manner (for
      ease of interpretation).
    
  