
    
      Acute pancreatitis (AP) is one of the most important gastrointestinal disorders causing
      emotional and physical human burden . The annual incidence worldwide for AP is 4.9-73.4 cases
      per 100,000 people and the overall mortality rate is 4 to 8%, which increases to 33% in
      patients with infected necrosis. AP is diagnosed when two of three criteria are fulfilled:
      typical abdominal pain of AP, more than three times elevated serum amylase/lipase level and
      signs of AP on imaging.

      It is necessary to clarify the etiology of AP promptly. The diagnosis of gallstones, as the
      leading cause for AP, should have the top priority as that will direct the treatment policy.
      Long standing alcohol consumption and gallstones disease incriminated in the majority of
      cases with AP. Small common bile duct stones, in particular, are the cause of AP in
      approximately 32 to 40% of cases. In 10-30% of cases, the cause is unknown, so studies have
      suggested that up to 70% of cases of idiopathic pancreatitis are secondary to biliary
      microlithiasis.

      The pathogenesis of biliary AP has been intensively investigated. Many theories explain how
      gallstones can trigger AP. The predominant theories include common pathway theory and
      gallstone migration theory. In general, AP occurs when intracellular protective mechanisms
      fail to prevent trypsinogen activation or reduce trypsin activity.

      It is important that management of such potentially life threatening condition to be guided
      by an evidence-based approach. After comparing the Japanese (JPN) Guidelines 2015 and its
      former edition 2010 with the other two guidelines, International Association of
      Pancreatology/American Pancreas Association guidelines (IAP/APA), 2013 and American College
      of Gastroenterology (ACG), 2013, the JPN Guidelines, 2015 proved to be the highest quality
      regarding its systematic literature review prepared by the meta-analysis team, including the
      grading of recommendations and providing pancreatitis bundles.
    
  