
    
      Ballistocardiographic (BCG) biosensors collecting continuous physiological data (CPD) in real
      time to generate information reflecting the patients' current state is established and have
      become more useful in monitoring vital signs of subjects and patients. There are few studies
      documenting BCG biosensors efficacy, effectiveness, and efficiency. Using CPD to guide
      clinical decisions may be a major advance for patients with acute and chronic diseases. In
      addition, technologies using invasive blood pressure curves and Near Infrared Regional
      Spectrometry (NIRS) to measure hemodynamics have been used. This may drive the evolution from
      episodic to continuous patient care for these patients experiencing a severe medical event
      compromising blood flow. The investigators will explore how these technologies compares to
      well established technologies measuring vital signs of healthy subjects. In the present study
      the investigators will use live continuous and non-continuous biosensor data to monitor the
      development of vital parameters during different scenarios. The study will document how CPD
      measured by biosensors, cerebral oximetry measured by NIRS, and invasive blood pressure
      curves measured by FloTracTM are compared to established technologies of vital organ
      functionality.

      In the present study data will be measured continuously and in phases of the study
      simultaneously with other well established technologies such as Doppler Echocardiography,
      transthoracic impedance (TTI), Electrocardiogram (ECG), invasive blood pressure [cardiac
      output/index (CO/CI), stroke volume/stroke volume index (SV/SVI), stroke volume
      variation/pulse pressure variation (SVV/PPV), systemic vascular resistance/ systemic vascular
      resistance index (SVR/SVRI), mean arterial pressure (MAP)], pulse oximetry (SpO2) and
      cerebral oximetry (rSO2). Based on this the investigators believe they will be able to pick
      up how dynamic differences develop. Of special interest is to document how relative heart
      stroke volume reflects blood flow documented by the parallel technology measures. HRV will
      also be evaluated in the light of other measures such as pulse, respiration, and relative
      stroke volume. All these measures are the key part in the study to document user
      friendliness, accuracy, sensitivity, specificity and correlations.

      The main research question is whether adding BCG biosensor measures, cerebral oximetry and
      invasive blood pressure to monitor vital signs will add meaningful information to the care of
      patients in a situation where we are able to control all the factors that may impact these
      measures. The aim of the study is to document (correlation, sensitivity and specificity) how
      BCG biosensors perform compared to each other and to well established technologies used for
      monitoring blood flow, blood pressure, heart rate and respiration rate in steady state and
      during ambulance transport. In addition, the investigators will in a controlled manner
      measure how established maneuvers like Trendelenburg, hypo-/hyperventilation, and bolus of
      fluid influences our measures.
    
  