
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a cigarette smoke-induced disease of the
      lungs that affects millions of people in the United States and worldwide. COPD is the 3rd
      leading cause of death, making it one our most important public health problems. Perhaps most
      importantly, COPD confines many people to their homes, tethers them to oxygen lines, and
      destroys their independence. Like many diseases of chronic inflammation, the course of COPD
      is marred by intermittent disease flares that need more intensive treatment. In COPD, disease
      flares are called acute exacerbations of COPD (AECOPDs). AECOPDs are characterized by
      increased shortness of breath, wheezing or cough that leads to urgent, and sometimes
      emergent, treatment with inhaled bronchodilators, antibiotics and steroids. AECOPDs can be
      devastating to many because they worsen quality of life and lung function, frequently lead to
      hospitalization, and increase the risk of death. For instance, the death rate can reach
      25-30% when COPD patients are admitted to the intensive care unit with respiratory failure
      (i.e. needing ventilator support). Accordingly, our research is focused on improving outcomes
      in the sickest patients admitted to the hospital with an AECOPD.

      Oral or intravenous steroids (glucocorticoids) have been the mainstay of treatment for over
      40 years, but virtually no research has been done to determine the optimal therapy for the
      sickest patients who are admitted to the intensive care unit. Results from the few clinical
      studies suggest that steroid resistance is increased in these critically-ill patients and
      that many physicians under- or over-dose steroids. For example, patients hospitalized with an
      AECOPD (without respiratory failure) are effectively treated with steroids (such as
      prednisone) dosed as low as 40mg/day. In contrast, two recent clinical studies showed that
      ~80mg/day of prednisone was ineffective for AECOPD patients hospitalized with respiratory
      failure (those who require ventilatory support), while in a second study ~160mg/day of
      methylprednisolone improved outcomes. The investigators recent epidemiologic study showed
      that 66% of patients admitted with an AECOPD and respiratory failure between 2003-2008 were
      treated with >240mg/day of methylprednisolone, a dose that increases steroid-related side
      effects. The investigators hypothesize that there is a stepwise increase in steroid
      resistance with COPD<AECOPD<AECOPD with respiratory failure. A newly launched team of
      investigators is focused on establishing the presence of steroid resistance, defining the
      cause(s), devising new treatments to combat this problem and optimizing therapy for these
      vulnerable patients.

      Steroids suppress inflammation by inducing anti-inflammatory genes, such as the
      dual-specificity phosphatase (DUSP) family - including DUSP1. DUSP1 inhibits inflammatory
      cytokines by removing phosphates from p38 and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) mitogen-activated
      protein kinases, which turns them off. Preliminary data show that DUSP1 is decreased in
      alveolar macrophages from COPD patients, suggesting the central hypothesis that steroid
      resistance is increased in AECOPDs with respiratory failure due to impaired
      glucocorticoid-mediated induction of DUSP1. To address this hypothesis, the investigators
      will inject 23 AECOPD patients with respiratory failure and 23 matched stable COPD subjects
      with 60mg of methylprednisolone to: 1) determine the presence of corticosteroid resistance in
      AECOPDs, 2) determine the role of DUSP1, and 3) examine alternative mechanisms driving
      steroid resistance. The goal of The AECOPD Resistance Study is to identify targets associated
      with steroid resistance in AECOPDs with respiratory failure to pave the way for new
      treatments based upon novel mechanisms.
    
  