
    
      ED is the inability to develop and maintain an erection for satisfactory sexual intercourse
      or activity. ED is a highly prevalent medical condition often associated with multiple
      causes. It is estimated that more than 50 million American men suffer from mild/moderate to
      severe ED. Roughly 50% of men in their 50's, 60% of men in their 60's, and 70% of men in
      their 70's suffer from ED. The economic impact of ED is in the billions of dollars. More than
      5 billion dollars a year are spent on the pro-erectile medications currently in the market.

      Penile vibratory stimulation mimics rapid and repetitive manual/hand stimulation of the
      penis. Vibratory stimulation of genitalia is considered safe by the medical community with
      important benefits including treatment of orgasmic dysfunction and stress urinary
      incontinence. No significant physical or emotional side-effects have been reported in the
      medical literature. A recent epidemiological study of the use of vibrators by American women
      and men has shown no complaints, and generally high satisfaction and improvement in sexual
      response.

      Penile erection is controlled by spinal autonomic centers, the activity of which is dependent
      on input from supraspinal centers and the genitalia. From a neurophysiological viewpoint,
      scientists believe that penile erection is a culmination of multiple successful nerve
      reflexes that initiate a vascular event. Simultaneous vibratory stimulation of both surfaces
      of the penis at high frequency (70-110 Hz) for 7-10 minutes can lead to gradual filling of
      the penis with arterial blood within minutes by activating the pudendo-cavernosal reflex.
      Additional physiological effects include progressive rhythmic contraction of the perineal
      muscles via the bulbocavernosus reflex, which helps in strengthening rigidity of erection.
      This will prepare the user for successful sexual intercourse. Subsequent orgasm and
      ejaculation can be very strong and amplified due to stronger contraction of the
      bulbospongiosus muscle and activation of higher ejaculatory centers.

      This study will assess daily or on-demand ease of use, safety, satisfaction, and efficacy of
      the home use of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) cleared Viberect device by men with
      mild to moderate ED
    
  