
    
      Sng is a prominent complaint in Taiwanese people with low back pain. "Sng" is created to
      represent this Taiwanese word. Based on investigators preliminary data, sng was one of the
      most common complaints in patients with chronic low back pain (CLBP) and also one of the most
      common indication for lumbar spine operations. Back sng is not adequately relieved by
      pain-killers or even by the lumbar spine operations. By using functional magnetic resonance
      imaging and questionnaires, the investigators preliminary study demonstrated that sng is
      different from pain in the level of brain perception and the level of subjective concept. It
      is very likely that sng has its own unique nerve pathway other than pain. The subjective
      feeling of sng is very similar to sour in taste, so it is likely that acidosis may be
      involved in the process of sng sensation, especially in the muscle. Delayed onset muscle
      soreness is a well-known example, and the soreness is dependent on the proton-sensing
      neurons. Indeed, substantial evidences showed that up to 80% muscle afferents are
      acid-sensitive but not nociceptors. Therefore, the investigators propose that sng is the
      perception in the brain when the tissue acidosis is sensed by the somatosensory system, and
      "sng-ception" is created to indicate the sensation of tissue acidosis. However, the causal
      connection between the peripheral sngception and the central brain perception of sng is not
      established. The objective of this proposal is to establish the causal connection between
      peripheral muscle acidosis and the central brain sng perception. The investigators central
      hypothesis is that acidosis-evoked sensation in the muscles will cause a central sng
      perception in the brain. This hypothesis is based on investigators previous studies that
      showed sng is different from pain in terms of subjective responses, brain activation areas
      and clinical impacts. To achieve this goal, two specific aims will be pursued 1. to determine
      if an acid solution will evokes sng response, and, 2. to detect the brain activation area of
      sng evoked by an acid solution in functional magnetic resonance imaging. Successful
      establishment of the casual connection between the peripheral muscle acidosis and the central
      brain sng perception will lead to a more comprehensive understanding of sng mechanism and the
      potential medication development.
    
  