
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the rate of molecular remission after induction therapy comprising
           tretinoin (ATRA) and arsenic trioxide (ATO) (along with idarubicin in patients with
           leukocytosis) in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL).

      Secondary

        -  To determine the rate of clinical complete remission and the time to remission after
           induction therapy.

        -  To determine the proportion of patients in molecular remission after each course of
           postremission therapy and to use these findings to direct the number of consolidation
           courses with ATRA and idarubicin that are administered.

        -  To determine the disease-free survival and overall survival of patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  To determine the toxicity of this treatment regimen, including the number and length of
           hospitalizations, the incidence of secondary myelodysplastic syndromes or acute myeloid
           leukemia, and the effects of treatment on LVEF.

        -  To characterize the differentiation of APL cells during treatment with combined ATRA and
           ATO using serial immunophenotyping studies of peripheral blood and bone marrow.

        -  To compare the results of quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain
           reaction (RT-PCR) assays performed on bone marrow and peripheral blood.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive tretinoin orally twice daily and arsenic trioxide IV
           over 1-4 hours once daily until a marrow remission is documented or for 60 days,
           whichever comes first. Patients with leukocytosis (WBC > 10,000/μL) also receive
           idarubicin IV over 10-15 minutes beginning on day 2 and continuing every other day for 4
           doses. Patients who achieve a clinical complete remission (CR) proceed to consolidation
           therapy. If a marrow remission is not achieved after 60 days, the patient is removed
           from the study.

        -  Consolidation therapy:

             -  Consolidation courses 1, 2, and 3: Beginning 3-6 weeks after documentation of
                clinical CR, patients receive consolidation therapy comprising tretinoin orally
                twice daily for 15 days and arsenic trioxide IV over 1-4 hours once daily 5 days a
                week for 5 weeks. Consolidation therapy repeats every 3-6 weeks for 3 courses.

      Patients who have a negative PML-RARα transcript by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain
      reaction (RT-PCR) assay after consolidation course 2 proceed to maintenance therapy after
      receiving consolidation course 3. Patients who have a negative PML-RARα transcript by RT-PCR
      assay after consolidation course 3, proceed to consolidation course 4 followed by maintenance
      therapy. Patients who have a positive PML-RARα transcript by RT-PCR assay after consolidation
      courses 2 and 3 proceed to consolidation courses 4 and 5.

        -  Consolidation course 4: Beginning 3-6 weeks after completion of consolidation course 3,
           patients receive tretinoin orally twice daily for 15 days and idarubicin IV over 10-15
           minutes once daily for 4 days.

        -  Consolidation course 5: Beginning 3-6 weeks after completion of consolidation course 4,
           patients receive tretinoin orally twice daily for 15 days and idarubicin IV over 10-15
           minutes once daily for 3 days.

      Patients who remain positive for the PML-RARα transcript after 5 courses of consolidation
      therapy are removed from the study. Patients who have a negative PML-RARα transcript after 5
      courses of consolidation therapy proceed to maintenance therapy.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Beginning approximately 3 months after completion of the final
           consolidation course, patients receive tretinoin orally twice daily for 15 days.
           Treatment repeats every 3 months for up to 2 years.

      Disease status will be monitored with serial analyses of bone marrow and peripheral blood
      samples using RT-PCR for PML-RARα mRNA. Patients will be followed until relapse, death, loss
      to follow-up, or removal from study.
    
  