
    
      RATIONALE:

      Based on the hypothesis that the efficacy and potency of Fosrenol enables increasing dietary
      protein intake and provision of meals during dialysis treatment for improving nutritional
      status in malnourished dialysis patients with a low serum albumin (<4.0 g/dL) while serum
      phosphorus can be effectively controlled with the target range of 3.5 to 5.5 mg/dL.

      STUDY PROCEDURE:

        1. In all subjects: Recommend adequate dietary protein intake to achieve or maintain an
           nPCR (nPNA) above 1.0 g/kg/day for 2 months. Encourage aggressive increase in protein
           intake while avoiding high phos/protein ratio esp. higher intake of egg whites, meat,
           fish, poultries, legumes, etc. via counseling by renal dietician (RD) and/or study
           staff.

        2. Both groups will receive free meal boxes during the first 60 min of HD treatment for 8
           weeks (24 meals during 24 HD treatment sessions). Cases will receive high protein meals
           (~50 gm, with phos/protein ratio <10 mg//gm), whereas controls will receive salad with
           almost no protein.

        3. In CASES (n=55): Switch binder simultaneously to (or start) Fosrenol 500 mg to 1,500 per
           meal/snack, according to the meal size at different times of the day. Recommend crushing
           the pills using the pill-crusher that will be provided to subjects, and recommend
           placing or sprinkling Fosrenol pieces on the food. Titrate the dose every 2 weeks
           according to serum phosphorus.

        4. In CONTROLLS (n=55): Continue the same binder (other than Fosrenol). In All subjects:
           Titrate the binder as indicated to control serum phosphorus <5.5 mg/dL.

      SAFETY ENDPOINTS:

        1. Routine safety measures for food ingestion and binder administration

        2. Bi-weekly measures of minerals and monthly measures of PTH

      STATISTICAL METHODS:

      The t test, the chi square test, and the Mann-Whitney rank sum test to compare the baseline
      characteristics of intervention and control participants in serum albumin and other measures.
      To simplify presentation of results, some Likert scale responses will be dichotomized. The
      corresponding P values will be based on the complete ordinal scales used by participants to
      respond to questions quality of life, satisfaction, and food intake and about how often they
      eat meals from specific fast-food restaurants.
    
  