
    
      Among Hispanics, the largest and fastest growing ethnic minority group in the U.S., cancer is
      the leading cause of death whereas cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death for
      African Americans and non-Hispanic Whites (NHWs). Hispanics also experience substantially
      lower rates of 5-year cancer-specific survival relative to non-Hispanic Whites (NHWs).
      Hispanic cancer patients in the U.S. also report significantly worse cancer-related symptom
      burden and health-related quality of life (HRQOL) than NHWs, even after adjusting for
      socioeconomic factors.

      Despite this, very few randomized, intervention studies have specifically targeted
      cancer-related symptom burden and HRQOL outcomes among Hispanic women, especially during
      active treatment, which is a critical period to intervene to provide skills and tools to
      assist with cancer care. Innovative approaches to providing interventions such as Smartphone
      technology are especially important for this patient population. Ubiquitous Smartphone use
      among ethnic minorities in the US provide a unique opportunity to implement a pragmatic
      technology- and evidence-based psychosocial intervention that overcomes some access to care
      barriers as well as time and logistical constraints. Furthermore, given that Hispanics own
      Smartphones and seek health information online from a mobile device at similar or higher
      rates than other groups in the U.S., Smartphone interventions offer an opportunity to
      overcome obstacles to accessing resources and services that can be culturally informed and
      provide skills to improve symptom burden and HRQOL.

      This study aims to create and evaluate a culturally informed eHealth psychoeducational and
      psychosocial intervention for English or Spanish-speaking Hispanic women undergoing treatment
      for breast cancer. This intervention is grounded in evidence-based paradigms to improve the
      proposed Primary Outcomes: Cancer-Related Symptom Burden and HRQOL and the proposed Secondary
      Outcomes: usability and markers the intervention use. This study is designed to develop and
      test a Smartphone-based intervention that can be disseminated to cancer patients at a
      relatively low cost. This study designed as a 12-week randomized trial intended to evaluate
      the eHealth intervention when compared to a control condition. It is hypothesized that the
      eHealth intervention will significantly improve cancer-related symptom burden and HRQOL
      compared to the control condition.
    
  