
    
      Currently there is wide variation in practice and little evidence to guide the treatment of
      early cryptococcal infection in HIV-infected individuals with advanced immunosuppression.
      However, epidemiologic studies suggest that this may be a promising novel approach to
      decrease the mortality due to cryptococcal meningitis (CM), the second leading cause of death
      among HIV-infected individuals in many resource-limited settings. Screening asymptomatic
      HIV-infected individuals with advanced immunosuppression for serum cryptococcal antigen
      (CrAg) clearly identifies a population at high risk of CM and death and is a feasible
      screening method for resource-limited settings. However, screening with serum CrAg alone
      without additional diagnostic studies identifies a heterogeneous clinical population with
      early cryptococcal infection, many of whom already have sub-clinical meningeal infection or
      fungemia. The mainstay of anti-cryptococcal therapy in resource-limited settings is oral
      fluconazole though preliminary evidence suggests this is not an effective treatment. Thus,
      there is a critical need for potent therapies that (1) can be safely administered in
      resource-limited settings and (2) are effective in a heterogeneous population of HIV-infected
      individuals with advanced immunosuppression and early cryptococcal infection who are
      initiating anti-retroviral therapy (ART).

      This single center, open-label, randomized Phase IIb study is being conducted to assess the
      safety and estimate the efficacy of oral fluconazole in combination with flucytosine for the
      treatment of early cryptococcal infection. The study will be based at two sites supported by
      Family AIDS Care and Education Services (FACES) in Western Kenya. A consecutive sample of 100
      HIV-infected adults with CD4 cell count ≤100 cells/µl and serum CrAg titer ≥1:2 who have no
      signs or symptoms of severe, systemic cryptococcal infection will be enrolled. At enrollment,
      specimens from participants will be cultured for evidence of Cryptococcus neoformans.
      Individuals who meet inclusion and exclusion criteria and consent to participate in the study
      will be randomized to combination therapy with oral fluconazole (1200mg/day) plus flucytosine
      (100mg/kg/day) or fluconazole alone for the fourteen days of therapy. Subsequently both
      groups will receive anti-retroviral therapy as well as fluconazole 800mg/day for 8 weeks
      followed by 200mg/day. The primary safety endpoint will be the incidence of treatment-related
      adverse events and serious adverse events. The primary efficacy endpoint will be survival at
      12 weeks.

      In addition, we will offer additional diagnostic testing and aim for 50% participation,
      approximately 25 individuals from each arm. We will perform a battery of diagnostic tests
      including chest radiography, fungal cultures in blood, sputum, urine, stool and cerebrospinal
      fluid (CSF), cryptococcal antigen testing in the CSF, and gram stain, Ziehls-Nielsen stain
      and India Ink staining of CSF sediment. Anti-fungal susceptibility testing via broth
      microdilution and polymerase chain reaction serotyping and mating type analysis will be
      performed on clinical isolates.
    
  