
    
      Hospital acquired pneumonia (HAP) is the second-most common nosocomial infection in hospitals
      and the most common in the intensive care unit1. Mortality for HAP exceeds 20%2. Although
      mechanical ventilation is the greatest risk factor and increases the risk of dying from HAP,
      the organisms responsible for causing pneumonia in a given ICU are the same regardless of
      whether patients are intubated3.

      Staphylococcus aureus has become the leading pathogen responsible for hospital-acquired
      pneumonia (HAP) and is responsible for about 20% of cases4. Staphylococcus aureus may be
      either sensitive or resistant to oxacillin/methicillin. Oxacillin resistance rates are
      increasing nationwide and the average rate of resistance to oxacillin currently exceeds 52%
      nationwide5. While these "MRSA" isolates at UK represent only 47% of all staph aureus
      isolates, rates of methicillin resistant staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) may approach 80% in
      some institutions (unpublished observation).

      Presence or absence of risk factors for MRSA determines whether or not MRSA drug therapy is
      used7. If a patient is thought to have pneumonia and they possess risk factors for MRSA, then
      antimicrobial therapy active against MRSA will be used empirically and "de-escalated" if
      objective culture data does not demonstrate MRSA. Empiric or culture-based therapy for MRSA
      HAP includes one of the following: 1) the glycopeptide vancomycin or 2) the oxazoladinone
      linezolid (Zyvox®). Antimicrobials with activity against MRSA but who do not currently have
      licensed indication for use in HAP include: 3) the glycylcycline, tigecycline (Tygacil®) and
      4) the streptogramin, quinupristin-dalfopristin (Synercid®).

      Vancomycin is the primary antimicrobial choice for MRSA HAP worldwide. Vancomycin is
      relatively inexpensive in per-dose pricing, generally effective and has a favorable safety
      profile. However, staph aureus isolates which are incompletely sensitive or even resistant to
      vancomycin have been reported8. These vancomycin-intermediately sensitive staph aureus (VISA)
      and vancomycin-resistant staph aureus (VRSA) isolates are rare but increasing in prevalence9.
      Since the first report of VISA in the United States in 1999, other reports have documented
      the existence of staph aureus isolates with incomplete sensitivity to vancomycin, termed as
      vancomycin "heteroresistance"9.

      Heteroresistant vancomycin-intermediate sensitive staph aureus (hetero-VISA, hVISA, hGISA)
      isolates are those in which the prevalent colonies are vancomycin susceptible but in which
      some of the isolates demonstrate phenotypes which are intermediate or resistant to
      vancomycin9. Hetero-VISA has been proposed as an etiology for vancomycin treatment failure in
      some patients. These hetero-VISA isolates may exhibit vancomycin-susceptibility when analyzed
      by automated testing because automated systems are incapable of identifying rare hetero-VISA
      colony forming units (CFU's) within single large inoculums10. Without plating and more
      detailed testing, the true incidence of hetero-VISA isolates may be underestimated. No large
      direct comparison of automated and non-automated MRSA isolate sensitivities to vancomycin has
      been reported. This investigation seeks to determine the prevalence of hetero-VISA in sputum
      isolates of MRSA in a major tertiary referral center and define the sensitivity of automated
      testing.

      Adequate empiric antibiotic therapy improves outcome in patients with pneumonia11-13.
      Conversely, inadequate empiric therapy worsens outcome compared to adequate therapy.
      Clinicians should therefore seek to deliver adequate empiric antibiotics at the time of
      clinical diagnosis of pneumonia and not wait until definitive cultures are obtained14. This
      type of antibiotic approach which starts broad and then reduces therapy based upon objective
      culture data is termed "de-escalation" therapy. De-escalation has led to reduced antibiotic
      duration, less antibiotic administered, fewer occurrences of second pneumonias, and less
      mortality15. The goal of pneumonia therapy is to start adequately and to narrow objectively
      and as soon as appropriate.

      Since adequate empiric therapy determines outcome, it is imperative that clinicians treating
      patients at risk for MRSA with antimicrobials certain to eradicate MRSA. Traditional therapy
      was almost exclusively the glycopeptide vancomycin but emerging evidence suggests that in
      some cases vancomycin is not as effective as other available drugs. New antimicrobials have
      emerged which may exhibit superior efficacy against MRSA. In 2004, Marin Kollef et al
      reported improved clinical cure and survival in patients with MRSA ventilator-associated
      pneumonia (VAP) who were treated with linezolid compared to those treated with vancomycin
      (survival odds ratio 4.6 for linezolid vs vancomycin)16.

      While the prevalence of MRSA among all Staph aureus isolates is increasing, in vitro evidence
      of growing resistance of MRSA isolates to vancomycin is also increasing. In vitro
      susceptibility testing for any organism and antimicrobial is expressed as minimal inhibitory
      concentration (MIC). MIC is the lowest concentration of an antimicrobial that will inhibit
      growth of an organism. That is, the higher the MIC for a given antimicrobial and organism,
      the greater concentration of drug required to produce killing. Vancomycin MIC's for MRSA are
      rising, a phenomenon referred to as "MIC creep"18. Wang et al reported mean vancomycin MIC's
      for MRSA at UCLA to be ≤ 0.5ug/ml in 2000 and 1mg/dl in 2004 and the prevalence of isolates
      with MIC=1ug/ml to be 70% in 2004 vs 20% in 2000. MIC's for a given isolate in a given
      patient may change over time as well. Webster et al reported a MRSA isolate with an MIC
      changing from ≤ 1 to 4ug/ml over several months, demonstrating the ability of MRSA to acquire
      or alter its resistance patterns19. S. aureus isolates for which vancomycin MICs are 2-8
      μg/mL are classified as vancomycin-intermediate, and isolates for which vancomycin MICs are
      ≥16 μg/mL are classified as vancomycin-resistant by the Centers for Disease Control20.
      Clinical outcome with vancomycin therapy now appears to correlate inversely with MIC's above
      0.5ug/ml, so that as MIC's increase, clinical outcome worsens, suggesting that although MIC's
      ≤ 2ug/ml are technically reported as "Susceptible", the clinical efficacy of vancomycin may
      vary between isolates with MIC's of 0.5ug/ml and isolates with MIC's of 1 or 2ug/ml.

      A confounding factor in the determination of MIC's for vancomycin or other antimicrobials is
      the variability with which MIC's are measured. MIC's may be obtained by automated equipment
      or by direct visual assessment of killing by antimicrobial disks or strips on a culture
      plate. Automated equipment historically does not report specific vancomycin MIC's below or
      equal to 2ug/ml. The limitation with such equipment is that as vancomycin MIC's for MRSA have
      crept upward over time, we now have automated equipment that reports all MRSA isolates with
      vancomycin MIC's ≤ 2 as susceptible-with no distinction of whether the MIC is 0.5, 1 or
      2ug/ml. Automated equipment generally reports MIC's in doubling of antimicrobial
      concentration. Furthermore, while the majority of the sample may contain isolates with
      vancomycin MIC's in the susceptible range, we now know that susceptibility may vary within a
      given sample. Some solitary organisms or colony-forming units (CFU's) may demonstrate a
      phenotype in which vancomycin MIC's are higher than the majority of the sample but their
      numbers are so small as to be unrecognized. This variability in MRSA resistance to vancomycin
      is termed heteroresistance and heteroresistance may contribute to treatment failure.
      Moreover, ideal methods to detect and address vancomycin heteroresistance in S. aureus
      (hVISA) in every institution or laboratory have yet to be established.

      An alternative to automated testing is the use of E-test strips (AB Biodisk). E-tests are
      strips with increasing concentration of the particular antimicrobial agent from one pole to
      another which when applied to a plate of bacterial isolates produces a tear-drop shaped area
      of killing, with greater killing toward the end with the greater concentration (Figure).
      Though more cumbersome and expensive than automated testing, an accurate assessment of the
      presence or absence of heteroresistance and the more precise determination of MIC's are
      possible with E-tests compared to automated testing. Determination of prevalence of MRSA
      heteroresistance to vancomycin and relationship between E-test and automated vancomycin MIC's
      for MRSA are primary objectives of this investigation.

      When combined with clinical cure data above, this in vitro evidence strongly questions the
      prudence of using vancomycin as the empiric antimicrobial agent in patients known to be at
      risk for MRSA, who may be critically ill with VAP and for whom a wealth of studies establish
      that failure to adequately treat empirically increases mortality. Determining the prevalence
      of MRSA isolates with marginal susceptibility to vancomycin or heteroresistance is the
      primary aim of this investigation. An accurate measure of MIC reproducibility between
      techniques and the current prevalence of MIC's which are only marginally susceptible will
      allow our institution and the medical community to determine the most appropriate role for
      vancomycin in the empiric antimicrobial regimen for patients thought to have VAP who are at
      risk for MRSA.
    
  