
    
      Objective: To determine if an implanted neuroprosthesis improves airway protection for
      swallowing in chronic pharyngeal dysphagia to a greater degree than sensory training. The
      implanted neuroprosthesis will provide intramuscular stimulation to as many as 8
      hyo-laryngeal muscles. Stimulation will be coincident with a button press initiation under
      patient control while eating or at regular intervals for saliva swallows during the day
      and/or at night. Sensory training will include vibrotactile stimulation to the neck
      coincident with swallowing under patient control to assist with swallowing while eating or
      for saliva swallows during the day.

      Study population: Persons with chronic (greater than 6 months) dysphagia with risk of
      aspiration secondary to neurological injury, stroke or chronic neurological disease who
      currently require enteric feeding or severe dietary restrictions because of risk of
      aspiration.

      Design: A Phase 2 clinical trial with random assignment between two treatment groups with
      blinded assessment of treatment outcome. Both treatment groups will undergo 2 weeks of device
      training with a speech pathologist. The implant group will undergo training starting 3 weeks
      after implantation. They will receive prescriptive training when the levels of muscles
      stimulation will be established for swallowing. Patients will be trained to press a switch to
      control the stimulation while they are swallowing. The sensory training group will receive
      the same amount of training to provide sensory stimulation coincident with attempting to
      swallow.

      Outcome measures: Blinded assessment of risk of aspiration on videofluoroscopy using the NIH
      Swallowing Safety Scale, and patient administration of the Functional Oral Intake Scale
      (FOIS) for Dysphagia and the Swallowing Quality of Life Outcomes Tool (SWAL_QOL) prior to
      treatment and at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months following treatment. Patient administration of the
      FOIS and SWAL_QOL at 24-months.
    
  