
    
      Seizures are the most common clinical manifestation of cerebral cysticercosis and occur in
      the presence of viable, dying, and calcified or non-calcified dead cysts. How calcified cysts
      provoke seizures is not known but recent observations demonstrated edema around some
      calcified lesions at the time of seizure activity and disappearance during periods when
      seizures were not occurring. Edema associated with foci in idiopathic epilepsy is highly
      unusual so that this observation suggests that the mechanism(s) associated with calcified
      cysts is unique. Documenting and understanding this phenomenon is important for a number of
      reasons. First, although by definition these lesions are inactive, e.g., not living larvae
      and do not require anti-parasitic treatment, they are frequently mistaken for active lesions
      and patients undergo unnecessary treatment. Second, a likely reason for perilesional edema is
      intermittent antigen release and subsequent host immune response resulting in inflammation
      and edema. If proved, then the treatment for this would not only involve suppression of
      seizure activity with anti-seizure medication but also the use of anti-inflammatory
      medications such as corticosteroids. The present protocol will systematically assess the
      presence of edema associated with calcified lesions at the time of seizure activity and
      attempt to determine why some calcified lesions in the same patient are foci of seizures
      while others are clinically silent. There are three related but separate questions. 1) What
      is the most sensitive MRI technique that can detect edema around calcified or inactive
      lesions? It is essential to determine the most sensitive methods initially because the use of
      insensitive techniques will lead to inaccurate assessments of which lesions are prone to lead
      to seizure activity and how many patients are affected. 2) How common is perilesional edema
      around calcified or inactive lesions associated with seizure activity? 3) What factors
      determine which lesions are prone to cause seizure activity? 4) Can perilesional edema be
      effectively treated or prevented? 5) Can perilesional edema be treated? We have reported from
      long term longitudinal studies in a handful of patients that only some of many lesions seem
      to be associated with seizure activity and edema.
    
  