
    
      Participants were matched for body weight, body mass index (BMI) and percent body fat (%BF)
      and then randomly assigned to one of two groups: (1) Isagenix Energy & Performance System at
      2.0 g/kg Body Weight per day of protein and combined exercise training (IEPS, n=30); or (2) a
      control (C) diet containing 1.0 g/kg Body Weight per day of protein and combined exercise
      training (C, n=30). All participants followed a program of progressive exercise training for
      12 weeks. All testing procedures (see below) were administered pre-intervention and post
      intervention.

      Participants in both groups were provided meal plans and instructed to follow the meal plans
      throughout the intervention. Participants in the IEPS were provided two shakes and 1 bar meal
      replacement each day to help them meet the 2.0 g/kg Body Weight of protein per day.
      Participants were given a 2-wk supply of the supplement and asked to return the empty packets
      before they received the next two-week's supply as a means of assessing their compliance. C
      participants were required to follow a healthy meal plan providing 1.0 g/kg Body Weight of
      protein per day by consuming whole foods for all of their meals. They were not provided
      additional protein supplements. However, they were provided food supplies consisting of
      granola bars, chocolate milk, and fruit to help them meet their 1.0 g/kg BW protein per day.
      They were also asked to return empty food packets to monitor compliance. Similar dietary
      interventions to the two proposed in this study have been used successfully in the past by
      the PI with no adverse events being reported.

      Prior to the start of the study, each subject was familiarized with the exercise training
      protocols by participating in eight supervised exercise sessions over a two-week period (4
      times per week) in the Skidmore College fitness and weight training rooms located adjacent to
      the Health & Exercise Sciences Department. Participants were asked to perform all the
      exercise sessions at Skidmore College for the first two weeks and had the option to perform
      one or two of the exercises (I, E) on their own at home or at their local gym following the
      two week familiarization. Participants were required to perform 4 exercise sessions per week
      of the following exercises: a) resistance training (R); b) interval sprint training (I); c)
      stretching training (S); and d) endurance training (E). During the course of the
      interventions, a member of the research team periodically "checked-in" (weekly) with each
      participant by phone, email, or in-person to answer any questions or provide guidance with
      the exercise and dietary intake. All exercise training guidelines and recommendations
      followed the American College of Sports Medicine, such that their exercise intensity will be
      based on their individual fitness level and health status.
    
  