
    
      -  Place of study: General Hospital of the State of Sonora "Dr. Ernesto Ramos Bours" in the
           city of Hermosillo, Sonora.

        -  Sociodemographic and symptomatological information questionnaire: Questionnaires will be
           applied to each participant, which will allow to obtain information of their occupation,
           residence, date of birth, their own medical and family history, as well as typical
           symptoms of the diseases.

        -  Weight: The weight will be measured with a SECA Model 813 Portable Floor Scale. The
           person should wear light clothing, empty pockets, without shoes, accessories (belts,
           necklaces, watches, etc.); In a firm position, facing forward, without movement at the
           time of taking the measurement. Weight measurement should be the simplest and most
           accurate of anthropometric measurements, the balance should be calibrated periodically.

        -  Height: The height will be measured with a portable stadiometer Model 217 SECA. The
           participant is presented for the measurement of the height dressed with the minimum of
           clothes, at least, without shoes and socks. The participant is instructed to stand on
           the stadiometer so that his heels, gluteus, and shoulder blades are in contact with the
           back plate, and the heels together. The head should be placed on the "Frankfurt Plane",
           the head of the instrument will move down to make contact with the apex of the skull.
           With the subject in the correct position, he is instructed: "take a deep breath and
           stand tall". The height is measured at the point of inspiration without pressure being
           applied.

        -  Single-frequency bioimpedance (BIA): The BIA measurement will be performed according to
           the established criteria by the National Institute of Health Technology Assessment
           Conference Statement. The subject will be placed supine, with arms and legs separated
           from the body and palms down. The electrodes will be located in the right extremities,
           located on the back of the hand and foot near the phalangeal-metacarpal and
           phalangeal-metatarsal joints and in the styloid process of the wrist and between the
           medial and lateral malleolus of the ankle, through which an imperceptible electric
           current will be introduced.

      The subjects should be under the following conditions so that the study can be carried out:

        -  Fast four hours before the measurement.

        -  Not having consumed alcoholic beverages during the 48 hours prior to the test.

        -  No strenuous exercise 24 hours prior to measurement.

        -  In the case of women, do not menstruate.

        -  Do not have any metal objects on the body.

        -  The approximate measurement time is five minutes.

             -  Vector analysis of electric bioimpedance (BIVA): The variables of resistance (R),
                Reactance (Xc) and size of each of the individuals measured to be plotted in the
                reference ellipses of the Mexican population by sex will be used. The R and Xc
                standardized by size (R / size and Xc / size) will be used to plot the vector of
                individuals within the percentiles 50, 75 and 95% of tolerance ellipses,
                differentiated by sex, using the BIVA program Software 2002.

             -  Clinical assessment of dry weight and hemodialysis (HD) process: Based on the
                traditional practices of the Hospital dialysis unit, the physician / nurse will
                perform physical examination and interpret the signs and symptoms associated with
                the renal disease, these are blood pressure , heart rate, respiratory rate,
                temperature, presence of infection and edema. This will include present and past
                health-disease aspects, medications, as well as information on the patient's daily
                life. Upon arrival, the patient will be weighed according to the methodology
                described above. According to the traditional practice of the Hospital Dialysis
                Unit, the patient's target weight will be based on the difference between the
                post-dialysis weight of the last session and the current weight, in addition to
                taking into account the signs and symptoms Mentioned above, In order to determine
                the excess water of the patient.

      The amount of fluid to be withdrawn to the patient, the ultrafiltration rate and the duration
      time are determined by the nephrologist physician in consultation prior to the HD session.
      Such information may be modified in the HD session depending on the clinical evaluation of
      the patient on the day of treatment.

      Before starting HD, the patient's vascular access is prepared with three alcohol times and
      three times of 10% EXSEPT, and the clot is removed from the access.

      The time, ultrafiltration rate and the amount of liquid to be filtered on the HD machine
      (Fresenius Medical Care 4008 S - OCM Kt / V) are then programmed. Once programmed, it
      connects To the patient and heparin is administered at an initial bolus and at each hour of
      treatment. A total of 100 units per kg of body weight is given and the total is divided
      between the initial bolus and each hour of treatment. The mechanism by which the HD machine
      works is as follows: A pump directs the patient's blood to a filter of Polysulfone fibers,
      blood runs up-down, while a dialysing solution (its content is similar to normal blood
      plasma) flows in the opposite direction. By means of osmosis and the pressure exerted by the
      filter, excess substances are removed from the patient's blood and, if any of the plasma
      components are deficient, is absorbed from the dialysing solution. The blood is returned to
      the patient and heparin is supplied at both catheter outlets to avoid coagulation. The
      catheter is then sealed with a stopper and a patch is placed to prevent contact with the
      outside medium. Finally, the vital signs are reviewed again and the appointment is scheduled
      for the next treatment. In case the vital signs are altered, the patient is immediately
      referred to the emergency department.

        -  Laboratory parameters: Pre and post-dialysis patient blood samples will be taken to
           analyze the following parameters: serum electrolytes, blood biometrics, blood chemistry
           and Hepatic function. If feasible, the PCR will be analyzed.

        -  Blood pressure: Blood pressure will be measured with an automatic monitor included in
           the hemodialysis equipment (Fresenius Medical Care 4008 S - OCM Kt / V). To perform the
           measurement, the patient has to be relaxed and seated comfortably, at a comfortable
           ambient temperature. Do not bathe, drink alcohol or caffeine, smoke, exercise or eat 30
           minutes before taking the measurement. The participants should sit in a chair with their
           feet flat on the floor, the back straight and the arm band should be at the same level
           as their heart with the palm up and relaxed. The nurse will start by palpating the arm
           for the pulse of the brachial artery, where the diaphragm of the stethoscope will be
           placed. This artery is located between the brachial and brachial biceps muscles; In its
           lower-lateral path accompanies the median nerve. The bracelet should be placed to take
           the measurement.Special considerations: - In patients with peripheral insertion of
           central catheters, the upper arm should be avoided in which there is a central
           peripheral insertion catheter. - In patients with a bypass Dialysis, or fistula, blood
           pressure should be taken in the opposite arm if the patient has an arteriovenous
           insertion or fistula necessary for dialysis, this is to avoid possible trauma or clot
           formation.

        -  Nutritional intervention: Patients will be made aware of the importance of adherence to
           nutritional treatment through individualized sessions, addressing the following topics:
           a) how to ensure adequate energy and protein intake, b) how to control fluid, sodium and
           potassium intake, identifying foods rich in them, c) Incorrect feeding, d) food
           preparation techniques, among others. Also, in each session, depending on the patient's
           nutritional status, laboratory values and comorbidities, a personalized feeding guide
           will be provided, which will include the foods to be consumed and in what quantities,
           using the Mexican equivalents system for renal patients and the current Kidney Disease
           Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) practice guidelines.

        -  Malnutrition Inflammation Score (MIS), Bilbrey Index and subjective global assessment:
           These are instruments that will be used to establish a Nutritional diagnosis of each
           patient. Clinical, biochemical and anthropometric parameters are evaluated. Each of the
           measurements will be made according to the current standardized methodology.
    
  