
    
      Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the leading cause of severe visual loss in
      industrialized countries. In recent years, the advent of anti-vascular endothelial growth
      factor (VEGF) therapies, such as ranibizumab and bevacizumab, has revolutionized neovascular
      AMD treatment and anti-VEGF has become the standard treatment for choroidal
      neovascularization (CNV) with a better visual outcome than previous therapies such as
      photodynamic therapy (PDT). However, one study reported that up to 45% of cases (20 out of 44
      eyes) were non-responders showing resistance to anti-VEGF. In these cases, visual acuity did
      not improve and persistent subretinal fluid remained despite the usual monthly injection of
      anti-VEGF. A current focus of anti-VEGF treatment is how to determine which eyes will respond
      to treatment. To date, three genetic studies into the response to treatment for wet AMD have
      shown that specific genotypes for complement factor H and LOC genes are associated with
      treatment response. Previous studies have described the relationship between the posterior
      vitreous and the macula in AMD and have suggested that vitreomacular adhesion (VMA) plays an
      important role in the development of exudative AMD. In a recent paired eye study, we
      controlled confounding variables by selecting only patients with unilateral exudative AMD,
      and showed that eyes with exudative AMD had a significantly higher incidence of posterior VMA
      than paired normal eyes (P=0.0007). This result indicates that VMA is a possible risk factor
      for exudative AMD. In another recent study, Mojana and co-workers reported improvement in VA
      after 25-gauge trans pars plana vitrectomy (TPPV) with hyaloid removal in five patients who
      had a history of demonstrable VMA and poorly responsive CNV despite aggressive anti-VEGF
      therapy. We postulated that a subpopulation of exudative AMD cases do not respond to
      anti-VEGF therapy and that VMA may play a role in this resistance to therapy. The recent
      results of our study indicate that posterior VMA has a negative effect on visual outcome
      after intravitreal anti-VEGF treatment for exudative AMD. BCVA did not improve in eyes with
      posterior VMA despite anti-VEGF treatment. Posterior hyaloid removal by intravitreous
      injection of expansile gas and induction of posterior vitreous detachment may be considered
      as a treatment option in patients with VMA who are poor responders to anti-VEGF treatment.
    
  