
    
      BACKGROUND Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained cardiac arrhythmia occurring
      in 1-2% of the general population. AF can be associated with debilitating symptoms and
      confers an increased risk of death, stroke, heart failure and hospitalization. As such there
      is a need for effective therapies for AF. In particularly catheter based therapies, which can
      limit the need for chronic drug therapy, are becoming more widely accepted.

      The development of AF requires both a trigger and susceptible substrate. Ectopic activity
      originating within the pulmonary veins (PVs) is a widely recognised factor in the genesis of
      paroxysmal AF, whilst electrical, contractile and structural remodelling of atrial myocardium
      are each important contributing factors to the arrhythmogenic substrate in AF.

      An early strategy in paroxysmal AF (PAF) was to target ectopic triggers coming from the PV
      via ostial segmental ablation (OSA). Here radiofrequency (RF) ablation was applied close to
      the PV ostia at sites of early signals, usually until PVs were electrically isolated from the
      left atrium (LA). This approach resulted in a success rate, with regard to freedom from AF
      after a single procedure, of 65-90% after 1 year but closer to 50% after 5 years. The
      recognition of PV stenosis as a complication of RF delivery within a PV, as well as the
      recognition that initiation sites could be located in the antrum led to a shift in ablation
      strategy towards wider encirclement of the PVs using wide area circumferential ablation
      (WACA) using electroanatomical mapping to guide RF delivery. This resulted in improved
      success rates in a head-to-head comparison with OSA and it is possible that this relates to
      substrate modification inherent in this approach.

      Recurrence of AF remains problematic following ablation. Pulmonary vein reconnection after
      ablation is thought to contribute to the majority of recurrent episodes of AF in paroxysmal
      AF. Electrical isolation of the PVs is often not achievable with WACA alone - 95% of patients
      had residual connections following WACA alone in one study. Most clinicians at this juncture
      will look for any obvious gaps in the line and ablate if there are early PV signals. If this
      is unsuccessful then it is often necessary to resort to OSA to achieve PV isolation. In
      essence a large proportion of PV isolation procedures, which started with a WACA strategy,
      are in fact a hybrid of WACA and OSA. This both has the potential to increase the
      complication rate by risking PV stenosis and reducing efficacy through omitting important
      substrate modification and allowing residual connection of part of the antrum and the LA.

      The introduction of Rhythmia, a novel electroanatomical mapping system with the potential to
      rapidly acquire high density electroanatomical data, may allow an alternative strategy and
      more efficient targeting of gaps in WACA lines. The pilot data shows that the system is
      particularly adept in assessing gaps in ablation lines including WACA lines. Mapping and
      targeting such gaps may hold the key to efficiently completing PV isolation after an initial
      WACA line is performed.

      RATIONALE FOR CURRENT STUDY Research Question: Can ostial segmental ablation be avoided
      during a wide area circumferential ablation (WACA) by using the Rhythmia high density mapping
      system? Hypothesis: The current study is designed to test the hypothesis that high density
      mapping using Rhythmia can enhance the operator's ability to electrically isolate PVs without
      unnecessary excessive ablation or OSA
    
  