
    
      Malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum continues to be a global problem with devastating
      consequences, in particular for at-risk populations such as pregnant women and young infants.
      Pregnancy malaria is associated with low birth weight (LBW), maternal anemia, and gestational
      hypertension; both inflammation and the fetal response to infection may contribute to these
      poor outcomes. Placental malaria (PM) is caused by P. falciparum-infected erythrocytes that
      bind to the placental receptor chondroitin sulfate A (CSA) and sequester in the placenta,
      where they cause disease and may lead to death of the mother and her offspring. Women become
      resistant to PM as they acquire antibodies that target surface proteins of placental
      parasites. In areas of stable transmission, acute severe malaria syndromes are limited to
      children under 5 years of age. The pathogenesis of severe malaria remains poorly understood,
      although some evidence suggests that parasites causing severe malaria may express distinct
      antigens on the surface of infected erythrocytes. Thus, vaccines to prevent malarial disease
      may need to target distinct antigens in order to protect pregnant women or young children.

      The primary hypothesis in this study is that the burden of P. falciparum infection around
      Margibi and Montserrado is sufficient to support future studies of malaria pathogenesis and
      immunity. In addition to assessing malaria burden this study will build up diagnostic
      laboratory capacity for malaria diagnostics. We plan to enroll 2920 pregnant women and 2920
      children (6-12 months of age) into a cross sectional study that will be conducted in Margibi
      and Montserrado counties, Liberia. Women presenting for routine antenatal visits and
      presenting for well-baby clinic visits (e.g. vaccinations, vitamins) at C.H. Rennie Hospital
      in Margibi or Duport Road Health Center in Montserrado will be enrolled. Samples collected
      from the women and children will be examined for evidence of infection by Plasmodium and
      other parasitic diseases in order to assess prevalence in this key reservoir population. For
      our primary outcome, we will determine the prevalence of P.falciparum infection in these two
      key demographic groups, including their annual and seasonal variations, as these data will
      form the basis to design future natural history or interventional studies at these sites. For
      our secondary outcomes, we will determine the prevalence of other parasitic diseases, such as
      filaria, S. stercoralis, and schistosomes by serologic assays of blood samples.
    
  