
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of BKM120 (PI3K inhibitor BKM120) in
      combination with fulvestrant.

      II. To evaluate the toxicity profile of BKM120 in combination with fulvestrant.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the toxicity profile of BKM120 in combination with fulvestrant when
      administered for at least 3 months.

      II. To determine the steady state blood concentrations of BKM120 when combined with
      fulvestrant.

      III. To evaluate the anti-tumor effect (partial response [PR], complete response [CR], stable
      disease [SD], and progressive disease [PD]) of BKM120 in combination with fulvestrant in
      patients with ER+ metastatic breast cancer.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine baseline tumor specimens for phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway
      abnormalities, and to correlate with treatment response.

      II. To examine the PIK3 catalytic alpha polypeptide (PIK3CA) mutation status in circulating
      deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) at baseline and following study therapy and to correlate with
      tumor tissue PIK3CA status and treatment response.

      III. To determine effects of study therapy on fasting C-peptide and glucose. IV. To evaluate
      target inhibition by BKM120 on serial tumor biopsies collected before and following study
      therapy.

      V. To evaluate the effect of BKM120 in combination with fulvestrant on tumor cell
      proliferation and apoptosis.

      VI. To obtain preliminary pilot data to evaluate the effect of BKM120 on tumor cell
      proliferation, as measured by FLT-PET/CT (Phase IB)

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of PI3K inhibitor BKM120. Patients receive PI3K
      inhibitor BKM120 orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 (if enrolled in Phase IA or Cohort
      C) or on a 5 days on/2 days off schedule (if enrolled in Phase IB). All patients will receive
      fulvestrant intramuscularly (IM) on days 1 and 15 of Cycle 1 and day 1 of all subsequent
      cycles. Cycles repeat ever 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Two OPTIONAL FLT-PET/CT scans: the first one done at baseline before the start of BKM120 and
      the second one done between Day 16 and Day18 after BKM120 is started. After completion of
      study treatment, patients are followed up for 28 days.
    
  