
    
      The use fluoroscopically guided interventional procedures is progressively increasing over
      the past 20 years.Some previous reports have shown that the radiation dose absorbed by
      interventional cardiologists is the greatest registered by any medical staff exposed to
      X-rays. However in recent years new procedures have been introduced and validated in the
      setting of interventional cardiology and radiology and there is wide variation in patient
      dose among different procedures.

      Radiation issue is an important issue for patients and operators due to the acute
      deterministic effects and most important for the long term stochastic risk of cancer
      induction: however this problem is often under-evaluated. Even if the stochastic risk is an
      all-or-none phenomenon for any individual cell, the greater the radiation exposure, the more
      cells are injured. Moreover non cancerous effects are possible such as cataract formation in
      the eye and the probability increases with increasing dose.

      Radiation dose can be expressed in different ways: the Air Kerma is the amount of energy
      absorbed in a given mass of air, whereas the Dose Area Product (DAP) is the absorbed dose of
      radiation across a given surface area. Generally DAP measurements are more accurate than
      using Air Kerma measurements for the estimation of patient radiation dose as DAP allows for
      variations in field size. DAP consents a good estimation of the dose to the irradiated tissue
      and is an indicator for patient cancer risk.

      Aim of our study is to evaluate the radiation dose exposure during different fluoroscopically
      guided interventional procedures comparing different specialties (electrophysiology,
      interventional radiology, interventional cardiology).

      Methods From January 2013 to December 2015 all diagnostic or interventional procedures
      performed by interventional operators will be included in this multicenter study without
      exclusion criteria.

      Collection of data will be retrospective in a dedicated database. Radiation exposure will be
      assessed measuring the DAP and fluoroscopy times for each procedure. Moreover for each
      procedure all the centers are requested to give information about operator, patient and
      procedure details.

      End point of the study The primary end-point of the study is the comparison of DAP dose among
      interventional cardiologist, electrophysiologist and interventional radiologist procedures.

      Secondary end-point of the study is to compare fluoroscopy times among different procedures.
    
  