
    
      Facing a Peritoneal Carcinomatosis (PC) diagnosis requires significant psychological
      adjustments that may generate major distress because of heavy care and a sometimes poor
      prognosis. Psychological distress, which most frequently results in emotional anxiety and
      depressive disorders, affects nearly 40% of patients in oncology. These disorders impair
      their quality of life, their health behaviours, their therapeutic alliance with caregivers,
      and represent a risk factor for mortality since access to care, lifestyle and therapeutic
      adherence differ. All learned societies (e.g., American Society of Clinical Oncology - ASCO),
      associations (e.g., Union for International Cancer Control (UICC), World Cancer Research Fund
      International - WCRF) and authorities (e.g., French National Institute of Cancer) recommend
      both the screening and treatment of this psychological distress. This complementary therapy
      should be integrated in the overall management of cancer patients, especially since
      anxiolytics (e.g., benzodiazepines) have shown limitations in clinical trials compared with
      placebo or standard care. Studies evaluating relevant psychological interventions to treat
      these disorders are rare. It is therefore essential to assess the feasibility and relevance
      of implementing a non-drug intervention known for its anxiolytic and antidepressant effects,
      to respond early and appropriately to the distress and anxiety of patients with PC before and
      after their surgery. Among the various existing non-drug interventions, a targeted cardiac
      coherence program seems promising. Cardiac coherence corresponds to a physiological state of
      balance of the autonomic nervous system obtained through precise and rigorous breathing
      exercises. Several pilot studies justify its interest in oncology. The main objective of this
      study is to evaluate adherence to a cardiac coherence program aimed at reducing anxiety in
      patients with PC awaiting cytoreductive surgery. The secondary objectives are to evaluate the
      implementation of this program in a cancer center, its adoption by the patients and the
      impact of this practice on their anxious symptomatology, immunological response and quality
      of life.
    
  