
    
      There is overwhelming evidence to support tobacco use as the number one cause of preventable
      cancer and cardiovascular death. Smoking is responsible for at least 30% of all cancer deaths
      and nearly 90% of lung cancer deaths. There is robust phase III randomized data to show
      improved smoking cessation with both behavioral strategies as well as pharmacologic
      interventions such as bupropion.

      Despite significant evidence showing survival, toxicity and quality of life detriments in
      cancer patients who continue smoking after diagnosis, roughly one third of cancer patients
      continue to use tobacco. There is a relative paucity of data regarding smoking cessation
      programs in cancer patient populations. Several single institution, as well as cooperative
      group (ECOG), efforts have been published with varying results. However, to date, there are
      no published reports on the success of pharmacologic smoking cessation interventions in
      cancer patients.

      Patients undergoing definitive/curative radiotherapy often receive daily treatment over the
      course of three to eight weeks. They are often accompanied and supported daily by family
      members or companions, many of whom smoke. This represents a huge exposure to the health care
      system and a unique opportunity for intensive intervention in both cancer patients and their
      families/companions during their "daily routine" of radiotherapy. To date, there is no
      published report on intensive tobacco cessation intervention concurrent with radiotherapy in
      cancer patients and their families or companions.

      We propose a feasibility study of an intensive tobacco cessation program to be delivered to
      radiation oncology patients and/or their family/companions concurrent with planned
      radiotherapy. This program will feature an intensive behavioral intervention as well as the
      pharmacologic agent bupropion.
    
  