
    
      Low-intensity extracorporeal shockwave therapy (LI-ESWT) was proved to be useful in various
      medical conditions; for example, neovascularization in myocardial ischemia, nonhealing
      wounds, ED and chronic pelvic pain syndrome.

      The use of LI-ESWT has been increasingly proposed as a treatment for ED over the last decade.
      Overall, most of these studies reported encouraging results, regardless of variation in
      LI-ESWT set-up parameters or treatment protocols. As a whole these studies suggest that
      LI-ESWT could significantly improve the IIEF-5 and Erection Hardness Score of mild ED
      patients. However, no randomized control trial with cross-over designed studies so far.

      This is a prospective, randomized, single-blind, cross-over clinical study. This study will
      be performed in outpatient setting of NTUH. Written informed consent will be given by all
      participants before entering the study. The subjects are treated at the therapy room of the
      department of urology, NTUH. All subjects would not pay any cost for this treatment/study.
      This study was approved by the institutional review board at National Taiwan University
      Hospital (NTUH, No. T-NTUH-57401).

      Inclusion criteria: were patient age 20 ~ 70 year-old man, suffering from ED for over 6
      months, and 5 ≦ IIEF-5 ≦ 21. The written informed consent forms from all subjects who met the
      inclusion criteria were obtained.

      Exclusion criteria: Patients with penile implant, prior radical prostatectomy, rectal
      surgery, radiation therapy to the pelvic area, spinal cord injury, prostate cancer, bladder
      cancer, interstitial cystitis, or major depression were excluded. Patient ever received low
      intensity shockwave or who does not have sex intercourse in recent six months will be
      excluded.

      Measurement of outcomes

      Primary outcome: the 4th week and the 8th week change from baseline for IIEF-5 score change
      from baseline for IIEF-5 score.

      Secondary outcomes: Penile Doppler Ultrasound (PDU) at 4th and 8th week , EHS, QoL; AEs

      Methodology All patients diagnosed of erectile dysfunction will receive blood sampling of
      serum testosterone and lipid profile at the beginning of the study. All patients were treated
      at out-patient clinic. 30 subjects receive LI-ESWT (LM-IASO, Litemed Co., Taiwan) for 6
      courses in 3 weeks (0.05mJ/mm2, 3000 pulses) and 30 subjects receive Sham therapy for 3 weeks
      (the machine turning on but the energy is zero). LI-ESWT is delivered by a probe that was
      attached to a electrohydraulic unit with a wide-focused shockwave source. The penis is
      manually stretched, and shockwaves are delivered to the whole penis shaft and penis base. The
      duration of each ESWT session is about 30 minutes, and comprised 3000 pulses (0.05mJ/mm2),
      and a frequency of 100/min.

      Safety Considerations The peri- and post-treatment adverse events (AEs), including local
      pain, edema or hematoma were recorded and compared. With consideration of safety issue, any
      moderate/severe local pain or hematoma would be immediately reported and well inspected.

      Follow-up The following parameters are assessed before treatment and weekly during the
      treatment: IIEF-5 score, EHS, QoL; AEs.
    
  