
    
      Laser treatment of pTa low grade bladder tumours in the outpatient department

      Number of Subjects/Centres Planned: 20 patients will be included in this study. The study
      will be performed at Department of Urology, Bispebjerg-Frederiksberg Hospital, Copenhagen,
      Denmark.

      Primary Objective: To show that small pTa bladder tumours safely can be removed with diode
      laser in an outpatient department Secondary Objective: To evaluate the patients experience
      with the laser treatment using QOL questionaires (symptom evaluation) and Visual Analog Scale
      Score (pain evaluation).

      Study Design: Open prospective study in patients with recurrent pTa low grade bladder
      tumours.

      All patients will have their bladder tumour removed using a diode laser. The treatment will
      take place in the outpatient department (OPD) without any pain treatment. Biopsy from the
      tumour will be obtained before the procedure. If the biopsy shows low grade non-invasive
      bladder tumour, flexible cystoscopy will be repeated one month later in the OPD. At both
      procedures biopsy will be taken from the laser treated area.

      If the per-operative biopsy shows high grade or invasive tumour, the patient will be referred
      for a re-resection at the operating theatre during admittance to the urology ward.

      The pain is valuated by a Visual Analogue Scale Score and filled out immediately after each
      procedure.

      Treatment induced symptoms will be evaluated using a QOL questionnaire which the patient
      fills out one week after the laser treatment and one week after the cystoscopies.

      Population: Patients with histologically confirmed pTa urothelial bladder tumours Number of
      Subjects: Twenty patients Selection of Subjects: Patients scheduled for a trans urethral
      resection of bladder tumour (TUR-B) less than 1,5 cm at the operating theatre under general
      anaesthesia and without concomitant therapy with anticoagulants as Marevan, Marcoumar, and
      the new anticoagulants as Pradaxa etc. will after informed consent be included in the study.

      Equipment:

      Diode laser Storz, SPIES Biopsy forceps, Storz

      Key Dates:

      Overall duration of the study: 6 months included 1 months follow up Efficacy and Safety
      Variables Primary Endpoint: proportion of patients where the bladder tumours are completely
      removed by one laser treatment.

      Secondary Endpoints:

        -  Portion of general urinary problems and QOL after laser treatment compared to cystoscopy
           and biopsy in the OPD

        -  Pain at the laser treatment and the cystoscopy assessed by Visual Analog Scale (VAS)
           Score.

      Statistical Methods and Planned Analysis: Non-parametric and descriptive statistics will be
      performed

      Parameters in the case report form (CRF):

      Bladder cancer diagnosis (pTa low grade)

        -  Age

        -  Sex

        -  Mapping of lesions in normal, Clara Chrome, Spectra A and B filter cystoscopy

        -  Histology of all suspicious lesions

        -  SEPARATE CYSTOSCOPYFORM for laser TUR-B and the two follow up cystoscopies

        -  The duration of the laser treatment

        -  Expected clearance after the laser TUR-B

        -  The visibility during the laser TUR-B

        -  Visual Analog Scale Score result (to measure pain when laser treatment is performed and
           biopsies are taken in the OPD)
    
  