
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) is a complex disease process involving the whole synovial joint. In OA
      articular cartilage is lost through a combination of degenerative and inflammatory phenomena,
      which are often accompanied by joint swelling, pain, stiffness and loss of joint mobility.
      The pathogenesis of OA is multifactorial and is considered to be a metabolically active
      process, predominantly due to the poor regenerative properties of articular cartilage after
      damage. The most commonly affected joint is the knee, and OA has a higher occurrence in older
      adults particularly women. Because patients generally present in the clinic after these
      symptoms of the illness develop, most treatment techniques for OA are designed to address
      these symptoms rather than cure the underlying disease. Current conservative treatments
      include lifestyle modification and pain medication (such as NSAIDs) which predominantly treat
      the illness (e.g., pain symptoms). There is also some promise in the use of chondroitin to
      decrease joint space narrowing in OA, thus treating the disease itself. Conversely, surgical
      intervention (partial or total joint replacement) is the preferred treatment method in
      end-stage disease leading to some relief of both the illness and disease.

      Copper complexes can biochemically affect the cells and impinge upon metabolic pathways
      especially highly effective copper dependent enzymes, such as superoxide dismutase (SOD). It
      is predicted also that copper containing vitamins or biochemically active organic compounds
      such as amino acids and peptides or synthetic organic compounds in complexes can effectively
      scavenge superoxide radical. Additionally, recent studies showed that Cu (II) Bis
      (diethyldithiocarbamate) induced the expression of syndecan-4, a transmembrane heparan
      sulfate proteoglycan, in a dose- and time-dependent manner n via the activation of p38
      mitogen-activated protein kinase. This submitted work has been designed to evaluate a copper
      chelating complex consisting of egg albumin and copper as one of the copper peptides that can
      be used as anti-inflammatory agent and chondroprotective in OA treatment that could be used
      as a substitute especially the currently used chondroprotective drugs are expensive and
      frequent using of drugs such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), known to be
      aggressive agents for gastric ulcer development.
    
  