
    
      All consecutive outpatients referred to the study center with clinically suspected deep vein
      thrombosis are potentially eligible for inclusion. Patients are excluded if they have a
      history of previous venous thromboembolism, have clinical suspicion of pulmonary embolism,
      have a life expectancy shorter than 3 months, have used therapeutic doses of unfractionated
      heparin, low molecular weight heparin or oral anticoagulants for more than 48 hours, have
      another indication for anticoagulant treatment, are pregnant, are aged less than 18 years,
      are inaccessible to follow-up, or refuse participation in the study.

      Randomization Before randomization, patients are interviewed using a standardized
      questionnaire in order to collect information on risk factors for venous thrombosis, and the
      presence of several clinical signs and symptoms. Subsequently, they are randomized to the
      limited or the extended ultrasound strategy through computer generated lists, each of 100
      patients arranged in balanced blocks of 10, specific for each center. The list is accessible
      only for a study nurse who informed the study physicians about group allocation once patients
      had provided informed consent.

      Initial diagnostic workup Patients randomized to limited ultrasonography undergo compression
      ultrasonography, confining the investigation to the common femoral and the popliteal vein
      down to its trifurcation. In patients with normal findings D-dimer testing is performed, and
      they are subsequently managed according to its results: patients with normal D-dimer levels
      do not receive further investigation, while those with abnormal test are scheduled for repeat
      compression ultrasonography within one week.

      Patients randomized to the extended ultrasonography receive first the evaluation of the
      proximal vein system, including the common femoral, the superficial femoral and the popliteal
      vein down its trifurcation. Then patients with compressible proximal veins undergo the
      extensive evaluation of the calf vein system, including the anterior tibial, posterior tibial
      and peroneal veins, and, if the deep veins were normal, also of the muscular (gastrocnemial
      and soleal) veins.

      Limited ultrasonography and D-dimer The common femoral at the groin, and the popliteal vein
      down to its branching into the calf deep veins at the popliteal fossa, are examined in the
      transverse plane only, with a 7.5 MHz linear probe. The test results are categorized as
      normal (compressible veins) or abnormal (non compressible veins).

      We use a rapid whole blood bedside D-dimer assay (SimpliRED® D-Dimer assay, AGEN Biomedical
      Ltd., Brisbane Australia). This assay is based on autologous red cell agglutination, using a
      chemical conjugate of a monoclonal antibody specific to human D-dimer (DD-3B6/22) linked to a
      monoclonal antibody which binds to the surface of human red blood cells (RAT-1C3/86) as
      active agent. The test can be performed either on capillary or on citrated venous blood.
      Agglutination occurs at D-dimer concentrations above 0.2 mg/L. The SimpliRED® results are
      categorized as normal, abnormal or non interpretable. The latter finding is categorized as
      abnormal.

      Extended ultrasonography All veins are imaged along their length with a 7.5 MHz linear
      transducer. The proximal venous system is examined starting from the (common and superficial)
      femoral veins, which are scanned down to the distal part of the thigh, with the patient lying
      supine. Then, with the patient in the prone position the popliteal vein down to its
      trifurcation is evaluated. The calf veins are evaluated with the patient sitting with his/her
      legs hanging over the edge of the bed. Starting from the most proximal venous segments
      downwards, the anterior, posterior tibial and peroneal veins are visualized along their
      length, employing augmentation maneuvers (manual squeezing of the distal calf or of the foot)
      to enhance vessel visualization. The same approach is used to image the muscular veins. The
      only criterion to adjudicate a thrombosis involving the proximal system and the tibial and
      peroneal veins is the finding of a non compressible venous segment. As for the muscular
      veins, criteria for abnormal testing are incompressibility or the lack of spontaneous
      intraluminal color filling or reverse-flow color filling after augmentation maneuvers. All
      tests are performed by highly skilled physicians.

      Follow-up All patients with an initial normal workup are discouraged from receiving
      antithrombotic drugs, and are scheduled for a clinical evaluation at three months. They are
      instructed to immediately contact the study centers should symptoms of venous thromboembolism
      become manifest in the meantime. In this case they undergo instrumental testing to confirm or
      refute the presence of the disease. Patients failing to attend the scheduled visit are
      contacted by telephone to assess their status, and invited to attend a clinical evaluation at
      the study centre.

      Outcomes The primary outcomes of the study are: (1) the prevalence and location of venous
      thrombosis as shown by the initial diagnostic workup; (2) the rate of symptomatic venous
      thromboembolic events (including proximal vein thrombosis, isolated thrombosis of the tibial
      or peroneal veins in either leg, and pulmonary embolism) during three months of follow up in
      patients with an initially normal diagnostic workup. All suspected events are to be
      objectively evaluated as follows: ipsilateral or contralateral deep vein thrombosis is ruled
      in by abnormal compression ultrasonography or by the finding of an intraluminal filling
      defect on ascending venography, visible on two different projections; suspected pulmonary
      embolism is confirmed by an abnormal spiral computed tomography of the lung, by a high
      probability ventilation-perfusion lung scan, or by an abnormal pulmonary angiography. Fatal
      pulmonary embolism is adjudicated on the findings of autopsy, in case of sudden and otherwise
      inexplicable death, or on clinical grounds according to the opinion of an independent
      physician.

      An independent and blind committee adjudicates all suspected thromboembolic events and all
      deaths occurring during the follow up based on all relevant documents and footage.
    
  