
    
      Background:

        -  Local recurrences of rectal cancer are morbid and difficult to manage effectively.

        -  Colorectal cancers frequently harbor RAS mutations and EGF/EGFR over-expression.

        -  AZD6244 is an orally available selective, adenosine triphosphate uncompetitive inhibitor
           of MEK1/2 that sensitizes tumor cells to radiation in vitro and in vivo.

      Objectives:

      Primary

        -  To define the maximum tolerable dose of AZD6244 Hyd-Sulfate delivered BID, 7 days per
           week, in combination with radiation therapy (RT) and Capecitabine in patients with
           locally advanced adenocarcinoma of the rectum without distant metastases.

        -  To define the dose-limiting toxicities and toxicity profile associated with
           administration of AZD6244 Hyd-Sulfate delivered BID, 7 days per week in combination with
           RT and Capecitabine

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of AZD6244 delivered alone and in combination with
           Capecitabine 825 mg/m(2) PO BID.

        -  To obtain exploratory information regarding the pathologic response rate obtained after
           treatment with the MTD of AZD6244 Hyd-Sulfate in combination with Capecitabine and 50.4
           Gy of RT.

        -  To determine if changes in phosphorylated ERK (pERK) in peripheral blood mononuclear
           cells correlates to changes in pERK in rectal tumors in the setting of treatment with
           AZD6244.

        -  To perform an exploratory analysis to determine if the presence of activating mutations
           in RAS or BRAF in tumor or changes in plasma transforming growth factor-alpha (TGFalpha)
           levels and tumor pERK/total ERK with AZD6244 treatment alone and after AZD6244 in
           combination with Capecitabine and RT predicts for down staging or pathologic response.

      Eligibility:

        -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed locally advanced, non-metastatic
           adenocarcinoma of the rectum (clinical stage T3AnyN, T4AnyN, or AnyTN+).

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years.

        -  ECOG performance status less than or equal to 2.

        -  Normal organ and marrow function.

      Design:

        -  All patients will receive 50.4 Gy of RT to the pelvis and rectal tumor delivered
           concurrently with Capecitabine and AZD6244. AZD6244 will be delivered BID daily, 7 days
           per week, in a dose escalated fashion. AZD6244 will begin one week prior to Capecitabine
           and RT and will conclude on the last day of Capecitabine and RT.

        -  Capecitabine will be delivered at 825 mg/m(2) PO every 12 hours, 5 days per week,
           starting on the first day of RT and continuing until the last day of RT.

        -  Biopsies of tumor tissue will be obtained prior to treatment, after one week of AZD6244,
           and after one week of AZD6244, RT, and Capecitabine for correlative assays.
    
  