
    
      Obesity is dramatically increasing in countries with so called western Lifestyle, whereby
      juveniles are affected in particular. Atherosclerosis, a major consequence of obesity, starts
      early in life and results in cardiovascular disease and stroke, the main causes of mortality
      in industrialized countries. STYJOBS / EDECTA is a prospective, observational study to
      improve the understanding of obesity associated pathologic conditions by investigation of the
      "non-biased" early phase.

      We aim

      To identify "individual metabolic high risk patterns" in obesity by linking lab parameters
      (adipokines, immune-inflammatory mediators, oxidative "stress" biomarkers, lipoproteins,
      molecular genetics, epigenetics), individual adipose tissue topography, early vascular
      damage, life style habits, and clinical data.

      The STYJOBS/EDECTA-Database comprehends currently data from 1325 subjects.For each proband
      282 variables are available (Clinical, anthropometric, carotis IMT, 82;
      Laboratory/Biomarkers, 100; Glucose metabolism, liver, kidney function, lipids,
      oxidative/nitrosative stress, adipokines, gut-brain axis, clotting, Genetic/mitochondrial
      function/miscellaneous,100), and the results of an early interventional trial by a holistic
      strategy.

      To establish a comprehensive biobank. The STYJOBS/EDECTA-biomaterial resource comprises
      serum/plasma/DNA left over probes from currently 1256 probands.

      EDECTA (Early DEteCTion of Atherosclerosis) extends the STYJOBS Database and Bioresource with
      normal weight and obese probands aged up to 80 years.

      To improve the understanding of craving and addiction like behaviour in obesity (e.g.link
      insulin resistance - control of hedonic inputs).

      Thus, the STYJOBS / EDECTA resource comprises in extendo data and biomaterial specimen from
      subjects afflicted with the preclinical phase of major sequels of obesity such as insulin
      resistance, cardiovascular disease, and probably also certain sorts of cancer.

      To further improve the understanding of dysbalanced energy expenditure in obesity
      mitochondrial haplotypes are investigated in cooperation with Dr.Weghuber, Dr.Eder and
      Prof.Sperl from the Salzburg Paracelsus Private Medical School. All genetic and epigenetic
      measurements are performed by an anonymous approach (data privacy protection) after careful
      accreditation by the local ethical committee.

      The investigative spectrum of STYJOBS / EDECTA is also extended to underweight/anorectic
      people. This condition is an attractive biologic "counterpart" to the overweight/obese group.
      Extremely underweight and anorectic patients are afflicted with profound metabolic
      abnormalities. Thus, it is interesting to investigate anorexia associated risk profiles in
      comparison to those found in overweight/obese people. Especially the craving like behaviour
      and the cardiovascular/"ox"Stress risk will be focused in our investigations.

      Further, we investigate the role of tryptophan (TRP) metabolism in context with obesity,
      immune-mediated inflammation, skewing of T helper cells and mechanisms underlying
      uncontrolled overeating.
    
  