
    
      Objective

      • To assess the usefulness of general anesthesia with Laryngeal Mask Airway (LMA)-Classic for
      the endovascular treatment of cerebral aneurysms based on cardiovascular stability analysis
      Data collection Anesthetic protocol was standardized for all patients consisting of an
      intravenous induction with fentanyl (1-2 μg/kg), lidocaine (1.5 mg/kg), propofol (2 mg/kg),
      and dexamethasone (8 mg) followed by the insertion of the LMA-Classic. Sevoflurane with a
      minimal alveolar concentration (MAC) between 0.9 and 1.1%, dipyrone (2 gr IV), and morphine
      (0.05 mg/kg IV) were used during maintenance. Tidal volume (VT) and respiratory rate (RR)
      were adjusted to 7 ml/Kg and 12-14 per minute respectively. Non-invasive hemodynamic
      monitoring included mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR), oxygen saturation, and
      end-tidal carbon dioxide (ETCO2).

      Data was collected within six time points: Time point 1: before induction, Time point 2:
      after induction, Time point 3: after LMA-Classic insertion, Time point 4: during the
      endovascular procedure, Time point 5: during coiling, and Time point 6: at the end of the
      procedure and LMA-Classic removal.

      The following demographic and clinical data were collected: age, gender, American Society of
      Anesthesiologists Physical Status (ASA-PS), total procedure time, comorbidities, aneurysm
      location, and associated clinical manifestations. Adverse events, such as intraoperative
      aneurysm rupture or need for endotracheal intubation, will be recorded.

      Ethical considerations Approvals were obtained from the ethics committees at Antioquia
      University and Especialidades Médicas Metropolitanas Sociedad Anónima (EMMSA) Clinic.
      Patients signed an informed consent and confidentiality agreement before participating.

      Statistical analysis Data was collected in an excel spreadsheet (Microsoft Excel 2010®), SAS
      9.4 (SAS Institute, Cary, N.C.) was used for subsequent analysis. Continuous variables were
      summarized as means and standard deviations (SD). Categorical variables were summarized as
      frequencies and percentages. Linear mixed models were fit to model continuous clinical
      variables over time using contrasts to test differences between time points. P-values less
      than 0.05 were considered to be statistically significant.
    
  