
    
      The CFSAT program provides training on everyday tasks critical to independent living (e.g.,
      financial and medication management). The program currently includes six domain simulations
      critical to independent living: ATM Banking/Financial Management, Online Banking,
      Prescription Refill via Voice Menu, Kiosk Ticket Purchase, Online Shopping (and prescription
      refill), and Medication Management. The simulations are in a multi-media format and include
      graphic representations, voice and text. In the assessment component each of the six task
      domains includes subtasks that graduate in difficulty (e.g., check savings account balance,
      transfer money between accounts). The training component is designed to: 1) be consistent
      with adaptive training models of learning (tailored to the individual's skills); 2) adhere to
      current training guidelines for older adults, 3) identify the current levels of an
      individual's ability on the task with Item response theory strategies; 4) use
      dynamic-titration feedback from immediate task performance to adjust task difficulty to
      optimize training potential; and 5) provide immediate feedback and graduated instruction
      following errors, followed by repetition of the previously failed item. Performance metrics
      are captured in real time and include measures of accuracy and efficiency.

      The proposed research will involve two phases and will be conducted at two locations: South
      Florida and New York City. Inclusion of two locations will allow us to expand the diversity
      of our sample and the generalizability of the findings across different regions of the U.S.
      Phase I will focus on validation of the 3rd alternative form of the fixed difficulty
      assessment tasks (form C); refinement of tasks to improve the graphical representations,
      enhance the difficulty level of the subtasks (based on findings from Phase 1), and ensure
      currency of the tasks; and usability testing of the refined tasks using a user-centered
      design approach. Data collection for Phase 1 will involve a sample of 24 older adults (8
      non-impaired older adults aged 60+ (4 per site) and 16 with MCI aged 60+ (8 per site) (4
      Spanish speaking in each group) and will take place in laboratory space at i-Function and a
      community location in NYC. The usability testing will occur on one day and involve
      approximately 2 hours. In Phase 1 the investigators will also develop browser-based version
      of the CFSAT program so that it can be launched from web browsers such as Google Chrome or
      Safari. This will greatly enhance the flexibility of the program, as the investigators will
      be able to launch the program from a variety of settings including the home. This is also a
      critical step for commercialization and direct to consumer sales.

      Phase 2 will involve a multi-site trial to gather continued data on the efficacy of the CFSAT
      training with respect to functional gains and additional data on the usability, and
      acceptability of the program. The investigators will also gather data on: optimal training
      dosage; near and far transfer of training and environmental transfer of training (actual
      performance in the real world on the tasks trained by the program as tracked by the EMA
      protocol); the maintenance of training gains over time; the need for booster training; and
      adherence to home-based training protocols for those with MCI and non-impaired older adults
      (NC). In addition, the investigators will examine if computer-based cognitive training (CT)
      provides a priming effect that further enhances the benefits of the CFSAT training program
      for those with MCI.
    
  