
    
      Excessive weight gain among young adult women age 18-35 years is an alarming and overlooked
      trend that must be addressed to reverse the epidemics of obesity and chronic disease. During
      this vulnerable period women tend to gain disproportionally large amounts of weight compared
      to men and other life periods. A lifestyle modification intervention (HEALTH) that prevented
      weight gain, promoted sustained weight loss, and reduced waist circumference was developed in
      partnership with Parents as Teachers (PAT), a national home visiting, community based
      organization with significant reach in this population. PAT provides parent-child education
      and services free-of-charge to nearly 170,000 families through up to 25 free home visits per
      year until the child enters kindergarten. This study will extend these findings with a
      pragmatic cluster randomized controlled trial to evaluate dissemination and implementation of
      HEALTH across three levels (mother, parent educator, PAT site) to achieve widespread impact.
      The pragmatic cluster randomized controlled trial will evaluate HEALTH and the HEALTH
      training curriculum (implementation strategy) on weight among mothers with overweight and
      obesity across the US (N= 252 HEALTH; N= 252 usual care). Parent educators from 28 existing
      PAT sites (14 HEALTH, 14 usual care) will receive the HEALTH training curriculum through the
      PAT National Center, using PAT's existing training infrastructure, as a continuing education
      opportunity. An extensive evaluation, guided by RE-AIM (Reach, Efficacy, Adoption,
      Implementation, and Maintenance) will determine implementation outcomes (acceptability,
      adoption, appropriateness, feasibility, fidelity, and adaptation) at the parent educator
      level. The Conceptual Framework for Implementation research will characterize determinants
      that influence HEALTH dissemination and implementation at three levels: mother, parent
      educator, PAT site to enhance external validity (reach and maintenance) and population level
      impact. The findings from this innovative study will have significant potential to help
      reverse the trend of excessive weight gain among young adult women, a critical priority
      target in battling the epidemics of obesity and chronic disease, by reaching women with an
      evidence-based intervention nation-wide.
    
  