
    
      The outcomes of interest (AESI, other AE leading to hospitalisation or death, and meningitis)
      as well as data on malaria morbidity and mortality will be captured through active and
      enhanced hospitalisation surveillance in children less than (<) 5 years of age. Children
      enrolled in active surveillance will be visited at their home at regular intervals during a
      period of 44 months. In addition to the home visits, all visits and hospitalisations to
      health care facilities will be recorded during this period. Thereafter there will be
      continuous monitoring of hospitalisations only; up to study end or up to the day the child
      reaches 5 years of age, whichever occurs first. For all children enrolled in enhanced
      hospitalisation surveillance, all hospitalisation events will be captured during the total
      study period. The protocol summary has been updated with protocol amendment 4 (dated
      11-Dec-2015) information:

      Rationale for amendment 3:

        -  Participant recruitment has been modified: approximately 20,000 children will be
           enrolled in the active surveillance in the 6-12 weeks group (identified at first
           administration of DTP/HepB/Hib vaccine), to mimic administration of RTS,S/AS01E in the
           6-12 weeks age group, and 20,000 children in the 5-17 months group (either selected
           children identified at first administration of DTP/HepB/Hib vaccine, or children aged 5
           to <18 months and corresponding to a catch-up), to mimic administration of RTS,S/AS01E
           in the 5-17 months age group.

        -  The term "passive surveillance" has been replaced by the term "enhanced hospitalisation
           surveillance".

        -  The case definitions, ascertainment and laboratory investigation (including to determine
           aetiology) for meningitis cases have been clarified. The objectives and outcomes related
           to meningitis have been modified accordingly.

        -  Case ascertainment for AESI has been clarified.

        -  It was clarified that blood sampling is to be performed as per study procedures in case
           of AESI or meningitis. In case of neurological AESI or meningitis, if a cerebrospinal
           fluid (CSF) sample is taken as part of routine practice, part of the sample will be
           stored. Only serious adverse events related to blood sampling will be collected.

        -  Limitations due to the sample size and the study design have been further discussed.

        -  For clarity, consistency and comparability in the objectives, outcomes and
           methodologies, protocol amendment 3 text has been aligned in EPI-MALARIA-002 (115055)
           with the EPI-MALARIA-003 (115056) protocol.

      Rationale for amendment 4:

        -  The background section has been updated with data about cerebral malaria from a post-hoc
           analysis of the Phase III study MALARIA-055.

        -  Additional secondary objectives have been added for estimation of probable meningitis
           and for estimation of the incidence of cerebral malaria using RDT and/or microscopy.

        -  The design and the analysis have been modified to take into account implementation of a
           4th dose of RTS,S/AS01E. In addition, the follow-up period after the last dose has been
           extended to correspond to the follow-up period of the children enrolled in EPI-MAL-003
           (i.e. 24 months after the 4th dose of RTS,S/AS01E). Indeed, home visits at 12 months and
           24 months after the last RTS,S/AS01E dose will help to capture protocol-defined diseases
           that may have long risk window periods and that may not have been identified if the
           subject did not visit a health care facility, and to monitor the occurrence of malaria
           episodes for evaluation of vaccine effect. The age of the study population has been
           adapted accordingly (< 5 years).

        -  The section about sites participating to the study was updated following SAGE/MPAC
           recommendations of pilot implementations of RTS,S/AS01E in 3-5 distinct settings in SSA
           restricted to moderate-to-high transmission of malaria.

        -  The activities related to home visits to detect malaria cases, including training of
           community health workers for systematic measurement of body temperature of all children,
           and availability of malaria tests have been clarified for alignment with the EPI-MAL-003
           protocol.

        -  It has been clarified that cases of malaria only detected during the annual visits
           planned for EPI-MAL-005 will not be included in the analysis of EPI-MAL-002. However, if
           the cases of malaria are detected during an EPI-MAL-005 home visit that coincides with a
           home visit scheduled in EPI-MAL-002, the events will be captured in EPI-MAL-002.

        -  The case definitions for malaria have been revised, according to the 3rd edition of the
           WHO guidelines for the treatment of malaria (2015). In addition, a case definition for
           cerebral malaria has been added.

        -  Case ascertainment by the external panel of experts has been clarified.

        -  It has been clarified that severe/cerebral malaria cases and other AE leading to
           hospitalisation or death will be reviewed by the external panel of experts.

        -  The incidence of other AE leading to hospitalisation or death, meningitis and malaria
           morbidity and mortality will be monitored in sub-populations of children with
           hemoglobinopathies and HIV-positive children.

        -  The section about analysis of co-primary objectives has been revised to mention that
           additional at risk periods will be considered based on results as sensitivity analyses.

        -  The section about analysis of secondary objectives has been revised for clarification of
           potential variables that may be considered for models, in line with information
           collected in eCRF, and for estimation of the incidence of cerebral malaria.

        -  It has been clarified that an interim analysis will be performed with the data collected
           on all subjects after 6 months of follow-up following the administration of dose 3 of
           DTP/HepB/Hib vaccine (6-12 weeks group), or 6 months after V3 (5-17 months group).

        -  The section about handling of missing data has been revised.

        -  It has been clarified that data about seasonal malaria chemoprevention will be
           collected.

      Other changes were made for simplification, clarification or consistency.

      Rationale for amendment 5:

        -  In order to have a synergy with the WHO pilot implementation, the study size was reduced
           from 40,000 to 30,000 children in active surveillance with at least 20,000 children
           enrolled where the RTS,S/AS01E vaccine will be implemented. Among the 30,000 children,
           approximately 15,000 children (with at least 10,000 children in sites where the vaccine
           will be implemented) will be enrolled in the 6-12 weeks group (to collect background
           data in this age group) and approximately 15,000 children (with at least 10,000 children
           in sites where the vaccine will be implemented) will be enrolled in the 5-17 months
           group (to mimic administration of RTS,S/AS01E in the 5-17 months age group). Study size
           updates involved multiple sections, e.g. Section 9.1 Study Design and Section 9.5 Study
           size.

        -  For multiple sections: the number of countries and number of study sites has been
           updated following the WHO announcement that the RTS,S/AS01E vaccine will be first
           introduced in 3 countries (Ghana, Kenya and Malawi) through the MVIP.

        -  For multiple sections: estimation of the mortality rate, overall and by gender, has been
           added.

        -  For multiple sections: the informed consent process has been clarified "signed or
           witnessed and thumbprinted ICF".

        -  For multiple sections: "or equivalent surveillance system" has been added after Health
           and Demographic Surveillance System (HDSS) and the term "study site(s)" or "study area"
           has been added.

        -  For multiple sections: the replacement strategy has been updated.

        -  For multiple sections: the duration of the recruitment period has been removed, as it
           could/cannot be respected in all sites due to logistical constraints.

        -  For multiple sections: it was clarified that census rounds are scheduled at least once a
           year during the study periods instead of twice a year.

        -  The milestones in Section 6 have been updated.

        -  New sub-sections on "Severe malaria including cerebral malaria" and "Overall mortality
           by gender" have been added to Section 7.2 Safety results of the clinical development of
           RTS,S/AS01E.

        -  The wording of "secondary objectives" on "describe the causes of hospitalisation" and
           "estimate the incidence of cerebral malaria" has been changed, and the secondary
           objective "To describe the causes of death, overall and by gender" has been added in
           Section 8.2 and in the corresponding part of Section 4 Abstract.

        -  The opening paragraph of Section 8.2 Secondary Objectives and of the corresponding part
           of Section 4 Abstract has been updated.

        -  The wording of the last two "study variables" / "study endpoints" on "Occurrence of
           hospitalisations" and "Occurrence of death" has been modified in Section 9.3.2 and in
           the corresponding part of Section 4 Abstract.

        -  In Section 9.2.1 Study population: the text on "Estimated annual birth cohorts by study
           site" (Table 2) has been removed, with removal of planned number of sites in selected
           countries.

        -  Section 9.2.5.3 Meningitis has been edited, including addition of a new opening
           paragraph, addition of "turbid macroscopic aspect" as a sign of CSF abnormality, and
           clarification that clinically suspected meningitis cases included subjects with no CSF
           sample available and no alternative diagnosis.

        -  For consistency between the way the objectives and the endpoints are presented, and to
           avoid repeating several endpoints, the two sub-sections in Section 9.3.2 Secondary
           endpoints: "In children included in active or enhanced hospitalisation surveillance,
           prior to implementation of RTS,S/AS01E" and "In children included in active
           surveillance, prior to implementation of RTS,S/AS01E" have been replaced by one
           sub-section: "In children living in the study area, prior to implementation of
           RTS,S/AS01E", followed by all the secondary endpoints.

        -  In Section 9.4.3 Study EPI-MAL-005 "changes in environmental factors such as rainfall"
           has been added to the parameters assessed in EPI-MAL-005.

        -  Section 9.5 Study size has been updated as shown in bullet 1 above with greater detail
           on the estimates of observed incidence of events following dose administration based on
           either: 15,000 subjects, 10,000 subjects, the estimated birth cohort of 11,500 subjects
           and an estimated birth cohort of 17,250 children in Tables 6-9.

        -  Section 9.7.6 Analysis of secondary safety objectives has been updated, including
           analysis of cerebral malaria of the causes of death, overall and by gender.

      Finally, changes in study personnel have been included on the protocol cover page

      Rationale for amendment 6

      Protocol Amendment 6 has been put in place to document that the EPI-MAL-002 study sites in
      Burkina Faso will early terminate the study and that sites in Malawi, one of the countries
      where RTS,S/AS01E will be introduced through the MVIP will not take part in the study.

      GSK, in agreement with WHO, decided to terminate the study EPI-MAL-002 in the two sites
      located in Burkina Faso, i.e. Nouna and Sapone. Briefly, it was previously decided that
      Burkina Faso sites would continue participating in EPI-MAL-002 until study end. However,
      given that the MVIP will not be conducted in this country, there is no scientific value to
      collect additional data (the EPI-MAL-002 data collected in Burkina Faso will neither be used
      for the before-after analyses, nor for the generation of EPI-MAL-002 indicators that inform
      any other analyses of the EPI-MAL-003 study). Therefore, the study EPI-MAL-002 in Burkina
      Faso sites has been early terminated and data collected and recorded to date in those sites
      will be reported in a descriptive way.

      In order to align with the MVIP, the study sites for the GSK Phase IV studies have been
      selected from the 3 countries where the RTS,S/AS01E vaccine will be implemented (Ghana, Kenya
      and Malawi). Considering the RTS,S/AS01E vaccine implementation date in Malawi was planned in
      October 2018, the baseline data that might be collected in Malawi in the EPI-MAL-002 study
      would be too limited to be relevant for the before/after comparisons in this country.
      Therefore, GSK, in agreement with the WHO, decided to focus the conduct of the EPI-MAL-002
      study in Ghana and Kenya, not initiating the study in Malawi, and partially compensating the
      expected sample size from Malawi sites by using the high recruitment observed from sites in
      Kenya (Kombewa) and Ghana (Kintampo) and extending recruitment in Ghana (Navrongo), hence
      limiting the impact on the before/after comparison study power.
    
  