
    
      All women were followed at one referent matron-fetal medicine unit where they delivered or to
      which they were referred for abnormalities of the fetal growth. Conforming to national
      guidelines, referent ultrasound scans and longitudinal assessment of the estimated fetal
      weight (EFW) were performed depending on the EFW. Each eligible woman was given an
      information sheet concerning the study protocol.

      Fetal biometry and Doppler were performed thanks to a standardised protocol based on
      international guidelines. In all instances, ultrasound examinations were performed by one
      experienced and certified operators using an ultrasound machine (GE Voluson E8/E10, GE
      Medical Systems). EFW was calculated from head and abdominal circumferences and femur length
      using the formula of Hadlock. The reference growth curves was CFEF growth curves.

      Pulsed Doppler measurements were performed automatically, based on at least three consecutive
      waveforms, with angle of insonation as close to 0° as possible and always below 30°. A
      high-pass filter of 70 Hz was used to record low-flow velocities and to avoid artifacts. The
      Umbilical Artery (UA)-PI Doppler were measured at the placental insertion of the funicular
      cord. The Middle Cerebral Artery (MCA)-PI was obtained in a transverse view of the fetal
      head, at the level of its origin from the circle of Willis, and the cerebroplacental ratio
      (CPR) was calculated as the ratio MCA-PI / UA-PI. Aortic Isthmus (AoI)-PI was measured at the
      level of the three vessels and trachea view, placing the gate just before the convergence of
      the AoI and the arterial duct. Ductus Venosus (DV)-PI was measured in a mid-sagittal or
      transverse section of the fetal abdomen, positioning the Doppler gate at its isthmic portion.
      Participation in the study does not lead to any change in practices or additional data.

      In order to ensure the reproducibility of the data and to limit the measurement biases, we
      will perform a second reading of the Doppler to verify the application of the measurement
      protocol, especially: acquisition, Doppler spectrum and measurements. A first analysis will
      focus on the first 10 patients included per center and then, a random analysis on 10 patients
      every 100 patients included.

      Regularly, data monitoring will be made by a scientific technician to reduce missing data.

      Anonymous sonographic data were automatically extracted from the electronic patient record
      (Diamm (MICRO6 SARL) or ViewPoint (General Electric Healthcare France)) and compiled into an
      electronic case report form with demographic, maternal, obstetrical and neonatal data.
      Regular extraction will allow to test extraction pipeline and statistical test.

      Given a 10% prevalence of SGA, an expected inclusion rate with completed data of 90% and the
      number of births in the several units, a sample size of 1200 newborns was sufficient to
      identify 20% of adverse perinatal outcome.

      Quantitative variables will be described using the following parameters: mean, standard
      deviation, median, and minimum and maximum values. Qualitative variables will be described by
      the frequency and proportion of each class. The qualitative variables will be compared by
      Chi² test or Fisher exact test. Quantitative variables will be compared by a Student test or
      a Mann & Whitney test. We will focus on describing the temporal dynamics of the
      cerebro-aortic relationship.
    
  