
    
      With the rapid development of China's economy, changes in the residents' living habits and
      lifestyles, increase in dietary calorie intake, and relative decrease in physical activity,
      the prevalence of overweight and obesity in China has increased year by year. According to
      the WGOC diagnostic criteria, the prevalence of overweight and obesity in China was 31.4% and
      12.2%, respectively, by 2013. The obesity refers to the chronic metabolic disease caused by
      the combined action of both genetic and environmental factors. It refers to the weight gain
      caused by the increase of body fat volume and/or increase of the number of fat cells resulted
      from the imbalance of energy metabolism, and caloric intake exceeding the calorie
      consumption. With the prevalence of obesity in the world, the obesity-related chronic
      diseases have gradually entered the vision of the public, such as non-alcoholic fatty liver
      disease (NAFLD). The NAFLD refers to the acquired metabolic stress-induced liver injury with
      diffuse hepatocyte macrobubble fat as clinical pathological syndrome caused by well-defined
      liver damage factors other than alcohol. It is the most common cause of chronic liver disease
      in Western countries and also the leading cause for the onset of and death from liver related
      disease worldwide. The NAFLD is growing rapidly in Asian countries at younger ages. With the
      increase of obesity rate in the country, the prevalence rate of adult NAFLD in China has also
      increased rapidly, with the prevalence rate as high as 30% in some areas, and more and more
      viral hepatitis cases are combined with NAFLD. Therefore, it can be seen that the obesity not
      only seriously endangers the physical and mental health of the people, but also becomes an
      important social public health problem that causes disability, affects the quality of life
      and increases the financial burden of the state. In view of the great harms brought by the
      obesity, to find a healthy, safe and effective weight loss method has become a public concern
      and study hotspot. At present, various weight loss treatment methods are available, including
      dietary control, exercise, and medical and surgical treatment. Each method has its own
      advantages and disadvantages. The lifestyle intervention based on scientific and rational
      nutrition therapy combined with exercise is still the safest and most effective weight loss
      method.

      Various methods to lose weight are available so far, such as the dietary control, proper
      exercise, medical therapy and lately popular gastrointestinal minimally invasive surgery, and
      each method has its own advantages and disadvantages. The diet drug suppresses the appetite
      and reduces weight mainly via either central or peripheral means. In the past few decades,
      many diet drugs have been marketed, such as Phentermine and Sibutramine, etc., but they were
      soon removed from the market due to limited efficacy, various side effects and addiction,
      etc. The diet drugs have poor safety and high rebound rate, which also causes serious damage
      to the body while reducing weight. For the patients with severe obesity, existing surgical
      procedures, such as volume-limiting surgery, gastric bypass surgery, and the new therapy
      approved by the FDA in 2014 - vagus nerve block surgery, etc. are really an effective method
      to lose weight. However, for the patients with overweight and mild obesity, the long-term
      effects of surgical treatment and postoperative complications prevent them from being used as
      the preferred method for weight loss. Therefore, the lifestyle intervention based on
      scientific and rational nutrition therapy and exercise is still the safest and most effective
      weight loss method so far.

      The dietary fiber has been neglected for a period of time for being considered
      "nutrient-free", and because it is usually the oligosaccharide or polysaccharide that is
      difficult for digestion and absorption to provide energy to the body. But now more and more
      studies have shown that dietary fiber is beneficial to intestinal health of human body. The
      fermented products from dietary fiber, such as short-chain fatty acids (SCFA), can prevent
      the obesity by regulating appetite, increasing anorexia hormone level and increasing energy
      consumption, and the addition of soluble dietary fiber to the diet can improve the
      anthropometric measurements in the overweight or obese patients, and help reduce BMI, the
      fat, and fasting blood glucose and fasting insulin levels.

      The microbial diversity sequencing is the high-throughput sequencing of 16SrDNA hypervariable
      region of sample bacteria using the new-generation high-throughput sequencing technology
      (NGS), which is designated to reveal the diversity and structural composition of microbial
      communities and explore the relationship between the microorganisms and the hosts, so as to
      provide a theoretical basis for follow-up disease diagnosis and development of microbial
      resources.

      The transient elastography (TE) FibroTouch reflects the degree of hepatic steatosis by
      measuring the ultrasound attenuation parameters (UAP) of the liver. It is non-invasive,
      simple, fast, easily operable, repeatable, safe and well tolerable.

      The aim of this study is to explore the effects of dietary intervention on the figure, fatty
      liver and biochemical indexes; the intestinal flora and metabolomics of the overweight and
      obese patients.

      This study was a clinical control and self-control study (before and after), which enrolled
      12 patients with simple overweight or obesity, including 9 males and 3 females. In addition,
      20 patients with simple overweight or obesity were randomly selected by comparable age and
      gender to the control group (excluding criteria), including 11 males and 9 females, and
      another 20 healthy people were recruited to the healthy control group from the Physical
      Examination Center, Qilu Hospital of Shandong University. Study methods include clinical data
      collection, FibroTouch detection, stool test, measurement of serum biochemical indicators and
      analysis of the composition of immune cells in peripheral blood.
    
  