
    
      Parkinson's disease is a common neurodegenerative disorder touching 1.5% of the general
      population over 60 year-old and featuring impaired mobility with high impact on daily living
      and quality of life of the patients and their caregivers. Fourty percent of the patients with
      Parkinson's disease (PD) report inconstant, prominent, spontaneous, transitory improvement in
      mobility occurring on morning awakening, before taking their first morning dose of
      dopaminergic medications. This apparently unpredictable, highly variable, sleep-related
      phenomenon has been named "Sleep Benefit" (SB) by the scientists.

      SB is a promising track to follow to develop novel therapeutic strategies for motor symptoms
      in PD. An innovative approach could be to induce modifications of mobility by influencing
      sleep regulation in PD patients in experimental settings.

      Sleep propensity and timing depend on the coordinated interaction of the duration of
      preceding wakefulness (homeostatic component) and on a circadian signal (circadian
      component). Reciprocal interactions between homeostatic and circadian processes preside to
      internal synchrony of many physiological processes. We hypothesize SB to depend on
      serendipitous optimal synchronization between circadian and homeostatic process on morning
      awakening. As SB shows high day-to-day, inter- and intra-subject variability, studying SB
      requires multiple, repeated assessment of mobility during several days. A home-based
      experimental setting would be optimal for this purpose in terms of cost-effectiveness and
      acceptability by the patients. Moreover, considering that the range and nature of SB has not
      been well characterized so far, and that the amplitude of its variability is unknown, a
      reliable, observer- and situation-independent, reproducible assessment method of SB is a
      pivotal requirement for further research in this area.

      A recently developed technique associating machine-learning algorithms with wireless wearable
      sensors (accelerometers and gyroscopes) and software applications might be particularly
      promising to characterize the complexity and multiplicity of SB in PD. Thanks to this
      technique, repeated, multiple assessments of mobility can be performed at patients' home
      without the constant presence of an investigator.

      The working hypothesis of this study is that motor performance in PD patients improves on
      morning awakening when optimal synchrony between circadian and homeostatic regulation of
      sleep occurs. As first step, we envision to set up a home-based and technology-assisted
      methodology and to verify its scientific, technological and logistic feasibility.

      The study will involve four work packages, for each of which specific endpoints are defined:

      WP1: Definition of the logistics, setting, practices of the study procedures for home
      assessment;

      WP2: Technological setup of:

        -  IMU wearable sensors

        -  SleepFit software application development

        -  light therapy (included sham light therapy)

        -  home polysomnography

        -  chronobiological assessments (distal-proximal skin body temperature gradient; Dim Light
           Melatonin Onset (DLMO) from salivary specimens;

      Two work packages (3 and 4) will require patients inclusion and interventions on patients:

      WP3: Validation of mobility assessment by wearable sensors: accuracy of machine learning
      algorithm to predict patients' motor status based on the MDS-UPDRS-III total score and on the
      3.14 item (global clinical impression of mobility);

      WP4: Testing in real-life conditions at patients' home in a small group of subjects.
    
  