
    
      The present study is designed primarily to compare continuation rates after three months of
      use of NuvaRing® and OrthoEvra® in women who had been previously using oral contraceptives.
      The study attempts to evaluate the possible choices for women who are content with their
      current or recent method of oral combined hormonal contraception but would be considering a
      change in their method to a non-daily delivery system. Continuation rates should demonstrate
      the overall acceptance of both methods as women who find that the method is convenient and
      has few side effects are likely to continue using the method. Sexual functioning is another
      important aspect to investigate. The Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI) will be administered
      to participants along with the planned study questionnaires at the enrollment visit and at
      the final visit. Additionally, this study will compare side effects, the incidence of
      bacterial vaginosis, and direct measures of acceptability between the two groups. Efficacy
      over the three-month study period will also be evaluated; however, since both methods are
      highly effective and the study is relatively short in duration, the study is not designed to
      be large enough to detect any differences in efficacy.

      This open-label, prospective, multicenter, randomized comparative trial will be conducted in
      approximately 500 women in the United States who are currently or recently have used a
      combined oral contraceptive and have no past experience using NuvaRing® or OrthoEvra®.
      Subjects will be enrolled once they have provided informed consent, had a baseline blood
      pressure and breast and pelvic examinations, and had negative endocervical testing for
      gonorrhea and chlamydia. Participants will be randomized to use either NuvaRing® or
      OrthoEvra® for four continuous cycles beginning with the first day of menses following the
      enrollment visit. Subjects are to contact the research office by phone to confirm that they
      initiated the method as instructed. The researchers will contact subjects during the second
      week of the second cycle of study medication. A final visit will occur during the first week
      of the fourth cycle of study medication (or sooner if the subject requires or requests early
      discontinuation). An acceptability questionnaire will be administered at the subject's final
      visit. This questionnaire has been modified from a questionnaire validated in women using
      NuvaRing®.
    
  