
    
      In recent years, countless studies have employed functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI)
      and other imaging modalities to both discover and track activity in brain regions involved in
      performance or behavior in a wide range of tasks. Running in parallel, research involving
      neuromodulation has afforded researchers the opportunity to test the impact of direct
      stimulation on areas hypothesized to be involved in certain processes or behaviors. One such
      technology is transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS).

      TMS can be performed during any sort of cognitive or behavioral task to estimate an effect of
      the stimulated brain area; as such, TMS has an exciting array of potential applications in
      research. One area, for example, is cost-benefit decision-making. Because of the potential
      biases associated with self-report measures-including simple recall errors,
      misinterpretations of the item, and social-conformity pressures-a number of psychological
      laboratories have advocated for the use of decision-making tasks as an alternative means of
      assessing motivation and reward-related symptoms. Such tasks ask individuals to chose how
      much they are willing to work, wait or risk in order to win various rewards. These measures
      have been used in a variety of behavioral and neuroimaging studies and in different clinical
      populations.

      This study will use TMS in combination with a series of behavioral tasks to probe the
      relationship between areas known or hypothesized to be involved in cognition and/or
      cost-benefit decision-making, and performance on these tasks. The aim of this study is to
      understand the effect of TMS stimulation of certain brain areas on performance in a series of
      cognition- and decision-based behavioral tasks. To do so, the researchers will stimulate
      areas of the cortex hypothesized to be selectively engaged with cognition of a given
      category, or cost-benefit decision-making (depending on the behavioral tasks used). This
      study will examine healthy controls and depressed patients to investigate these effects. Such
      an aim will not only provide a deeper understanding of decision-making for basic research,
      but will also hopefully inform understanding when decision-making is altered as in
      psychiatric populations.
    
  