
    
      1. Purpose:

           To evaluate if routine pre-medication with the anti-emetic ondansetron reduces
           methotrexate intolerance and increases the proportion of children with JIA able to
           continue taking methotrexate, resulting in a better quality of life and more
           cost-effective medication use.

        2. Hypothesis:

           Prophylactic prescription of ondansetron with methotrexate will increase the proportion
           of children that remain on methotrexate and intolerance free one year after starting
           methotrexate, relative to prescription of ondansetron after intolerance symptoms
           develop.

        3. Justification:

           Methotrexate intolerance is thought to be largely the result of Pavlovian conditioning
           secondary to previous exposure and symptoms can be triggered by associated stimuli, such
           as a yellow liquid similar in color to methotrexate or the smell of alcohol cleansing
           swabs. This intolerance leads to poor adherence to optimal dosing or to stopping the
           medication altogether. Children who cannot adhere to optimal dosing or stop methotrexate
           may require expensive biologic medications to control their JIA. Methotrexate
           intolerance often leads to use of anti-emetic medications which, unfortunately, rarely
           reverse conditioned responses. In oncology anti-emetics are used prophylactically as
           premedication in all subjects receiving chemotherapy to prevent the establishment of
           conditioned intolerance.

           By conducting a registry-based pragmatic adaptive superiority randomized clinical trial
           we can include most subjects in whom the treatment may be used under the usual
           conditions of practice to demonstrate effectiveness under real word circumstances.
           Patients enrolled in a pragmatic trial are more representative because eligibility
           criteria are less strict. More so, a registry-based pragmatic RCT can also be much
           cheaper than a traditional RCT.

        4. Objectives:

      We will assign patients starting low-dose methotrexate for JIA 1:1 online using the CAPRI
      Registry and block randomization by centre, patient weight and JIA category to one of two
      groups:

      Intervention: Routine premedication with oral ondansetron (2, 4 or 8 mg for patient weights
      <15Kg, 15-30Kg, >30 Kg; 3 doses a week).

      Control: Oral ondansetron at the same dosing, prescribed only to those patients who develop
      methotrexate-induced nausea/vomiting during usual care.

      We will compare:

        1. The proportions of patients remaining on methotrexate with no intolerance between the
           two groups one year after starting methotrexate (primary objective).

        2. The cumulative incidence of:

             1. methotrexate intolerance

             2. attainment of inactive disease

             3. biologic medication initiation

        3. The mean quality of life scores and methotrexate intolerance severity scores between the
           two groups 4-8 months after starting methotrexate.

      We will also collect information on impacts on quality of life and medication utilization
      that will enable a future cost-effectiveness analysis.

      5) Research Design: Our trans-Canada team of clinicians, clinical epidemiologists, trialists
      and statisticians brings together all the necessary skills and expertise to successfully
      complete the proposed trial.

      We will conduct a CAPRI JIA Registry-based pragmatic adaptive superiority RCT as per the
      following methods.

      Registry-based: The trial will use infrastructure already in place for the CAPRI JIA
      Registry.

      Pragmatic: Broad inclusion criteria and simple outcome assessments compatible with usual
      care.

      Adaptive: This is a Planned Sample-Size Re-Estimation Adaptive Trial as described by Bhatt &
      Metha [34].

      Superiority: Designed to test superiority (as opposed to non-inferiority) of ondansetron
      premedication.

      RCT: Treatments assigned by block randomization and analyses adjusted for post-randomization
      imbalances

      6) Statistical Analysis: Our primary outcome statistic is the ratio of two proportions
      (relative risk, RR), the proportion of children remaining on methotrexate with no intolerance
      in the intervention group divided by the same in the control group. This choice allows
      flexibility for the frequency of follow-up visits to be set-up as per clinical need,
      obviating the need for study-specific visits, increasing feasibility and decreasing costs. It
      is also not impacted by the times at which methotrexate intolerance or discontinuation occur
      which leads to simplicity in interpretation and analysis.

      Our sample size calculation is based on expressing the RR in the log scale and using
      established formulas for standard errors. With p<0.05, power of 90% and expected methotrexate
      continuation with no intolerance of 50% in the control group and 75% in the intervention
      group the result is 79 evaluable subjects per group. We will aim to recruit 176 subjects
      total to allow for up to a 10% dropout rate, although we expect a dropout rate of <5% based
      on our previous CAPRI studies.

      A preliminary analysis after recruitment of 90 subjects will consist of a two-sided
      confidence interval (CI) for the RR of continuing on methotrexate with no intolerance, where
      the confidence level is adjusted for information accrual as per Schoenfeld.

      The Data and Safety Committee will assess preliminary results according to the following
      guidance:

      If the CI is entirely below a relative risk of 1.2, the study will be stopped for futility.

      If the CI is entirely above a relative risk of 1.2, the study will be stopped and superiority
      will be claimed.

      If the CI includes a relative risk of 1.2, the trial will continue until the re-calculated
      full target sample is attained.

      The RR of 1.2 has been selected on clinical grounds. In a prospective study of 142 children
      with JIA starting methotrexate followed for one year, Van Dijkhuizen et al reported that 59
      patients developed intolerance and 11 discontinued methotrexate for other reasons, for a
      total of 72 (50.7%) remaining on methotrexate with no intolerance. An increase in this
      proportion to <60% is deemed too small to justify the additional costs and risks of adding
      prophylactic ondansetron.

      The final analysis will be an intention to treat analysis conducted after the final sample
      size is achieved or at the time the study is stopped. All subjects enrolled in the study at
      that time will complete a one-year follow-up and will be included in the final analysis.
      Logistic regression models will be used to adjust effect estimates for post-randomization
      imbalances in the two groups (intervention, control). A secondary per-protocol analysis will
      be conducted on those subjects who received the assigned intervention for at least 3 months.
    
  