
    
      Problem: Regular exercise participation improves quality of life and physical function for
      cancer survivors. Unfortunately, the most effective way of promoting exercise to cancer
      survivors has yet to be determined, and as a result, many survivors are inactive.
      Theory-based efforts have typically focused on promoting intentions to exercise, though we
      are now discovering that only about half of those who intend to exercise actually follow
      through on their intentions. This is known as the exercise intention-behavior gap. It also
      appears that survivors are more likely to follow-through on their intention to exercise when
      they report employing key behavioral and motivational strategies (i.e., creating detailed
      exercise plans, feeling capable and obligated to exercise, perceiving it to be beneficial and
      fun, and avoiding the temptation to participate in alternative activities) which may be
      promoted via telephone counselling.

      Objective: To determine whether a theory-based telephone counselling intervention focused on
      closing the exercise intention-behavior gap is feasible and can improve exercise levels,
      motivation, quality of life, and fatigue in hematologic cancer survivors.

      Methods: A two-armed randomized controlled trial will compare the efficacy of telephone
      counselling versus a control condition (self-directed with Canada's Physical Activity Guide).
      All participants will be asked to increase their exercise by at least 60 minutes per week.
      Hematologic cancer survivors who previously participated in an exercise survey study and
      indicated interest in participating in future exercise related research (N=407) will be
      contacted to participate in the current trial. Eligible participants will be randomized in a
      1:1 ratio to either the telephone counseling group or a self-directed exercise group.
      Participants in the intervention arm will receive 12 weekly telephone counseling sessions
      aimed at helping survivors follow-through on their exercise intention. A sample of
      approximately N=66 hematologic cancer survivors will be recruited for this 12-week trial.
      Data will be collected via online surveys assessing changes in exercise levels, motivation,
      quality of life, and fatigue. Feasibility will be determined by eligibility percentage,
      recruitment percentage, adherence rate, assessment completion rate, adverse events, and
      ratings of program acceptability.
    
  