
    
      Soft tissue volume loss acquired through trauma, congenital malformation or comorbid
      conditions (i.e., HIV/AIDS) is a common and sometimes devastating problem. Traditional
      therapies include local tissue transfer, allograft placement, and complex scar revision
      techniques. Recently, autologous fat transfer has become one of the most commonly employed
      techniques for improving soft tissue contour deformity particularly for the correction of
      breast and body defects. While the results from this procedure continue to improve, it
      requires an additional procedure to harvest fat tissue from the abdomen, thigh or flank
      leading to donor site morbidity. Clinically, volume loss following autologous fat transfer
      has been reported to be between 40-60% and usually occurs within the first 4-6 months.
      Regrafting is often needed and implanted adipose tissue frequently leads to post-operative
      calcifications. For these reasons, a predictable, "off-the-shelf" material that retains the
      mechanical and biological properties of adipose tissue would be ideal for the reconstruction
      of smaller soft tissue defects and soft tissue augmentation.

      Investigators in the Elisseeff Laboratory (Johns Hopkins University Department of Biomedical
      Engineering) generated a novel tissue-derived material to create instructive matrices for
      soft tissue reconstruction [Acellular Adipose Tissue (AAT)]. In 2016, investigators conducted
      a Phase 1, open-label, clinical trial of AAT in healthy volunteers who planned to have
      elective surgery for the removal of redundant tissue (n=8). Overall, AAT demonstrated
      satisfactory safety results. No participants experienced serious adverse events (SAEs) or
      unanticipated adverse events (AEs) related to the study, or exited the study due to AEs. All
      AEs noted were expected and mild, including redness, bruising, textural changes,
      hyperpigmentation and tenderness at the injection site. Many other adverse events commonly
      associated with injections were not observed in any participant throughout the study (i.e.,
      scarring, ulceration, scabbing, purpura, oozing, crusting, blanching, blistering, edema or
      abrasions). These data indicate that conducting a phase II, dose-escalation, safety and
      efficacy study in humans is warranted. Based on investigators' experience, investigators
      hypothesize that AAT will be safe and maintain its volume up to 6 months when injected
      subcutaneously to restore 5-20cc defects in human soft tissue.
    
  