
    
      Community Supported Agriculture (CSA) is an innovative approach to increasing consumer access
      to and consumption of fresh produce, thereby lowering obesity prevalence. However, CSA
      "share" costs may be a barrier for low-income households with children. This multistate study
      examines whether subsidizing the cost of CSAs, integrated with tailored education: 1)
      increases consumption of fruits and vegetables, 2) substitutes fruits and vegetables for more
      energy-dense foods, and 3) improves overall diet quality and energy balance, thus helping
      children maintain healthy body weights. It also investigates how cost-offset CSAs ("CO-CSAs")
      contribute to local agricultural economies. Given the well-documented risk for obesity and
      limited access to fresh produce among low-income individuals, those households are the target
      of the intervention in four geographically-diverse states: Vermont, New York, North Carolina
      and Washington.

      FORMATIVE AND LONGITUDINAL RESEARCH: Qualitative and quantitative research is being used to
      inform implementation of the randomized trial, refine outcome assessment strategies, and
      provide information needed to design a tailored curriculum to enhance low-income households'
      knowledge, skills, attitudes, and behaviors related to the use of CSA produce and healthy
      eating.

      In the first year of the study, the investigators conducted interviews and focus groups with
      stakeholders to gather in-depth data related to the potential of CO-CSA operations to meet
      the needs and preferences of low-income households and the types of information that would be
      most valuable to include in the study's curriculum. Key stakeholder groups included adults
      and children from low-income households, CSA farmers, current full-paying CSA members, and
      nutrition educators.

      The investigators also are conducting a longitudinal quantitative examination of dietary
      behaviors among current CO-CSA participants in an existing statewide program in Vermont.
      Using online surveys, the investigators are measuring dietary outcomes quarterly among
      children, and biannually among adults, from low-income households in the program. Data from
      Year 1 was used to inform the intervention, while data from subsequent time points will
      provide an opportunity for analysis of longitudinal patterns.

      RANDOMIZED INTERVENTION: In the second phase of the project, the investigators will implement
      and evaluate a three-year delayed intervention randomized controlled trial of CO-CSA plus
      skill-based, CSA-tailored education in the four states. The investigators will compare
      changes in dietary behaviors, reported consumption, energy intake, and weight status
      parameters between children aged 2-12 in 120 control and 120 intervention households. Two
      hundred households were enrolled in 2016 and an additional 40 households will be enrolled in
      2017. Participant households enrolled in 2016 will receive a CO-CSA share for two seasons and
      education during their first CO-CSA season (Y1 for intervention households and Y2 for control
      households). Households enrolled in 2017 will receive a CO-CSA share and education for one
      season (Y2 for intervention households and Y3 for control households). In addition to
      outcomes with participants, investigators will conduct economic analysis to evaluate the
      impact of CO-CSA for farms and communities. While these analyses are not related to the human
      participants, they are central to the overall project goals.
    
  