
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To develop more effective ways to help both African American prostate cancer survivors
           and their intimate partners cope with the problems and challenges experienced after
           radical prostatectomy for prostate cancer.

        -  To evaluate the efficacy of a new, telephone-based, partner-assisted, coping skills
           training (CST) protocol for reducing survivor and partner disease-related and overall
           distress, addressing cancer-related strain and overall distress in survivors' intimate
           partners, and improving relationship quality between survivors and partners by enhancing
           intimacy and adjustment within the relationship.

      Secondary

        -  To identify for whom the intervention may be more or less efficacious by exploring the
           association between initial relationship functioning (i.e., dyadic adjustment scores
           reported by survivors and partners) and survivor outcomes and between initial
           relationship functioning and partner outcomes.

      OUTLINE: Survivors are stratified according to symptom severity (low vs moderate vs high) and
      clinical risk category (low vs moderate vs high). Survivor/partner dyads are randomized to 1
      of 3 intervention arms.

        -  Arm I (Partner-assisted coping skills training [PA-CST]): Survivor/partner dyads undergo
           a telephone-based, culturally sensitive PA-CST intervention in six weekly telephone
           sessions (60-minutes each) over 8 weeks, conducted by African American doctoral level
           clinical psychologists knowledgeable about prostate cancer and experienced in CST and
           cancer education. During these sessions, participants are trained in a variety of
           cognitive and behavioral skills to manage symptom-related distress and to improve their
           quality of life after prostate cancer treatment. Among these skills are strategies for
           communication (i.e., effective speaking and listening); behavioral coping methods (i.e.,
           activity pacing, applied relaxation techniques, and goal setting to increase pleasant
           activities); and skills for managing negative mood and reducing emotional stress.
           Participants also receive guidance in working cooperatively with their partners to
           improve symptom management, including joint practicing of coping skills and
           problem-solving strategies.

        -  Arm II (Cancer education): Survivor/partner dyads undergo a telephone-based, culturally
           sensitive cancer education intervention in six weekly telephone sessions (60 minutes
           each) over 8 weeks, conducted by African American doctoral level clinical psychologists
           knowledgeable about prostate cancer and experienced in CST and cancer education. During
           the sessions, participants are educated about symptoms commonly experienced after
           prostatectomy (i.e., erectile dysfunction, urinary incontinence, nutrition, bowel
           problems, and fatigue) and medical treatment options for these symptoms. Participants
           also receive written materials about these information.

        -  Arm III (Wait-list control): Survivor/partner dyads receive usual care and are placed on
           a wait-list. After completing the study, survivors and their partners have the option of
           participating in either the CST or cancer education interventions.

      All participants complete questionnaires at baseline, right after intervention (2 months),
      and 3 months after intervention (5 months). Survivors complete questionnaires over
      approximately 28 minutes to measure symptom distress/severity, depressed mood, quality of
      life, self-efficacy for symptom management, relationship quality, and coping strategies.
      Partners complete questionnaires over approximately 17 minutes to measure caregiver strain,
      depressed mood, partners' self-efficacy for symptom control, relationship quality, and coping
      strategies. At each evaluation, physicians provide ratings of illness severity, documentation
      of medical treatments for cancer and symptom management, and frequency of clinic visits for
      each survivor.
    
  