
    
      Sub study I: In an observational study, current HH compliance will be assessed in the
      participating NHs, by using direct but unobtrusive observation. The primary outcome is the
      percentage of opportunities at which HH is performed in accordance with the WHO guideline.

      Direct observation will be used as this is considered the gold standard and the most reliable
      method for assessing compliance rates. Direct observation makes it possible to examine and
      quantify the required moments for HH and assess the quality of practice.

      Strigley et al. showed that HH compliance rates were approximately threefold higher within
      eyesight of an auditor compared with when no auditor was visible. Therefore, observations
      will be performed unobtrusively to diminish the Hawthorne effect-the possibility that HCWs
      modify their HH behavior in response to the fact that they know they are being studied. At
      the beginning of each observation period, HCWs will be informed that the observers conduct
      research on patient safety errors, but not that HH is monitored. Only the director of the
      ward will be informed about the real purpose of the observations. This method of observation
      was feasible in previous projects and is currently the World Health Organisation
      (WHO)-recommended standard for evaluating HH.

      Sub study II: Barriers and facilitators in performing HH. To develop a successful HH strategy
      in NHs, information is needed on the behavioral determinants of HH compliance. In line with a
      study by Grol among doctors and nurses in hospitals and nursing homes, identified barriers
      are related to the individual HCW (e.g. not convinced of the evidence, working routines); the
      social context within the team (e.g. no mutual accountability and control, no leadership);
      and the healthcare organisation (high workload, insufficient facilities). Perceived barriers
      to adherence with HH guidelines also include skin irritation caused by HH agents,
      interference with HCWs' relationships with patients, patient needs perceived as a priority
      over HH, and the lack of scientific information showing that HH prevents cross-infection.
      Erasmus et al. found also that negative role models, poor accessibility of materials and a
      poor social culture hamper good HH. Finally, a recent Cochrane review of the effectiveness of
      'tailored' strategies gave a foundation to the assumption that strategies for change are more
      effective if they deliberately address identified barriers.

      In this study the barriers and facilitators are experienced in performing HH in Dutch NHs
      will be explored. From the literature on barriers to guideline implementation combined with a
      literature study on barriers in performing HH, a barriers questionnaire was previously
      developed and used in the Helping Hands study. To ensure that the questionnaire contains all
      possible barriers that can be experienced in the NH setting, focus group discussions with
      HCWs in NHs will be performed. Newly mentioned barriers will be included in the
      questionnaire. Next, a questionnaire study will be performed among a random sample of all
      professionals, with a minimum of 25 in the participating NH to identify the most frequently
      experienced barriers among professionals.

      Sub study III: development of HH implementation strategy individual oriented activities.
      Education will be based on the different determinants influencing HCWs' behavior. Reminders
      for supporting the actual performance of HH will be used by distributing posters that
      emphasize the importance of HH, particularly alcohol-based hand disinfection.

      Performance feedback is an effective tool to increase awareness, and has often been effective
      in improving HH for short periods. Different mediums will be used for communicating the
      feedback of HH performance of the own unit in comparison to other experimental units. The
      results will also be discussed in staff meetings. This element will be embeded into
      pre-existing work routines. Goal setting will be encouraged and the performance feedback will
      be used to help HCWs evaluate their success and determine how they could best adapt their
      behavior in order to reach their goal.

      Planning for improvement; during HCWs' busy day to day activities will be increased by making
      action plans (implementation intentions), as part of the education program in which HCWs will
      be assisted in making concrete plans and solutions to the everyday problems they encounter
      concerning HH, using if-then plans (web based and/or in groups). Concretely it will involve
      formulating plans how and when they intend to perform hand hygiene (i.e. when washing a
      resident, first walk to the hand alcohol dispenser). This type of intervention has shown
      promising results in creating new habits and changing fixed behaviours in other areas of
      public health.

      Organisational oriented activities Products and facilities: The physical environment will be
      adapted by screening and improving the availability of hand based hand rub.

      Team-oriented activities:The social environment will be adapted by training at a group and
      individual level, to improve social and descriptive norms. Positive role models will be
      stimulated through this training, and particularly senior HCWs will be encouraged to improve
      their behavior as role models. The intervention will be delivered in two interactive team
      sessions during a period of 6 months. The first 1,5-h team session start with presenting and
      discussing current the team performance on HH. Team members explore their HH behavior,
      analyse barriers and facilitators and formulate improvement activities. Next, team members
      develop a clear set of behavior and communication expectations to address each other in case
      of inappropriate HH. The meeting ends with commitment of all team members to achieve a
      substantial increase in HH compliance. During the second session, the ward manager will
      present the HH compliance rates of the previous period. Team members discuss questions like:
      Is the goal achieve? What improvements have been implemented? How to maintain the improved
      behavior? What went wrong and what to do about it? Next, attention will be focused at
      maintenance of the achieved results.

      Implementation of CHANGE: In order to increase the success of implementation, an extensive
      strategy will be put in place prior to the start of the intervention period. In each NH
      contact persons will be appointed: the coordinating Infection Control Practitioner (ICP).
      With them the roll-out of the CHANGE package in their NH will be discussed. At the start of
      the intervention a kick-off meeting will be planned in the participating NH. HCWs will be
      instructed as to how they can signal when a component of the intervention is interfering with
      their work activities, so that effective measures to solve these problems can be set in
      motion swiftly. Education and team training will be timely planned and integrated in regular
      work meetings and in existing educational courses. The implementation phase per NH will last
      4 months. During a period of two years, all NHs will receive the implementation strategy.

      Sub study IV evaluation of HH implementation strategy. The implementation strategy will be
      tested in a stepped wedge cluster randomized trial which is based on a random sequential
      roll-out of the CHANGE implementation strategy to all participating NHs (n=20) for
      comparison. All groups (hence all NHs) start with the control situation (no CHANGE
      implementation activities) at the beginning of the study. At each time point, a new group of
      five NHs crosses over from the control situation to the implementation situation. Each group
      will start the implementation phase of 4 months at a different time point, directly after one
      of the measurements periods (Point of time (PT)0, PT1, PT2, PT3, PT4, PT5). The time point a
      group crosses over is randomized (over the groups). Randomization will be computer generated
      by an independent statistician when recruitment of clusters is complete. By the end of the
      two year study period, all groups (hence all NHs) will have received the CHANGE
      implementation strategy.

      Sub study V: Exploratory economic evaluation. Costs of HAIs are high and HH is an effective
      measure in reducing infections. It is estimated that 15 to 30% of all HAIs can be prevented
      by avoiding cross-transmission of micro-organisms on the hands of HCWs. An improvement in HH
      compliance has potential to lead to substantial health care cost savings. Therefore,
      strategies that focus on increasing adherence to effective HH guidelines are likely to be
      cost-effective. To date, little is known about the costs induced by non-compliance to HH in
      NHs. To assess the cost implications of inadequate HH, an economic evaluation will be
      conducted from a healthcare perspective. The economic evaluation will be performed in
      accordance with the Dutch guidelines, the general principles of cost-effectiveness analysis
      in healthcare. In the CHANGE implementation strategy the HH compliance in the participating
      NHs will increase and subsequently will lead to a decrease in the incidence of HAIs. Data
      will be collected on healthcare use for HAIs that are monitored in the participating NHs.

      For the calculation of potential cost savings due to less infections, the use of antibiotics
      and other drugs, contact isolation precautions, extra consultations of the elderly care
      physician, diagnostic tests, extra medical care, hospital transportation and hospital
      admission will be registered . Weekly, participating NHs register the incidence of HAIs. This
      registration makes it possible to compare the incidence of infections before the intervention
      period with the incidence of infections during and after the intervention period. This allows
      for the possibility to calculate the cost-effectiveness of improved HH, defined here as the
      costs for the CHANGE strategy minus less costs for treating infections, divided by the
      difference between HAIs before and after the intervention period.

      Sub study VI: process evaluation. A process evaluation will be performed during and after the
      intervention to investigate the feasibility of the implementation strategy and to illuminate
      the mechanisms and processes responsible for the results and their variation within the NHs.
      For this purpose, the different implementation activities and the participation level of the
      HCWs in order to determine the correlation between the implementation effect (i.e., results
      of our implementation strategy on HH compliance) and adherence to the implementation strategy
      (i.e., degree of implementation) will be registered. To understand the success -or lack of
      success- of the implementation strategy, the evaluation will use three sets of measures that
      will be related to the effects on HCWs' HH compliance: adherence to the improvement strategy,
      contextual factors, and HCWs' experiences with strategy components. Information on adherence
      to the improvement strategy and on contextual factors will be collected using a wide range of
      methods, including: observations, a NH structure survey, structured logbooks of coaches and
      researchers' field notes of group meetings etc. For example, participation in the
      implementation activities will be monitored closely, by documenting participation regarding
      all activities: e.g. who participated in an educational meeting, who read his/her individual
      feedback report etc. This information is not only crucial for understanding the result of
      implementation strategy, but also for providing basic data for the economic evaluation of the
      improvement activities. Information on HCWs' experiences with strategy components will be
      collected by such information is not only crucial for understanding the result of
      implementation strategy, but will also be measured to, if necessary, adapt the strategy to
      make it more acceptable and effective for future users of the strategy.
    
  