
    
      This will be the first randomized controlled trial (RCT) investigating the effects of AIT
      versus MICE on aerobic exercise capacity, endothelial function, and cognition, in women only,
      who have CAD and have been referred to the six-month, outpatient CR program at the Toronto
      Rehabilitation Institute (TRI)-Cardiac Rumsey Centre. Study participants will be reporting to
      the Rumsey Centre one day per week for a combination of supervised exercise sessions and
      educational seminars or workshops, and they will be performing four additional unsupervised,
      home-exercise sessions per week for a target total of five exercise sessions per week.

      Recruitment and Sampling

      Immediately after completion of a symptom-limited intake CPA, a previously identified
      eligible patient who would have been screened for eligibility upon her referral to the
      six-month, outpatient CR program at the TRI-Cardiac Rumsey Centre will be asked by either the
      Cardiopulmonary Exercise Technicians, or Lab Coordinator performing the initial CPA, if she
      would be interested in speaking to a researcher and learning more about potential
      participation in this research study. If the patient agrees to speak to the researcher, the
      researcher will meet the patient in person immediately following the CPA to explain the study
      and to obtain voluntary, written and informed consent if applicable. Patients will be
      provided with the opportunity to take the consent forms home, and to discuss participation in
      the study with their spouses or other family members, etc., and to take as much time is
      required to decide whether participation in the study is a desirable option for them.

      If, and when a patient provides written and informed consent to participate in the study, she
      will be randomized by a computerized random number generator (operated by a blinded third
      party researcher) to either the six-month standard of care CR program offered at the
      TRI-Rumsey Centre involving MICE, or to the 6-month AIT intervention. Both the MICE and AIT
      arms of the study will consist of patients attending one, supervised exercise session per
      week at the TRI-Rumsey Centre, and they will perform four additional unsupervised
      home-exercise sessions per week for a total of five exercise sessions per week as the goal.

      The AIT Intervention

      The AIT Group will begin with a one-month, "run-in" period where patients will perform
      current standard of care CR programming, which will involve traditional MICE. MICE at the
      Cardiac Rumsey Centre will consist of either track walking/jogging or treadmill
      walking/jogging for approximately 30-40 minutes, performed at an intensity of 60-80% of
      VO2peak, in addition to a warm-up and cool down period. In the second month of the study
      intervention, patients will begin to perform AIT three days per week, with one of those AIT
      exercise sessions occurring at the Rumsey Centre under supervision, and 2 sessions per week
      of MICE, which will again consist of the 30-40 minutes of walking/jogging at an intensity of
      60-80% of VO2peak, with an allotted warm up and cool down period.

      The AIT Exercise Protocol

      Upon examination of the most recent RCTs investigating AIT versus MICE between 2004 and 2016,
      specifically in the CAD population, the AIT intervention group experienced greater
      improvements in VO2peak, which translated to ~1.5-2 mL kg-1 min-1 improvements compared to
      the MICE (control) group. These results are compelling, particularly in the context of a
      potential 10-25% reduction in cardiovascular mortality risk above and beyond what would have
      been conferred by standard of care MICE prescription. In almost 90% of these most recent RCTs
      comparing the effects of AIT versus MICE on aerobic exercise capacity in CAD patients, the
      AIT exercise protocol consisted of 4x4 minute intervals of treadmill walking at either 80-90%
      of VO2peak, or 85-95% of HRpeak, or 80-90% of Heart Rate Reserve (HRR=HRpeak-resting HR),
      with 3 minutes of active recovery between the 4-minute intervals, performed at an intensity
      of ~50-70% of VO2peak, HRpeak, or HRR.

      Therefore, in remaining consistent with the previous literature supporting AIT in CAD
      patients, the AIT exercise protocol that the participants will be executing in this study
      consists of the following components:

        1. Warm Up Period: 5-10 minutes of walking performed at 50%-60% of VO2peak and/or the
           corresponding HR (~60%-70% HRpk) and/or RPE of ~10-12 on the Borg Scale

        2. Intervals: Four 4-minute intervals of walking/jogging performed at an intensity of
           85-95% of VO2peak, or >90% of HRpk, and/or RPE >17 on the Borg Scale, interspersed with
           3-minutes of active recovery performed at an intensity of ~50%-70% HRpk

        3. Cool Down Period: 5 minutes of walking performed at an intensity of 50-70% HRpk, and/or
           RPE ~10-12 on the Borg Scale Understanding that we must be cognizant of the fact that
           each study participant may respond and progress to this AIT intervention at different
           rates, it is our intention to begin with two 4-minute intervals in the first week of the
           AIT intervention, and then to progress participants to performing three, and then
           eventually four 4-minute intervals by the fourth week of the intervention, i.e. the end
           of Month 2 in the study/CR program timeline. The decision to progress patients
           accordingly will be made judiciously upon deliberation of both researcher and cardiac
           rehabilitation supervisor/case manager for each study participant.
    
  