
    
      Excess mortality associated with RA is due largely to CVD that is not explained by
      traditional risk factors. Although articular manifestations usually dominate the clinical
      picture, RA is a systemic inflammatory disease, and systemic inflammation is the thought to
      be the underlying mechanism responsible for the increased CVD risk associated with RA.
      Because chronic inflammation can persist in treated RA patients with little or no clinically
      detectable joint inflammation, treatment to targets based largely on clinically measured
      joint activity may not adequately suppress the systemic inflammation associated with
      progression of atherosclerosis. The ACR recommends treatment to a therapeutic target of low
      disease activity as determined by standardized clinical assessments. We hypothesize that
      treated RA patients who have reached this ACR target of low disease activity nonetheless have
      persisting systemic inflammation that contributes to atherogenesis. We further hypothesize
      that acceleration of RA-directed therapy with systemic anti-inflammatory treatments (TNF
      inhibition) in patients with low disease activity will improve endothelial function, reduce
      vascular inflammation and improve the functionality of HDL particles, key biological features
      in the progression of atherosclerosis and its clinical manifestations.

      Trial design: Prospective, randomized, double-blind crossover trial comparing the addition of
      adalimumab to the addition of placebo.

      Study population: 60 RA patients on non-biological DMARDs with low disease activity as
      determined by a standardized clinical assessment (Disease Activity Score 28 joints [DAS28] <
      3.2).

      Primary endpoint: Primary endpoint is change in endothelial cell function, as detected by
      brachial artery FMD, at 6 months of adalimumab treatment compared to 6 months of placebo. We
      postulate that anti-TNF therapy with adalimumab will lead to an absolute increase of 2% in
      FMD, which typically translates into a 15% reduction in cardiovascular event rates.
    
  