
    
      The dogma over the past 3 decades, particularly in the field of sleep medicine, has been that
      intermittent hypoxia (IH) is a detrimental stimulus that leads to a number of co-morbidities
      including autonomic (e.g. increased sympathetic nervous system activity), cardiovascular
      (e.g. hypertension, atherosclerosis, arterial fibrillation), cognitive (e.g. loss of gray
      matter, neural injury and impaired neural function coupled to sleepiness) and metabolic
      dysfunction (dyslipidemia, hyperglycemia, insulin resistance). This belief was based
      principally on animal studies that employed protocols that were for the most part severe in
      nature in regards to length and/or intensity of the hypoxic stimulus. However, the
      elimination of IH in humans with sleep apnea using continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP)
      has often been ineffective in mitigating the above mentioned co-morbidities. The lack of
      compliance with CPAP, length of treatment with CPAP (i.e. short durations), and the
      possibility that IH or other hallmarks of sleep apnea are not the primary mechanism response
      for the listed co-morbidities, are possible reasons for the absence of improvement in humans.

      In contrast to the findings outlined in the previous paragraph, work completed over a similar
      time frame indicates that some forms of IH may be beneficial in nature. Many studies using a
      variety of protocols and species, including humans, established that exposure to mild IH
      initiates sustained increases in the activity of motoneurons, nerves and muscles that
      contribute to the enhancement of ventilation and the maintenance of upper airway patency.
      This sustained increase has been termed long-term facilitation (LTF) and this phenomenon has
      been the focus of PI's research program for two decades. Long-term facilitation is the
      principle form of respiratory plasticity that we documented in healthy humans, and in humans
      with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and spinal cord injury (SCI). The initiation of this
      phenomenon is mediated by a number of neuromodulators (e.g. serotonin, adenosine,
      noradrenaline) that trigger components of at least two cellular pathways, deemed the Q and S
      pathways, which mediate the phenomenon. Besides the initiation of LTF, studies in rats and
      humans have provided compelling evidence that mild IH might be cardiovascular (e.g.
      angiogenesis, reductions in blood pressure, reductions in infarct size), neurocognitive (e.g.
      brain neurogenesis, reduced oxidative stress and inflammation) and metabolically (e.g.
      decreased cholesterol, decreased low density and very low lipoprotein, increased high density
      lipoproteins and reduced hyperglycemia) protective. Many reviews over the past decade,
      including reviews from PI's laboratory have addressed the underlying physiological cellular
      mechanisms and the translation to whole animals and humans. Briefly, mild IH may lead to
      moderate increases in reactive oxygen species. These moderate levels of reactive oxygen
      species activate transcription factors (e.g. hypoxia-inducible factor 1α, nuclear factor
      erythroid-derived 2-like 2, GATA binding protein 4) that lead to the induction of many
      cytoprotective proteins. These proteins serve, for example, to reduce oxidative stress (e.g.
      superoxide dismutase, glutathione, thioredoxin), inflammation (e.g. inducible nitric oxide
      synthase), apoptosis (e.g. B-cell lymphoma 2), and promote vasodilation (e.g. heme oxygenase
      1) and the formation of blood vessels (e.g. vascular endothelial growth factor). These
      modifications that ultimately manifest in improved cardiovascular, autonomic and
      neurocognitive outcomes indicate that beneficial responses can be initiated by IH in a dose
      dependent fashion without accompanying maladaptive responses. Despite this recognition, the
      beneficial responses to IH in humans with sleep apnea have not been fully delineated.

      Besides these potential beneficial effects it has been established that daily repeated
      exposure to IH promotes other forms of motor plasticity. Indeed, IH promotes recovery of limb
      motor function in both rats and humans. Initial studies in humans with SCI revealed that
      electromyography of the gastrocnemius muscle coupled with measures of ankle torque
      significantly increased following exposure to brief episodes of IH in humans with SCI. In a
      subsequent study, exposure to 15 to 90 s episodes of hypoxia each day over 5 consecutive days
      significantly improved walking speed and duration in 10 meter and 6 minute walking tests in
      humans with an incomplete SCI. Interestingly, the effect of daily exposure to IH on walking
      speed was enhanced when combined with 30 minutes of walking each day, which led the authors
      to conclude that the combined therapies promote greater functional benefits in individuals
      with incomplete SCI. Thus, daily repeated exposure to IH could have significant therapeutic
      effects on limb motor function in individuals with SCI accompanied by sleep apnea. Likewise,
      exposure to this stimulus could promote LTF of upper airway muscle activity leading to
      reduced therapeutic pressures, improved compliance and enhanced outcome measures as outlined.
      These possibilities coupled with the direct effects that IH has on those co-morbidities
      linked to sleep apnea indicates that IH may be effective in mitigating those issues linked to
      both respiratory and limb motor dysfunction in individuals with sleep apnea and spinal cord
      injury.

      Based on the findings outlined in the previous paragraphs the working hypothesis for the
      present proposal is that exposure to mild IH leads to LTF of upper airway muscle activity
      that manifests in increased stability of the upper airway, which could ultimately reduce the
      CPAP required to treat OSA. As previously reported, a reduction in the therapeutic pressure
      necessary for the maintenance of airway patency leads to improved comfort and ultimately
      treatment compliance, which is approximately 40 % amongst users. Indeed, the preliminary data
      shows that following acute exposure to IH during sleep, and repeated daily exposure to IH
      during wakefulness, the therapeutic pressure required for the maintenance of upper airway
      patency was significantly reduced during sleep. The reduced therapeutic pressure was also
      coupled to a reduction in upper airway resistance and the critical closing pressure. These
      modifications ultimately led to increased CPAP compliance. The numerous co-morbidities listed
      in the initial paragraph, which have been linked to hallmarks of sleep apnea (e.g. sleep
      fragmentation and severe IH), could be significantly improved by increased compliance to
      CPAP. In addition, as outlined above, IH may directly impact on a variety of co-morbidities
      associated with sleep apnea independent of CPAP compliance. Collectively, exposure to IH
      could impact on comorbidities linked to sleep apnea both directly and via improved
      therapeutic compliance to CPAP.

      Thus, our proposal will determine if mild IH can serve as an adjunct therapy coupled to CPAP
      to mitigate associated co-morbidities via its direct effects on a variety of autonomic,
      cardiovascular, neurocognitive and metabolic measures and indirectly by improving CPAP
      compliance. Autonomic and cardiovascular modifications will be the primary outcome measures
      coupled to secondary neurocognitive measures. In addition, metabolic, inflammatory and
      angiogenic/vasculogenic biomarkers will be measured to indicate the safety and efficacy of
      exposure to IH. For spinal cord injured adults, we will also examine if the mitigation of
      cardiovascular, metabolic and neurocognitive co-morbidities is accompanied by recovery of
      respiratory motor function during wakefulness and sleep, and motor limb function during
      wakefulness following repeated daily exposure to IH.
    
  