
    
      The aim of this prospective study is to compare the accuracy of implantation and functional
      outcome of mobile bearing medial Unicompartmental Knee Replacements implanted with and
      without patient specific instrumentation by experienced Unicompartmental Knee Replacement
      surgeons.

      This single-centre parallel-design trial was conducted between March 2012 and March 2014 at
      the Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre, Oxford. Four expert knee surgeons performed all of the
      procedures in this study. Patients who were being placed on the waiting list for a medial
      Unicompartmental Knee Replacement, and met the entry criteria for the trial, were asked to
      see if they would be willing to receive further information about participation in the study.
      They were provided with a study information leaflet that they could read in their own time. A
      member of the research team subsequently contacted the patients in order to determine if they
      would agree to take part in the study and enrolled them onto the study.

      Patients were randomized to either Patient Specific Instrumentation, or Conventional
      Instrumentation group. There were 23 patients (23 knees) in the Patient Specific
      Instrumentation group and 22 patients (22 knees) in the Conventional Instrumentation group.
      Randomization was performed using sealed opaque envelopes. Concealment from operating
      surgeons and patients was not possible owing to the surgeon needing to confirm the Patient
      Specific Instrumentation plans, and the patients undergoing pre-operative MRI scans. Patient
      Specific Instrumentation group patients underwent an MRI scan using the protocol outlined by
      the Patient Specific Instrumentation manufacturers to plan development of the Patient
      Specific Instrumentation guides. The preliminary plan indicating prosthesis size,
      positioning, alignment, and proposed bone resection levels was reviewed by the surgeons who
      accepted the default preoperative plans unless gross errors were present. The patient
      specific cutting blocks were then manufactured and sent for sterilization.

      Operative Technique:

      All patients received a mobile bearing medial Oxford unicompartmental knee replacement via a
      minimally invasive approach under general anaesthetic, and high thigh tourniquet.
      Intra-operatively, the bone cuts were made through the Patient Specific Instrumentation
      guides without the use of any intra or extra-medullary instrumentation on the femoral side
      but with a tibial extramedullary guide for some cases. The subsequent milling process and all
      soft tissue balancing was performed manually in the standard fashion.

      Post-operatively, the need to have a blood transfusion, and the change haemoglobin levels
      were also recorded. Oxygen saturation levels over the first 24 hours post surgery were also
      recorded. Screened anteroposterior and lateral post-operative radiographs were performed
      prior to discharge. Patients attended the physiotherapy ward discharge clinic at six weeks. A
      further clinical review was performed at 12 months at which point Oxford Knee Scores were
      recorded.

      The primary outcome measure was radiological assessment of component positioning. (See
      Outcome measures section for more detail)

      Target sample size:

      The sample size was calculated from a previous study that used similar radiological
      assessments to compare unicompartmental knee replacements performed using conventional
      instrumentation, with those performed using computer navigation. In this study, the standard
      deviation of the tibia varus/valgus angle for the control group was 3.6°. Assuming a minimum
      clinically important difference of 3°, the standard mean difference would be 0.8. Hence with
      a power of 0.8 and significance level of 0.05, a total sample size of 44 patients (22 in each
      group) was required.
    
  