
    
      The purpose of this study will be to examine the effects of Oceanix supplementation on
      isometric mid-thigh pull force kinetics and salivary immunoglobulin A (indice of immune
      function) following a one-week intense resistance training protocol. The study will be
      carried out in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel manner. Subjects will
      be stratified into quartiles based on peak force achieved in the isometric mid-thigh pull
      assessment during screen and prior to baseline testing. Subjects from each quartile will be
      randomly divided by into treatment and or placebo conditions. Supplement conditions will be
      provided in visually identical capsules and containers. Supplement compliance will be
      determined via supplement logs and collection of supplement containers on day 21. Subjects
      will be instructed to refrain from consuming other nutritional supplements for the duration
      of the study.

      Following randomization, subjects will be baseline tested on isometric mid-thigh pull and
      salivary immunoglobulin A. Following baseline testing, subject will be given their respective
      supplement conditions and will be instructed to consume one serving (25mg) a day for 21
      consecutive days. For days 1 through 14 subjects will be instructed to consume their
      condition with their first meal of the day, and they will asked to refrain from resistance
      training during this time frame. Subjects will undergo a five day intense resistance training
      protocol will on day 15 to day 19, and they will be instructed to consume their condition
      approximately 30 minutes prior to the training session. Subjects will complete follow-up
      testing in a manner identical to baseline on day 20 and 21 (24- and 48-hours post completion
      of the training protocol) consuming their condition approximately 30 minutes prior to their
      arrival at the laboratory.

      The five day resistance training protocol will consist of two lower-, two upper-, and one
      full-body workout. Exercise sets performed on the first four days of the protocol will be
      targeted will repetition maximum loads such that sets will be perform to or near muscular
      failure. On the fifth day of the protocol, subjects will perform sets of bodyweight rear foot
      elevated split squats to failure for a total of 10 sets (5 sets with each leg in an
      alternating fashion). Subjects will be instructed to maintain the cadence set on an audible
      metronome, which will be set at one second downward and one second upward. Failure for these
      sets will be defined as 1) volitional muscle failure or 2) failure to complete two
      consecutive repetitions at the prescribed metronome cadence. Subjects will rest for one
      minute between sets. Prior to all training sessions, subjects will perform a dynamic warm-up,
      and following all training sessions, subjects will complete a cool down with static
      stretching of the targeted muscle groups with the session. All warm-up, resistance training,
      and cool down sessions will be supervised by trained research personnel. All training
      sessions will be separated by at least 24-hours.
    
  