
    
      The study will be a prospective randomized controlled trial, taking place in the NICU of CHU
      Sainte-Justine in Montréal, Quebec, Canada ; Montreal Children's Hospital of the MUHC, in
      Montreal, Quebec, Canada; CHU de Quebec-Universite Laval, CHU de Sherbrooke and the General
      Jewish Hospital.

      Simulation-based just-in-time training

      Simulation-based just-in-time training, completed before performing endotracheal intubation,
      will consist of viewing a short video showing the neonatal glottis of similar gestational age
      to the patient that is being intubated followed by practice on a mannequin (Laerdal® Neonatal
      Intubation Trainer, Laerdal Medical, Toronto, Canada) with supervision and feedback from a
      senior provider (low fidelity simulation). The videos of the neonatal glottises have been
      locally created, after parent consent, using live recordings of endotracheal intubations
      performed with the C-MAC videolarygnoscope (Karl Storz GmbH & Co. KG, Tuttlingen, Germany).
      The low fidelity simulation will be performed in situ in the physician meeting room in the
      neonatal intensive care unit. Senior providers will be instructed to also educate the
      resident to different aspects related to the procedure: indications, contraindications,
      anatomy, equipment, personnel, potential complications, appropriate aftercare and common
      pitfalls.

      Video training

      Residents will watch a 5 minutes video regarding endotracheal intubation, which covers the
      following topics: indications, contraindications, anatomy, equipment, personnel, procedural
      steps, potential complications, appropriate aftercare and common pitfalls.

      Definitions

        1. Intubation is a success if the endotracheal tube is placed in the trachea under the
           vocal cords. It is defined according to usual clinical norms: change in color of the
           carbon dioxide detector, vapour in the endotracheal tube, thoracic expansion, assessment
           of bilateral lung air entry, absence of air entry in the stomach by auscultation, and
           improvement of patient's clinical parameters: heart rate and arterial oxygen saturation.

        2. Time to intubation is defined as the time from insertion of the laryngoscope blade in
           the patients' mouth until it is pulled out.

        3. Oesophageal intubation is diagnosed when there is absence of clinical signs of a
           successful endotracheal intubation and possibly air entry in the stomach by
           auscultation.

        4. Right bronchial main stem intubation is diagnosed on chest x-ray.

        5. A trial is counted as an attempt if there has been insertion of the laryngoscope blade
           in the patient's mouth.
    
  