
    
      Adequate middle ear (ME) pressure-regulation, defined as the maintenance of a total ME
      pressure at approximately ambient levels, is required for normal hearing and to preserve ME
      health. The mechanism of ME pressure-regulation consists of two distinct components that
      affect total ME gas pressure: the bolus, total gradient driven exchange of gases between the
      ME and nasopharynx during active, transient Eustachian tube (ET) openings and the passive,
      partial-pressure gradient driven diffusive exchange of gases between the ME cavity and
      adjacent compartments. A large number of past studies have described the basic physiology of
      gas transfers through the ET in humans, but few have explored the possibility that
      physiological feedback mechanisms could modulate ET functional efficiency. However, there is
      an anatomic foundation to support feedback modulation of ET function and the results for some
      experiments in animals lend credibility to that possibility. Theoretically, the sensory
      components of possible feedback pathways could consist of stretch sensors in the tympanic
      membrane (TM; detecting position) and tensor tympani muscle (detecting tension) and/or chemo-
      (detecting gas pressures)/ baro- (detecting total pressure) receptors in the ME mucosa and
      effector components consisting of resting Tensor Veli Palatini muscle (mTVP) tonus and/or the
      extant ET periluminal pressure.

      In this study, we explore 3 hypothesized stimulus-effector pairings in 10 otherwise healthy
      adult subjects with no history of significant ME disease and normal audiologic testing.
      Custom ear plugs will be made for use in Visits 2-6. The protocol includes 1 screening visit
      and 3 experiments requiring 5 experimental sessions of approximately 3-5 hours duration each
      done at a minimum interval of 2 days. Briefly, in Experiment 1 (Visit 2), ear canal pressure
      will be varied to change the position of the TM while simultaneously monitoring mTVP tonus by
      electromyography (EMG). Then, a unilateral ventilation tube (VT) inserted into the TM to
      allow access to the ME cavity. For Experiment 2, (Visits 3-5), the ME will be washed with
      physiologic, hypercarbic, and hyperoxic gas compositions (reference ME normal) while
      monitoring the ET periluminal tissue pressures measured as the ET resistance to gas flow. For
      Experiment 3 (Visit 6), total ME pressure will be varied while monitoring mTVP tonus by EMG.
      At the completion of Experiment 3, the VT will be removed and, then, the subjects will be
      followed weekly (Visits 7+) until documented healing of the TM at which time a standard
      audiologic assessment will be done. If the hypotheses are supported, selected activation of
      the feedback mechanisms would improve ET function and could be exploited as one component of
      a treatment protocol to improve ME pressure-regulation.
    
  