
    
      Atherosclerosis is the most common cardiovascular disease and accounts for the greatest
      number of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events and death. Polyvascular lesions with
      coexistent lesions (especially atherosclerosis) in multiple arterial territories (at least 2
      of coronary, cerebral, lower extremity arteries), could be associated with higher risk of
      future cardio-/cerebrovascular diseases. However, previous studies either roughly defined
      polyvascular diseases according to established clinically recognized arterial diseases in
      multiple arterial territories, or tested multiterritorial subclinical atherosclerosis without
      tests of intracranial and peripheral arteries. Furthermore, recent research also showed that
      cardiometabolic diseases and cardiovascular risk factors are associated with worse cognitive
      abilities. A thorough evaluation of multiterritorial lesions in whole body used advanced
      vascular imaging techniques is required to precisely assess the association of polyvascular
      lesions with future cardio-/cerebrovascular events and cognitive impairment.

      Additionally, Asian population might have higher prevalence of intracranial atherosclerosis
      than the Caucasian, and intracranial atherosclerosis is the most common cause of ischemic
      stroke in Asia population. However, there are limited data about the prevalence and
      progression of intracranial atherosclerosis in Chinese population. More and more studies have
      shown that presence and progression of atherosclerotic plaque is not only related to the
      degree of stenosis, but also with plaque characteristics such as rich lipid core, plaque
      hemorrhage and inflammatory cell infiltration. High-resolution magnetic resonance (HR-MRI)
      can not only show the degree of arterial stenosis, the size of atherosclerotic plaque, but
      also can analyze the composition of the plaque to assess the stability of the plaque. HR-MRI
      techniques enable early detection of atherosclerosis, characterization of the atherosclerotic
      composition and burden. It is important to estimate the prevalence and progression rate of
      intracranial atherosclerotic plaque based on HR-MRI and to estimate its traditional and
      emerging determinants in Chinese population.

      In this study, a total of 3000 subjects aged 50 to 75 years from 6 villages and 4 communities
      in Lishui city, Zhejiang province, China, will be enrolled. All the eligible subjects in the
      selected villages/community will be enrolled based on cluster sampling.

      All the participants will be interviewed at baseline and followed up for 4 years. Data
      collection at baseline will be performed through face-to-face interviews by trained
      interviewers (neurologists from participating hospitals) with a standardized protocol.
      Baseline data include demographics, medical history, cardiovascular risk factors, dietary
      habits, physical activity, lifestyle, medication use, electrocardiogram, vascular imaging
      tests and Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA). Blood and urine samples will also be
      collected at baseline to test genetic and metabolomic markers.

      The sequences of brain MRI included T1,T2, FLAIR, DWI,ADC,MRA,SWI,T2*,T1-VISTA,
      SNAP,3D-T1,resting-state fMRI and DTI. Baseline vascular imaging tests include HR-MRI
      sequences in intracranial and carotidal arteries, computed tomographic angiography (CTA) in
      coronary, aorta, renal, hepatic, pancreatic and iliofemoral arteries, and fundus fluorescein
      photography (retinal photography) in retinal vessel. All MRI scans were performed on 3.0 T
      Philips scanners. CTA scans were performed on third-generation dual-source Siemens system
      (SOMATOM Force). HR-MRI sequences were performed both at baseline and after 4 years to
      identify intracranial and carotidal atherosclerotic stenosis and plaque and measure the
      intracranial and carotidal vessel wall, lumen area, and plaque when present. Additionally,
      heart function will be tested using color Doppler echocardiography, and ankle-brachial index
      will be tested using Doppler ultrasound. All the imaging techniques will be conducted in a
      fixed machine by fixed trained investigators based on a standardized protocol. These imaging
      techniques enable early detection of intracranial and extracranial vascular lesions,
      characterization of the atherosclerotic composition and burden, and monitoring of plaque
      progression in intracranial and carotidal arteries.

      Routine follow-up will be performed each year to collect cardio-/cerebrovascular events and
      death after enrollment. A further face-to-face interview will be performed at 2 years and 4
      years to collect brain MRI scanning and cognitive impairment. At 2-year and 4-year follow-up
      visits, standard clinical and neuropsychologic assessments will be performed, including MoCA,
      Mini-Mental State Exam scores, Geriatric Depression Scale, Digit Span, Rey Auditory Verbal
      Learning Test, Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure Test, Trail Making A and B, Stroop Task, Verbal
      Fluency Test, Boston Naming Test, Clock Drawing Test, Symbol Digit Modalities Test,
      Neuropsychiatric Inventory and Clinical Dementia Rating. Fasting blood and morning urine
      samples will be collected at each follow-up visit following same protocol as that at
      baseline.

      The protocol of this study was approved by the ethics committee of Beijing Tiantan Hospital
      and Lishui Hospital of Zhejiang University. All participants provided written informed
      consents before entering the study.
    
  