
    
      Pain following cardiac surgery is caused by many factors; sternotomy, chest wall retraction,
      opening of the pericardium, internal mammarian artery harvesting, saphenous vein harvesting,
      surgical manipulation of the parietal pleura, chest tube insertion and other musculoskeletal
      trauma occurring during surgery.

      The pain following cardiac surgery is mainly attributed to sternotomy, with its peak during
      the first two days after the operation. Poststernotomy pain is not well tolerated by patients
      and may be accompanied by adverse postoperative events including delirium, hypertension,
      tachycardia, arrhythmia, respiratory complications, and persistent postsurgical pain.

      Commonly pain management after cardiac surgery has been achieved using opiate analgesics.
      However, opiates have some dose-related side-effects such as nausea, constipation, vomiting,
      dizziness, mental confusion and respiratory depression, which may influence patient recovery
      and may delay discharge after surgery.

      The pecto-intercostal fascial block (PIFB) was recently introduced by de la Torre et al for
      anesthesia during breast surgery. Local anesthetic is infiltrated into the interfascial plane
      separating pectoralis major and the intercostal muscles lateral to the sternum to anesthetize
      the anterior cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves.

      The pecto-intercostal fascial plane block can cover anterior branches of the intercostal
      nerves from the 2nd to 6th dermatomes with a single injection bilaterally, same as the
      transversus thoracic muscle plane block .

      anesthetic management: All patients will be preoperatively examined and investigated by
      complete blood count, coagulation profile, renal and kidney functions and electrolytes.
      Electrocardiography, chest x ray and echocardiography will be routinely done. Coronary
      angiography and carotid arterial duplex will be requested in patients prepared for CABG.

      Patient will be premedicated by intramuscular injection of 10mg morphine in the morning of
      the operation. Before induction of anesthesia, a five-lead electrocardiography system will be
      applied to monitor heart rate, rhythm, and ST segments (leads II and V5). A pulse oximeter
      probe will be attached, and a peripheral venous cannula will be placed. For measurement of
      arterial pressure and blood sampling, a 20 G cannula will be inserted into either right or
      left radial artery under local anesthesia. General anesthesia will be induced by midazolam
      2-5 mg, fentanyl (10 μg/kg), propofol (3-4mg/Kg), followed by atracurium (0.5 mg/kg).

      Trachea will be intubated, patients will be mechanically ventilated with oxygen in air so as
      to achieve normocarbia. This will be confirmed by radial arterial blood gas analysis. An
      esophageal temperature probe and a Foley catheter will also be placed.

      For drug infusion, a triple-lumen central venous catheter will be inserted via the right
      internal jugular vein.

      Anesthesia will be maintained by inhaled Isoflurane 0.4 to 1% and atracurium infusion at a
      rate of 0.5 mg/kg/h for continued muscle relaxation. During extracorporeal circulation,
      patients will receive propofol infusion at a rate of 100-200 mg/h in addition to atracurium
      infusion.

      Before initiation of cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), the patients will receive intravenously
      tranexamic acid (2 g) and heparin (300-500 units/kg body weight) to achieve an activated
      clotting time > 480 s. CPB will be instituted via an ascending aortic cannula and a two-stage
      right atrial cannula. Before, during, and after CPB (pump blood flow: 2.4 l/min/m2), mean
      arterial pressure will be adjusted to exceed 60 mmHg. Cardiac arrest will be induced with
      cold antegrade blood cardioplegia or warm intermittent antegrade crystalloid cardioplegia.
      Lactate-enriched Ringer's solution will be added to the CPB circuit to maintain reservoir
      volume when needed, and packed red blood cells will be added when hemoglobin concentration
      decrease to less than 7 g/dl.

      After rewarming the patient to 37°C and separation from CPB, reversal of heparin by protamine
      sulfate (1:1), and sternal closure will be achieved.

      All patients then will be shifted to the intensive care unit (ICU) after the surgery and
      managed with the institution's ICU protocol for postoperative pain management and
      ventilation. The postoperative analgesia protocol involves the use of intravenous morphine or
      morphine equivalent dose of 5to 10 mg/kg bolus as required. Criteria for administration will
      be signs of sympathetic stimulation in the form of undue tachycardia, a rise in mean arterial
      pressure (rise of >20% from the baseline).

      Tracheal extubation will be performed when the patient met the following criteria:
      awake/arousable, hemodynamically stable, no active bleeding, warm peripheries, and
      satisfactory arterial blood gas with an FiO2 < 0.5,pressure support on ventilator reduced to
      10 Cm H2O,Positive End Expiratory Pressure 5-7 CmH2O, no electrolyte abnormalities, minimal
      inotropic support, or no escalation in inotropic support.

      Statistical analysis Sample size was calculated using (G power version 3). Minimal sample
      size of patients was 31 in each group needed to get power level 0.90, alpha level 0.05 and
      30% as a difference between the two groups in the morphine consumption after the
      intervention. To overcome problem of loss of follow up, calculated sample size was increased
      by 10% to reach 35 in each group.
    
  