
    
      Treatment of staphylococcal carriage with the topical antibiotic, mupirocin, has led to
      decreased infections in some hemodialysis patients and intensive care unit (ICU) patients.
      However, most of these studies were not placebo controlled and only certain subsets of
      patients benefited. Relapse of colonization, generally within 90 days after treatment is
      stopped, presumably with increased risk of infection, approaches 50%. Continuous use of
      mupirocin on daily, three times weekly, or weekly basis has resulted in increased resistance
      to the drug. Despite this lack of evidence, the use of mupirocin has become commonplace
      because it is perceived as an effective and simple means to prevent infection. In a National
      Institutes on Aging/Claude D. Pepper Older Americans Independence Center (NIA/OAIC)-sponsored
      proposal, we found that a 2 week treatment regimen with mupirocin ointment was effective in
      decolonizing older chronically ill nursing home residents of S. aureus when compared with
      placebo ointment. Decolonization began to decline by 3 months post-treatment, and resistance
      occurred only once in 52 treated patients. That study was not powered to detect differences
      in infection between the 2 study groups; the end point was eradication of colonization.
      However, a trend towards reduction in staphylococcal infection with mupirocin was seen. In
      addition, there were more therapeutic failures in residents who were colonized with
      methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) than methicillin-sensitive S. aureus (MSSA). We
      hypothesize that intermittent treatment with mupirocin ointment every 3 months may be an
      effective means of preventing recolonization and infection with S. aureus. We propose to
      study a patient population that has already had treatment for severe S. aureus infection and
      is at significant risk for a subsequent infection. Patients will receive mupirocin 2%
      polyethylene glycol (PEG) ointment [Treatment Arm] or polyethylene glycol (PEG) ointment
      [Placebo Arm] for 14 days every 3 months. The effect of these two regimens on S. aureus
      re-infection, re-colonization, and development of mupirocin resistance will be assessed.
    
  