
    
      The investigators will recruit 110 adults with painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy. All
      will have their medical treatment optimized by a pain medicine specialist before being
      randomly assigned to either an 8-week group MBSR program or a wait-list. All participants
      will complete self-report questionnaires, provide a hair sample for cortisol measurements and
      a blood sample to measure glycemic index. We will be collecting outcome data for both groups.
      Patients randomized to MBSR will have data collected at 4 time points: 1) before medical
      optimization; 2) after medical optimization and before the MBSR group intervention begins, 3)
      2 weeks after the group intervention; and 4) 3 months following completion of MBSR. Patients
      randomized to control will have data collected at 6-7 time points depending on when are
      participants enrolled in the trial: 1) before medical optimization; 2) after medical
      optimization and before the MBSR group intervention begins; 3) 2 weeks after the group
      intervention; 4) 3 months following completion of MBSR; 5) Re-test before control group
      intervention begins; 6) 2 weeks after control group intervention; and 7) 3 months after
      control group intervention.

      The primary hypothesis is that after all patients are medically optimized, those randomized
      to MBSR will have a 30% higher incidence of clinically significant (≥1.0 decrease in mean BPI
      interference score) improvement (responders) compared to controls measured 3 months following
      completion of MBSR. A significant change is defined as ≥ 1 decrease in BPI interference
      score. A one point change on the Interference Scale, has been recommended by the Initiative
      on Methods, Measurement, and Pain Assessment in Clinical Trials (IMMPACT) group as a
      minimally clinically important change. This design controls for the effect of time and
      disease fluctuation, regression to the mean, and the effect of testing. In this preliminary
      research, where our primary goal is to establish proof of concept and obtain data needed to
      plan a comparative trial, we are not controlling for the placebo effect. We believe that a
      wait-list controlled study is the necessary foundation on which to build a rigorous program
      of research.
    
  