
    
      Study design - This is a mixed methods, randomised cross-over study investigating two
      different pairs of orthotic shorts. The shorts will be tested in two main ways, firstly, the
      impact of the shorts on objectively assessed walking ability when first worn and, secondly,
      acceptability and impact of the shorts on self-perceived ability over a two-week period when
      the shorts are worn in the community.

      Participants - Participants will be people with multiple sclerosis (PwMS) who identify
      themselves as having some difficulty walking, with a lack of stability around the hips and/or
      lower trunk. The study aims to recruit 16 PwMS over a 15-16-month period. It is felt that a
      sample size of 16 will enable the shorts to be trialled with participants with a range of
      different movement problems as well as different ages, genders and activity levels. These
      characteristics may impact upon the effect and acceptability of the shorts.

      Recruitment - Participants will be made aware of the study through flyers, online
      advertisements and in discussion with local healthcare professionals. Potential participants
      will be identified through a local neurological therapy service.

      Procedure - Each participant will visit Sheffield Hallam University on four occasions and be
      seen at home on three occasions.

      The first Sheffield Hallam visit (Appointment 1) will include informed consent, collection of
      basic participant details, an initial interview around expectations and motivations,
      completion of self-report measures, assessment and measurement for shorts with a
      representative from the orthotics company and provision of a falls diary for completion over
      the following two weeks. Participants will be randomly assigned to the order in which the
      different shorts will be tested.

      The second and third Sheffield Hallam visits (Appointments 3 and 5) follow the same structure
      with each visit testing one of the two pairs of shorts. Firstly, walking ability without the
      shorts will be measured. They will put the shorts on and spend about 30 minutes becoming
      familiar with wearing the shorts before the objective measures are repeated. After the
      objective assessments, participants will be provided with further information on wearing and
      caring for the shorts and a wear diary and falls diary to be completed whilst the shorts are
      trialed at home.

      The final Sheffield Hallam visit (Appointment 7) will include a final measure of walking
      ability without shorts plus a semi-structured interview around the participants' experiences
      of the shorts and the trial.

      In between the above visits to Sheffield Hallam, there will be three shorter visits. Each
      participant can choose to attend university or meet in an agreed location if preferred. The
      first of these (Appointment 2) will be with the representative from the orthotics company to
      check the fit of the shorts and measure the pressure exerted by the shorts. If adjustments
      are required at this point, this will be done within 3 days and the shorts will then be
      delivered to the chief investigator. Appointments 4 and 6 are to collect the shorts, the
      diaries and the self-report measures reporting the perceived impact of the shorts after the
      period of home wear.

      Intervention - The orthotic shorts will be custom-made by a UK based company that specialises
      in dynamic, elastomeric orthoses for healthcare and sport. They will provide two pairs of
      shorts for each participant, which will differ in the closeness of their fit. The company
      representative, who will assess each participant, will decide the compression and fit of the
      shorts, such as whether support for the lower trunk is required. The shorts can be
      manufactured with a toileting hole, if preferred, allowing participants to toilet without
      removing the shorts. Shorts with a toileting hole are usually worn beneath usual underwear.

      Randomisation and allocation - Counter-balancing will ensure that half the group use the more
      closely fitting shorts first and half the looser shorts first. A randomisation schedule will
      be created by a using the Sealed Envelope online system for blocked randomisation. Shorts
      will be placed into sealed envelopes labelled "Shorts 1" and "Shorts 2" by a third party
      using the randomisation schedule.

      Data collection - Semi-structured interviews will be conducted on two occasions for each
      participant - at the first appointment and at the final appointment.

      At Appointment 1, participants will be interviewed to explore their motivations for joining
      the study, their expectations of the shorts, their current daily activities and their
      readiness for change. The data from this interview will enable investigation of whether
      certain aims, motivations or perceptions impact upon the eventual acceptability of the
      shorts. This initial interview is likely to last 20 - 40 minutes.

      At Appointment 7, participants will be interviewed about their experiences during the study.
      This interview aims to determine the acceptability of the shorts and participants' views on
      the study processes such as the information and support they received, and the outcome
      measures used. Prior to the interview, the interviewer will review the data and reflective
      notes from the initial interview; the wear diaries and the Participant Global Rating of
      Change scores at the initial assessment and will use this information to inform the questions
      that are asked. This will ensure the interviews are focussed on aspects that are important to
      each participant. This final interview is likely to last 40 - 60 minutes.

      Measures of walking ability - Outcome measures are described elsewhere and have been chosen
      according to current guidelines on the most relevant assessment battery for walking in PwMS.
      In addition to movement laboratory measures, participants will complete self-report
      assessments of their walking and balance; a falls diary and a rating of the overall impact on
      the shorts on their walking ability.

      Data analysis - Qualitative and quantitative data will first be analysed separately and then
      combined, partly by transforming qualitative into categorical data where this provides a
      valid representation of the data and partly by comparing, contrasting and relating the
      findings of the different data types for each objective.

      Qualitative data analysis will use the Framework Approach to thematic analysis.

      Descriptive quantitative data analysis will determine individual and average changes on each
      measure and effect sizes for the impact of the shorts. Effect sizes will indicate which
      measures are most responsive to this intervention and this information may be used to inform
      a sample size calculation for future studies.
    
  