
    
      While there is not a clearly established and widely accepted pathophysiological cause to this
      post-operative pain, studies have estimated that between 7-33% of patients experience chronic
      peri-incisional pain after Cesarean section with Pfannenstiel incision - a type of abdominal
      surgical incision that allows access to the abdomen and the most common method for performing
      Cesarean sections today - defined as pain persisting beyond the period of expected healing,
      approximately 3 months.

      Management of chronic peri-incisional pain after Cesarean section requires an extensive
      workup including laboratory testing (CBC, ESR, Urinalysis, STI testing) and imaging
      (transvaginal ultrasonography and abdominal CT) to rule out organic causes. Once a visceral
      etiology from postoperative pain has been excluded, there is not a well-established guideline
      dictating standard of care, however treatment can include analgesics such as Acetaminophen or
      Non-Steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs, and in refractory cases suggestive of neuropathic pain
      Tricyclic Antidepressants, Gabapentin, Pregabalin, and Serotonin-Norepinephrine Reuptake
      Inhibitors can be used. If medicinal therapy fails to manage symptoms, consultation for pain
      management specialists and/or surgical evaluation is often considered.

      Scar deactivation is used as standard of care for treatment and resolution of scar associated
      pain in patients with a history of Cesarean section by medical acupuncturists, both abdominal
      and/or low back pain that began after the cesarean section. Scar infiltration with lidocaine
      has been used in numerous clinical settings, masquerading under different names. Referred to
      as Neural Therapy in Germany, the technique of injecting short-acting local anesthetic into
      the dermal subcutaneous junction of scar tissue has been widely applied; however there is
      limited readily available clinical trial evidence supporting its reported effectiveness.
      Theoretically, it is postulated that the anti-inflammatory effects of local anesthetics play
      a role in mitigating the autonomic nervous system disruption of interference fields caused by
      scar tissue. Local anesthetics promote anti-inflammatory activity through a variety of
      mechanisms including reversibly inhibiting leukocyte adhesion by interfering with the action
      of integrins and leukocyte adhesion molecule-1, limiting leukocyte migration, reversible
      inhibition of phagocytosis, inhibition of phospholipase A2, inhibition of prostaglandins,
      inhibition of thromboxane release, inhibition of leukotriene release, inhibition of histamine
      release, reduction in free radical formation, and inhibition of cytokine release.
      Additionally, Lidocaine injection is proposed to alleviate nerve entrapment within fascia
      through hydrodissection, a technique being effectively utilized in the management of carpal
      tunnel syndrome.

      Scar deactivation is the technique of inserting acupuncture needles at a 30-45 degree angle
      into the superficial fascia to surround a scar. It is postulated that needle insertion into
      connective tissue produces analgesia through a multifaceted process encompassing the
      disruption and remodeling of extracellular matrix in loose connective tissue, alterations in
      gene expression affecting neurotransmitter levels, and cellular signaling pathways impacted
      in response to fibroblast and mast-cell involvement. In traditional Chinese medicine,
      injuries resulting in scar tissue formation are thought of as areas of blood and subsequently
      Qi stagnation. Disruptions in the flow of Qi at the point of scar tissue can result in
      abnormal skin sensations such as pain, itching, and numbness in addition to systemic effects.
      A case report has demonstrated effective pain relief in with an acupuncture protocol
      utilizing scar deactivation technique.
    
  