
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To determine the recommended phase II dose of MK-0646 in combination with a standard
           etoposide and cisplatin chemotherapy regimen in patients with extensive stage small cell
           lung cancer. (phase I)

        -  To assess the toxicity and tolerability of this regimen in these patients. (phases I and
           II)

        -  To evaluate the preliminary efficacy of this regimen in these patients. (phase I)

        -  To assess the efficacy of this regimen, in terms of objective response rate, as well as
           complete response rate in these patients. (phase II)

        -  To assess progression-free survival and overall survival of patients treated with this
           regimen. (phase II)

        -  To explore the predictive and prognostic impact of biomarkers in patients treated with
           this regimen. (phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I, dose-escalation study of MK-0646 followed by a phase
      II study.

      Patients receive MK-0646 IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15 and cisplatin IV and etoposide
      IV once daily on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4 to 8 courses in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of study treatment,
      patients with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) may continue MK-0646 in the
      absence of disease progression, with temporary discontinuation while undergoing prophylactic
      cranial irradiation or thoracic radiotherapy.

      Blood samples are collected at baseline (pre-dose) and periodically for biomarker and
      pharmacogenetic correlative studies. Blood samples are analyzed for changes in expression of
      IGF biomarkers (e.g., IGF-1, IGF-2 and IGF-PB), haplotype tagging analysis of the IGF-1R, and
      evaluation of the immunoglobulin G fragment C receptor polymorphisms.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed at 4 weeks. Patients with responding
      disease (i.e., CR, PR, or stable disease) are followed every 3 months until relapse or
      progression.
    
  