
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex condition that carries a high burden of
      neuropsychiatric comorbidities. About a third of individuals living with Parkinson's disease
      have one or more anxiety disorders, resulting in lower quality of life, greater care
      dependency, and increased caregiver burden. Gastrointestinal dysfunction is very common in
      Parkinson's. Constipation is experienced by the vast majority of patients and often manifests
      years before onset of motor symptoms, symptoms suggestive of irritable bowel syndrome are
      also commonly found in PD. Increased intestinal permeability has been demonstrated in PD.
      Impaired intestinal barrier function can lead to chronic systemic low-grade inflammation,
      which has been strongly associated with mood disorders. Several lines of evidence suggest a
      link between the gut microbiome and Parkinson's disease.

      The microbiome has been linked to anxiety both in human and animal studies. Several studies
      have found beneficial effects of probiotics on mood disorders in non-PD populations,
      including stress and depressive behaviour in animal models, and sad mood reactivity and major
      depressive disorder in humans. Specifically regarding anxiety, probiotics have shown benefits
      in several animal models; human probiotic trials have demonstrated improvements in
      psychological distress and anxiety in healthy controls, in mothers experiencing postpartum
      depression and anxiety and in individuals afflicted with IBS-related anxiety without PD.

      In summary, given the high rate of anxiety in PD, the growing evidence that probiotics may
      improve anxiety and mood disorders in non-PD populations, and the strong links between the
      gut microbiome and PD, we will carry out a randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled study into
      the use of a multi-strain probiotic to improve anxiety and Parkinson's disease.

      Recruitment: Approximately 72 participants will be randomized to either the probiotic
      intervention arm or placebo treatment. Participants will mainly be recruited from the Pacific
      Parkinson's Research Centre movement disorder clinic at the University of British Columbia in
      Vancouver.

      Participants will receive a detailed description of the study and will need to provide
      informed consent for participation in the study. Participants will be screened for inclusion
      and exclusion criteria.

      Assessments: Clinical assessments of motor function, cognition and neuropsychiatric symptoms
      will be done before the 12 week intervention phase as well as following after the 12 week
      intervention with regular check ins during the course of the intervention. Blood samples and
      stool samples will be collected before and after the intervention.

      The primary outcome will be the difference between the probiotic vs. placebo groups in mean
      Parkinson's Anxiety Scale (PAS) score pre/post-intervention. The primary analysis will be
      based on intention-to-treat. Secondary analyses for anxiety will include assessing the
      proportion of participants with a post-intervention PAS of ≤13 in each group. For other
      secondary outcomes, the between-group difference analysis will be applied to the fatigue,
      depression, PD motor function, severity (UPDRS I-III) and quality of life scores pre/post
      intervention, respectively. Adverse events, tolerability and drop-out rates will be
      registered and overall rates compared between the intervention groups. Furthermore,
      differences and changes in blood markers and microbiome composition will be assessed.
    
  