
    
      The overall aim of the proposed project is to increase receipt of a broad array of childhood
      preventive health services in a population of disadvantaged inner city children. Specific
      hypotheses concerning risk factors for infant under-immunization and lack of receipt of well
      child care will be tested. This study will first examine these risk factors in a defined
      population of inner city children, using a historical cohort. Finally, through the use of a
      randomized controlled trial in a prospective birth cohort, it will test an intervention,
      based partly on the evidence gathered from the initial study phases, to increase immunization
      rates and well child care delivery in those children most at risk for "falling through the
      cracks." These studies will be conducted in the Denver Health community health network, the
      largest integrated community health care system in the United States.

      Information gathered via rigorous exploration of risk factors for inadequate preventive
      service receipt in inner city children is especially important at present, because despite
      rising immunization rates around the country, it is clear that "pockets of need" remain in
      many urban locations. Children in these pockets of need, in addition to being
      under-immunized, also are at higher risk for lack of other preventive services, and suffer
      from higher rates of iron deficiency anemia and lead poisoning. The knowledge gained from
      both the descriptive and interventional parts of the study will provide crucial information
      for physicians who care for these children, health care systems that serve them, and policy
      makers responsible for promoting effective tools and funding their implementation. The
      information gained herein will also provide important methodological insight for generalists
      who wish to conduct interventional studies in large urban populations, by further refining
      existing methods used in design and implementation of large cohort studies in disadvantaged
      children.

      Although this project will be conducted among a population of disadvantaged inner city
      children, many of the findings from these studies will likely be applicable in health care
      systems that serve other socioeconomic groups. All primary care physicians who care for
      children face the challenge of trying to boost childhood immunization rates over 90%, and to
      increase the delivery of a full spectrum of preventive health services to children. The
      investigators hope that the evidence from this project will inform and shape both the
      clinical practice of individual health care providers and health care systems charged with
      providing preventive health care to children in a wide variety of settings.
    
  