
    
      Aicardi-Goutières syndrome (AGS) is a severe childhood disease of the brain associated with
      very high levels of a chemical called type I interferon. Normally humans only produce
      interferon when they are infected with a virus. In AGS, there is no obvious viral infection.
      Instead, due to changes (mutations) in the genetic code in these individuals, it is believed
      that the cells in the body are fooled into thinking that the person's own DNA is viral - that
      is to say, there is a confusion in telling 'self' from 'non-self'.

      In fact, a large amount of our own DNA is made up of ancient virus (called 'endogenous
      retrovirus' and sometimes also referred to as 'junk DNA'), that have been included into our
      own genetic material over millions of years. These endogenous retroviruses can still act like
      a virus coming from outside of the body, so that they need to be controlled. The
      Investigators have wondered if the genetic changes causing AGS mean that these normal control
      mechanisms don't work. If that is true, the endogenous retroviruses could start to make
      copies of themselves which might be recognised by our immune system as 'non-self' ('foreign'
      i.e. viral), leading to the continuous production of interferon which then damages the cells
      in our body.

      Since humans cannot repair the genetic code in every cell, the investigators wish to treat
      AGS patients with drugs called reverse transcriptase inhibitors (RTIs). RTIs are used to
      fight the HIV-1 virus that causes AIDS. In the case of AGS, it is not treating HIV-1, but the
      investigators wonder if the same drugs might be able to control endogenous retroviruses that
      are driving interferon production. Indeed, in a recently completed study the investigators
      gathered early information to suggest that treatment of patients with AGS with RTIs for one
      year did lead to a reduction in interferon, with levels increasing again when we stopped the
      drugs.

      The current study will involve three treatment arms, and an assessment of interferon status
      and other markers which we think will give us information about AGS, and about how RTIs may
      work in the treatment of AGS.

      This study is of potential importance for patients with AGS and their families since there
      are no licenced drugs for this disorder at the present time. Scientifically, the project will
      be of considerable interest if the results support the possibility that 'junk DNA' can be
      associated with human disease. RTIs are very safe drugs, that have been used in millions of
      people with HIV-1 around the world. If the results turn out to be convincing, the
      investigators believe that it might be worth thinking about using RTIs to treat other
      diseases that have also been linked to increased levels of type I interferon, for example the
      relatively common immune condition called systemic lupus erythematosus.
    
  