
    
      Background: Pain is one of the most common reasons Veterans seek health care. Mental health
      conditions (including PTSD, anxiety, and depression) are estimated to co-occur for 30-50% of
      Veterans with chronic pain. Current recommendations for pain management include an
      integrative approach informed by the biopsychosocial model. It is increasingly recognized
      that use of opioids for pain management is associated with risk of harm, yet treatment
      studies of non-pharmacologic approaches remain limited. Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction
      (MBSR) and Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for chronic pain (CBT-CP) teach skills intended to
      enhance functionality and quality of life in the face of chronic pain. The proposed
      randomized clinical trial will evaluate if MBSR and CBT-CP each result in improvements in
      pain interference that are superior to usual care. Two hundred twenty-two Veterans with
      chronic musculoskeletal pain will be randomized to MBSR, CBT-CP or usual care. Measures
      pertaining to the primary outcome of pain interference will be collected at baseline, at the
      post-MBSR/CBT-CP time point, and at 3- and 6-month follow-up. In addition, measures of pain
      intensity, depression, and treatment satisfaction will be applied to more fully characterize
      the impact of MBSR relative to CBT-CP and usual care. Exploratory analyses will assess if
      outcomes differ for MBSR and CBT-CP, the impact of the interventions on opioid use and
      indicators of suicidality, and whether Veteran characteristics assessed at baseline function
      as treatment moderators. Aims: Primary Aim: Assess if MBSR and CBT-CP each result in greater
      reductions in the pain interference subscale of the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) as compared to
      usual care, from baseline to 6 months post-treatment. Secondary Aim: Evaluate if MBSR and
      CBT-CP are each superior to usual care in producing improvements in pain severity, treatment
      satisfaction, and depression. Exploratory Aim 1: Evaluate whether outcomes for patients
      randomized to MBSR and CBT-CP differ for changes in pain interference, pain severity,
      depression, and treatment satisfaction. Exploratory Aim 2: Evaluate the impact of MBSR and
      CBT-CP on utilization of opioid analgesics and markers of suicidality.

      Exploratory Aim 3: Evaluate moderators of response to MBSR and CBT-CP to lay the groundwork
      for identifying Veterans more likely to succeed in one or the other treatment. Potential
      moderators assessed will include: age, gender, baseline depressive symptoms, anxiety
      sensitivity, and pain catastrophizing.

      Design: A three-arm randomized controlled trial comparing MBSR, CBT-CP and usual care.
      Participants: 222 Veterans at a large urban VA facility with chronic musculoskeletal pain.
      Interventions: Group MBSR or group CBT-CP, each 8 weeks in duration. Analyses: Mixed models
      with assess whether MBSR, CBT-CP each produce greater reductions in outcome variables from
      baseline to follow-up compared to usual care. Implications: If MBSR and CBT-CP are each shown
      to be superior to usual care for treatment of chronic pain among Veterans, it would support
      providing MBSR and CBT-CP for this population.
    
  