
    
      BACKGROUND Cancer patients who are in the transition phase to survivorship after completing
      their final treatments need psychosocial interventions to manage stressors such as anxiety,
      depression, and fear of cancer recurrence. Smartphone app-based health interventions are an
      innovative way to deliver psychosocial cancer-care. In the SEAMLESS study, the investigators
      aim to evaluate an app-based mind-body intervention (MBI) in cancer survivors.

      The need for psychosocial interventions for cancer survivors has been highlighted by the
      Institute of Medicine in their landmark survivorship report appropriately titled, "Lost in
      Transition." Cancer survivors are often unable to participate in face-to-face interventions
      because of difficulties such as compromised immunity, treatment-related side-effects,
      scheduling conflicts and geography. A smartphone-app based MBI can overcome several such
      difficulties, since patients can participate at their own convenience without the burden of
      travel and scheduling classes.

      INTERVENTION DESIGN The AM smartphone app supports personalized mindfulness practices through
      lessons and personalized guided-meditation playlists; AM reportedly reduced anxiety in a
      study with college students. AM interprets its users' emotional state, e.g. angry, elated,
      from a user-inputted digital emotion-mapping board; and heart-rate data through algorithms
      that analyze facial bio-signals. The SEAMLESS study is a randomized wait-list controlled
      trial, which will evaluate AM's effectiveness for reducing stress (primary outcome), anxiety,
      depression, fatigue and fear of cancer recurrence in cancer survivors who have completed all
      treatments for 2 weeks or more. Outcomes will be assessed online using validated PROMIS
      measures at 1) baseline, 2) mid-point 3) immediately post-intervention, 4&5) 3 and 6 months
      follow-up post-baseline.

      SIGNIFICANCE Cancer-care providers are uncertain about the efficacy of app-based
      interventions for patients, which are available in great supply in today's digital world.
      This study will provide rigorously evaluated efficacy data for an app-based MBI for cancer
      survivors, which if helpful, could be made easily available for psychosocial care at cancer
      centers worldwide.
    
  