
    
      Dexamethasone decreases inflammation and also suppresses the immune system.

      If you are found to be eligible for this study, you will be randomly assigned (as in the toss
      of a coin) to receive either dexamethasone or a placebo by mouth in the morning and at night
      with food every day for 14 days. A placebo is a substance that looks like the study drug but
      which has no active ingredients. You will have an equal chance of being placed in either of
      the 2 groups. You, the medical staff, and researchers will not know to which group you have
      been assigned.

      Beginning on Day 15 [± 3 days], regardless of if you were assigned to the dexamethasone or
      placebo group during the first 14 days, you will begin receiving the dexamethasone. On Days
      15-21, you will receive dexamethasone 2 times a day. On Days 22-28 you will continue to take
      dexamethasone 2 times a day, but it will be at a lower dose level.

      If you develop intolerable side effects while on this study, the medication will be stopped
      and you will be removed from the study.

      You will be asked to return to the outpatient clinic on Days 8 [± 3 days], 15 [± 3 days] , 22
      [± 3 days], and 29 [± 3 days] to answer a questionnaire about your cancer diagnosis, the
      medication you are taking, and the symptoms you are having (for example, pain, fatigue,
      nausea, appetite problems, sleep problems, depression, and your overall sense of well-being).
      The questionnaire will take approximately 30 minutes to complete. Blood (about 1 tablespoon)
      will be drawn to measure protein levels and to check the iron level in your blood. If you are
      unable to return to the clinic on days 8, 15, 22, or 29; the assessments will be done by the
      research nurse by phone; the blood work will not be done.

      You will be considered off-study on Day 29 [ ± 3 days]. All study patients will have a 2 week
      follow-up on day 43 [± 3 days] after study drug has been discontinued, for safety and
      toxicity assessments. If you are unable to return to the clinic on day 43, the research nurse
      will do the safety and toxicity assessment by phone.

      This is an investigational study. Dexamethasone has been approved by the FDA and is a
      commercially available drug. It is FDA approved at this dose level. Its use in this study,
      for this purpose, is investigational. About 160 patients will take part in this study. Up to
      110 will be enrolled at the University of Texas (UT) MD Anderson Cancer Center. The other
      sites participating in this study are Lyndon Baines Johnson [LBJ] breast oncology clinic
      Houston Texas, and Four Seasons Hospice in Flat Rock, North Carolina.
    
  