
    
      This is a longitudinal cohort study. Participation in the research database is limited to
      placement of the subjects' identifiable medical information related to their organ
      transplantation and immunosuppression use. Participants can consent to allow only medical
      information collected and/or provide blood and tissue samples.

      Patients seen by the Infectious Disease/Transplant team will be asked to provide their
      written informed consent to allow their past, current and future identifiable medical record
      information related to their condition placed in the research database. The medical record
      information that will be placed in the database will be related directly to the
      patients'-participants' disease process. However, since concurrent medical conditions and
      treatments (i.e., not related directly to transplantation) may impact substantially the
      patients'-participants' condition, it is likely that all of the patients'-participants' past,
      current and future identifiable medical record information will be placed in the research
      database. Consent will be obtained in the pre-transplant period. The advantage of this system
      is that consent is obtained directly from the patient (rather than from a proxy, as would be
      necessary in situations where consent is obtained post-transplant). Secondly, since the
      timing transplantation can not be predicted with certainty and may occur at hours during
      which research coordinators are not working, consent prior to transplantation ensures that
      the entire post-transplant period is covered by consent. This would ensure that early
      post-transplant infections are not missed, thereby eliminating a form of systematic bias. The
      disadvantage of this system is that some patients undergo informed consent who do not
      subsequently undergo transplantation. Additionally, occasional patients who present with
      acute organ system failure (for example, patients with fulminant hepatic failure) will not
      undergo pre-transplant consent. We will attempt to minimize this risk by pre-study and
      subsequent meetings with transplant surgeons to ensure the study team is informed about such
      patients on a timely basis.

      Participant medical information will be stored electronically within the research data base.

      The names, social security numbers, and medical record numbers of the participants will be
      deleted from their stored medical information and replaced with a linkage code. Access to
      participant medical information contained within the research database will be restricted to
      the research investigator and research staff..

      Information linking the linkage codes to the participants' names, social security numbers and
      medical record numbers will be stored in a secure location separate from the medical
      information. Access to the information linking the linkage codes with participant names,
      social security numbers and medical record numbers will be granted only to the Principal
      Investigator and research coordinator of this research database.

      Participant medical record information will be stored in the research database for an
      indefinite period of time.

      The participant will be followed for up to four years after transplantation.

      Epidemiologic information to be collected

      At baseline (upon signing informed consent), the following information will be collected:
      Demographic data - age, sex, state of birth, prior travel to an area endemic for
      histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis or blastomycosis, indication for listing for
      transplantation, other prior medical problems, prior chemotherapy/immunosuppressive therapies
      and prior fungal infections.

      During the first week post transplant, the following information will be collected: Type and
      date of transplant, UNOS status, pre-transplant conditioning with thymoglobulin or
      alemtuzumab, ongoing immunosuppressive regimen. At the time of fungal infection, the
      following information will be collected - symptoms and signs of infection and their duration,
      receipt of antifungal prophylaxis, presence of indwelling vascular devices, duration of
      neutropenia, presence of graft versus host disease (GVHD) and its severity and treatment,
      history of graft rejection and its treatment

      Six weeks following the fungal infection, the following information will be collected -
      treatment of the infection, outcome (including duration of hospitalization, fate of organ
      graft and mortality)

      Blood work to be collected

      A separate consent form will be presented for blood work. This is to ensure that the patients
      who decline blood work specifically for the study still have the opportunity to have their
      epidemiologic information collected. The following tests will be collected specifically for
      the study.

        -  CD4 lymphocyte count pre-transplant and then every three months post-transplant

        -  Blood for Cylex assay pre-transplant then once per month X18 months

        -  Blood for storage (see below)* Additionally, bronchoalveolar lavage fluid will be
           collected (see below for schedule)

           *Blood for storage will be collected on those patients at highest risk for invasive
           fungal infections (4, 11, 42, 43). These patients will be:

        -  Lung transplant recipients

        -  Intestinal transplant recipients

        -  Kidney/pancreas transplant recipients

        -  Liver transplant recipients on renal replacement therapy or requiring re-transplantation
           in the first week post-transplantation

      The BAL samples will be collected only if the subject undergoes a clinically indicated
      bronchoscopy and only the excess BAL fluid will be collected for the study.

      Mycologic samples

      All fungi grown from routine clinical specimens from patients in the study will be saved by
      the clinical microbiology laboratory. They will be made available to the Centers for Disease
      Control and Prevention (CDC) - other researchers working in conjunction with the CDC may also
      examine these isolates for mechanisms of antifungal resistance or mechanisms of
      pathogenicity. No patient identifiers would be provided to either the CDC or to other
      researchers. Only relevant "de-identified" clinical information (eg, prior use of specific
      antifungal agents) would be provided.
    
  