
    
      When diving with compressed air, a continuous accumulation of nitrogen will take place in the
      body. The total uptake of nitrogen by the tissues is dependent on the duration and depth of
      the performed dive. During prolonged exposure to hyperbaric conditions the body eventually
      will become saturated with nitrogen. In a hyperbaric environment corresponding to a depth of
      30 meters seawater, nitrogen saturation could be expected after about 24 hours. Decompression
      can cause accumulated nitrogen to form intravascular bubbles.

      It has long been considered that decompression sickness (DCS) is caused by bubble formation
      when dissolved nitrogen at the end of diving comes out of solution. Doppler ultrasound
      techniques have shown that intravascular gas bubbles could exist even after uneventful dives.
      Therefore, additional pathophysiological factors must be sought.

      Dehydration is a common finding after diving in water. It is probably caused by a combination
      of a non-existent water intake during diving and a physiologically increased urine
      production, caused by the increased ambient pressure.

      There is evidence of an increased inflammatory activity in blood after diving. Signs of
      neutrophil activation is a common finding. It is not known if hyperbaric exposure in itself
      is enough to elicit these biochemical changes or if the presence of intravascular nitrogen
      bubbles is needed.

      Studies have shown that biochemical markers of central nervous system (CNS) injury can be
      detected in blood samples obtained from patients with DCS, metabolic and neurologic disease,
      during cardiac surgery and after traumatic brain injuries. Such markers can also be seen in
      blood after sport activities like boxing and breath hold diving. If biochemical markers of
      CNS injury will be present in blood after hyperbaric exposure is not known.

      Diving is a common activity in society. It is practised both recreationally and
      professionally. The police, coast guard, emergency services and armed forces employ
      professional divers.

      The Swedish armed forces (SwAF) Diving and Naval Medicine Center (DNC) is responsible for
      education and training of divers for SwAF. The centre is also responsible for research and
      development and conduct tests for diving medicine, and tests of underwater equipment.

      SwAF DNC will during 2017 perform saturation diving tests in a dry chamber environment. The
      study "Inflammatory and cerebrospinal biochemical markers in blood during prolonged
      hyperbaric exposure - an observational controlled study" will be followed out during these
      tests. It entails venous blood sampling, spirometric testing and cardiac ultrasound.

      This is a prospective, controlled observational study. The study aims to involve at least 16
      study subjects. Half of the subjects (at least 8 persons), named the intervention group, will
      be exposed to hyperbaric conditions. The hyperbaric exposure is part of the Swedish navy
      saturation diving tests. Half of the subjects (at least 8 persons), named the control group,
      will experience no hyperbaric exposure.

      The intervention group will be compressed in a dry hyperbaric chamber to 4 ATA and remain at
      that pressure for 36 hours. They will then be decompressed 0,5 meters/hour for 30 hours,
      after which they will be decompressed 0,375 meters/hour for 40 hours. After 70 hours of
      decompression normal atmospheric pressure will be reached and the subjects will leave the
      hyperbaric chamber. The oxygen partial pressure inside the chamber will be actively
      controlled and never exceed 50 kPa.

      Members of the intervention group will be examined by a physician trained in diving medicine
      before and after the hyperbaric exposure. Spirometric testing of lung function will be
      carried out at both these occasions. Immmediately after hyperbaric exposure cardiac
      ultrasound will be used to assess presence and duration of VGE.

      Five blood samples (6 mL blood each) will be obtained from all study subjects from both
      groups according to the following plan:

        -  before compression commences

        -  about one hour before decompression commences

        -  within one hour after leaving the hyperbaric chamber

        -  about 24 hours after leaving the hyperbaric chamber

        -  if possible, about 5-7 days after leaving the hyperbaric chamber.

      Blood samples are obtained from the control group at the same time points as from the
      intervention group.

      In addition to above mentioned samples, blood samples (6 mL blood each) regarding fluid
      balance will be obtained from intervention group subjects before, during and after hyperbaric
      exposure.

      Signs of DCS will be actively sought.
    
  