
    
      Recent scientific advances demonstrate that for people living with HIV, antiretroviral
      therapy (ART) is the most effective strategy to improve immune function, reduce morbidity,
      improve quality of life, prolong survival, and prevent HIV transmission. Translating this
      knowledge into practice, however, requires prompt diagnosis and linkage to care, entry into
      care with timely ART initiation, and engagement in care, support for ART adherence, and
      retention to promote durable viral suppression. Addressing failures in this cascade of care,
      often referred to as the "Seek, Test, Treat, and Retain (STTR)" paradigm, has become a major
      part of the National HIV/AIDS strategy in the United States. To date, much of the research
      and discussion surrounding this strategy has focused on expanding HIV testing to improve the
      early identification of new cases. There has been less attention focused on linkage to,
      engagement in, and retention in care. Specifically, little attention has focused on
      identifying HIV-positive individuals who, despite being aware of their diagnosis, have never
      been in HIV care, are intermittent users of care, or have dropped out of care.

      HIV-infected injection drug users (IDUs) are a particularly difficult subpopulation to link
      to and retain in HIV care. They face a myriad of challenges that can impede retention in care
      including substance use disorders (both alcohol and drugs), mental health problems and
      poverty-related issues such as unstable housing and food insecurity. If IDUs adhere to their
      treatment regimens, however, studies have demonstrated they realize similar survival benefits
      from antiretroviral therapy as persons without a history of injection drug use. In contrast
      to the majority of communities in the U.S., in Puerto Rico, drug use, particularly injection
      drug use, continues to fuel a fast-growing HIV epidemic. Puerto Rico has an estimated
      incidence rate of 45 HIV cases per 100,000 population, twice the rate for the 50 U.S. states,
      and almost 40% of new infections are associated with injection drug use. In contrast, only
      12% of new infections in the 50 U.S. states are among IDUs.

      The overall goal of this project is to implement and evaluate a community-level, structured
      enhanced approach, the Enhanced HIV Care Access and Retention Intervention, for substance
      users in San Juan, Puerto Rico. It will bring HIV care directly to five San Juan zones in
      which a high proportion of HIV-infected substance users reside. The significance of the study
      is threefold.f care, or have dropped out of care.
    
  