
    
      Crohn's disease is a chronic inflammation of all or part of the digestive tract, " from the
      mouth to the anus ". Anoperineal lesions are a very frequent entity in this disease (20 to
      80%) and a real therapeutic challenge. Among these lesions, we were interested in
      fistula-in-ano that are currently difficult to treat despite a large therapeutic arsenal.

      Cell therapy is a new and promising approach for the treatment of inflammatory disease
      including Crohn's disease and fistulas.

      Indeed, stem cells have shown some efficacy in several indications through their
      differentiation potential, including fistula-in-ano in Crohn's disease.

      Adipose tissue seems to be an ideal source for cell therapy This is a prospective, open,
      non-comparative, single center, phase I-II clinical trial. It will involve 10 patients and
      will be conducted over a period of 28 month.

      This protocol is designed to evaluate, in patients with Crohn's disease and fistula-in-ano
      refractory to conventional medical and surgical treatment, the safety and efficacy of local
      microinjection of autologous adipose tissue and SVF from microaspirate.

      The main objective is to assess tolerance and security. The secondary objective is to
      evaluate the effectiveness of this technique Microaspiration is performed by a plastic
      surgeon under general anesthesia. He performs two types of fat removal : a sample of 120 cc
      wich is sent to the laboratory of cell therapy to obtain the SVF (5 cc) and a sample of 30
      cc.

      Once treatment obtained (SVF + adipose tissue) it is administered to the patient by local
      mico reinjection into (SVF) and around (adipose tissue) of the fistula. This administration
      is made by the surgeon under a second general anesthesia after viewing the fistula and
      removal of setons.

      Then the patient is monitored with regular consultations at weeks 1, 2, 8, 16 et 48 and
      paraclinical (blood sample and magnetic resonance imaging of the perineum) at weeks 8 and 48
      to evaluate tolerance and effectiveness of treatment.

      At the end of the study, results that are expected are effectiveness of local micro
      reinjection of autologous adipose tissue and SVF for the treatment of refractory
      fistula-in-ano in Crohn's disease.
    
  