
    
      Loosening of prosthetic components continues to play a large role in total knee alloplasty
      (TKA) and need for revision. Osteolysis is an important part of prosthesis loosening, but we
      still do not completely understand the mechanism. Research has shown that mechanical factors
      such as weak bone cement and poor contact between cement/bone or cement/implant interphase
      contribute to loosening of implants. Survival of cemented TKA components also depend on a
      careful balancing of soft tissues around the knee, repair of lower extremity dislocations,
      design of the prosthesis and the level of patients' activities. Sclerosis of the proximal
      tibia can present a problem with regard to getting the cement to penetrate into the bone.
      Poor operative technique, such as high volume or high pressure lavage of the prepared bone
      surface, can result in reduced penetration of cement into the spongiosa and early failure of
      the prosthesis, measured as progressive radiolucent lines (RLLs). En tourniquet counter acts
      bleeding at the implant site and provides for better penetration of cement into the
      trabeculae of the bone. If the bone surface at the implantation site is contaminated with
      blood before the cement is applied, the shear strength in the bone/cement interphase can be
      reduced by up to 50%.

      In prosthesis used in this study includes a tibial plateau with a central stem with
      stabilizing wings, the bottom surface of which is recessed by about 1 mm, so that a pocket is
      formed surrounded by a lip that provides for an even thickness of the cement layer beneath
      the tibial plateau. This assures that the cement is pressed down into the spongiosa during
      fixation of the implant. This design doubles the penetration of the cement compared with
      prostheses without a depressed baseplate. The company behind this design has had a successful
      follow-up of this system for more than 15 years. A good cement/implant interphase lessens the
      risk of penetration of debris into the interphase and thus reduces the risk for the
      development of osteolysis and aseptic loosening of the implant.

      Fixation of knee alloplasties is done in 70% of cases with use of cement. It is uncertain
      whether there is a difference in the long-term survival of knee prostheses with the two types
      of cement used in this project. Both types of cement in this study are used today in knee
      surgery with good, short-term clinical results. It is important to investigate new types of
      cement in order to assure future patients the best possible results after knee alloplasty and
      fewer re-operations.

      The goal of this scientific study is to determine whether there are differences in early
      migration and prosthesis-near bone density when a standard knee prosthesis is fixed with
      Refobacin Bone Cement R or with Refobacin Plus Bone Cement. Migration will be evaluated with
      RSA and bone density around the prosthesis with DEXA. The study will be successful if the
      prosthesis is fixed and remains in place throughout the entire period of the study, that is,
      that there is no increasing migration as measured by RSA. The cement type that ensures the
      largest number of solidly fixed prostheses during the two-year evaluation period will be "the
      best".
    
  