
    
      Niemann-Pick Disease, type C (NPC) is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease with
      progressive neurodegeneration. It is characterized by intracellular accumulation of
      cholesterol and glycosphingolipids. The age of onset is variable with cases manifesting from
      infancy to adulthood. Classically, initial neurological symptoms are observed in early to
      late childhood. Symptoms and signs of NPC include prolonged neonatal jaundice, splenomegaly,
      and various neurological manifestations, especially ataxia, dysmetria, dysarthria, vertical
      supranuclear gaze palsy and cognitive decline. Currently there are no approved therapies for
      NPC. A recent controlled study and a series of case reports suggest some efficacy for
      miglustat. Miglustat inhibits the biosynthesis of glycosphingolipids. The pathophysiological
      processes contributing to neurodegeneration in NPC have been intensively studied in NPC mouse
      models. Potential pathological processes include toxic effects of cholesterol or
      glycosphingolipid accumulation, deficient oxysterol production, peroxisomal dysfunction,
      mitochondrial dysfunction, perturbed intracellular calcium homeostasis, inflammation,
      induction of apoptosis, deficient neurosteroid synthesis, and increased oxidative stress. The
      degree to which each of these pathological processes contributes to the pathology of NPC is
      not known; however, the multiple processes involved suggest that combinatorial therapy
      addressing various aspects of this disorder will be necessary. A major impediment to the
      development of clinical trials for NPC has been the prior lack of outcome measures.
      Identifying biomarkers was a major goal of our NPC natural history trial (06-CH-0186). We now
      have identified multiple biochemical abnormalities in our cohort of patients that may prove
      useful as biomarkers in a therapeutic trial. The next step is to attempt to validate these
      potential biomarkers in a therapeutic trial. Thus in this protocol we plan to evaluate the
      safety and efficacy of N-acetylcysteine to improve a group of biomarkers related to increased
      oxidative stress.

      The goals of this protocol are:

        1. To validate the use of biomarkers in a therapeutic trial for NPC.

        2. To evaluate the safety of N-acetylcysteine in NPC patients.

        3. To evaluate the efficacy of N-acetylcysteine to improve biomarkers associated with
           increased oxidative stress in NPC patients.
    
  