
    
      An appointment will be scheduled for participant to meet with a social worker. The
      appointment may happen on day of participant's scheduled clinic appointment or on another
      mutually decided upon date and time. Should participant choose to participate, this first
      visit will be Visit 1 for the study.

      Visit 1: Baseline

      Informed consent will be obtained demonstrating an interest in participating.

      A visit with the social worker will take place during Visit 1. This session will be held in a
      private office and allows participant time for discussion regarding any challenges, struggles
      and/or barriers they may be experiencing.

      The following baseline questionnaires/surveys will be administered:

      Modified Patient Activation Measure - measures participant confidence in taking care of their
      own health.

      Distress Thermometer - measures participant distress level during the past week.

      Patient Health Questionnaire -measures depression symptoms and severity if any.

      Clinical information will be taken from participant's medical record. There may be follow-up
      questions related to data if information is unclear or incomplete.

      Upon completion of Visit 1, participant will receive a satisfaction survey to evaluate how
      participant satisfaction with social worker interaction.

      Social Worker Interventions: After Visit 1 and before Visit 2

      The social worker will develop an intervention for participant during Visit 1 appointment. As
      many calls or in person meetings participant requires will take place. There will be no limit
      and it will be determined by participant's needs.

      Visit 2: Follow-up After 6 Months

      Upon completion of participant's six month follow-up in the study, the following
      questionnaires/surveys will be administered:

      Modified Patient Activation Measure - measures how confident participant is at taking care of
      their own health.

      Distress Thermometer - measures how much distress participant has been experiencing in the
      past week.

      Patient Health Questionnaire - measures if participant has symptoms of depression and the
      severity of those symptoms.

      Satisfaction Survey - measures how satisfied participant is with the social worker
      interaction.
    
  