
    
      All participants will undergo a detailed history, general, abdominal and vaginal
      examinations, body mass index (BMI) was calculated and pelvic ultrasound examination was
      undertaken for all participants. The participants who fulfilled the eligibility criteria were
      explained about the study with the beneficial and possible adverse effects of lidocaine.
      Informed consent was obtained from them after that participant will be randomized into 3
      groups: group 1 [N&H technique], group 2 [N&H technique] and group (3) stepwise
      devascularization Eligible participants will be allocated to one of 3 groups after induction
      of general anesthesia and prior to the operation and before skin incision. The abdomen was
      exposed through Pfannenstiel incision, after skin incision, the subcutaneous fat and
      abdominal fascia were opened crosswise, and the rectus muscle was opened on the midline, the
      parietal peritoneum was opened longitudinally, the visceral peritoneum was opened
      transversely and dissected downwards with the bladder and kept against symphysis pubis by a
      Doyen retractor, followed by transverse incision of the uterus at the upper border of the
      placenta to avoid transplacental incision which provokes severe bleeding . The fetus was
      delivered.

      20 IU oxytocin was given IV infusion after IIAL to prevent premature separation of placenta
      which provoked severe bleeding then placenta delivery was done.

      In the B-Lynch Transverse Compression Suture group, After acceptable control of bleeding from
      the placental bed, uses the suture material 1 VICRYL with a 70mm ½ circle needle mounted on a
      90 cms VICRYL suture. We use the needle blunt ended to puncture the uterus 3 cms above the
      upper margin of the incision posteriorly and behind the vascular bundle.

      The needle is retrieved through the cavity of the uterus and pulled inferiorly with the
      suture material lying on the posterior wall of the uterine cavity. The needle then perforates
      the posterior wall of the uterus 3 cms below the inferior margin of the Caesarean incision
      and exists behind the vascular bundle of the same side of the uterus retrieved and runs on
      the surface of the lower segment below the incision margin parallel to it and taking a 1 cm
      bite of tissue for stabilization running to the other side. After encircling the para-uterine
      vasculature, the needle then perforates the posterior side of the uterus behind the vascular
      bundle entering the uterine cavity. The suture can lie freely on the posterior wall of the
      uterine cavity and exists 3 cms above the upper margin of the Caesarean incision. It exits
      posteriorly and behind the vascular bundle to meet the suture from the other side.

      It is essential that the ureters are identified by palpation or visual observation after the
      bladder is displaced inferiorly and held by traction. Any observed bleeding should be dealt
      with in the usual way. At the end of the suture application and before tying the knots, the
      lower segment is compressed again transversely whilst the suture is held taut to ensure that
      bleeding has ceased by swabbing the vagina again.

      A wide pore drain was then inserted in the Douglas pouch, and the abdominal wall was
      repaired. In the case of conservative treatment protocol failure, cesarean hysterectomy was
      performed
    
  