
    
      Background: Impaired fertility is often a consequence of successful cancer treatment and
      fertility preservation (FP) is nowadays an option for young cancer survivors. Decisions on
      FP, however, have to be made in the short time period after cancer diagnosis and before onset
      of treatment. According to previous studies the availability of helpful information is still
      low, decisional conflict substantial and decisions-aids would be highly desirable.

      Objectives: The project aims at introducing the knowledge gained by the previous research
      into the development of a standardized online decision aid (DA) that complements and supports
      shared decision-making in fertility issues and FP for young cancer patients and their medical
      caretakers and to evaluate the efficacy of this DA compared with usual care. Primary
      objective: To show that an online decision-aid tool in addition to standard counselling
      reduces decisional conflict compared to standard counselling alone. Secondary objectives: 1)
      to assess whether the decision-aid tool decreases decisional regret significantly, 2) to
      assess whether the use of the decision-aid tool increases the patients' knowledge on FP and
      3) to assess whether patients estimate the decision-aid tool helpful in facilitating the
      decision-making process.

      Methods: Design: Prospective, consecutive interventional study comparing a control group with
      standard counselling (phase 1) with an interventional group with counselling and application
      of the DA (phase 2). After completing phase 1 and 2 with a sample of 40 participants, we
      change the study design into a randomized controlled trial and randomize 88 participants in
      this part of the study. Sample: A total of 120 young cancer patients followed at one of the
      collaborating Swiss or German cancer centers aged 16 to 40 years who are possible candidates
      for FP . Intervention: Online DA, which is developed based on the applicants' research
      findings and on a prospectively evaluated fertility-related Australian decision aid booklet.
      Measures: Decisional Conflict Scale (DCS); items on knowledge, attitude and willingness
      concerning FP; decision regret scale (DRS); items on satisfaction and helpfulness of the DA.

      Procedures: The control and the interventions group completes the questionnaires at three
      time points, i.e. immediately after the counselling (T1), after 1 month (T2) and after 12
      months (T3).

      Analysis and statistics: The difference in decisional conflict between the two groups will be
      analyzed by using a one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) and a propensity score weighted
      ANOVA to adjust for confounding variables.
    
  