
    
      Background

      The effectiveness of hemodialysis (HD) depends on HD vascular access (HVA). Individualized
      prevention based on TCM constitutions can help persons to restore balance and prevent
      disease. To prevent the negative development of HVA and maintain HVA patency, development of
      an integrative model of HVA should be an important issue in nephrological nursing. To
      establish an integrative healthcare model of HVA, the understanding of the relationships
      between the common TCM constitution patterns of HD patients and the functions of HVA must be
      improved. In traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), health is conceived as a balance among the
      elements of the body. Published articles revealed that vascular access surgery, hemodynamic
      disorder and HD might impact HVA and the microcirculation of HD patients. Hence, changes of
      hand microcirculation might may come with and indicate the degeneration of HVA.

      Purpose

      The aims of this two-year study are as follows.

        1. To identify major risk factors for the functions of HVA.

        2. To measure the microcirculation and constitutions of HD patients.

        3. To explore associations among risk factors for the functions of HVA, TCM constitutions
           and the characteristics of nail-fold capillaries.

        4. To propose an HVA assessment model.

      Patient

      The adult ESRD patients have HD in two hospitals in the north of Taiwan

      Data collection

      Following approval by the Institutional Review Board, all eligible adult ESRD patients having
      HD in two hospitals in the north of Taiwan will be invited to participate in the study, after
      its requirements have been clearly explained to them.

      Medical record review, measurements of microcirculation, and TCM constitutions
      questionnaires, will be used to collect data of eligible patients who provide informed
      consent.

      Demographics, comorbidities, concurrent medication, histories of HVA and HD, parameters
      related to the adequacy of dialysis, and blood biochemistry data will be retrieved
      retrospectively from nursing and medical records and entered into a database. The TCM
      constitution of participants will be measured by questionnaires.

      Before dialysis, nail-fold microcirculation will be noninvasively measured using a
      vediocapillaroscopic device (MC-380, Computed Microcirculation System, Kowa Optics Corp.,
      Taiwan). The equipment and measuring procedures will be explained to the subjects. A finger
      to be examined will be gently placed on a microscope base plate and held still for the
      duration of the measurement. Computerized image processing will be used to capture and
      analyze data. The following morphological data will be extracted: blood velocity, capillary
      density, capillary width, capillary length, and the presence of abnormal capillary
      morphology.To identify the common microcirculation patterns of HD patients, images of
      nail-fold capillary will be processed use a framework that was developed by Prof. K. P. Lin
      and colleagues.

      Statistical analysis

      All of the collected data will be entered into a database. The Statistical Package for the
      Social Sciences for Windows (SPSS Inc, Chicago, Ill) was used to perform statistical
      analyses. Baseline demographics, comorbidities, medication, the results of blood biochemistry
      tests, and parameters that are related to HD adequacy and access function are presented as
      means, standard deviation and proportions as appropriate. Associations between parameters
      regarding vascular access dysfunction and the other variables were analyzed using the t-test,
      one-way analysis of variance, and Pearson's correlation coefficients, as appropriate. P<0.05
      was considered to indicate statistical significance.

      Information regarding the function of HVA will be incomplete if some patients do not
      experience any HVA dysfunction for the duration of this study. Hence,techniques for censored
      and truncated data will be used to deal with the incomplete data. Regressions and appropriate
      survival analysis will be conducted to capture the distribution of the function of HVA, and
      to identify the independent predictors of HVA function. In this study, a novel hybridizing
      data mining techniques will be applied to reduce data uncertainty. The HD-index that was
      developed by Prof. K. Y. Huang will be used to filter out uncertain data and to improve the
      precision of the forecasting model.
    
  