
    
      Some of the drugs in this study have been used with DTIC (Dacarbazine) in the past to control
      Melanoma that has spread to other parts of the body. However, in most of those cases, the
      duration of these results are limited and ineffective to control or prevent spread of the
      disease into the brain, the membranes that cover the brain, the spinal cord, and the nerve
      roots. In this study, temozolomide is being used instead of DTIC. Temodar has been proven to
      be one of the most effective therapeutic agents to control malignancies in the brain.
      Thalidomide is designed to decrease the formation of new blood vessels that feed tumors.

      The treatment plan for this study is divided in two parts. The first part of this study
      (induction therapy) is done to try to get your disease under control. The second part of this
      study (maintenance therapy) is to maintain or improve the results of the first part of the
      treatment plan.

      Induction Therapy:

      Induction therapy includes three 5-day courses of treatment with thalidomide, temozolomide,
      vinblastine, cisplatin, interleukin-2, and interferon-alpha. The courses are repeated in
      cycles of three to four weeks depending on recovery from side effects from the previous
      course of treatment.

      All of the drugs that are given through a vein will be given through a catheter (plastic
      tube) inserted in a vein in one of your arms or into the vein that runs underneath the collar
      bone and threaded into the central vein in the upper part of the chest.

      You will be admitted in the hospital on Day 0. You will start receiving liquids (hydration)
      and be prepared to start temozolomide on day 1 of the admission. It is anticipated that you
      will remain in the hospital for one week. Depending on degree of side effects a longer stay
      in the hospital may be required.

      Temozolomide will be given by mouth on the first day of the treatment every 4 hours for three
      doses. A fourth dose may be considered with later courses of treatment if it is well
      tolerated.

      Vinblastine will be given through the catheter on Days 1,2,3 and 4 of the cycle. The infusion
      should last between 15 to 30 minutes.

      Cisplatin will be given through the catheter on Days 1,2,3 and 4 of the cycle. The infusion
      should last between 45 to 120 minutes. Care will be given to fully hydrate the body to
      decrease chances for kidney damage.

      Thalidomide will be given by mouth once a day throughout the cycle of treatment. It is given
      as a single dose starting on Day 0, the day before the start of the temozolomide, and then
      every day for the entire cycle.

      Interleukin-2 will be given as continuous infusion through the catheter over 24 hours for
      four days in a row (over 96 hours). It will be given from Day 1 through Day 5 of the cycle.

      Interferon alpha will be given as "an insulin-type injection" under the skin, into the fatty
      tissue, once a day on Days 1,2,3,4 and 5 of each cycle

      You will receive up to 3 courses of induction therapy. The courses will be repeated in cycles
      of 3-4 weeks depending on adequate recovery from the side effects. If you have stable disease
      or improved disease, you will go on to receive maintenance therapy.

      Maintenance Therapy:

      Long-term daily treatment with the study drugs will be given for six 4-week cycles.

      Temozolomide will be given by mouth daily for 21 days (3 weeks). This will be followed by one
      week without Temozolomide treatment. This makes up one cycle of treatment.

      Interleukin-2 and interferon alpha will be given during the one week of rest from
      temozolomide. This will require one week of hospitalization. Interleukin-2 is given as a
      continuous infusion through the catheter over the first 5 days. The first day the dose will
      be high and it will be decreased slowly to a lower dose on the last 3 days. The interferon
      alpha will be given as an injection in the fatty tissues under the skin once a day for 5 days
      on the same days the interleukin-2 is given.

      Thalidomide will be given by mouth once a day every day for the full 4-week cycle.

      Supportive care with medications for fever, chills, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, will be given
      during treatment. You will also be given fluids with appropriate electrolytes to replenish
      blood levels and to replenish blood volume to help the kidneys.

      How you respond to treatment will be evaluated with computed tomography (CT) scans and
      magnetic resonance images (MRIs) of the brain. This will occur after the second course and
      third course of induction therapy and then after the third and sixth courses of maintenance
      therapy and periodically until off study.

      You will be requested to complete a questionnaire to evaluate your quality of life before
      treatment starts, at the end of Cycles 2 and 3 of induction therapy, and at the end of Cycles
      3 and 6 of maintenance therapy.

      You will be taken off study if the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.
      Should you be taken off study early, a long term follow-up will be requested.

      For those patients who complete the treatment, radiographic evaluation with body CT scans and
      brain MRI will be done. They will have physical exams, and blood tests (1 to 2 tablespoons
      per visit) every 3 months for the first year, every 4 months for the second year, every 6
      months up to the 5th year, and then once a year.

      A total of 60 patients will take part in this study.
    
  