
    
      Influenza vaccination has been recommended for all persons greater than or equal to age 65,
      recent studies have questioned the efficacy of the vaccine in the aging population. The
      willingness to test new vaccines depends on a convincing demonstration of a significant
      burden of disease despite current vaccine policies. If comprehensive surveillance could be
      performed in a well defined population of adults over 50 years of age hospitalized with acute
      respiratory illness or fever, the precise burden of influenza illness in this age group could
      be determined and the risk factors associated with influenza infection established. This
      study will be a one year pilot study. Study participants will include 350 adults greater than
      and equal to 50 years of age hospitalized at Vanderbilt University or a local community
      hospital, Baptist Hospital, with acute respiratory symptoms or fever. The purpose of the
      study is to determine the feasibility of conducting a larger surveillance study in several
      other hospitals. Specific aims are: 1) to perform population-based surveillance to determine
      the etiology and burden of acute viral respiratory diseases or fever among hospitalized
      adults greater than or equal to 50 years of age and 2) to identify risk factors associated
      with hospitalization for vaccine-preventable respiratory disease in adults greater than or
      equal to 50 years of age. During November 2006 through April 2007, recruitment will occur 2
      days per week and will increase to 4 days per week during the defined influenza season based
      on local surveillance. Following informed consent, there will be 3 parts to data collection:
      (1) series of brief questions; (2) one nasal and one throat swab will be collected and; (3)
      chart abstractions performed after discharge. Nasal and throat swabs will be tested for
      influenza A and B viruses by both viral culture, rapid antigen testing, and Real-Time
      Reverse-Transcriptase PCR (RTrtPCR) analysis. The primary endpoint of the study is the
      incidence of hospitalizations due to influenza virus by age, sex, and race in adults greater
      or equal to than 50 years of age. This study is linked to DMID protocol 06-0092.
    
  