
    
      Spirometry: It was performed by a portable spirometer Easy One® , according to the guidelines
      of the American Thoracic Society / European Respiratory Society (ATS / ERS). The values
      obtained were compared with the values predicted by Knudson et al..

      Cirtometry Dynamics: provided information on the degree of thoracoabdominal mobility and was
      performed with the use of a tape measure , which was used to measure the chest circumference
      during maximal inspiratory and expiratory phase . Measurements were taken horizontally at
      three different levels: axillary, xiphoid and abdominal, taking as references the axillary
      fold bottom edge of the xiphoid and umbilicus, respectively. Three measurements on each level
      were performed.

      The maximum values of inspiration and expiration were obtained, being considered for
      analysis, the highest value of the three measurements and subsequently the Index of Amplitude
      (IA) proposed by Jamami et al. was calculated in order to mitigate the different dimensions
      of the chest and abdomen.

      Respiratory muscle strength : They were taken with the subject in a sitting position using a
      digital manometer (MVD300 - Globalmed®) calibrated, nose clip, with the nozzle held firmly
      between his lips.

      The maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP) was obtained by a maximal inspiration preceded by a
      maximal expiration next to the residual volume (RV) , and to measure maximal expiratory
      pressure (MEP) a maximal inspiration was next performed to capacity total lung (CPT) followed
      by a maximal expiration.

      The evaluation was considered complete when the individual performed three acceptable
      measures and, among these, a minimum of two reproducible . The last value found could not be
      superior to the others. Maneuvers with the support pressure by three seconds, and
      reproducible measurements with a variation less than or equal to 10% of the highest value
      were considered acceptable. For analysis was considered the greatest pressure value achieved.
      MIP and MEP obtained the values predicted by the equations of Neder et al. were compared.
    
  