
    
      This study is an open-label, multi-center, non-randomized phase I/II study of the combination
      treatment copanlisib + venetoclax in patients with relapsed/refractory (R/R) diffuse large
      B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL).

      Phase I clinical trials test the safety of investigational drugs, and also try to define the
      appropriate dose of the investigational drugs to use for further studies. Phase II clinical
      trials test the safety and effectiveness of investigational drugs to learn whether the drugs
      work in treating a specific disease."Investigational" means that the drugs are being studied.

      Copanlisib is an IV medication that is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
      (FDA) for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed follicular lymphoma who have received
      at least two prior therapies. Venetoclax is an oral medication that is approved by the U.S.
      FDA for the treatment of adult patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small
      lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) and certain patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The FDA
      has not approved copablisib or venetoclax for the treatment of DLBCL or the combination of
      copanlisib and venetoclax as a treatment for any disease.

      In the phase I portion of this study, the investigators are looking to determine the dose of
      venetoclax that is safe to give with copanlisib and to see what the side effects are of this
      combination.

      In the phase II trial, the investigators will be determining how effective venetoclax and
      copanlisib are for the treatment of R/R DLBCL. Data from laboratory suggest that some subsets
      of DLBCL are enriched for mutations that make them sensitive to the combination of copanlisib
      plus venetoclax. This study will look at genetic changes in your cancer and determine if
      abnormalities in specific genes make these drugs more or less effective.

      It is expected that about 48 people will take part in this research study.

      Bayer, a pharmaceutical company, is supporting this research study by providing the study
      drug copanlisib and funding for this study. Abbvie, a pharmaceutical company, is supporting
      this research study by providing the study drug venetoclax and funding for this study.
    
  