
    
      Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is an epidemic that afflicts more than 350 million people world-wide.
      Despite the use of existing medical therapies, T2D continues to cause significant morbidity
      and mortality, leading to large societal and financial costs to Canadians.

      Newer agents called sodium glucose co-transporter-2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) have been developed
      to improve glycemic control and lower hemoglobin A1c by increasing glycosuria. SGLT2i also
      reduce blood pressure and albuminuria in T2D - possibly through natriuresis. Importantly, a
      landmark trial "EMPA-REG OUTCOME" demonstrated that the SGLT2i empagliflozin is the first
      anti- hyperglycemic agent to reduce mortality and heart failure (HF) risk, and also to
      decrease the risk of progressive diabetic nephropathy.

      Liraglutide, a glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist (GLP-1RA), is a subcutaneous drug,
      used for treating T2D patients. Recently, this drug was also able to reduce cardiovascular
      endpoints in the LEADER trial. Furthermore, liraglutide attenuated the risk of progressive
      albuminuria as well. GLP-1RAs induce natriuretic effects, but have not been shown to reduce
      HF risk. Their positive cardiovascular effects are probably due to reduction in
      atherosclerotic events.

      T2D patients are at high risk for development of both HF and atherosclerotic diseases. Given
      that SGLT2i and GLP-1RA seem to reduce cardiovascular outcomes via different approaches,
      combining these two agents in the treatment of T2D is an appealing new strategy. In this
      project, we aim to combine GLP-1RA and SGLT2i therapies in T2D patients without HF and
      compare renal and cardiovascular physiological measures in these patients, such as renal
      function, neurohormonal activation, blood pressure, arterial stiffness, and systemic vascular
      resistance. This could give a better understanding on the action of the combination therapy
      in T2D, support future mechanist trials with patients with HF, and give support to the
      development of large clinical trials on this topic.

      Study design: Open-label, exploratory, randomized (with randomization concealment), pilot
      mechanistic trial, with two groups and 2 sequential treatments within each group.

      Study population: Male and female subjects with T2D, 18 years old or older, with eGFR ≥30
      mL/min/1.73m2, as described in the full protocol.

      Intervention: Patients will be randomized to initial therapy with empagliflozin 25mg PO daily
      or liraglutide 1.8 mg SC daily, for 6 weeks. After that, patients in the empagliflozin group
      will also receive liraglutide 1.8mg SC daily for additional 6 weeks and patients in the
      liraglutide group will also receive empagliflozin 25mg PO daily for 6 weeks (combination
      therapy).

      Primary Objective: Comparison of proximal tubular natriuresis (measured by FENa+, fractional
      excretion of sodium) after 6 weeks of SGLT2i monotherapy vs FENa+ after 6 weeks of
      combination therapy (SGLT2i + GLP-1RA) AND comparison of FENa+ after 6 weeks of GLP1-RA
      monotherapy vs FENa+ after 6 weeks of combination therapy (GLP-1RA + SGLT2i).

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Patients visit the outpatient clinic on a more regular basis than standard
      patient care - i.e. at study inclusion and at each study visit for clinical assessment. Blood
      work for physiological assessments, renal function tests and cardiovascular assessments will
      be obtained as described in the protocol. 24hr urine will be collected one day prior to the
      hospital visit. No other invasive measurements will be executed. Patients receive restitution
      of all travel costs and also a financial aid for 3 visits. Patients receive no priority in
      treatment of other diseases in the clinic during this study. There are no other direct
      benefits for the patients to be included and participation is on a voluntary basis.
    
  