
    
      Two Norwegian neonatal intensive care units (NICU) participate in this study; Haukeland
      University Hospital (HUH) and Vestre Viken Hospital Trust (VVHT).

      The NICU at HUH was built around 1980 as a traditional unit. It is crowded, has no single
      rooms or access to rooming in with the parents. The NICU at VVHT opened in April 2012 and it
      is unique in its kind both in a Norwegian and European context. A shift from traditional NICU
      to a FCC unit involves both physical structural changes and involves the entire
      interdisciplinary team around the individual families. The main difference is firstly the
      involvement of parents and their right to be present together with infant and secondly the
      establishment of parents as the responsible caregivers for the infant, even when the infant
      is hospitalized. This comprises so-called "minimal handling", the number of medical
      procedures are reduced to the very strictest necessities, and restructuring the common
      nursing interventions. The infant is given Kangaroo Mother Care (KMC) skin-to-skin rather
      than being in an incubator.

      The first question raised and discussed is whether the FCC - with parents present in Single
      Room Care 24 hours and performing KMC - will affect the preterm infant's growth and
      attainment of breastfeeding. The second question raised and discussed is whether the
      surroundings in FCC-unit - with parents present - will affect parents' reports on parental
      health in relation to psychological stress, anxiety and depression, also in a longitudinal
      perspective. The purpose of the study is to evaluate possible effects of these two different
      NICU designs; the traditional open bay unit with limited space and no possibilities for
      parents to continuously stay with their infant, and the novel model physically and culturally
      optimized for parent-infant interaction 24 hours a day 7 days a week from birth to discharge.
      Although an intriguing novel asset to neonatal intensive care, the effects of FCC on the
      child's and family's somatic and mental health, on NICU staff and cost of care, have not been
      scientifically scrutinized. There is so far lack of valid knowledge about effect of FCC in a
      single room unit with parents present to the extent we can offer in Nordic countries.

      A randomized controlled study (RCT) in a single unit would be ethically and methodologically
      impossible to conduct, e.g. since it will be impossible to avoid "contamination" between
      groups, and a Cochrane review argued that comparison between different units would be the
      most valid method. This recommended approach will be followed in the present study, and the
      challenge is to minimize factors that may act as confounders. To minimize confounding the
      following details on design will be adhered to:

        -  Recruitment of comparable infant - parent dyads

        -  Strict definitions of independent and outcome variables, e.g.nutrition

        -  Prospective registration: Parental presence and duration of KMC, infant nutrition,
           growth, investigations and occurrence of morbidity will be prospectively and similarly
           registered during the hospital stay under supervision by a designated research nurse.

      All data on growth will be transferred to z-scores based on standardized growth charts for
      Norwegian infants for pre and post term growth. Relevant statistical methods for comparisons
      will be applied and statistical methods will be chosen in cooperation with a biostatistician.

      The main outcome is weight at 34 weeks and 40 weeks post menstrual age (PMA), basically
      calculated as z-score increments between 34 and 40 weeks. Judged from a pilot study it is
      actually sufficient with only ten children in each group to detect a difference in weight of
      100 gram 34 Gestational age (GA) weeks with a power of 80% at a significance level of less
      than 0.05. However, due to the other variables and analyzes (among other mixed model) it is
      appropriate with about 100 infants, 50 in each group. An important secondary outcome is
      length of stay in terms of PMA at discharge. From data at HUH a difference in PMA at
      discharge of 5 days (which is considered clinically relevant) will require 42 infants in each
      leg (calculated from a standard deviation of 13 days, power of 80% and p < 0.05). From these
      data one year recruitment will be sufficient in that, in our experience, more than 90% will
      agree to participate. We will consider expanding inclusion to 1 ½ years (75 infants in each
      branch) to allow for power to assess effects of other explanatory variables.

      Parents who agree to participate are registered in a database containing name, personal
      identification number, a code number which corresponds to other files, information relating
      to the date the questionnaires are sent or received, and whether or not reminders have been
      sent. No other information is stored in this database. The data will be stored at the
      respective Research servers at VVHT and HUH according to the requirements of the hospitals
      and the Regional Committees for Medical and Health Research Ethics (de-identified study file
      and a file with a key to the study file). Transfer of data from HUH to VVHF will be performed
      as encrypted files according to requirements. All participants will be asked to sign an
      informed consent form at the enrolment in the study.
    
  