
    
      I. Background Excessive fluid loss is often reported in gastrointestinal surgical patients
      due to preoperative fasting and bowel preparations. Many factors may further exacerbate the
      lack of fluid volume, including intraoperative blood loss and fluid loss, anesthetic
      drug-induced peripheral vasodilatation, as well as systemic inflammatory response syndrome,
      systemic capillary leak syndrome, endothelial barrier dysfunction and transfer of
      intravascular fluid to the third space caused by surgical trauma.

      Insufficient fluid infusion may cause hypovolemia and tissue hypoperfusion, which may delayed
      postoperative recovery and even induce postoperative acute renal failure. On the other hand,
      fluid overload can lead to edema, increased oxygen diffusion distance between lung mesenchyme
      and cells, then causing tissue ischemia, hypoxia, and acidosis and even affecting the
      recovery of gastrointestinal function and the healing of incision. It has been proved that
      improper fluid therapy in the perioperative period is associated with poor outcomes in
      patients with gastrointestinal surgery. Goal-directed fluid therapy (GDFT) regimen emphasizes
      the personalized fluid infusion to optimize the intraoperative hemodynamics and tissue
      perfusion, including rising stroke volume, increasing arterial oxygen saturation, which may
      result in improving postoperative outcomes.

      Flo-Trac/Vigileo system is developed by Edwards Technology, and monitors the continuous
      cardiac output via peripheral arteries. The monitoring approaches of this system prove to be
      convenient, safe and minimally invasive. As an important indicator of the system, stroke
      volume variation (SVV) can accurately reflect the volume status of patients. The principle of
      SVV is the preload change, which is caused by the intrathoracic pressure changes between
      inspiratory and expiratory phases, will lead to arterial pulse pressure fluctuations, thus
      affecting stroke volume (SV). SV may vary under different volume loads. Through measuring and
      analyzing these differences and then assessing the circulation status, SVV provides guidance
      for fluid therapy. The continuous and real-time SVV monitoring can provide data of patients'
      circulation status, thereby optimizing clinical fluid treatment options and avoiding
      excessive or insufficient volume. For patients with gastrointestinal surgery, SVV guidance
      during the surgery can accurately regulate fluid infusion, which will contribute to the early
      postoperative recovery and improve patient prognosis.

      In the present study, SVV-directed fluid therapy will be performed in patients with
      gastrointestinal surgery and then will be compared with conventional fluid treatment regimen
      in the mobility and mortality of postoperative complications, postoperative recovery, and
      length of hospital stay. The investigators are aiming to provide clinical evidences for
      reasonable intraoperative fluid management of such patients.

      II. Objectives The aim of this study is to compare the effects of GDFT strategy with that of
      the conventional fluid management on the morbidity and mortality of postoperative
      complications, length of postoperative hospital stay, and medical expense, so as to provide
      clinical evidences for optimized intraoperative fluid management for patients undergone
      gastrointestinal surgery.

      III. Research Plan 1. Design: quantitative observational comparative effectiveness research.
      2. Sample Volume: 200 cases of subjects in the experimental group and control group,
      respectively.

      3. Research phases The research is divided into three phases

        1. Retrospective analysis of perioperative data from patients undergone gastrointestinal
           surgery according to traditional practices from January to June 2015. Data about
           postoperative length of hospital stay, the morbidity and mortality of complications is
           collected from electronic database. The fluid was administrated according to the
           traditional method. Total intake volume = compensatory volume of expansion (CVE) +
           physically required volume+ cumulative loss volume + continued loss volume + the loss
           volume of the third space. Both physically required volume and cumulative loss volume
           were replaced according to 4-2-1 rule. Crystalloid and colloid were given with the ratio
           of 2/1. According to the bleeding, RBC and plasma were given if necessary. HR50
           /min~100/min and MAP60~100mmHg were maintained during the surgery in both groups. When
           SBP<90 mmHg or MAP < 60 mmHg, the patients were given the vasoactive drug of bitartrate
           noradrenaline.

        2. Training phase: the GDFT protocol training will be implemented after receiving ethic
           approval estimated from July to September 2015. A 3-month training period allowed all
           research staff to become familiar with the protocol.

        3. Implementation phase: After 3 months training, estimated from October 2015 till March in
           2016, the fluid management is conducted to patients with the gastrointestinal surgery on
           the basis of GDFT protocol. Then perioperative data of the included patients in this
           phase will be collected retrospectively from electronic database.

      4. GDFT protocol

        1. Anesthesia management The radial artery line is placed before anesthesia. The invasively
           arterial blood pressure, ECG, HR and SPO2 are monitored. The Flo-Trac/Vigileo monitoring
           system is connected with the radial artery line of the GDFT group, CO, SV, SVV and other
           hemodynamic parameters are monitored. In addition, the bispectral index (BIS) is
           continuously monitored to assess the depth of sedation.

           Induction: 0.01~0.03 mg/kg of midazolam, 0.2~0.4μg/kg of sufentanil, 1~2 mg/kg of
           propofol and 0.6~0.9 mg/kg of rocuronium are injected intravenously for anesthesia
           induction. After the completion of endotracheal intubation, the internal jugular
           puncture catheterization is undergone at the right side to monitor the central vein
           pressure.

           Maintenance: After endotracheal intubation, the mechanical ventilation is initiated. The
           tidal volume is set as 6~8 mL/kg, respiratory rate as 10 to 14 times/min and inhalation
           to exhalation ratio as 1:2. In the surgery, the partial pressure of carbon dioxide in
           end expiratory gas is kept at the level of 35 - 45 mmHg. And the remifentanil (target
           concentration of effect compartment is 4 - 8 ng / mL) and propofol (target concentration
           of plasma is 3 - 5μg / mL) of intravenous target-controlled infusion are given to
           maintain the anesthesia effect. BIS value is maintained at 40 - 50. Besides,
           0.1~0.3μg/kg sufentanil and 0.1~0.2 mg/kg rocuronium are injected intermittently. About
           30 minutes before the end of the surgery, a bolus of 0.1~0.3μg/kg sufentanil is
           administered.

           Recovery: The depth of anesthesia is reduced gradually at the end of the surgery. In the
           recovery period, the atropine and neostigmine are given as muscle relaxant antagonists.
           Extubation is performed according to the awareness, breathing, muscle strength and
           reflex recovery of the patient. All patients are delivered to ICU after surgery.

        2. Fluid Treatment Compensatory volume of expansion (CVE) is replaced with 5mL/kg of
           Ringer's lactate solution before induction. The maintained dose of infusion of
           crystalloid during surgery is: 2~4 ml/kg/h for open procedure (maximum dose of 400ml/h),
           and 1~2 ml/kg/h for laparoscopic procedure (maximum dose of 200ml/h) respectively. Fluid
           replacement is directed by SV value. After incision (after pneumoperitoneum for
           laparoscopic cases) give a 200 mL Hydroxyethyl Starch 130/0.4 and Sodium Chloride bolus
           over <10 min. If SV increases by >10%, repeat bolus until SV increases by <10%. Record
           peak value achieved. Give a further colloid bolus when SV drops 10% from peak value and
           repeat cycle. According to the bleeding, RBC and plasma are given if necessary.
           SaO2≥95%, Hb > 70g/L, core body temperature> 37 ℃, HR50 /min~100/min and MAP60~100mmHg
           are maintained during the surgery in both groups. When SBP<90 mmHg or MAP < 60 mmHg, the
           two groups are given the vasoactive drug of bitartrate noradrenaline.

      5. Monitoring variables

        1. Intraoperative intake and output volume: volume of intraoperative crystalloid, volume of
           colloid, blood transfusion volume, urine output, blood loss and use of vasoactive
           agents.

        2. Hemodynamic variables: MAP, HR, SaO2, CVP, CO, CI, SV, SVV, stroke volume index (SVI)
           and systemic vascular resistance (SVR) at the following time points: baseline,
           immediately after induction and intubation, at beginning of the surgery and every five
           minutes following that, at the end of surgery, etc.
    
  