
    
      1. Objectives

           Bariatric surgery has become a common treatment for severe obesity, and results in a
           loss of fat mass. However, muscle mass is also lost following bariatric surgery. It is
           the investigators' overarching premise that consumption of the Essential Amino
           Acid-based nutritional formulation following bariatric surgery will preserve muscle mass
           by stimulating muscle protein synthesis. As a result, the energy utilization associated
           with the combination of maintained muscle mass and stimulated muscle protein synthesis
           will counter the decrease in metabolic rate that normally occurs in hypocaloric
           circumstances. Maintenance of a higher total energy expenditure by Essential Amino Acid
           consumption will accelerate loss of body fat, as well as accelerate loss of body weight.
           The investigators further propose that consumption of an Essential Amino Acid-based
           nutritional formulation will reduce muscle intra-cellular lipid accumulation, which will
           translate to greater improvements in glucose homeostasis and muscle protein metabolism.
           The loss of muscle mass in those with obesity undergoing rapid weight loss
           post-bariatric surgery, is not in itself, a disease or a medical condition.

           The following aims will test specific hypotheses related to the scientific premise:

           Aim 1. Supplementation of the usual diet following bariatric surgery with a proprietary
           Essential Amino Acid-based nutritional formulation twice per day for 6 months will
           maintain muscle mass and reduce fat mass more than supplementation of the diet with an
           isonitrogenous amount of whey protein. Muscle mass will be directly measured using a
           novel tracer-dilution technique using deuterium-labeled creatine. Fat mass and lean body
           mass will be measured by Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry.

           Aim 2. Muscle protein fractional synthetic rate and total muscle protein synthesis
           (muscle mass x fractional synthetic rate) will decline less from pre-surgery values in
           participants consuming the Essential Amino Acid-based nutritional formulation as
           compared to whey protein. Muscle protein fractional synthetic rate will be measured by
           the novel "virtual biopsy" method, which provides an integrated value over three weeks.

           Aim 3. The pre-surgery rate of total energy expenditure will be better maintained in
           participants consuming the Essential Amino Acid-based nutritional formulation as opposed
           to whey protein. Change in total energy expenditure will be measured over 10-day
           intervals using the doubly-labeled water technique, before to 6 months following
           surgery.

           Aim 4. Six months after bariatric surgery muscle intra-cellular lipid accumulation will
           be reduced from the pre-surgery value to a greater extent in participants consuming the
           Essential Amino Acid-based nutritional formulation than whey protein. Muscle
           intra-cellular lipid accumulation will be measured by means of magnetic resonance
           spectroscopy and magnetic resonance imaging. The investigators anticipate that a greater
           reduction in intra-cellular lipid accumulation will be related to greater improvement in
           insulin sensitivity in terms of glucose homeostasis and also in terms of muscle protein
           synthesis.

           Positive results of this study will support the value of the Essential Amino Acid-based
           nutritional formulation in terms of increasing the rate of fat loss and improving body
           composition changes following bariatric surgery.

        2. Background

           Despite successful weight loss and improvement of comorbidities after bariatric surgery,
           most patients with severe obesity remain overweight. Patients also experience variation
           in treatment response. Up to 30% patients experience sub-optimal weight loss or
           significant weight regain. Amount of weight lost and its maintenance are important
           because they are what lead to improvement/remission of comorbidities (diabetes, heart
           disease, etc.), and to decreased mortality from cardiovascular disease or cancer. One of
           the keys to optimal weight loss from a calorie restricted diet, and subsequent
           weight-loss maintenance, is losing fat without losing muscle (aka lean body mass). It is
           decreased energy expenditure from decreased muscle mass after weight loss which
           contributes significantly to weight regain. Muscle mass is the key driver of energy
           metabolism favoring the burning of food as fuel rather than its storage as fat. Since
           muscle provides a reservoir of amino acids to maintain protein synthesis essential for
           survival, its mass quantity is always at risk under conditions of inadequate dietary
           intake. Skeletal muscle, under the caloric restriction of weight-loss diets, catabolizes
           to provide the body's unmet protein needs. It becomes challenging to maintain muscle in
           conditions of severe calorie restriction such as after bariatric surgery.

           Protein supplementation has been shown to protect against muscle loss experienced in
           weight loss, but only if supplementation is sufficient. The standard of care approach to
           maintain muscle mass during rapid, significant weight loss after bariatric surgery has
           been dietary whey protein supplementation. After bariatric surgery, protein
           supplementation is limited by the inability of patients to take in sufficient calories.
           This can be further hindered by typical perioperative complications which limit intake,
           such as nausea, vomiting, and early satiety. Therefore, despite standard of care
           supplementation with whey protein post bariatric surgery, only marginal gains in
           preventing muscle loss have been made. Essential Amino Acid, the intervention supplement
           in this study, is a patented formula scientifically shown to be far more anabolic than
           whey protein in free-living elderly and young healthy adults undergoing bedrest. The
           Essential Amino Acid supplement stimulates protein synthesis 3-5 times as effectively as
           whey protein, with negligible non-protein calories.

           The importance of the role of muscle in weight loss and its maintenance cannot be
           overemphasized. Muscle, crucial to energy metabolism, is responsible for the majority of
           total energy expenditure (equivalent to physical activity energy expenditure, resting
           energy expenditure, and diet induced thermogenesis - calories required to digest food).
           Both physical activity, and muscle protein synthesis comprise a significant portion of
           energy expenditure. Through its function in physical activity and protein synthesis,
           muscle largely determines the caloric expenditure underlying the ability to 'use up'
           food eaten rather than store it as fat.

           Obesity, is not just increased body fat, but also increased intramuscular fat. The
           intramuscular fat associated with obesity impairs the muscle function of providing
           normal glucose homeostasis. Fortunately, when fat stored in muscle decreases, insulin
           sensitivity improves. Also impaired under conditions of increased intramuscular fat, is
           the function of providing amino acids to maintain essential protein synthesis. Impaired
           muscle mitochondria-stimulated protein synthesis potentially decreases resting energy
           expenditure, and diet induced thermogenesis. Adequate protein supplementation can
           counter muscle mitochondrial protein synthesis impairment, and in theory, lead to
           decreased intramuscular fat improving both energy expenditure and insulin sensitivity.

        3. Study Design

      This is a double-blinded randomized clinical trial in which the responses to consumption of
      one of two different dietary supplements following bariatric surgery will be determined. A
      variety of factors related to body composition and muscle metabolism will be quantified in
      participants with obesity before and approximately 6 months after bariatric surgery. This
      interval of time was selected because additional body weight changes are generally relatively
      small 6 months after surgery; most of the weight loss occurs in the first 6 months.
      Participants will be assigned randomly by computer to receive either an Essential Amino Acid
      based nutritional supplement (intervention) or a commercially-available whey protein
      supplement (Beneprotein®).
    
  