
    
      Gastroparesis is a chronic digestive disorder best defined as severe nausea, vomiting,
      bloating, and abdominal pain in the setting of objectively delayed gastric emptying without
      mechanical gastric outlet obstruction. The most common etiology is idiopathic. Some of the
      identifiable etiologies include diabetes and post-surgical.

      Endoscopic techniques to reduce pyloric tone mainly consisted of Botulinum toxin injection
      but failed to demonstrate significant symptom improvement compared to placebo. Another
      endoscopic method was transpyloric stenting which yielded symptomatic relief but is prone to
      stent migration and therefore is unlikely to provide a viable long term solution.

      Surgical pyloroplasty has shown to be effective in reducing gastroparesis symptoms, but is
      associated with a risk of leakage and potential further narrowing of gastric outlet. It also
      carried all the risks of general anesthesia and requires advanced laparoscopic suturing
      skills. Therefore, the development of a less invasive reliable method of improving gastric
      emptying is highly desirable.

      An endoscopic submucosal myotomy technique may be applied to divide the pyloric sphincter
      without surgical access. Such endoscopic technique may provide the benefits of a natural
      orifice procedure, and improve gastric emptying in gastroparetic patients. Gastric Per-Oral
      Endoscopic Myotomy (G-POEM) is feasible and can be performed by using techniques similar to
      those of esophageal per-oral endoscopic myotomy. Endoscopists who are experienced in
      esophageal per-oral endoscopic myotomy should be able to perform G-POEM because both use
      similar techniques, principles, and equipment.

      The investigators theorize that a subset of patients with refractory gastroparesis, diabetic
      gastroparesis or post-surgical gastroparesis, may respond to endoscopic pyloromyotomy.
    
  