
    
      Arthritis is the leading cause of disability in the United States. Osteoarthritis (OA) is the
      most common type of arthritis and affects nearly 27 million Americans. Knee OA is the most
      common type of osteoarthritis and is estimated to affect 42.1% of women and 31.2% of men over
      the age of 60.

      Osteoarthritis is most likely multi-factorial with several underlying causes. It is no longer
      considered "a degenerative joint disease" but rather a process that involves dynamic
      biomechanical, biochemical, and cellular processes. It not only involves degeneration of the
      articular cartilage, but also inflammation of the synovium, changes to the underlying
      subchondral bone, and the development of osteophytes. Currently, it appears that numerous
      systemic factors can lead to the initiation of OA through different causal pathways . These
      systemic causes can then be amplified by local factors such as trauma or increased loading
      caused by obesity.

      Currently, there is no "cure" for OA and attempts to find a disease modifying drug have been
      unsuccessful. Thus, treatment currently focuses on mitigating factors that are known to
      affect the radiographic progression of the disease as well as lead to activity limitation and
      participation restriction.9,10 Decreases in lower extremity strength are a major cause of
      activity limitations given the vital role of strength in activities of daily living.

      One method that is used to mitigate progressing factors is through the use of an exercise
      program. Many types of exercise have been used successfully in the literature including
      resistance training. Resistance training can take many different forms such as isometric,
      isotonic (concentric and/or eccentric) or isokinetic with various intensities. Presently,
      there is little evidence for the use of eccentric training interventions for patients with
      knee OA. This study aims to further examine this type of resistance training for the OA
      population. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to examine the effects of low intensity,
      long duration eccentric resistance training and high intensity, short duration eccentric
      resistance training in individuals with knee OA. Ideally, this study will allow us to
      determine the overall effects of eccentric resistance training as well as the potential
      differences of the two types of eccentric resistance training.
    
  