
    
      A new swine-origin influenza A/H1N1 virus was recently identified as a significant cause of
      respiratory illness in Mexico and the United States. In response, the World Health
      Organization (WHO) declared a pandemic on June 11, 2009. Current data indicates that licensed
      seasonal influenza vaccines are not likely to provide protection against the new H1N1 virus.
      Development and deployment of a vaccine for the new H1N1 virus, particularly to at-risk
      populations, is essential.

      Groups at risk for influenza yearly include the elderly and those with asthma, and current
      guidelines from the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommend vaccination
      of adults and children with asthma. Early, unpublished data on US patients hospitalized by
      H1N1 infection indicates that many had underlying asthma, and it is expected people with
      asthma will be on a priority list for H1N1 influenza vaccination. Data also indicate that
      increased dosage of vaccines may increase development of antibodies and that use of certain
      inhalers may affect immunization. This study will test the safety and immunogenicity of an
      unadjuvanted, inactivated H1N1 vaccine at two dosage levels in people with asthma.

      Participation in this study will last approximately 34 weeks. Participants will be stratified
      into two groups: those with mild to moderate versus those with severe asthma. All
      participants will be randomly assigned to receive either a high dose (30 mcg) or low dose (15
      mcg) H1N1 vaccine. Both vaccine dosages will be administered in two intramuscular injections
      21 days apart. Participants assigned to the higher dose (30 mcg) will receive two injections
      of the 15 mcg vaccine at each administration.

      Participants will complete study visits at entry, administration of the vaccines on Days 1
      and 21, follow-ups a week after each vaccine injection, and 21 days after the second
      injection. Measurements at these visits will include spirometry (measurement of air entering
      and leaving the lungs), a questionnaire about asthma, a targeted physical examination, an
      adverse event and medication assessment, inspection of vaccination site, and collection of a
      blood sample. A urine sample will be collected for pregnancy test before each vaccination. In
      additions, for 8 days after each vaccination injection participants will keep a diary
      recording oral temperature, adverse events, asthma symptoms, and use of inhalers. These
      diaries will be reviewed at study visits. Participants will also receive follow-up phone
      calls to assess safety 60, 120, and 180 days after the last vaccine injection.
    
  