
    
      We propose to conduct a placebo-controlled non-inferiority pilot study to evaluate the rate
      of worsening of intracranial injury patterns after initiation of enoxaparin in TBI patients.
      Patient enrollment will occur at ETMC, blinded re-reading of CTs will occur at PMH, and
      administrative/analytical support will occur at UTSW. The study design will be a
      double-blind, randomized controlled trial in the ETMC Surgical Intensive Care Unit (SICU)
      consisting of 40 patients per arm. The decision for 80 patients was resource-based, as this
      is a pilot study. Further, we anticipate the need to contact 3 patients in order to obtain 1
      successful recruitment.

      Each arm will consist of low-risk TBI patients (defined as patients with a subdural or
      epidural hematoma < 8mm, intraparenchymal contusion < 2 cm, and/or single contusion per lobe)
      who have had a CT scan of the head without contrast at 24 hours post-injury which documents a
      stable injury pattern. The severity of neurologic deficit will have no bearing on their
      suitability for participation, and will not be considered in inclusion/exclusion criteria.
      After documentation of a stable intracranial injury pattern at this time interval, patients
      will be randomized to receive either enoxaparin 30 mg SQ every 12 hours or placebo with each
      regimen being initiated at 24 hours post-injury. A follow-up CT scan of the brain without
      contrast will be obtained on all patients 48 hours post-injury (and 24 hours after the
      initiation of enoxaparin/placebo). An additional CT scan of the brain without contrast will
      be obtained on any patient who experiences an abrupt change in neurologic exam at any time
      between the initiation of enoxaparin/placebo and the end of the study's interventional period
      at 96 hours post-injury (this time frame was chosen as it is the earliest time point at which
      there is universal agreement among both of our group's practitioners that enoxaparin use is
      safe from the risks of TBI expansion). Any patient with a worsened CT scan will have their
      investigational treatment discontinued at that time. At 96 hours post-injury, the
      interventional portion of the study will end, data collection for the primary endpoint will
      cease, and all patients will be placed on enoxaparin for the remainder of their hospital stay
      as per local standards of care. Patient participation in the study will last from the time of
      injury to 96 hours post-injury for the interventional part of the study, and from 96 hours
      post-injury until discharge from ETMC for the observational portion. While this latter time
      frame is obviously extremely variable, it averages approximately one to two weeks. During
      both the interventional and observational time periods, patients will have Duplex
      ultrasonography of the lower extremities performed for an edematous extremity, CT-angiography
      of the chest for unexplained hypoxia or tachycardia, and ventilation-perfusion scanning for
      suspicion of PE in the presence of a contraindication to IV contrast.
    
  