
    
      The purpose of this trial is to determine the efficacy of a postoperative analgesia strategy
      that incorporates quadratus lumborum block (QLB) in conjunction with a multi-modal
      post-cesarean analgesia strategy. The investigators hypothesize that QLB will provide
      superior post-cesarean analgesia compared to the current standard of care, multi-modal
      analgesia.

      Thus, analgesia following cesarean section using QLB compared to the current standard of care
      alone will be further investigated. Current practice for cesarean surgical intervention
      consists of multi-modal analgesia (i.e., Intrathecal morphine (ITM) and scheduled
      post-operative non-opioid oral analgesics, with oral opioid analgesics reserved for
      breakthrough pain).

      Investigators will measure side-effects associated with each strategy: Standard of care
      methods consisting of intrathecal morphine (ITM) plus scheduled non-opioid analgesics in
      conjunction with prn opioid analgesics for breakthrough pain will be utilized for both. The
      experimental treatment arm will entail standard of care in addition to QLB. The sham
      comparator will entail standard of care in addition to QLB with saline.

      For each strategy, we will measure and model associated economic ramifications; such factors
      will include drug costs, procedure costs, and costs associated with length of stay and
      re-admissions.

      The quadratus lumborum block (QLB) is similar to the transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block,
      but differs slightly in regards to the anatomical region where local anesthetic is injected.
      Since the quadratus lumborum (QL) is more posteriorly located, it theoretically confers
      greater safety due to enhanced visualization. The TAP block has been studied extensively for
      post-cesarean delivery pain, consistently showing that it is not superior to ITM for
      post-operative analgesia; however, it may prove to be helpful in patients with breakthrough
      pain despite the use of ITM, or in patients who were unable to receive ITM (e.g. general
      anesthesia for cesarean, contraindications to neuraxial morphine). Thus, ITM is superior to
      TAP alone for post-cesarean analgesia, but it is associated with a dose-dependent increased
      risk for opioid related side effects. In 2015, Blanco et. al. published a study specifically
      using the QLB for postoperative pain after cesarean delivery. In this study, they compared a
      true QLB to a sham QLB all in patients who did not receive ITM, and found that the QLB
      provided improved pain control and decreased the need for post-operative opioids. Another
      study in 2016 demonstrated that the QLB is superior to the TAP block in regards to decreasing
      post-operative pain following c-section. Unfortunately, neither study compared the QLB to ITM
      (part of the current gold standard for post-cesarean delivery pain, multimodal analgesia).

      The gap in knowledge regarding the utility of QLB as part of a multimodal analgesic approach
      including ITM for cesarean section warrants further investigation. Clinicians are constantly
      searching for methods to provide patients with the most effective medical interventions that
      provide maximal benefit and minimal harm. Post-operative pain control following cesarean
      delivery is an area that is important to patients and to providers, and the introduction of
      the QLB for this purpose has the potential to improve analgesic benefit.
    
  