
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the lowest dose of erlotinib (erlotinib hydrochloride) that will decrease the
      ratio of phosphorylated to total epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) (phosphorylated EGFR
      [pEGFR]/EGFR) by at least 20% in subjects with premalignant lesions of the lung. This will be
      accomplished by implementing a dose de-escalation trial of erlotinib (i.e., 75, 50, and 25 or
      100 mg by mouth daily for a 3-month period), and determining the pEGFR/EGFR ratio in
      premalignant lesions of the lung epithelium by immunohistochemistry. Changes in the
      pEGFR/EGFR ratio will be assessed by comparing the pre-treatment (baseline) ratio to that of
      the post-treatment (3 month) ratio, measured in paraffin embedded biopsy specimens.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the effect of erlotinib on the following biomarkers of potential biological
      relevance in paraffin embedded lung biopsies, p-v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 1
      (Akt), p-mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 (Erk), and marker of proliferation Ki-67 (Ki67).

      II. To characterize the toxicity profile of erlotinib in this cohort of subjects.

      III. To analyze and model erlotinib's pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) profile. Serial
      blood samples will be drawn at the beginning and at the end of erlotinib treatment, and
      pharmacokinetic parameters will be determined. The status of EGFR genotype (and that of
      others genes linked to erlotinib PK/PD) clinical toxicity, and dose will be examined as
      possible other influential covariates by comparing them to experimentally measured PK
      profiles, and PD profiles (in particular, the pEGFR/EGFR ratio). The goal of these studies
      will be to determine the optimal biologic concentration (OBC) of Erlotinib that is associated
      with the lowest toxicity and highest effect, for a given subject's pharmacogenomic profile.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 90 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.
    
  