
    
      Healthy pregnancy is accompanied by major hemodynamic changes that benefit the uteroplacental
      circulation. A first-trimester drop in vascular resistance triggers several compensatory
      mechanisms, amongst an increase in blood volume and cardiac output, to maintain blood
      pressure. These adaptations continue and stand until delivery.

      Women destined to develop gestational hypertensive complications often exhibit deviant
      hemodynamic adaptation patterns before overt clinical disease. On the one hand, gestational
      hypertension and late onset preeclampsia are associated with an exaggerated rise in cardiac
      output on top of a higher prepregnant value, whereas a shallow rise in cardiac output and the
      lack of a peripheral resistance drop predisposes to the much less common early
      onset-preeclampsia along with impaired fetal growth.

      Antihypertensive therapy based on correction of the hemodynamic imbalance between cardiac
      output and peripheral resistance seems an effective strategy to improve blood pressure
      control in hypertensive pregnant women. Even more sophisticated, early treatment of altered
      cardiac output and peripheral resistance adjustments might prevent development of gestational
      hypertensive complications. One randomized controlled trial treated pregnant women with an
      augmented cardiac output with a selective beta-blocker, which resulted in a decreased
      prevalence of preeclampsia from 18% in the placebo group to 4% in the atenolol group (p =
      0.04), at a cost of 440gram birth weight.

      In line of this reasoning, the investigators aimed to evaluate early cardiovascular
      adjustments during pregnancy in a high-risk population (i.e. women with preeclampsia in their
      first pregnancy). In this health care traject, women with deviant adaptation to pregnancy
      were advised tailored medication, i.e. beta-blockade in women with an pronounced high cardiac
      output profile effectuated by a high heart rate, and a vasodilating agent in women with a
      high-resistance hemodynamic profile. Women with a mixed hemodynamic profile were advised a
      centrally acting sympatholytic agent. The investigators aimed to retrospectively compare
      outcome of women attending this health care project with women who received care as usual in
      their second pregnancy.
    
  