
    
      Occlusive coronary artery disease is predominantly caused by coronary atherosclerosis, a
      pathologic vascular condition characterized by abnormal lipid and fibrous tissue accumulation
      in the vessel wall. This condition may be accompanied by degenerative changes and/or
      calcification leading to stenosis (narrowing) of the luminal channel. Percutaneous
      Transluminal Coronary Angioplasty (PTCA) is a well-accepted method of non-surgical myocardial
      revascularization for selected patients with symptomatic occlusive coronary artery disease.

      Restenosis is the most important challenge limiting the long-term success of coronary
      angioplasty. Symptomatic restenosis usually occurs 6 months after an angioplasty procedure.
      The rates of restenosis reported in numerous clinical trials vary from 13% to 57%. This
      variability may be attributed in part to differences in the methods used to assess the
      occurrence of restenosis and in the criteria used to define restenosis. Regardless of the
      exact percentage, restenosis remains the Achilles heel of angioplasty. Numerous
      pharmaceutical approaches to limit restenosis have been tested, but none have been successful
      to date.

      It was chosen to coat the stent with Titanium Nitrate (TiN), which is an inert, biocompatible
      material, that creates a thin physical barrier to diffusion of toxic metal atoms, TiN creates
      a very smooth surface that is impossible to obtain with a metal alloy. This coating was
      applied to the cobalt chromium platform, "Numen", made of the L605 Cobalt-20 Chromium-15
      Tungsten-10 Nickel alloy. This alloy contains the lowest Nickel percentage of Cobalt Chromium
      alloys used for surgical implants. The strut thickness of the platform is reduced to the
      minimum of 65 microns for optimal hemodynamic performance and to permit an ultra low profile
      delivery system. The "Numen" design complies with the requirements of the "LMS -Less Mismatch
      Stent" theory applied where multiple 1 mm high zigzags form the stent pattern to align the
      segments at 45° with respect to blood flow when the stent is expanded to its nominal
      diameter. TiN coating is being used commercially for their hard-wearing and chemical inactive
      properties, particularly for surgical tools. TiN features chemical stability, great hardness,
      excellent wear properties, low electric impedance, biocompatibility, hemocompatibility and
      the possibility, through the application process, to exchange the orientation of the grains,
      the hardness, the wear characteristics and also the biocompatibility (a nanocrystalline
      structure produces a chemical surface more suitable for the endothelial cells). The produced
      coatings were very fine grained and dense with a porosity within the film structure of less
      than 10 nm in diameter. Furthermore, in an iliac artery stent model in normal rabbits, safety
      and efficacy in reduced restenosis of the TiN coated Numen™ stent was assessed.

      The special TiN coating of the Mar-Tyn stents is very promising in reducing the lesions and
      the causes of intima neoplasia.

      This study is a multicenter (up to 8 European centers), prospective, randomized single blind
      study. This study has a 2-arm design assessing the safety and effectiveness of the Tin-coated
      MAR-Tyn stent to an uncoated control cobalt-chromium balloon-expandable stent (Vision, Abbott
      Vascular), both mounted on a Rapid Exchange Stent Delivery System. A total of 160 patients
      will be entered in the study and will be randomized on a 1:1 basis. Patients who meet the
      eligibility criteria will be either randomized to Treatment A or Treatment B. The patient
      will not know which stent will be implanted while the physician will be unblinded . Patients
      will be followed at 30 days, 6, and 12 months post-procedure, with all patients undergoing
      repeat angiography at 6 months. All adverse events up to the 1 year follow-up period will be
      collected and analyzed.
    
  