
    
      Imatinib, nilotinib and dasatinib are standard first-line options for newly diagnosed
      patients with chronic-phase chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). While nilotinib and dasatinib,
      also known as second-generation TKI (2G-TKI), have been shown to result in earlier and deeper
      molecular response, they have not been proven superior to imatinib in terms of clinical
      outcomes like progression-free survival and overall survival. Moreover, their long-term
      safety has been questioned: nilotinib is associated with increased cardiovascular risk while
      dasatinib causes pleural effusion in significant proportion of patients and may even lead to
      pulmonary hypertension.

      The purpose of this pilot study is to investigate whether some patients who were started on a
      2G-TKI as first-line treatment can be safely switched to imatinib, a first-generation TKI,
      while maintaining or even deepening the molecular response as a cost-effective treatment.
      Eligible patients will be switched to imatinib 400mg daily, with regular molecular
      monitoring.

      In case of molecular progression

      The following should be systematically performed:

        -  Clinical examination

        -  Baseline blood test including complete blood count (CBC), liver and renal function,
           lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), urate

        -  Restart the original 2G-TKI and in same dose as given before study entry unless
           medically indicated to change therapy

        -  Screening of breakpoint cluster region- Abelson murine leukemia (BCR-ABL) kinase domain
           mutations

        -  In the absence of signs of haematological relapse or breakpoint cluster region- Abelson
           murine leukemia (BCR-ABL1) ≥ 1% (IS ratio), bone marrow aspiration and cytogenetics are
           not routinely performed unless deemed indicated by the physician in charge.

      The patient will be followed until major molecular response (MMR) is re-achieved and further
      6 months beyond. Date of progression, hematological data at progression (molecular,
      cytogenetic, and hematological), and treatment proposed for molecular progression and
      response to it (molecular, cytogenetic, hematological) will be collected. Follow-up for
      overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) will last 2 years since the date of
      switch of TKI.

      In case of loss of complete hematological response (CHR) or any sign of accelerated or
      blastic phase of CML, the patient will be immediately considered as in disease progression
      and TKI should be started immediately.
    
  