
    
      Convalescent plasma (here on referred to as plasma) has been used in emergency
      life-threatening situations to treat infections for over 100 years. The plasma is donated by
      an individual that has recovered from the very same infection that another person is infected
      with. This plasma is enriched in the antibodies that recognize and helped the body's immune
      system fight off the infection. When transfused from donor to recipient those antibodies will
      aid the recipient in fighting off the infection. In recent history this has been used to
      fight Ebola. Recently, the Federal Food and Drug Agency (FDA) made possible expedited
      Investigational New Drug (IND) process for plasma use in the fight against COVID19 for
      emergency and lifesaving uses.

      There are several other investigational drugs for treatment of COVID19 such as: Remdesivir,
      an antiviral. The off-label use of hydroxychloroquine, Lopinavir/ritonavir, or Tocilizumab
      have been authorized. Convalescent plasma mechanism of action helps to promote health by
      working with one's own immune system and will not interfere with the other proposed
      medications. It also will not weaken the immune system as the investigational and off label
      medications have the potential to do. Convalescent plasma is time honored and although
      investigational for each use against novel or rare infections, it is the basis for IgG
      infusions in the immunodeficient populations. Currently the use of IgG infusions such as
      Intravenous IgG (IVIG) is assumed to not have the right antibodies from donors in the general
      public. This is secondary to the novel nature of the COVID19 and the fact that the IVIG
      available today was collected 6 to 12 months ago from plasma donors; prior to the COVID19's
      outbreak discovery in China.

      It is for that reason that IVIG is not recommended at this time and the FDA has made special
      fast-tracking announcements for plasma use for COVID19. Currently, plasma is the only
      treatment that has a previous history of success in these novel or rare viral outbreak
      situations. It has already been reported to have been associated with survival of 5 out of 5
      participants in a pilot study in China

      For the purpose of this study advanced respiratory support will include any measure of
      respiratory support above low flow nasal cannula oxygen (2 Liters/minute flow rate).

      For the purpose of this study dyspnea will be defined as any shortness of breath that is not
      completely relieved with the use of low flow nasal canula oxygen set to 2 Liters/minute flow
      rate and/or requiring breathing treatments such as but not limited to: bronchodilators more
      than every 4 hours to relieve symptoms.

      In the event that more than one recipient is identified and plasma is available in less than
      the total number of approved recipients, priority will be given to those approved by the FDA
      for the IND use of plasma for severe or critical condition. If there still exists a deficit
      of plasma, the priority will be given to those on advanced respiratory support with the most
      critical settings (if unclear then will be considered a tie); active pressor treatments; age
      <1 years of age with days of life, age adjusted for prematurity as a tie breaker; age >60
      with years as a tie breaker; and lastly lottery pull with potential remaining recipients as
      the final tie breaker.
    
  