
    
      Cancer is a genetic disease, caused by mutations in genes that lead to increased cell
      proliferation and survival. Importantly, the genetic changes vary dramatically between
      individual prostate cancer patients and the specific combination of mutations within a
      patient's cancer is thought to determine tumour aggressiveness and clinical outcome.

      Personalized medicine approaches aim to decipher the genetic code of a patient's tumour in
      order to identify cancers which will behave aggressively and need treatment. However,
      extensive intra-tumour heterogeneity (ITH) has been discovered in several solid tumour types,
      complicating the identification of the relevant genetic changes as they may not be present
      throughout the entire tumour and are likely to be missed by tumour biopsies. ITH is thus a
      major hurdle for the implementation of personalized cancer treatment approaches.

      Investigators have developed genetic technologies that allow them to measure ITH in solid
      tumours and they now want to apply these to patients with prostate cancer to define the
      extent and the clinical importance of ITH in this disease which is currently unknown. This
      will involve looking at the control of genes in the cancer cells which make some tumours more
      aggressive than others. This may help in predicting which tumours are important and need to
      be targeted and those that could be left so that too much tissue damage does not occur as a
      result of therapy. Finding out why some cancer cells spread and others do not may also help
      to identify novel molecular targets that could be used to prevent the development of
      metastases.

      Patients with suspected prostate cancer usually have scans and then prostate biopsies. These
      biopsies are needed by the pathologist to make a proper diagnosis and cannot be used for full
      genetic analysis. So, investigators will ask patients whether they would be willing to give
      some extra samples of tissue while undergoing these routine biopsies.

      Defining ITH in prostate cancer will provide important insights into the genetics of prostate
      cancer development and metastatic progression and is a key prerequisite for the development
      of reliable personalized cancer medicine approaches. Thus this study will significantly
      advance researchers' efforts to predict which tumours are dangerous and in need of urgent
      treatment and those that could safely be left untreated which would spare these patients the
      unnecessary side effects. Investigators think that this research work will have a major
      impact on the use of next generation sequencing in the management of prostate cancer through
      an in-depth understanding of how common are differences between and within individual cancer
      lesions. Investigators also want to find out whether these differences, if they exist, are
      important in tumour development and spread to other areas. Investigators think that the
      characterization of these differences will allow them to successfully use this information to
      group patients undergoing treatment using molecular 'signatures' so that treatment is
      targeted rather than applied in a 'sledge-hammer' approach. Investigators believe that
      without studies like PROGENY, doctors will instead rely on data from single tumour biopsies
      which can be misleading since single biopsies may not have sampled the most aggressive tumour
      area. Finally, investigators think that PROGENY will reveal how prostate cancers evolve over
      time and which of these changes lead to metastases and ultimately kill the patient. These are
      called phylogenetic studies and will help work out the main (or 'trunk') genomic changes from
      later events in 'branches'. This may allow researchers to focus their drug discovery efforts
      on the common 'trunk' genomic changes.
    
  