
    
      Hypertension belongs to the main risk factors of cardiovascular diseases, which are the
      leading cause of morbidity and mortality in the world and in the Slovak Republic. Despite the
      availability of effective antihypertensive treatment, blood pressure control remains a
      serious problem. Poor adherence to blood pressure-lowering medication is considered to be the
      key factor for uncontrolled blood pressure. Studies estimate the overall adherence to
      medication in patients with chronic diseases at around 50%. Slovak studies report even
      significantly lower adherence rates (15-19%), which underlines the urgency to address this
      health problem in the Slovak Republic. The majority of interventions aimed at increasing
      patients' adherence are associated with substantial costs and health care professionals
      capacity, both lacking in the current Slovak health care system. Several studies have shown
      the efficiency of SMS reminders to improve patients' adherence and health outcomes at very
      low cost. Since mobile phones are frequently used among Slovak inhabitants and SMS messages
      are a popular mean of communication, this approach could be feasible also in Slovakia.
      Pharmacists are highly trained drug experts who have the knowledge, skills and time to
      address patients' nonadherence using a simple SMS reminder system.

      Thus, our research question is as follows: Do personalized daily SMS reminders of blood
      pressure-lowering medication intake provided by pharmacists in addition to standard
      Pharmaceutical Care reduce the proportion of nonadherence to blood pressure-lowering
      medication among older ambulatory patients with hypertension in Slovakia? And we hypothesize
      that personalized daily SMS reminders of blood pressure-lowering medication intake provided
      by pharmacists in addition to standard Pharmaceutical Care increase the proportion of
      adherence to blood pressure-lowering medication among older ambulatory patients with
      hypertension in Slovakia from 30% to 49% in the intervention group compared to the control
      group.
    
  