
    
      A- Roles and Responsibilities:

        1. The Principle Supervisor: Dr. Mohsen Kazem (M.K.), Professor of Oral &Maxillofacial
           Pathology, Cairo University, will examine the taken biopsy histopathologically and
           determine the definitive diagnosis.

        2. The Assistant Supervisor: Dr. Heba Dahmoush (H.D.), Professor of Oral & Maxillofacial
           Pathology, Cairo University, will examine the taken biopsy histopathologically and
           determine the definitive diagnosis.

        3. The Principle Investigator: Sarah Ahmed Mohamed Mahmoud Badawy (S.B.), Assistant
           Lecturer of Oral &Maxillofacial Pathology, Cairo University, will read and put a
           colposcopic score for each participant individually.

        4. Eman Desouky (E.D.) Sample size calculation; Statistician, Faculty of Oral and Dental
           Medicine, Cairo University, Egypt.

        5. Evidence Based Committee, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo University: Help in reporting
           study protocol following STARD guidelines.

        6. Ethics Committee, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo University: Protocol reviewer of the
           diagnostic accuracy study in order to protect the right, safety, dignity and well-being
           of the participants.

      B- Index test: The principle investigator (S.B.) will perform the index test using Digital
      Electronic Colposcope (Kernel, KN-2200, China). Before taking up the patients for Colposcopic
      evaluation and giving them a score, the normal Colposcopic findings will be standardized
      based on the Colposcopic criteria. Colposcopic criteria includes aceto uptake, surface
      pattern and clarity of demarcation of the mucosal lesions, vascular pattern, lesion size as
      well as Iodine staining.

      C- Reference test:The reference standard; to reach a definitive diagnosis in oral dysplastic
      lesions, will be a representative biopsy and histopathological examination. M.K. and H.D.
      will examine the taken biopsy histopathologically, determine the definitive diagnosis and
      write the diagnosis in the Assessor chart.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Patients seeking for diagnosis of clinically suspected oral dysplastic Leukoplakia or
           Erythroplakia

        -  Patients seeking for diagnosis of clinically suspected oral Carcinoma.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Patients with secondary infection.

        -  Patients having other systemic diseases.

        -  Patients undergoing treatment for the lesions.
    
  