
    
      Abstract:

      Vitamin D has a well-established role in bone health and the prevention of fractures which
      are associated with increased morbidity and mortality, and reduced quality of life. However,
      many individuals have sub-optimal vitamin D status (<75nmol/l), and risk increases with
      geographical location, age, ethnicity, inadequate dietary intake and disease. Diabetes and
      kidney disease are two chronic diseases associated with both poor bone health and suboptimal
      vitamin D status. Individuals with diabetes and chronic kidney disease who live in northern
      Alberta are at a particular risk for suboptimal vitamin D status and poor bone health due to
      dietary restrictions on vitamin D rich foods (e.g. milk products that are also high in
      phosphorus and carbohydrates), negligible cutaneous synthesis during the long winter months,
      and reduced renal capacity to synthesize active vitamin D (1,25(OH)2D). In the general
      Canadian population, few are able to meet dietary recommendations for vitamin D intake
      through diet alone and often rely on vitamin D supplements. The need for vitamin D
      supplementation is increased in diabetics with nephropathy, however the optimal dose and
      strategy for vitamin D supplementation is unknown. Like other chronic diseases, adherence to
      therapy is a major issue in this population. With each additional chronic disease an
      individual has, their adherence to therapy and quality of life decreases. Adherence to
      vitamin D therapy is known to be particularly poor. This may be related to the silent nature
      of bone disease, as poor bone health is often not identified until a fracture has occurred.
      Novel strategies to vitamin D supplementation are needed to prevent poor bone health and
      fractures, and the resulting decline in quality of life that ensues. Therefore it is
      important to identify a vitamin D supplementation strategy that increases adherence to
      vitamin D supplementation and improves vitamin D status and bone health in adults with
      diabetes and nephropathy.

      Objectives:

        -  Examine the impact of two approaches to oral high dose vitamin D supplementation (2,000
           IU/day versus 40,000 IU/month for six months) on overall vitamin D status and markers of
           bone turnover in adult patients with diabetic nephropathy.

        -  Examine daily versus monthly vitamin D supplementation strategies in regards to
           adherence, satisfaction and quality of life in adult patients with diabetic nephropathy.

      Hypotheses:

        1. Vitamin D supplementation (2,000 IU/day and 40,000 IU/month) for six months will result
           in significantly improved overall vitamin D status and improved markers of bone health
           in adult patients with diabetic nephropathy.

        2. Monthly dosing of vitamin D (40,000 IU/month) over six months will result in improved
           patient adherence and satisfaction with vitamin D supplementation when compared to daily
           dosing of vitamin D (2000 IU/D). This will improve vitamin D status and bone health
           parameters, which will result in an increased quality of life and sense of well-being.
    
  