
    
      Paracetamol and Ibuprofen each relieve pain with different mechanisms.

      Paracetamol is termed a simple analgesic and an antipyretic. Despite enduring assertions that
      it acts by inhibition of cyclooxygenase (COX)-mediated production of prostaglandins, unlike
      non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).

      Ibuprofen is the most commonly used and most frequently prescribed NSAID. It is a
      non-selective inhibitor of cyclo-oxygenase-1 (COX-1) and Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2).4 Although
      its anti inflammatory properties may be weaker than those of some other NSAIDs, it has a
      prominent analgesic and antipyretic role.

      In the investigators trial; The investigators aimed to compare intravenous Paracetamol and
      Ibuprofen in patient with Low Back Pain

        -  All patients eligible for the study were randomized to one of two groups:

        -  First Group: 1000 mg Paracetamol in 150 ml normal saline given as a slow intravenous
           infusion over 5 minutes.

        -  100 ml of saline is removed before the addition of the 100 ml paracetamol (Perfalgan,
           Bristol Myers, Italy) to be the same volume.

        -  Second Group: 800mg Ibuprofen (Intrafen Flk, Gen drug, Turkey) in 150 ml normal saline
           given as a slow intravenous infusion over 5 minutes.

        -  Drug packs were prepared according to the computer-generated random number sequence to
           assign treatment allocations

        -  The allocation list was kept by the emergency nurse. Patients received the paracetamol
           or Ibuprofen medication schemes according to their random allocations.

        -  After enrollment and recording of baseline information, the next numbered study drug
           pack was obtained, and administered as a infusion over 5 minutes.

        -  Randomization was achieved by using computer software to generate random numbers.

        -  One researcher blinded to patient allocation observed the whole procedure and recorded
           the Low Back Pain scores.

        -  Patients in both groups received two types of medication in a similar manner (for
           example, 150 ml normal saline given as a slow intravenous infusion over 5 minutes), thus
           ensuring double blinding.

        -  Low Back Pain scores were recorded at 0, 15, and 30 min on a VAS of 1 to 10

        -  Rescue medication is given within 30 minutes after study drug administration if the
           patients say yes that question "Do you need any additional analgesic requirement".

        -  All other medications required during the study also were recorded.
    
  