
    
      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE

      The combination of acute renal failure (ARF) and sepsis is associated with a very high
      morbidity and mortality (1). Accordingly, there have many attempts to develop better
      treatments for this condition.

      Much clinical and molecular biology research suggests that septic shock occurs because of the
      uncontrolled immune system's response to infection (2-13). This response involves the
      production of several substances (so called "humoral mediators"), which enter the blood
      stream and, at different times in the course of the patients' illness, cause either severe
      inflammation or profound depression of the immune system's ability to kill microbes.

      The vast majority of these substances (cytokines, complement anaphylatoxins, platelet
      activating factor, leukotrienes, chemokines), which are responsible for this state of "blood
      poisoning" are water soluble and of small to middle molecular weight (up to 40 kilodaltons).
      These properties make them potentially removal by artificial membranes similar to those used
      during continuous hemofiltration (the type of artificial kidney support used in intensive
      care).

      It is possible that using a different and more porous membrane, the removal of such cytokines
      would be much more efficient and the clinical benefits of blood purification would,
      therefore, be greater.

      A membrane of this kind is now available. It is a modification (moderate increase in pore
      size) of standard material called polyamide, which has already been used in millions of
      people for dialysis and hemofiltration.

      This larger pore polyamide membrane has now been used in preliminary studies in humans (14)
      and has been found to be capable of lowering the blood levels of a marker cytokine
      (interleukin-6, molecular weight: 26.2 kD).

      In laboratory studies conducted by ourselves, this new polyamide membrane achieves the
      highest reported cytokine and beta2-Microglobulin - as another marker of removal of middle
      molecules - clearances in the literature and is associated with a negligible loss of albumin
      (15).

      Recent investigations by ourselves and others, however, have made the following findings:

        1. Standard membranes are of only limited effectiveness in filtering these "humoral
           mediators" (16)

        2. Unless high volume plasma-water exchange is applied (100 ml/min), the effect of blood
           purification on the blood levels of these mediators are minimal (17-20)

        3. High volume hemofiltration with standard membranes, results in an improvement in the
           state of the circulation such that the infusion of drugs used to support blood pressure
           (noradrenaline) can be decreased (20).

        4. Even with high volume hemofiltration the removal of "humoral mediators" such as
           cytokines is still of limited efficiency (20)

      It is possible that using a different and more porous membrane, the removal of such cytokines
      would be much more efficient and the clinical benefits of blood purification would,
      therefore, be greater.

      A membrane of this kind is now available. It is a modification (moderate increase in pore
      size) of standard material called polyamide, which has already been used in millions of
      people for dialysis and hemofiltration.

      We, therefore, propose to study the effect of combining hemodialysis and this new polyamide
      membrane with larger pores in the treatment of patients with sepsis and acute kidney failure.
      We wish to compare the effect of this new therapy to that of hemodialysis with a standard
      membrane.

      The terms of comparison (outcome measures) will be:

      A). The effect of each therapy on the blood concentration of several cytokines (TNF-alpha,
      IL-1 beta, Il-6, IL-8, and IL-10).

      B). The effect of each therapy on the blood concentration of beta2-Microglobulin as another
      marker of removal of middle molecules.

      C). The effect of each therapy on blood pressure and the need for noradrenaline infusion

      and, for safety assessment

      D). The effect of each therapy on the blood concentration of albumin and electrolytes

      If this new membrane were found to have a major effect on the blood concentration of
      cytokines and on the patients' blood pressure, further studies would then be justified to
      assess its clinical effects (time in ICU, time in hospital, time on ventilator, duration of
      organ failure, etc) in further trial.

      STUDY OBJECTIVE

      The aim of the study is to compare the effect of hemodialysis combined with a larger pore
      membrane to that of hemodialysis with a standard membrane on

        1. the serum concentration of several cytokines (efficacy assessment)

        2. the serum concentration and clearance rates of beta2- Microglobulin (efficacy
           assessment)

        3. blood pressure and noradrenaline requirements (efficacy assessment)

        4. the serum concentration of albumin and electrolytes (safety assessment)

           NULL HYPOTHESIS

           The use of hemodialysis combined with a larger pore membrane has no effect on serum
           cytokine or beta2-Microglobulin levels, blood pressure and noradrenaline requirements
           when compared to hemodialysis with a standard membrane.

           STUDY DESIGN

           This study is a phase I/II equivalent investigation. It is a pilot, randomised,
           crossover, controlled study. Eligible patients will receive both treatments. However,
           the order of treatment (first treatment A and then B or vice versa) will be allocated in
           a random fashion (computer generated random numbers).

           After completing the first treatment, patients will then be crossed over to the
           alternative treatment.

           Treatments will consist of either:

           A) hemodialysis with a new polyamide (P2SH) membrane for 4 hours or B) hemodialysis with
           a standard polyamide membrane

           Blood will be sampled (serum cytokine and beta2-Microglobulin measurement) at the start
           of each treatment and after 4 hours of each treatment. Dialysate will also be collected
           for the measurement of cytokines and beta2-Microglobulin in order to calculate cytokine
           and beta2-Microglobulin clearance.

           The changes in blood pressure and noradrenaline dose will be recorded hourly as is
           routine in Intensive Care. Patient treatment will otherwise continue according to
           clinical needs and to standard ICU care.

           It is important to note that patients involved in the study would normally receive
           standard hemofiltration anyway because of their kidney failure, with all the risks and
           benefits associated with the procedure (insertion of double lumen catheter,
           extracorporeal circulation, anticoagulation).

           As part of the study, however, they will also receive increased intensity of treatment,
           4 hours of exposure to a modified membrane and some additional blood sampling (one
           spoonful).

           It is possible that the effect of the first therapy would cross over to the second. To
           control for this crossover effect, statistical comparison will be undertaken according
           to order of treatment as well as type of treatment, as recently published. (23)

           STUDY POPULATION

           All patients who fulfil the consensus criteria for sepsis (21) and recently proposed
           criteria for severe ARF (1) are eligible for the study.

           SPECIFIC EXCLUSIONS

             -  Patients under 18 years of age.

             -  Patients who are pregnant or breastfeeding

             -  Patients with a known allergy to polyamide

             -  Patients expected to die within 24 hours

             -  Patients in whom there are limitations on the intensity of therapy

           ENROLMENT

           Once patient eligibility is established informed consent will be sought from the next of
           kin. If informed consent is obtained, the patient will be enrolled in the study. The ICU
           research nurse will be responsible for enrolment and subsequent data collection.

           STUDY PROTOCOL

           Following enrolment and randomisation, the patient will be allocated to either treatment
           A or B.

           An extracorporeal circuit will be set up for dialysis with the Fresenius 2008 machine.

           The only difference will be that, one filter which is being applied, will be a larger
           pore polyamide filter. The other filter whic is being applied, will be a standard
           polyamide filter.

           Each treatment will be applied for 4 hours. After each treatment, the extracorporeal
           circuit will be flushed with Hartmann's solution and the membrane changed to the
           alternative material (cross over).

           For each treatment, the following technical settings will apply:

             1. Blood flow at 200 ml/min

             2. Dialysate flow at 300 ml/min

             3. Anticoagulation of filter with prefilter heparin, if necessary (e.g. 1,000 IU/hr)

             4. Bicarbonate-buffered dialysate

           After the completion of the 2 periods of 4 hours of hemodialysis, patients will revert
           to standard therapy (hemofiltration with AN 69 membrane at 2 L/hr of plasma water
           exchange) and continue their normal treatment.

           Randomisation and Concealment

           The randomisation will be based on random numbers generated by computer. The allocation
           to either treatment A or B as the first treatment will be placed in an opaque envelope
           by an independent person.

           Once consent is obtained, the envelope will be opened and treatment initiated. Filters
           will be blinded and both will have identical appearance, outlining only "Filter A" or
           "Filter B", respectively, on a label sticking to each filter.

           For reasons of patient safety, filter monitoring for membrane clotting requires that the
           filter be visualized at all times.

           EXPECTED SIZE OF TREATMENT DIFFERENCE

           This study is designed to detect a 30% decrease in IL-6 levels. From a previous very
           similar investigation (19), we also assume a standard deviation equal in size to the
           effect being tested for. Using non-parametric paired comparison statistics (Wilcoxon
           ranked sign test), a sample of 10 patients would offer a > 80% power of detecting a 30%
           difference at an alpha of 0.05 (22).

           CLINICAL OUTCOMES AND DATA ANALYSIS

           Primary analysis will be performed on the basis of intention to treat. Secondary
           analysis will be performed on per protocol analysis. The primary outcome measure for
           this study is the clearance and the change in IL-6 levels The secondary outcome is the
           the clearance and change in the levels of other cytokines and beta2-Microglobulin.

           The other secondary outcome is the change in noradrenaline dose required to maintain
           baseline mean blood pressure (typically 70 mmHg)

           Treatment groups will be analysed for differences in IL-6 levels after 4 hours of
           treatment.

           It is expected from clinical observation that the criteria for normal distribution will
           be violated. Therefore comparison will be performed using a non-parametric test
           (Wilcoxon ranked sign test). Statistical significance will be set at p<0.05.

           The groups will also be tested for differences in secondary outcome variables. Such
           secondary outcome variables are:

             1. Absolute change in all serum cytokine levels for each cytokine and for
                beta2-Microglobulin

             2. Percentage change in noradrenaline dose

             3. Change in blood pressure from pre-treatment value to value after 4 hours of
                treatment

             4. Percentage change in serum cytokine levels for each cytokine

           Using the primary outcome variable, this study has an 80% power of detecting a 30%
           difference at an alpha of <0.05.

           It is expected from clinical observation that recruitment of 10 patients will take 3
           months.

           Data Collection

           Data collection will be by the Intensive Care Dept. research nurse and research fellows.

           The following variables will be obtained:

           Name, gender, age and medical record number

           Date of admission to ICU

           Admission diagnosis

           SAPS II illness severity score on admission

           Time of onset of septic shock

           Time of onset of ARF

           Time of onset of hemofiltration

           Hemodynamic indices, temperature and biochemical indices at baseline and after 4 hours

           Use of inotropic drugs and dose

           Use of vasopressor drugs and dose

           Hourly urine output (if present)

           Time of onset of mechanical ventilation

           Fluid balance during each 4 hours of treatment

           Albumin and electrolytes at baseline and after 4 hours

           CONCOMITANT MEDICATIONS

           Concomitant medications will be administered according to standard intensive care

           ADVERSE EVENTS

           If any adverse events occur which may be related to the trial device, treatment will be
           stopped. The event will be immediately reported to the Ethics Committee according to
           institutional protocol.

           PROTOCOL VIOLATIONS

           All protocol violations will be recorded. It will then be decided whether the nature of
           such violations has been such that the patient should be excluded from primary data
           analysis.

           WITHDRAWAL

           The treating clinician will have the right to withdraw the patient from the study if he
           or she believes that continued participation is jeopardizing the patient's well being.

           Patients who require take back to theatre during the study period for a surgical
           emergency will be withdrawn from the trial.

           CONSENT TO TRIAL ENROLMENT

           In all patients it may be necessary to ask for consent from the next of kin. All of
           these patients are mechanically ventilated and too ill to give informed consent

           ETHICAL ISSUES

           The polyamide material used for the study membrane is very safe and has been used in
           millions of patients. Its modification is exclusively to the pore size, not to its
           composition. The effect of pore size on protein losses appears minimal for proteins > 60
           kD in molecular weight such as albumin. Accurate in vitro testing confirms this.

           Preliminary phase I data also confirms such safety. We consider the potential benefit of
           this intervention theoretically significant.

           Given the balance of benefits and risks, we consider it ethical to proceed and seek
           informed consent.

           References

             1. Bellomo R, Ronco C, Kellum JA. Acute renal failure: time for consensus. Intensive
                Care Med 2001; 27: 1685-1688

             2. Bellomo R, Baldwin I, Ronco C. Rationale for extracorporeal blood purification
                therapies in sepsis Current Opinion in Critical Care 2000; 6:446-450

             3. Camussi G, Montrucchio G, Diminioni L, Dionigi R. Septic shock: the unravelling of
                molecular mechanism. Nephrol Dial Transplant 1995; 10:1808-13.

             4. Glauser MP, Zanetti G, Baumgartner JD, Cohen J. Septic shock: pathogenesis. Lancet
                1991; 338: 732-736.

             5. Munoz C, Carlet J, Fitting C, Misset B, Bleriot JP, Cavaillon JM. Dysregulation of
                in vitro cytokine production by monocytes during sepsis. J Clin Invest 1991; 88:
                1747-1754.

             6. Randow F, Syrbe V, Meisel C, Krausch D, Zuckerman H, Platzer C, Volk HD. Mechanism
                of endotoxin desensitization: involvement of interleukin-10 and transforming growth
                factor. J Exp Med 1995; 181: 1887-1892.

             7. Brandtzaeg P, Osnes L, Ovstebo R, Joo GB, Westvik AB, Kierulf P. Net inflammatory
                capacity of human septic shock plasma evaluated by a monocyte-based target cell
                assay: identification of interleukin-10 as a major functional deactivator of human
                monocytes. J Exp Med 1996 Jul 1;184(1):51-60.

             8. Wolk K, Doecke W, von Baehr V, Volk H, Savat R. Comparison of monocyte functions
                after LPS- or IL-10- induced re-orientation: importance in clinical
                immunoparalysis. Pathobiology 1999; 67(5-6): 253-6.

             9. Bone RC, Grodzin CJ, Balk RA. Sepsis: a new hypothesis for pathogenesis of the
                disease process. Chest 1997;112: 235-43.

            10. Manjuck J, Saha DC, Astiz M, Eales LJ, Rackow EC. Decreased response to recall
                antigens is associated with deprived co-stimulatory receptor expression in septic
                critically ill patients. J Lab Clin Med 2000; 135(2): 153-60.

            11. Weighardt H, Heidecke CD, Emmanuilidis K, Maier S, Bartels H, Siewert JR, Holzmann
                B. Sepsis after major visceral surgery is associated with sustained and
                interferon-gamma-resistant defects of monocyte cytokine production. Surgery 2000;
                127(3): 309-315.

            12. Nerad J, Griffiths JK, Van der Meer JWM, Endres S, Poutsiaka, DD, Keusch GT,
                Bennish M, Salam, MA, Dinarello CA, Cannon JG. Interleukin-1 (IL-1), IL-1
                receptor antagonist, and TNF production in whole blood. J Leuk Biol 1992.;52:
                687-92.

            13. Haupt W, Zirngibl H, Stehr A, Riese J, Holzheimer RG, Hohenberger W. Tumor necrosis
                factor and interleukin-10 production in septic patients and the regulatory effect
                of plasma. Eur J Surgery 1999; 165(2): 95-10

            14. Morgera s, Buder W, Lehman C, et al. High cut off membrane hemofiltration in septic
                patients with multiorgan failure. A preliminary report. Blood Purif 2000; 18: 73
                (abstract)

            15. Uchino S, Bellomo R, Goldsmith D, Davenport P,Cole L, Baldwin I, Panagiotopoulos S,
                Tipping P. Super High Flux Hemofiltration: A new technique for cytokine removal.
                Intensive Care Med 2002; 28: 651-655

            16. De Vriese AS, Francis AC, Philippe JJ, et al. (1999) Cytokine removal during
                continuous hemofiltration in septic patients. J Am Soc Nephrol 10:846-853

            17. Kellum JA, Johnson JP, Kramer D, Pavelsky P, Brady JJ, Pinsly MR. Diffusive vs
                convective therapy: effects on mediators of inflammation in patient with severe
                systemic inflammatory response syndrome. Crit Care Med 1998; 26(12): 1995-2000.

            18. Opal SM. Hemofiltration-absorption systems for the treatment of experimental
                sepsis: is it possible to remove the "evil humors" responsible for septic shock?
                Crit Care Med 2000; 28(5): 1681-1682.

            19. Bellomo R, Baldwin I, Ronco C. High-volume hemofiltration. Current Opinion in
                Critical Care 2000; 6: 442-445

            20. Cole L, Bellomo R, Journois D, Davenport P, Baldwin I, Tipping P. High volume
                hemofiltration in human septic shock. Intensive Care Med 2001; 27: 978-986

            21. The ACCP/SCCM Consensus conference committee: Bone RC, Balk RA, Cerra FB, Dellinger
                RP,Fein AM, Knaus WA, Schein RMH, Sibbald WJ. Definitions for sepsis and organ
                failure and guidelines for the use of innovative therapies in sepsis. Chest 1992;
                101:1644-55.

            22. Bach LA, Sharpe K, Sample size for clinical and biological research. Aust NZ J Med
                1989; 19: 64-67

            23. Ronco, C; Brendolan, A; Lonnemann, G; Bellomo, R; Piccinni, P; Digito, A; Dan, M;
                Irone, M; LaGreca, G; Inguaggiato, P; Maggiore, U; DeNitti, C Wratten, M; Ricci, Z
                &Tetta,c. (2002) Apiolt study of coupled filtration with adsorption in septic
                shock. Critical Care Medicine, June 2002 Vol 30 No 6 p.p. 1250-1256
    
  