
    
      Vaccination is one of the most cost-effective strategies for conferring immunity against a
      host of preventable diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that over 2.5 million
      child deaths are prevented annually worldwide due to vaccination efforts. Infants must
      receive all recommended vaccinations in a timely manner to be fully protected from deadly
      infectious diseases such as tuberculosis, diphtheria, pertussis and polio. A large body of
      evidence has shown that children living in socio-economically disadvantaged backgrounds are
      more likely to be vaccinated late, or not at all, compared to their counterparts from
      wealthier and more educated families. While Tanzania has successfully achieved high national
      vaccination coverage, there remain substantial regional variations. In this proposal we seek
      to evaluate the feasibility of combining two emerging types of interventions - mHealth and
      conditional cash transfers - to overcome individual barriers to timely vaccinations.
      Researchers at Duke University and Tanzania's National Institute of Medical Research (NIMR)
      will collaborate to evaluate whether mobile phone (mHealth)-based vaccination reminders,
      combined with a financial incentive scheme for families with young children, may result in
      improved vaccination coverage and timeliness. The specific aims of the proposal are to (1)
      conduct formative research to identify locally relevant client-side and provider-side
      barriers to timely vaccinations; (2) develop an mHealth system to facilitate and monitor
      timely vaccinations and conduct surveys with late-stage pregnant women to derive
      willingness-to-accept estimates and a feasible incentive structure; and (3) assess the
      efficacy of a combination intervention consisting of mHealth reminders and conditional cash
      transfers for improving the rates and timeliness of vaccinations among infants in their first
      6 months of life. Qualitative follow-up surveys with providers and a subset of clients will
      assess barriers to the acceptability and scalability of an mHealth supported conditional
      cash-transfer intervention for timely vaccination. The study will be implemented with support
      from Tanzania's Ministry of Health and Social Welfare Immunization and Vaccine Development
      Programme. The results of the proposed study will form the basis for a pragmatic randomized
      controlled trial of the efficacy and incremental cost-effectiveness of mHealth reminders and
      conditional cash transfers as means of improving timely vaccinations of young children.
    
  