
    
      This is a prospective, non-randomized, open label, single-centre phase II trial of R-CHOP
      followed by 90Y-RIT in patients with previously untreated, high-risk, advanced stage
      follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

      Patients who meet all inclusion criteria (and no exclusion criteria) will receive first line
      treatment with the R-CHOP regimen. R-CHOP comprises rituximab 375 milligrams per square meter
      (mg/m2) intravenously (IV), cyclophosphamide 750mg/m2 IV, doxorubicin 50mg/m2 IV, and
      vincristine 1.4mg/m2 IV (to a maximum dose of 2.0mg) on day 1 and prednisone 100mg per os
      (po) daily for 5 days. Treatment cycles will be repeated every 3 weeks for a total of 6
      cycles. Patients will be evaluated for response according to the after 3 and 6 cycles of
      R-CHOP (see response definitions below).

      Dose modifications for non-hematologic and hematologic adverse events will be guided by NCI
      Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 3.0 (CTCAE). After 3 cycles of R-CHOP,
      patients with disease progression will go off study while responders will continue with
      further treatment. Patients with stable disease can continue on the protocol or discontinue
      the study, as decided by the treating physician. Final response evaluation to R-CHOP
      induction will take place 4-6 weeks after the 6th cycle. Patients with disease progression
      will go off study, while those with stable disease and evidence of response will be eligible
      for post-induction 90Y-RIT.

      Post-induction 90Y-RIT will be administered within 4-8 weeks of completion of the R-CHOP
      regimen. Patients must meet criteria for administration of 90Y-RIT therapy, including: (1)
      achievement of at least stable disease determined 4-6 weeks after the completion of R-CHOP
      therapy; (2) repeat bone marrow investigation confirming less than 25% marrow involvement
      with follicular lymphoma; and (3) platelet count greater than or equal to 100,000/mm3.
      Eligible patients will receive an infusion of rituximab 250mg/m2 on day 1 followed a week
      later (day 8) by an additional dose of rituximab and a single dose of 90Y ibritumomab
      tiuxetan at a dose of 0.4 milliCurries per kilogram (mCi/kg) for patients with a platelet
      count ≥150,000/mm3 or 0.3 mCi/kg for patients with platelets <150,000/cubic millimeter (mm3).
      The maximum dose regardless of weight will be 32 mCi. Dosimetry and imaging studies for
      biodistribution will not be mandated in this protocol.

      The primary endpoint for the study is the final complete response (CR) rate, defined
      according to International Working Group criteria, and measured 3 months after completion of
      the treatment (measured from day 1 of the 90Y-RIT therapy). Hence, CR implies the elimination
      of all lymphoma manifestations including complete disappearance of all detectable clinical
      and radiographic evidence of disease and all disease-related symptoms if present before
      therapy.

      Secondary outcomes include the determination of overall and partial response (PR) rates and
      the conversion of partial responses/stable disease to complete responses. A subset of
      patients (with pre-treatment polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis positive for the
      characteristic t(14;18)(q32;q21) B Cell Lymphoma-2 gene/Immunoglobulin Heavy chain (BCL2/IGH)
      translocation associated with follicular lymphoma) will be monitored by quantitative PCR for
      minimal residual disease and will have molecular remission rates documented (conversion from
      PCR positive to negative). Time-to-event outcomes will include time-to-treatment failure,
      time to progression, and overall survival. The frequency and severity of side effects will be
      recorded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for
      Adverse Events Version 3.0 (CTCAE). The safety and tolerability of the study drugs will be
      evaluated by relevant laboratory parameters at 2 week intervals during the induction
      chemotherapy and following the administration of 90Y ibritumomab tiuxetan until the final
      response assessment (3 months after the radioimmunoconjugate dose). Thereafter, these
      parameters will be repeated quarterly for the first 2 years, and at any restaging visit
      thereafter. Long-term adverse events include the development of myelodysplastic syndrome and
      acute myeloid leukemia, other secondary cancers.

      Immunoquantitation and vaccine-specific immunity (serology) will also be assayed during the
      long-term follow-up period.

      The study is expected to accrue over a 24-month period. The time-to-event outcomes will
      continue to be assessed in the follow-up period, scheduled to end 2 years after the last
      patient has received 90Y-RIT. Restaging will be carried out after 3 and 6 cycles of the
      R-CHOP induction therapy, and 3 months after the administration of 90Y-RIT (final response
      assessment). Thereafter, restaging will be carried out every 6 months until completion of the
      2 year follow-up period.
    
  