
    
      Background:

      Exudative Age Related Macular Degeneration (AMD) results in a significant and severe visual
      loss if left untreated as documented in natural history and observational arms of studies
      such as the macular photocoagulation study (MPS) and the Tap and VIP study with Visudyne. It
      is also clear however, that the different lesion types (classified by intravenous fluorescein
      angiography ((IVFA)) as occult, minimally classic or predominately classic) have both a
      different natural history and a different response to treatment.

      The recent introduction of the anti-VEGF agents such as Macugen and Lucentis have
      significantly advanced our ability to treat AMD as both agents show clear efficacy across all
      lesion subtypes regardless of lesion composition.

      A clear absence of literature on clinical outcomes exist however for fibrovascular pigment
      epithelial detachments (PED). PED represents a form of exudative AMD which clearly behaves in
      a unique and distinctive manner when compared to the lesion(s) described above.

      As standard exclusion criteria within most of the major AMD trials, lesion composition of any
      IVFA subtype is acceptable as long as less then 50% of the lesion is composed of blood or
      pigment epithelial detachment. This has resulted in a notable absence of clinical literature
      on the response of predominately PED type lesions to current standard of care anti-VEGF
      agents. In an effort to address this absence, a prospective evaluation of the response of
      predominately PED type lesions to Lucentis, the current gold standard therapy is needed.

      Study design:

      Thirty two patients will be recruited to participate based on the Inclusion / Exclusion
      Criteria described in a later paragraph.

      Patients will receive monthly intravitreal Lucentis injections every 33 days (+/- 4 days) for
      6 months. At 6 months, patients will be evaluated based on ETDRS Visual Acuity and OCT to
      determine response to Lucentis therapy. Patients not experiencing a visual improvement from
      baseline ETDRS acuity (defined as a net gain from baseline of 10 or more letters) or showing
      a reduction in the height of the fibrovascular PED lesion on OCT of greater than 30% from
      baseline OCT will be deemed Lucentis non-responders. These patients will receive no further
      intravitreal Lucentis injections, but will undergo re-evaluation at 12 months.

      Patients deemed responders, will continue with an OCT-guided 6 months active treatment
      period. In these patients, iL will be administered if evidence of visual loss of 1 or more
      lines (Snellen) from 6-month visit values, evidence of intraretinal or subretinal fluid on
      OCT, or growth of PED by greater than 50 microns from the 6-month visit OCT values.

      Non-responders will be evaluated only at the 12-month final visit.

      Baseline IVFA, OCT, Snellen Visual Acuity, ETDRS refraction and contrast sensitivity will be
      obtained along with a comprehensive ophthalmological examination. Complete diagnostic
      assessments including fluorescein angiography, OCT and visual function testing will be
      repeated at 3, 6 and 12 months after baseline treatment. In addition, patients who will
      continue on active intravitreal Lucentis therapy beyond 6 months (responders), will undergo
      monthly OCT examinations (months 6 through 11) and ophthalmic safety examinations in order to
      determine the need for Lucentis administration.

      At the final, Month 12 visit, all patients will undergo ophthalmic examination, OCT, ETDRS
      refraction, Snellen Visual Acuity and contrast sensitivity.
    
  