
    
      This will be a prospective, observational, blinded diagnostic concordance study of patients
      being seen for abdominal pain at an academic emergency department (ED) at Massachusetts
      General Hospital (MGH).

      The study will consist of two phases. Both phases will have an on-call telemedicine physician
      who will assess the patient and answer the question about need for imaging.

      The first phase mitigates technical issues with the telemedicine technology by using the
      high-resolution MGH TeleHealth Stroke Cart. This will allow telemedicine hardware that has
      been vetted in the high-acuity and high-reliability Acute Stroke Service and will minimize
      the impact of potential technical problems with iPads and wireless connectivity.

      The second phase will substitute the Stroke Cart with an iPad to mimic the devices that the
      patients will likely be using from home in a direct-to-patient telehealth program.

      Target enrollment is 72 patients total over two phases. Each phase would need 30 patients for
      significant results, and another 6 patients are estimated for patients that may become
      ineligible during the study visit (e.g., potential for contamination if the subject mentions
      the abdominal imaging plans of the in-person provider during the telemedicine examination).

      After consent, the research staff member will page the on-call study telemedicine physician
      and bring the stroke cart (iPad in the second phase) into the examination room. The on-call
      physician will connect to the secure video application and will interview and examine the
      patient. The telemedicine physician will not tell the patient their thoughts on what is the
      cause of their pain, nor tell the patient the next steps in their care. The physician will
      thank the patient for their time and log off of the video call. The telemedicine provider
      will not place orders for the patient's emergency department visit, nor will they document in
      the patient's chart in the electronic medical record. The telehealth provider will only
      perform a telehealth-based examination and answer the study questions asked by the research
      staff member; all responses will be recorded on the electronic data capture (EDC) system. The
      research staff member will notify the in-person team that the telehealth examination is
      complete.

      The in-person examination will follow the current standard of practice with the emergency
      physician scheduled for that shift. The research staff member will ask the same questions to
      the in-person provider after their examination and record the data on the EDC.
    
  