
    
      It is now widely acknowledged, as a result of experimental studies over the last 30 years,
      that the mucosal flora of the large bowel are essential to the pathogenesis of ulcerative
      colitis. Whilst treatment with antibiotics, therefore, might seem a logical approach, a
      number of clinical trials have proved disappointing. This is because the principal bacteria
      involved in the inflammatory process have not been identified and their sensitivities to the
      antibacterials determined. Moreover, we are only now beginning to understand the physiology
      of biofilm populations on mucosal surfaces, one property of which is antibiotic resistance.
      Our own studies have show a distinctive bacterial population of the mucosa with UC patients
      with reduced numbers of protective bifidobacteria and increased enterobacteria which we have
      linked to disease activity. Antibiotic resistance to commonly used gut antibiotics is
      widespread in these bacteria.

      Our study, therefore, will commence with multiple biopsies of the distal large bowel mucosa
      being taken in patients with active UC and detailed microbiological characterization of the
      flora using viable counting, chemotaxonomy and molecular approaches. Antibiotic sensitivities
      of the likely pathogens will be determined and dissemination of antibiotic resistance genes
      in the mucosal microbiota followed using real time PCR. Markers of mucosal immune response
      including proinflammatory cytokines and human betea defensins will also be measured. Two
      weeks after initial biopsies, the patient will return to pur research IBD clinic where the
      appropriate combination of antibiotics will be prescribed and these will be taken for one
      month. A further assessment will occur at the end of this period including mucosal biopsies.
      endpoints will include clinical activity index, bowel habit diaries, sigmoidoscopy score,
      mucosal immune markers and routine haematology and biochemical indices. Because of the long
      term effect of antibiotics on the gut mucosa, which can last for many months, the study
      cannot be randomised and therefore, the run in period will be taken as a control period and
      the four weeks on the antibiotic will follow in all patients. The prime endpoint will be
      sigmoidoscopy score and the subjects will be followed up for a further six months after the
      study to look for long term benefits.
    
  