
    
      Sickle cell disease (SCD) is an autosomal recessive disorder of the β globin gene of the
      hemoglobin molecule. To date, no specific agent has been approved to treat a sickle cell
      crisis, to reduce the severity of a sickling crisis, or to shorten the duration of admission.
      Current therapy for a crisis is limited to hydration and symptomatic pain relief with opiates
      when pain is severe enough to cause admission to hospital. Administration of oxygen by
      inhalation alone has not proven effective. The carbon monoxide (CO) molecule binds to Hb S
      and, while attached, prevents and reverses polymerization of Hb S chains and the distortion
      of the red cell. CO at very low doses also acts as a cell-signaling molecule, and may reduce
      inflammation, decrease oxygen requirements, and prevent programmed cell death (apoptosis).

      MP4CO is designed as an ischemic rescue therapy to deliver non-toxic levels of CO, to provide
      an immediate metabolic signal to cells to help reverse red cell sickling, and to reduce
      inflammation.

      Previously published studies provide a foundation to postulate that MP4CO might have the
      appropriate properties for treatment or reversal of an acute sickling crisis. The initial
      release of CO from MP4CO is predicted to have a beneficial effect including immediate
      stabilization of Hb S to prevent further red cell polymerization and reverse existing
      sickling, dilation of capillaries to enhance tissue perfusion, and anti-inflammatory
      cell-signalling properties. The subsequent circulation of the MP4 molecule as an oxygen
      therapeutic (after converting to MP4OX following oxygenation in the lungs) will help to 1)
      preferentially oxygenate ischemic tissue, 2) reverse partially sickled red cells, and 3)
      improve perfusion and oxygenation of local tissues to potentially ameliorate the painful
      crisis caused by sickling of red cells. In addition, MP4CO has enhanced chemical stability,
      which enables storage at room temperature.
    
  