
    
      This study is a multicentre, randomized, open label trial designed to evaluate the tolerance
      and safety of early enteral nutrition after PEG placement in children. Recruitment will be
      from patients attending the one of six medical centers in Poland: Department of
      Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Feeding Disorders and Department of Pediatrics, The
      Children's Memorial Health Institute in Warsaw, Department of Pediatrics, Gastroenterology,
      Hepatology and Nutrition, Medical University of Gdańsk in Gdańsk, Department of Allergology,
      Gastroenterology and Nutrition, Medical University in Łódź, Department of Pediatrics, Medical
      University of Silesia in Katowice and Department of Pediatrics and Gastroenterology, Area
      Hospital in Torus.

      The trial will include 100 patients, from 1-month-old to 18-year-old, qualified for
      percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) placement. All participants will be prepared for
      the procedure according to the standard medical protocol.

      Parents/legal guardians, and where possible also the patient, will be informed about the
      research plan, and after signed informed consent to participate in the study patients will be
      enrolled for the study. At the Baseline visit participants will be randomized (1:1) to one of
      two treatment group: Group I- early enteral feeding group (3 hours after PEG implantation) or
      Group II- late enteral feeding group (8 hours after PEG implantation). The follow-up visits
      in hospital is planned 3, 6, 9 mad 12 months after the procedure in all subjects.

      Primary endpoint:

      1. Number of patients who will achieve full feed (total fluid and caloric requirements)
      within 48 hours since the first feeding bolus.

      Secondary endpoints:

        1. Number of early complications (to 6 days after PEG placement)

        2. Number of late complications ( 7 days - 12 months after PEG placement)

        3. Duration of hospitalization after PEG placement (in days)

        4. Gastric residuals (ml) - sum up to 48 hours since the first feeding bolus

      Tertiary endpoints:

        1. Improvement in nutritional status (3,6,9,12 months after the procedure) - body weight
           gain (kg) and height gain (cm), BMI kg/m2

        2. Influence of vitamin and trace element deficiency (vitamin D - 25(OH)D3, vitamin A,
           vitamin E, sodium, potassium, calcium, zinc, iron, magnesium, selenium) and other
           biochemical parameters abnormalities (serum level of urea, total protein, albumin,
           glucose, glycated hemoglobin (hemoglobin HbA1c), aspartate transaminase (AST), alanine
           transaminase (ALT), ferritin, C reactive protein) on complications rate.

        3. Influence of ghrelin, leptin and adiponectin level on nutritional status improvement
           after PEG placement.

        4. Influence of gastroesophageal reflux (GER) diagnosed before the procedure on feeding
           tolerance.

        5. Corelation between fecal calprotectin level and feeding tolerance after PEG placement,
           complication rate and nutritional status before PEG placement.

        6. Influence of oropharyngeal flora on complications rate (wound infection)

        7. Correlation between PEG placement and GER.
    
  