
    
      The tumor necrosis factor inhibitors(TNFi) like etanercept(ETN) has been always recommended
      as the primary treatment option for active AS. But when sustained applied in daily clinical
      practices, it is unaffordable for patients in developing countries in most cases due to the
      high expense of TNFi. On this ground, this study proposes a new scheme dividing AS treatment
      into relatively active phase and relatively stable phase, and sequentially introducing TNFi
      and conventional synthetic Disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (csDMARDs) in each phase
      respectively. Taking full advantages of the rapid and precise efficacy of TNFi when
      short-term application in active AS and then csDMARDs combination was prescribed to maintain
      the remission cause by TNFi. Drug regimes are adjusted according to the different responses
      of individual patient based on treat-to-target strategy. TNFi is reintroduced if there is a
      reactive tendency and then switching to csDMARDs again when patients are in remission. Thus,
      the continuous low activity or remission of AS may be promising through this treating
      management and the treatment cost will reduce for csDMARDs partially replace TNFi in the
      management of relatively stable phase.

      This study is designed as a prospective randomized, positive controlled, 48-week clinical
      trial, involving 100 patients with active ankylosing spondylitis. All enrolled patients will
      randomly assign to 2 groups for the comparison of the clinical responses and
      cost-effectiveness of our treatment scheme with that of the conventional therapy scheme of
      TNFi (etanercept). Multiple clinical indexes will be measured to evaluate the therapeutic
      effect, including Patient's Global Assessment, BASDAI and ASDAS-CRP for disease activity,
      BASFI for functional state, EQ-5D and SF-36 for quality-of-life assessment, SPARCC and SPARCC
      Sacroiliac Joint Structural Score (SSS) for sacroiliac joint invasion. We expect to assess
      the feasibility of our new treatment scheme in AS disease controlling and cost-effectiveness
      improving through this one-year follow-up study.
    
  