
    
      Asynchrony during assisted ventilation in children is common because of the presence of
      uncuffed artificial airways and their rapid ventilatory rate with small volumes compared to
      adults.As a result, the most common approach to ventilatory support in children is pressure
      ventilation, since pressure targeted ventilation allows gas delivery to vary based on patient
      demand. In addition, many manufacturers have incorporated adjuncts designed to improve
      synchrony in pressure targeted ventilation. Most of today's ICU ventilators incorporate rise
      time and control of the breath termination criteria in pressure ventilation by either
      altering inspiratory time directly or adjusting the inspiratory flow termination criteria in
      pressure support ventilation. In addition, careful adjustment of trigger sensitivity, and
      insuring driving pressure is appropriately set to avoid large tidal volumes improves
      synchrony in many patients. However, in spite of all of these potential adjustments many
      pediatric patients are still asynchronous.

      A recently released new mode of ventilation, NAVA (neurally adjusted ventilatory assist) is
      designed to reduce the asynchrony that exists between the ventilator and the patient. With
      NAVA, gas delivery from the mechanical ventilator is triggered, controlled and cycled by the
      diaphragmatic EMG signal (Edi). The ventilator is aware of the change in diaphragmatic EMG by
      the insertion of a specially designed nasogastric tube (NGT) with EMG electrodes that cross
      the diaphragm. This NGT also functions similar to any standard NGT. NAVA is used to control
      all aspects of assisted ventilatory support. A number of preliminary studies in neonates and
      pediatric patients have demonstrated that patient ventilator synchrony is improved with the
      application of NAVA. In general, tidal volumes delivered by the ventilator are decreased,
      respiratory rates increased and peak inspiratory pressures decreased. In these studies,
      triggering and cycling of the ventilator are controlled by the diaphragmatic EMG in more than
      70 % of the time. If the EMG signal does not activate or terminate positive pressure backup
      flow/pressure/time signal, control gas delivery -as is customary in standard modes of
      ventilatory support- takes over.

      We hypothesize that the use of NAVA will improve trigger and flow synchrony in children and
      insure that tidal volumes are normalized (6 to 8 ml/kg) in these patients.

      Asynchrony will be studied in 12 mechanically ventilated pediatric patients in the Pediatric
      ICU at Hospital Universitario Materno-Infantil La Paz in Madrid, Spain.

      The study protocol has 5 phases

        -  Phase 0: patient asynchrony documentation and 10 min recording

        -  Phase 1: NAVA catheter insertion and 10 min recording in basal ventilatory mode after 20
           min stabilization

        -  Phase 2: Pressure support is optimized and 10 min recording after 20 min stabilization

        -  Phase 3: NAVA mode ventilation and 10 min recording after 20 min stabilization

        -  Phase 4: Pressure support ventilation and 10 min recording after 20 min stabilization
    
  