
    
      This study is planned as a splint mouth, randomized, non-controlled clinical trial.This study
      will be performed with 25 patients who applied to Erciyes University Faculty of Dentistry for
      treatment and who need 2 first premolar extraction and maximum anchorage for
      treatment.Patients will be selected from 12 to 18 years of age.In order to increase anchorage
      in the patient who will start the distalization of canine, mini screw (PSM Medical Solutions,
      Quattro Standard Screw 1,5x7mm, Tuttlingen,Germany) will be applied to the right and left
      maxillary dentition of the patient under local anesthesia.The hycon device (Adenta,Germany),
      which has a screw-shaped design for the application of force to both the right and left sides
      of the maxillary dentition of the patients, will be adapted to the bands in the 1st molar
      teeth.The approval of the study was taken from Erciyes University Clinical Research Ethics
      Committee in Kayseri (2018/337).Informed consent will be obtained from all patients included
      in the study.Consent will be taken from parents of those under the age of 18. At the
      beginning of the treatment and at the end of the treatment, all patients who participated in
      the study received standard treatment records including photographs, dental models and
      radiography.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  No systemic disease

        -  Being healthy as periodontal.

        -  No smoking.

        -  No previous orthodontic treatment.

        -  Lack of congenital tooth deficiency

        -  Permanent dentition

        -  Indication of extraction for 1.premolar in the maxilla

        -  There is no restoration of upper canine teeth.

        -  Indication of the use of mini screw for maximum anchoring in the maxilla

      All models will be scanned by 3D laser model scanning device (3 Shape, R 700 Desktop Scanner,
      Szczecin, Poland) and digitalized (3Shape Ortho Analyzer ™ 12). The gradient of the teeth and
      the amount of space closure will be examined by using panoramic radiographs. The amount of
      root resorption in canine teeth will be measured by using periapical radiography. As a result
      of the data obtained, the effects of the hycon device(Adenta, Germany) and vibration
      device(Acceledent Aura, OrthoAccel Technologies, Inc. USA) on the tooth movement speed will
      be compared.
    
  