
    
      Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most common gynecological endocrinopathy among women
      of reproductive age. The prevalence of PCOS among such women is estimated to be 6.4% to 6.8%
      worldwide. PCOS is a heterogeneous androgen excess disorder with different degrees of
      reproductive and metabolic dysfunctions.

      There are many considerations to explain the complexity of the underlying pathogenesis of
      PCOS, particularly the well-known roles of hypothalamic-pituitary gonadal dysfunctions,
      metabolic abnormalities and genetic factors, the developmental model of chronic diseases
      postulates that early-life events affect the individual differences in vulnerability to
      lifestyle and environment, suggesting that hostile intrauterine environment and low birth
      weight may predispose to the development of early adrenarche, PCOS and metabolic syndrome
      later in life; however, the definite pathogenesis and real underlying etiologies of PCOS
      remain uncertain and ripe with opportunities for further research.

      PCOS is the most common cause of anovulatory infertility, and its foremost clinical symptoms
      include anovulation or oligo-ovulation, infertility, menstrual irregularity, polycystic
      ovaries, and hyperandrogenism in women without specific underlying diseases of the adrenal or
      pituitary glands. A primary abnormality in folliculogenesis may have played a role in the
      development of PCOS. The polycystic ovaries contain multiple antral follicles, some of which
      prematurely acquire LH receptors and become responsive to LH, increasing granulosa cell
      proliferation in the preantral follicles, resulting in anovulation. PCOS is defined by the
      presence of having at least 2 of the following criteria: irregular or absent ovulation,
      elevated levels of androgenic hormones, and enlarged ovaries containing at least 12 follicles
      each.

      Several epidemiological and interventional PCOS studies demonstrate that serum vitamin D
      concentrations are inversely associated with fasting plasma glucose levels, insulin
      resistance, body mass index (BMI), and body fat contributing to the pathogenesis of PCOS by
      promoting insulin resistance and affecting glucose metabolism in PCOS women. Vitamin D is
      either produced in the skin in response to direct exposure to sunlight from
      dehydrocholesterol or obtained from the diet. Vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) is converted into
      25-hydroxyvitamin D3 principally in the liver and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 in the kidney by
      two hydroxylation steps. 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 is an active form of vitamin D, it binds to
      vitamin D receptors (VDRs) that are expressed in 2776 genomic positions and modulate the
      expression of 229 genes in more than 30 different tissues, such as the skeleton, pancreatic
      islet cells, parathyroid glands, and ovaries.

      About 3% of the human genome are regulated by VDRs gene including those responsible for
      glucose and fat metabolism as well as blood regulation; it's active form acts through its
      VDRs either directly or through regulation of intercellular calcium that facilitates insulin
      secretion. It has been suggested that Vitamin D increases insulin sensitivity through the
      effect on its muscle cell receptors by increasing insulin receptors or increasing the insulin
      sensitivity of insulin receptors to insulin. Also, being a fat soluble vitamin, a higher
      proportion of vitamin D may be sequestered in the adipose tissue of obese individuals,
      resulting in lower 25-(OH)D3 concentration levels; therefore, a low vitamin D status is
      suspected to be a risk factor for impaired glucose tolerance, insulin resistance and a
      substantial cause of obesity.

      In the light of the literature, the relationship between vitamin D status and insulin or
      glucose metabolism has been investigated in women with PCOS who are vitamin D deficient,
      although there is no consensus on whether or not serum vitamin D levels are different in
      women with or without PCOS. Vitamin D level is defined as a serum level of
      25-hydroxycholecalciferol [25-(OH)D3]. Vitamin D insufficiency is defined as a 25-(OH)D3
      concentration of <30ng/ml and frank vitamin D deficiency is defined as a 25-(OH)D3
      concentration of <20ng/ml. There appears to be a growing disconnect between the observational
      studies and the randomized clinical trials of vitamin D supplementation in PCOS women with
      insulin resistance and glucose intolerance. Observational studies keep showing a fairly
      consistent relationship between low concentration levels of vitamin D and insulin resistance
      or glucose intolerance, while almost all randomized trials, including a meta-analysis of
      vitamin D supplementation on women suffering from PCOS shows minimal, if any, benefit in
      terms of correcting insulin resistance or increasing insulin sensitivity indexes or an
      improvement in glucose metabolism. The results published indicated that the change was not
      significant and did not show any difference in insulin resistance which is the core
      patho-physiology of this syndrome.

      Vitamin D deficiency (VDD) is common in women with and without PCOS and may be associated
      with metabolic and endocrine disorders in PCOS. However, the phenotypic manifestation of PCOS
      is associated with various degrees of gonadotropic and/or metabolic abnormalities and there
      has been much debate as to whether it represents a single disorder or several that can only
      be determined by the interaction of multiple genetic and environmental factors. Previously
      conducted prospective observational studies that investigated the temporal relationship
      between VDD and metabolic disturbances (resistance to the action of insulin and glucose
      intolerance) in PCOS are lacking. If VDD were causally related to PCOS and the subsequent
      development of metabolic dysfunction in PCOS, then further prospective observational studies
      with repeated VDD assessment and better characterization of PCOS disease severity at
      enrollment are needed to clarify whether VDD is a co-determinant of metabolic dysregulations
      in PCOS compared to Non-PCOS women (controls).

      Study design:

      A prospective observational study which will be conducted in the outpatient clinics of Ain
      Shams University Women's Hospital after being approved by the local ethical committee.

      Sample size justification:

      For sample size determination, the investigators used the following formula: N= 2 x K x
      [SD/μ1-μ2]2 where N equals the number of patients per arm and K is constant (K=7.9) setting
      the type-1 error α at 0.5 and the power β at 80%. Results from a previous study calculated
      the mean (standard deviation (SD)) of vitamin Din the PCOS group(μ1)is 15.45 ± 7.88 ng/ml and
      in the control group(μ2) 12.83 ± 5.76ng/ml. Anticipating a 10% drop out rate, we calculated
      that a sample size of 83 subjects in each group, with a total of 166 subjects is enough to
      detect a significant difference, if any existed.

      Objectives:

        1. To measure plasma concentrations of vitamin D, fasting glucose, fasting Insulin,
           androgen levels, FSH and LH levels in all participants diagnosed with PCOS and healthy
           participants.

        2. To clarify whether VDD is a co-determinant of metabolic dysregulations particularly
           insulin resistance and glucose metabolism in PCOS when compared to healthy women
           (controls).

        3. To develop a better assessment of the PCOS severity and factors involved.

      Methodology:

      All of the recruited subjects will undergo:

        -  Written consent.

        -  Complete history with particular emphasis on menstrual, sexual, gynecological, medical
           as (Irregular cycles, oligomenorrhea, polymenorrhea, secondary amenorrhea, dysmenorrhea
           primary or secondary infertility, cancer, thyroid disease, galactorrhea, hirsutism,
           pelvic pain...etc), previous pelvic surgeries, induction of ovulation, vaginal
           infection, abnormal Pap smears, life style habits such as alcohol and smoking.

        -  Physical examination including general examination, Anthropometric measurements like
           weight (in kg), height (in meters), Body Mass Index (BMI), waist to hip ratio (WHR),
           Waist circumference (midway between the lowest rib margin and iliac crest) and hip
           circumference (over the widest part of the gluteal region). Signs of androgen excess,
           thyroid toxicity, and galactorrhea will be examined. Patients will undergo gynecological
           ultrasound in the follicular phase and to assess the ovarian size and morphology. Local
           examination to exclude uterine abnormalities, cervical tenderness, masses, vaginal
           infections and discharge.

        -  Diagnostic tests: Overnight fasting venous blood samples will be withdrawn between the
           2nd and 3rd day of menstruation, and withdrawal bleeding following progesterone therapy
           for 5 days in amenorheic women, centrifuged and frozen to -80 C until analyzed for the
           assessment of vitamin D levels, Androgen levels, plasma Glucose and plasma Insulin, FSH
           and LH analogues.

      All collected data will be tabulated and statistically analyzed.

      Statistical analysis:

      Descriptive statistics for measured variables will be expressed as range, mean and standard
      deviation (for metric data); range, median and interquartile range (for discrete data); and
      number and proportions (for categorical data).

      Demographic data, primary and secondary outcomes of all women will be compared using t-test
      (for quantitative parametric measures), Mann-Whitney's U-test (for quantitative
      non-parametric measures) and chi-squared for Fisher's Exact tests (for categorical measures).
      Pearson's correlation coefficient (for metric variables) and Spearman's correlation
      coefficient (for rank variables) will be used to estimate association between variables.
      Microsoft Excel and SPSS for Windows will be used for data presentation and statistical
      analysis.

      Ethical considerations:

      The clinical research study will be conducted in accordance with the above mentioned design,
      safety and reporting of cases matching the relevant policies, requirements, and regulations
      of the Ethical Committee of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology - Faculty of
      Medicine, Ain Shams University Women's Hospital.

      Consent procedure:

      The investigator will make certain that an appropriate informed consent process is in place
      to ensure that potential research subjects, or their authorized representatives, are fully
      informed about the nature and objectives of the clinical study, the benefits of study
      participation and their rights as research subjects. The investigator will obtain a written,
      signed informed consent of each subject, or the subject's authorized representative, prior to
      performing any study-specific procedures on the subject. The investigator will retain the
      original signed informed consent form.

      Subject confidentiality:

      All evaluation forms, reports and other records that leave the site will not include unique
      personal data to maintain subject confidentiality.
    
  