
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      Screening component:

      I. To establish a National Clinical Trials Network (NCTN) mechanism for genomically screening
      large but homogeneous cancer populations and subsequently assigning and accruing
      simultaneously to a multi-sub-study ?Master Protocol.? II. To evaluate the screen success
      rate defined as the percentage of screened patients that register for a therapeutic
      sub-study.

      Sub-study-specific Objectives:

      Design #1: Phase II/III Design:

      III. To evaluate if there is sufficient evidence to continue to the Phase III component of
      the sub-study by comparing investigator-assessed progression-free survival (IA-PFS) between
      investigational therapy versus standard therapy (SoC) in patients with advanced stage
      refractory squamous cell carcinoma (SCCA) of the lung. (Phase II) IV. To determine if there
      is both a statistically and clinically-meaningful difference in IA-PFS among advanced stage
      refractory SCCA of the lung randomized to receive investigational therapy versus SoC. (Phase
      III) V. To compare overall survival (OS) in patients with advanced stage refractory SCCA of
      the lung randomized to investigational therapy versus SoC. (Phase III)

      Design #2: Phase II followed by Phase III (Sequential Phase II to Phase III):

      VI. To evaluate the objective response rate (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and
      partial). (Phase II) VII. To determine if there is both a statistically and
      clinically-meaningful difference in IA-PFS among advanced stage refractory SCCA of the lung
      randomized to receive investigational therapy versus SoC. (Phase III) VIII. To compare
      overall survival (OS) in patients with advanced stage refractory SCCA of the lung randomized
      to investigational therapy versus SoC. (Phase III)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      Sub-study-specific Objectives:

      Design #1: Phase II/III Design:

      I. To compare response rates (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial responses)
      among patients randomized to receive investigational therapy versus SoC. (Phase II) II. To
      evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicities associated with investigational therapy
      versus SoC. (Phase II) III. To evaluate the duration of response (DoR) among patients who
      achieve a complete response (CR) or a partial response (PR) by Response Evaluation Criteria
      in Solid Tumors (RECIST) (1.1). (Phase II) III. To compare the response rates (confirmed and
      unconfirmed, complete and partial) among patients randomized to receive investigational
      therapy versus SoC. (Phase III) IV. To evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicities
      associated with investigational therapy versus SoC. (Phase III)

      Design #2: Phase II followed by Phase III (Sequential Phase II to Phase III):

      V. To evaluate PFS and OS with investigational therapy. (Phase II) VI. To evaluate the DoR
      among patients who achieve a CR or PR (confirmed and unconfirmed) by RECIST 1.1. (Phase II)
      VII. To evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicities associated with investigational
      therapy. (Phase II) VIII. To compare the response rates (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete
      and partial) among patients randomized to receive investigational therapy versus SoC. (Phase
      III) IX. To evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicities associated with investigational
      therapy versus SoC. (Phase III)

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the treatment arm randomization acceptance rate (TARAR) within each treatment
      arm of each sub-study defined as the percentage of patients randomized to a treatment arm
      that receive any protocol treatment. (Design #1: Phase II/III Design) II. To identify
      additional predictive tumor/blood biomarkers that may modify response or define resistance to
      the targeted therapy (TT)/targeted therapy combination (TTC) beyond the chosen biomarker for
      biomarker-driven sub-studies.

      III. To evaluate potentially predictive biomarkers for non-match therapy (NMT) in the
      non-match studies.

      IV. To identify potential resistance biomarkers at disease progression. V. To establish a
      tissue/ blood repository from patients with refractory SCCA of the lung.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to a biomarker-driven targeted therapy phase II study. If the
      objectives response rate observed is judged sufficient, patients proceed to a randomized
      phase III trial and are randomized to biomarker-driven targeted therapy or standard of care.

      S1400A: (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL 12/18/2015) Patients with tumors that do not match one of the
      currently active drug-biomarker combinations or did not meet the eligibility requirements for
      that bio-marker driven sub-study are assigned to Arm I. Upon evidence of progression
      following discontinuation of 12 months of treatment, patients may restart treatment for up to
      12 months with the same treatment guidelines followed during the initial 12-month treatment
      period (Arm III).

      ARM I: (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL 12/18/2015) Patients receive anti-B7H1 monoclonal antibody MEDI4736
      intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 12 months in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL 4/2015): Patients receive docetaxel IV on day 1. Courses repeat
      every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (closed to
      accrual with Revision #2 4/22/15)

      ARM III: For patients assigned to Arm 1, MEDI4736: Upon evidence of progression following
      discontinuation of 12 months of treatment, patients may restart treatment with Arm 3,
      MEDI4736 for up to 12 months with the same treatment guidelines followed during the initial
      12-month treatment period. Patients will only be able to restart treatment once; thus a
      maximum of two 12-month periods will be allowed. Patients receive anti-B7H1 monoclonal
      antibody MEDI4736 intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14
      days for 12 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      S1400B (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL 12/12/2016): Patients with tumors positive for phosphoinositide
      3-kinase (PI3KCA) are assigned to Arm I. Patients currently on Arm 2, docetaxel will be given
      the option to re-register to Arm 3, GCD-0032 after disease progression on current treatment
      (Arm III).

      ARM I: Patients receive taselisib orally (PO) daily on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 21
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL 12/18/2015): Patients receive docetaxel IV on day 1. Courses repeat
      every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (closed to
      accrual with Revision #3 12/18/2015)

      ARM III: Re-Registration Treatment with GDC-0032 (Taselisib) Upon progression patients in Arm
      2 may be eligible for Re-Registration to receive GDC-0032. Patients receive taselisib orally
      (PO) daily on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      S1400C (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL 09/01/2016): Patients with tumors positive for cyclin dependent
      kinase 4 (CDK4), cyclin D1 (CCND1), cyclin D2 (CCND2), and cyclin D3 (CCND3) are assigned to
      Arm I. Patients currently on Arm 2, docetaxel will be given the option to re-register to Arm
      3, palbociclib, after disease progression on current treatment (Arm III).

      ARM I: Patients receive palbociclib PO on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL 12/18/2015): Patients receive docetaxel IV on day 1. Courses repeat
      every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (closed to
      accrual with Revision #3 12/18/2015)

      ARM III: Re-Registration Treatment with Palbociclib. Upon progression patients in Arm 2 may
      be eligible for Re-Registration to receive palbociclib. Patients receive palbociclib PO on
      days 1-21. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      S1400D (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL 10/31/2016): Patients with tumors positive for fibroblast growth
      factor receptor (FGFR) 1, FGFR2, and FGFR3 are assigned to Arm I. Patients currently on Arm
      2, docetaxel will be given the option to re-register to Arm 3, AZD4547, after disease
      progression on current treatment (Arm III).

      ARM I: Patients receive FGFR inhibitor AZD4547 PO BID on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 21
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL 12/18/2015): Patients receive docetaxel IV on day 1. Courses repeat
      every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (closed to
      accrual with Revision #3 12/18/2015)

      ARM III: Re-Registration Treatment with AZD4547. Upon progression patients in Arm 2 may be
      eligible for Re-Registration to receive AZD4547. Patients receive FGFR inhibitor AZD4547 PO
      BID on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      S1400E (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL 11/25/2014): Patients with tumors positive for met proto-oncogene
      (MET) are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. (permanently closed to accrual on 11/25/14)

      ARM I: Patients receive rilotumumab IV on day 1 and erlotinib hydrochloride PO daily on days
      1-21. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride PO daily on days 1-21. Courses repeat every
      21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      S1400F: Patients with disease progression during or after prior anti-PD-1 or anti-PD-L1
      antibody monotherapy as their most recent line of treatment receive durvalumab (IV over 60
      minutes) and tremelimumab (IV over 60 minutes) on day 1 for courses 1-4 and durvalumab IV
      alone on day 1 of course 5 and subsequent courses until disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Courses repeat every 28 days.

      S1400G: Patients with tumors positive for homologous recombination repair deficiency receive
      talazoparib PO daily on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      S1400I: Patients with tumors that do not match one of the currently active drug-biomarker
      combinations or did not meet the eligibility requirements for that bio-marker driven
      sub-study are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and ipilimumab IV over 60
      minutes on day 1 of every third course. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 14 days
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, all patients are followed up periodically for up to 3
      years from date of screening registration.
    
  