
    
      12-15 healthy older persons will be observed, as well as 12-15 persons with cognitive
      impairment, while playing Solitaire. This will take the shape of contextual inquiries, i.e.
      the researcher visits the older person in his/her natural context and ask his/her to play
      Solitaire. Older persons will be observed playing 8-10 rounds of playing Solitaire, both with
      a physical deck of card and on a tablet. Gameplay actions and player behaviors will be
      observed and recorded for later analysis, via screen capturing software installed on the
      tablet, including the recordings of facial expressions and verbal utterances via the
      integrated touchpad camera and microphone. According to the contextual inquiry method, which
      is a 'light' form of participant observation, the researcher will take the role of an
      'apprentice'; he/she will observe and may ask questions for a better understanding of the
      player actions. At the end of the visit, following cognitive domains will be measured through
      pen-and-paper testing: visual scanning and psychomotor speed (Digit symbol substitution
      test), attention and executive function (Trail making test, digit span, verbal fluency, maze
      test), Camden topographical memory,... The duration of such a visit will last approximately
      120 minutes.

      These observations of game play actions and behaviors and the results that participants
      obtained on the cognitive test battery will be analyzed with experts in light of cognitive
      performance. More particular, the investigator will look for the measurable aspects of
      cognitive performance in the game, guided by earlier measures put forward by Jimison et al
      and Kaye et al. While they still list generic measures (e.g. 'target detection' or 'correctly
      retrieving item from previous knowledge'), this study will now operationalize these
      specifically for the game of Solitaire and for the target group (e.g. 'detection of card to
      move onto the build stack' or 'retrieving the card as available from the pile'). Hence,
      possible game metrics will be discussed and defined.
    
  