
    
      Molecularly targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) have improved the overall prognosis of
      patients with cancer. When properly adhered to, TKIs can extend progression-free survival by
      decades. Despite the promise of TKIs, nonadherence is problematic and studies report that as
      little as 23% of patients are fully adherent over time. Poor adherence is of significance as
      it is associated with disease progression and mortality. Despite the importance of optimal
      adherence (<90% adherence for TKIs), only a handful of interventions with very limited
      documented efficacy have targeted adherence to TKIs. This is problematic as the number of
      patients receiving oral anticancer medications is steadily increasing and patients taking
      TKIs are required to be adherent for years to impact survival. Furthermore, the limited
      half-life of TKIs highlights the need to optimize full adherence to these medications.

      The few interventions that have sought to improve oral anticancer medication adherence have
      been limited by: (a) lack of a conceptual model that incorporates modifiable psychosocial
      factors (e.g., illness perceptions, self-efficacy) known to influence adherence behaviors,
      (b) lack of patient-centered education and training to manage the chronic and debilitating
      burden of the medication side effects, and (c) lack of more than one objective method of
      tracking participants' medication adherence. Strategies that (a) facilitate patient-provider
      communication about side effects and side effect monitoring, and (b) incorporate
      evidence-based tools to improve side effect monitoring and management, as well as coping with
      illness-related stress, may be especially beneficial for aiding patients to optimally adhere
      to TKI medications. Therefore, the investigators propose that an evidence-based psychosocial
      intervention that can improve management of oral anticancer medication side effects, and
      therefore improve quality of life, may also improve adherence.

      Previous work elucidating the determinants of adherence to oral anticancer medications and
      developing web-based symptom monitoring tools and psychosocial interventions for patients
      with cancer makes the research team uniquely positioned to develop and evaluate the
      feasibility of an intervention to improve adherence to life-saving TKI medications.
      Consistent with PA-17-061 (Oral Anticancer Agents), the investigators propose to establish
      the feasibility of an evidence-based, web-delivered and adaptive program called Oncotool to
      improve adherence to TKIs. Oncotool is patient centered and grounded in models of health
      behavior change, self-management and established barriers (e.g., patient, system and
      treatment factors) to medication adherence. Oncotool will incorporate patient education
      (e.g., compliance education, medication adherence benefits), track side effects bi-weekly,
      notify providers of patient-reported side effects, and provide medical and psychosocial
      management strategies for TKI medication side effects. The purpose of this study is to
      compare the efficacy of Oncotool to a control program, which will contain general health
      information such as cancer screening, diet and physical activity. The primary study outcome
      will be feasibility of Oncotool (i.e., acceptability, demand, practicality). Adherence and
      health-related quality of life (HRQoL) will be assessed as secondary outcomes over 6 months
      in Oncotool compared to the control condition.
    
  