
    
      Hemophilia A is an X-linked recessive, congenital bleeding disorder caused by deficient or
      defective coagulation factor VIII (FVIII). The absence or severe reduction of FVIII leads to
      'spontaneous' bleeding episodes (occurring primarily in joints, muscles, and less commonly,
      in soft tissues) and to excessive bleeding following trauma or injury. Estimations based on
      the WFH's annual global surveys indicate that the number of people with hemophilia in the
      world is approximately 400,000. [1] China accounts for a quarter of about 100,000.

      Currently, based on the successful pioneer work of Dr Nilsson and her colleagues in Sweden
      that started in the late 1950's, prophylaxis is recommend as the standard of care for boys
      with severe haemophilia by WHO and WFH. [2] The efficacy and safety of prophylaxis in
      preventing bleeds and arthropathy in patients with hemophilia has been confirmed in
      well-designed clinical studies.[3,4,5]To keep the factor level above 1%, the standard dosage
      for patients with severe hemophilia A is 20-40 Units /kg/infusion (average 30 Units /kg) [6]
      every other day or three times a week. This dosage has a very high consumption of factor, up
      to 5000-6000 international unit(IU)/kg/year. [7] The high consumption of factor and cost
      present a major barrier to use the standard prophylaxis in many countries particularly in the
      developing world. [8] Many families are looking forward to standard prophylaxis to reducing
      bleeding episodes, stop or slow the deterioration of joint disease in their sons with severe
      hemophilia and thus improving their quality of life (QoL). But in China the majority of boys
      with severe hemophilia A cannot afford the high costs of standard prophylaxis .They can only
      pay for on-demand treatment or low-dose prophylaxis. But after the Advate Patient Assistance
      Program(Golden Key) was launched in 24 Apr 2014 in Nanjing China, the affordability of
      patients was solved and many patients will get more chance to receive standard prophylaxis.

      This study is designed to evaluate the Annual Bleeding rate (ABR), joint health outcomes and
      QoL outcomes in subjects using standard prophylaxis under the conditions of routine practice.
    
  