
    
      Studies of iron and erythroid cells, have provided fundamental insights into structure
      function relationships of proteins, energy metabolism, and the molecular basis of many
      diseases. Based upon the importance of iron for hemoglobin production, the regulation of
      erythropoiesis and iron metabolism are closely linked, and iron deficiency anemia remains as
      one of the most common diseases worldwide. The discovery of sickle hemoglobin as having an
      abnormal electrophoretic mobility marked the beginning of the molecular medicine era. The
      advent of recombinant DNA technology and sequencing methodologies resulted in the
      characterization of erythroid cells well beyond that of protein based studies to include gene
      structure and expression. Globin gene research, in particular, has provided a wealth of
      information about the expression, regulation and insulation of mammalian genes. More
      recently, studies of iron absorption and trafficking provided new avenues of research aimed
      toward growth and energy homeostasis. Genome based approaches were also utilized for the
      discovery of direct relationships between erythroid cell biology and iron homeostasis. Hence,
      there is strong evidence that fundamental clinical advances in the field of iron and
      erythroid biology have been based upon the careful study of humans with informative
      phenotypes. Clinically based correlation of genotype and phenotype is a proven, systematic
      approach for understanding the molecular basis of disease.

      With the completion of the sequencing of the human genome, a more complete, genetically based
      description of disease is now achievable. Efforts aimed toward haplotype mapping will further
      enhance genotype phenotype correlation directly from clinical samples. Considerable progress
      has already been made in this regard using normal human erythroid cells. In contrast to
      classic studies involving single genes or proteins, computational biology and high throughput
      technologies permit the analysis of complex erythroid phenotypes including those with related
      iron pathologies. This information will be invaluable for understanding those molecular
      mechanisms that are altered in disease states.

      The immediate aim of this protocol is to perform phenotypic analyses in humans with
      informative iron or erythroid phenotypes. These studies are expected to result in detailed
      clinical phenotyping and the collection and banking of clinical specimens for further study.
      In addition, we predict an ongoing growth of new technologies that may eventually be used for
      molecular and genetic phenotyping of clinical samples (examples include oligonucleotide chips
      and high throughput mass spectroscopy). Based upon this prediction, we plan to use the
      samples collected here to assess possible clinical uses of those technologies as they become
      available. The eventual aim is the discovery of identifiers that may be predictive of disease
      pathogenesis, severity or clinical response to intervention.
    
  