
    
      This study planned to enroll 50 patients with lung cancer diagnosed with brain (meningeal)
      metastases, and all cases were slated to receive radiotherapy and targeted therapy. Patients'
      clinical data were collected (including but not limited to: age at diagnosis with brain
      (meningeal) metastases, KPS score, smoking history, stage of disease at diagnosis, time to
      progress to brain metastases, number of brain metastases, extracranial metastases (ECM), and
      systemic disease at the time of brain metastases. Anticoagulated whole blood and
      anticoagulated cerebrospinal fluid were collected before local treatment (samples of primary
      cancer tissue and metastatic carcinoma of some patients were preserved) and at 7 days, 1
      month, 3 months, as well as 6 months after the treatment (time of sample retention was to be
      determined, Figure 2). DNA was extracted from tumor tissues, genomic DNA was extracted from
      leukocytes, and cfDNA was extracted from plasma and cerebrospinal fluid, for complete
      quantitative detection of DNA, DNA library construction, as well as targeted capture
      sequencing. Tumor-related genes were analyzed, and changes in the tumor burden during the
      treatment process were evaluated. The clinical significance of cfDNA in the plasma and
      cerebrospinal fluid for treatment efficacy and prognosis was evaluated, and compared with
      that of clinical indicators of treatment efficacy.

      This study involved two stages. The first stage was a pre-experiment: samples were retained
      from 3-5 cases, and mutations in tumor-related genes in the cfDNA in plasma and cerebrospinal
      fluid were compared. The investigators analyzed, combined with clinical indicators, whether
      mutations of cfDNA in plasma accord with that of the cerebrospinal fluid and whether
      mutations of cfDNA in cerebrospinal can reflect the mutational status of tumor cells. The
      second phase was conducted by expanding the number of cases, based on the first stage.
    
  