
    
      Background: Social distancing and movement restrictions during contagious disease outbreaks
      are necessary to reduce spread but can lead to negative social and psychological outcomes,
      including loneliness, depression, and anxiety, particularly in vulnerable populations. An
      online survey that used snowball sampling techniques and collected data from 1210 respondents
      from 194 cities in China in January-February 2020 found that over 50% rated the psychological
      impact of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) outbreak as moderate or severe. Symptoms of
      anxiety were rated as the most common psychological problem. Self-reported poor physical
      health status and the presence of a chronic illness were associated with symptoms of
      depression and anxiety.

      Systemic sclerosis (SSc; scleroderma) is a rare, chronic, autoimmune disease characterized by
      vasculopathy and excessive collagen production. Onset typically occurs between the ages of 30
      and 50 years, and approximately 80% of people with SSc are women. SSc can affect multiple
      organ systems, including the skin, lungs, gastrointestinal tract, and heart. Disease
      presentation is extremely heterogeneous, and the course of the disease is highly
      unpredictable. People with SSc commonly experience hand function and mobility limitations,
      pain, fatigue, sleep problems, pruritus, symptoms of depression, and body image distress from
      disfiguring aspects (e.g., skin tightening, pigment changes, hand contractures,
      telangiectasias). Many people with SSc are at risk of serious complications from COVID-19 if
      infected due to lung involvement (> 40% have interstitial lung disease) and common use of
      immunosuppressant drugs.

      The Scleroderma Patient-centered Intervention Network (SPIN) COVID-19 Home-isolation
      Activities Together (SPIN-CHAT) Program is a group videoconference-based intervention
      designed to improve symptoms of anxiety and other mental health outcomes among individuals
      with SSc at risk of poor mental health during the COVID-19 pandemic. The primary objective of
      the SPIN-CHAT Trial is to evaluate the effect of the program compared to waitlist control on
      patient reported symptoms of anxiety as measured by the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement
      Information System (PROMIS) Anxiety 4a v1.0 scores.

      Recruitment and Enrolment: SPIN is a collaboration of SSc researchers, health care providers,
      people living with SSc, and patient organizations from Canada, the United States, Europe,
      Mexico and Australia that has assembled a large multinational patient cohort to collect
      longitudinal data on patient-reported outcomes in SSc and as a framework for embedding RCTs
      of e-health interventions. SPIN Cohort participants complete online assessments upon
      enrolment and at 3-month intervals. To date, over 2000 SSc patients from 47 centres have been
      enrolled in SPIN's web-based cohort (currently approximately 1800 active participants).

      SPIN Cohort participants will be invited by email and by popups to enrol in the SPIN-COVID-19
      Cohort, a sub-cohort of the SPIN Cohort. Additionally, recruitment announcements for the
      SPIN-COVID-19 Cohort will be posted on SPIN's social media and distributed through our
      patient organization partners. All SPIN-COVID-19 Cohort participants will be invited to
      complete measures at baseline and every two weeks for the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic.
      They will receive email reminders to complete bi-weekly follow-up assessments.

      Participants in the SPIN-COVID-19 Cohort eligible for the SPIN-CHAT Trial will be provided
      with a brief description of the trial in the SPIN-COVID-19 Qualtrics platform and will be
      asked if they would be interested in participating in the trial. Those who express interest
      will be provided with an online version of the trial consent form, which they can also
      download, and will be given the options of (1) consenting to participate; (2) declining
      participation; or (3) requesting that a member of SPIN's research team call them to answer
      questions they have about participating in the trial before consenting.

      Methods: The SPIN-CHAT Trial is a pragmatic, two-arm partially nested RCT (PN-RCT) that will
      be conducted using the SPIN-COVID-19 Cohort. Pragmatic RCTs are conducted to replicate
      real-world delivery of interventions as much as possible and support decisions on whether
      interventions should be provided in practice. The trial will be a PN-RCT because participants
      randomised to the intervention arm will be clustered into intervention groups, and members of
      each intervention group will interact during videoconference sessions; participants randomly
      assigned to the waitlist control will not be clustered and will only complete trial measures.

      Random Selection and Allocation: SPIN-COVID-19 Cohort participants who provide consent for
      participation will be entered into different pools based on their availabilities and taking
      into consideration time zone differences. Once there are enough participants to complete an
      intervention group and assign an equal number of participants to waitlist control, SPIN
      personnel will provide the external service with an anonymised list of participants (only
      identification numbers will be provided) who could participate in an intervention group based
      on language and day and time availabilities. For each intervention group and waitlist control
      pairing, the service will randomly select 16 participants from the pool of enroled
      participants available based on language, day, and time and will randomly allocate 8 to the
      intervention group and 8 to the waitlist group using block randomization.This process will be
      repeated until trial enrolment is complete. One intervention and waitlist control pairing
      will include 18 participants (9 intervention, 9 waitlist) to accommodate the total number
      that we anticipate randomizing.

      Intervention and Comparator: Mental health outcomes, including anxiety, among people in
      quarantine are associated with modifiable factors such as degree of isolation, boredom, and
      ability to manage worry and anxiety. In addition to psychological strategies, including worry
      reduction and meditative exercises, exercise has been shown to reduce anxiety. Among older
      adults, where isolation is a common challenge, activity and social engagement are commonly
      used to address loneliness and feelings of isolation. Recommendations for the World Health
      Organization and major national public health organizations for managing mental health during
      COVID-19 emphasize setting and following a routine, managing information sources and
      quantity, staying connected with others, and finding a way to be physically active.

      The SPIN-CHAT Program is a brief group videoconference intervention that was developed based
      on best-practice principles for managing anxiety and worry, recommendations for maintaining
      mental health during COVID-19, and input from the SPIN COVID-19 Patient Advisory Team.
      Educational segments in each session will be delivered by a research team member with
      experience and training related to the topic. Leisure activities that will be done at the
      start of each session will include games (e.g., Pictionary, charades), creative activities
      (e.g., roll-a-story), cultural activities (e.g., virtual museum tours), social activities
      (e.g., share your favourite recipe). In the healthy information management and social
      connection segment, strategies will be provided and discussion will be facilitated on how to
      stay informed via accurate information sources while avoiding sensationalist and other
      non-helpful information. Information on using simple (e.g., phone) or more advanced
      technology (e.g., group videoconferencing) to stay connected will be discussed, along with
      strategies for connecting regularly with others. The managing worry segments will include an
      overview of worry, including what it is, the difference between helpful and harmful anxiety
      or worry, how to identify triggers of worry, and strategies to manage worry, including
      identifying different types of worrying, using worry journals, worry postponement, and worry
      time. Exercises will be done with the group to illustrate techniques. In the relaxation
      segments, an introduction to the purpose of relaxation techniques will be presented, and
      participants will be guided through brief breathing, mindfulness, and visualization
      exercises.

      The physical activity segments will include an overview of the physical and psychosocial
      benefits of physical activity for maintenance of health for chronic disease management,
      including mental health during the COVID-19 pandemic; movement guidelines to ensure safety;
      and how to monitor daily physical activity. Participants will be guided through movement
      options for the home-based setting, including warm-ups, aerobic, and strength activities.
      Behaviour change techniques to foster building the habit of moving more at home will be
      taught, including goal-setting, scheduling, addressing barriers, and building social support.

      Activity engagement sessions will be guided by the leisure education content model. Sessions
      will involve interactive group discussion about the benefits of leisure engagement for
      persons with SSc, addressing physical, social, emotional, intellectual and spiritual realms
      of health and wellbeing. Sessions will explore barriers to leisure for persons with SSc and
      includes tips for finding leisure resources within the participants' own homes, both
      in-person and online.

      Sample Size: Effects of short anxiety-focused interventions in post-disaster settings are
      between 0.40 and 0.80 standardized mean difference (SMD). This is larger than estimated
      minimally important difference for the PROMIS Anxiety 4a v1.0 score (SMD = 0.23 to 0.34 SMD).
      For an assumed effect size of SMD = 0.50, a two-tailed test with alpha = 0.05, and an
      intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC) of 0.05, N=146 provides 80% power or greater for
      our primary outcome, PROMIS Anxiety 4a v1.0; assuming 10% dropout, we will recruit 162
      participants (81 in 10 SPIN-CHAT groups; 81 waitlist). We believe that this is a conservative
      power and sample size estimate. First, in cluster RCTs, ICC values for individual patient
      outcomes are typically lower than our 0.05 estimate. If the true ICC is lower than our 0.05
      estimate, this will result in greater power than estimated. Second, there has been no loss to
      follow-up in the feasibility trial or initial waves of our full-scale trial of the
      videoconference-based SPIN support group leader program, which has a similar design. Thus, we
      believe that a 10% loss to follow-up may be conservative.

      Data Analysis: Analyses will be conducted by a statistician blind to trial arm allocation.
      For the primary outcome analysis, we will use an intent-to-treat analysis that compares all
      patients randomly assigned to the SPIN-CHAT Program to all patients assigned to the waitlist
      control. The intervention effect at 4 weeks will be estimated using a linear mixed model,
      adjusted for baseline PROMIS Anxiety 4a v1.0 scores. The model will include a random effect
      to account for clustering of participants in the training groups, but not for participants in
      the waitlist control arm, because there is no clustering in the control arm. We will
      investigate the effects of missing data using multiple imputation. As a secondary analysis,
      we will additionally adjust for age, sex, baseline loneliness, baseline boredom, and baseline
      physical activity. Analyses of secondary outcomes will similarly be done (1) controlling for
      baseline scores only and (2) controlling for baseline scores, age, sex, and other key
      baseline measures. Statistical significance for all analyses will be determined based on
      two-sided α = 0.05. In addition, we will use complier-average causal effect analysis to
      estimate effects among patients who use the intervention compared to similar patients in the
      waitlist arm of the trial.
    
  