
    
      Turkish Music and Comedy Film Group Data Collection After the patient introduction form is
      filled, pain level, blood pressure, pulse and respiratory rate will be evaluated, saliva
      sample will be taken to determine the cortisol level and pre-test data will be collected (0
      min). Immediately after the pre-test evaluations, the music group will be played to the music
      desired by the patient for 30 minutes, and the comedy film group will be shown a comedy movie
      video. Immediately after the interventions, pain level, vital signs will be evaluated and
      saliva sample will be taken as a final test (30 minutes). The same procedures will be
      repeated in the 60th minute after the intervention to determine the duration of the
      interventions applied.

      Control group Data Collection After the patient introduction form is filled, pain level,
      blood pressure, pulse and respiratory rate will be evaluated, saliva sample will be taken to
      determine the cortisol level and pre-test data will be collected (0 min).

      Pain level and vital signs will be evaluated and saliva sample will be taken for the final
      test (30th minute) and follow-up (60th minute) simultaneously with the administration group
      without any intervention.

      Collection of Saliva Samples Salivary cortisol is free cortisol not bound to plasma proteins.
      Considering that the active cortisol is free cortisol, many studies have used the measurement
      of cortisol in saliva. In addition, salivary cortisol measurement is considered to be a
      reliable method for measuring stress, since it can be easily obtained, it does not cause
      stress because it is not invasive, and it shows strong correlation between plasma cortisol
      levels.

      The concentration of cortisol is at its maximum shortly after waking up in the morning,
      depending on the circadian rhythm. It then declines gradually throughout the day and reaches
      its lowest level at night. Salivary cortisol also matches the 24-hour rhythm of plasma
      cortisol.

      Saliva samples will be taken at least one hour after the patients wake up so that the
      circadian changes in cortisol do not affect the results. In order not to change the cortisol
      levels, the patients will be informed that they should not take orally, chew any substance
      such as chewing gum, brush teeth, gargle, or smoke one hour after breakfast. It is
      recommended to rinse the patient's mouth thoroughly with water for 30 seconds before saliva
      sampling.

      To collect saliva sample; Saliva collection tubes were prepared separately for all
      measurements. Colored labels were affixed on 1.5 ml eppendorf tubes prepared for each
      measurement of all groups.

      Red labels were affixed to the tube of the Turkish music group, green to the tube of the
      Konedi movie group, and white to the tube of the control group. Numbers given to the
      participant and the number of measurements (a = 0 minutes, b = 30 minutes, c = 60 minutes)
      were written on colored labels. In order to facilitate the salivation process, the
      participants will be given a hookah mouthpiece (sipsi). Saliva collection will be done using
      passive flow method.

      Saliva samples will be stored in the freezer at -20 ° C in the laboratory of the Faculty of
      Health Sciences, while preserving the cold chain.
    
  