
    
      Ap¬plications of CO2 insufflation for endoscopic procedures have been reported for the
      performance of routine colonoscopy, small bowel endoscopy, endoscopic retro¬grade
      cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) and endoscopic submucosal dissection in the upper and lower
      gastrointestinal tracts. These studies showed that CO2 insufflation reduces the
      post-procedural abdominal distension and pain without CO2 retention and adverse events.
      However, there has been no report on the safety and efficacy of CO2 insufflation in PEG
      procedures in adults or in children. In the present study, we would like to evaluate by
      randomized controlled trial: the safety of the CO2 insufflation during PEG and the
      inhibi¬tory effects of CO2 insufflation on bowel distension after PEG.

      The primary objective is to determine the safety of the CO2 insufflation during PEG. The
      secondary objective of this study is to investigate the inhibitory effect of CO2 insufflation
      on bowel distension.

      This is an investigator initiated multicentre, randomized, double blind study to evaluate the
      safety and adverse events profile of CO2 insufflation during PEG procedure. The study
      included a screening, pre-intervention (pre-PEG) and a post-intervention time (after-PEG),
      with total of 4 measurements of waist circumference, two measurements of i-stat.

      Children aged 0-19 years, who were admitted for PEG procedure and who meet all inclusion and
      none of the exclusion criteria listed below. A total of 120 children after PEG insertion will
      be included and divided in two groups: one step group and standard pull group of children;
      two established groups will be randomized 1:1.

      Inclusion criteria

        -  Male or female patients

        -  Age between 0 - 19 years

        -  Written informed consent Exclusion criteria

        -  Absolute contraindication for PEG procedure

        -  Patients with hypercapnia (pCO2 > 50 mmHg at first i-stat measurement)

        -  Language barriers which do not allow to give informed consent Patient data will be
           collected: age, gender, body mass index (BMI), underlining disease, duration of
           procedure, type of procedure, type of the scope, type of sedation or anaesthesia,
           complications.

      Due to study protocol capillary blood will be withdrawn twice. To conclude there are actually
      no additional risks for included children due to the study protocol. Moreover, we will be
      able to diagnose early the important pneumoperitoneum, if it will occur and start to treat it
      with effective pain killers.
    
  