
    
      Postoperative ileus (POI) is a frequent complication after abdominal surgery leading to
      nausea, vomiting and infectious complications. Bowel dysmotility can last for days and
      necessitates parenteral nutrition resulting in an prolonged hospital stay and a high economic
      burden.

      Until now there is no evidence based therapy of manifest POI. Instead, the quality of the
      existing clinical trials are just of low or moderate quality. The main reason for this is the
      lack of a valid surrogate marker to define the end of POI: Some trials used first flatus or
      first defecation as a marker for purposeful peristalsis and resolution of POI, others used
      the ability to consume solid food again or auscultation of bowel sounds. However it remains
      questionable whether these parameters are really able to demonstrate the severity or the end
      of POI.

      Therefore POI research needs a reliable, patient and investigator independent parameter that
      is able to determine resolution of POI to improve the quality of future clinical trials.

      A novel tool to examine gastrointestinal function is the SmartPill®. The capsule is able to
      measure pH value, temperature and intraluminal pressure after oral application, the data is
      sent to a transmitter located near the patient. Using those values, it is possible to analyse
      gastric emptying, length of small bowel, large bowel or whole gut passage and the smooth
      muscle contractility/peristalsis of the whole gastrointestinal tract. Therefore the
      SmartPill® would be an ideal, patient and investigator independent tool to investigate
      gastrointestinal function and transit time after visceral surgery.

      Unfortunately the use of the SmartPill® is not allowed in the first three months after
      abdominal surgery. Therefore a trial is needed to investigate the behaviour of the SmartPill®
      during its passage through the human gastrointestinal tract immediately after surgery.

      The primary endpoint is

      - to investigate the safety of the SmartPill® in patients after abdominal surgery.

      The secondary endpoints are:

        -  is the SmartPill® able to detect the gastrointestinal transit and the peristaltic
           activity followed by abdominal surgery compared with patients which underwent
           thoracic/vascular surgery.

        -  is it possible to correlate the measured parameters (delayed gastrointestinal transit,
           lack of peristalsis) with the clinical signs of POI (nausea, vomiting, prolonged
           duration until first postoperative defecation).

        -  is the detected peristaltic activity influenced by intravenous applicated prokinetic
           drugs

        -  is the detected peristaltic activity influenced by physiotherapy

      Using those endpoints the investigators hope to demonstrate the safety of the SmartPill®
      after abdominal surgery, to evaluate its ability to analyse severity and lenght of POI and to
      examine whether the used prokinetic drugs and postoperative mobilization are able to
      influence peristaltic activity.
    
  