
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if event-free survival (EFS) in patients with newly diagnosed metastatic
      Ewing sarcoma treated with multiagent chemotherapy is improved with the addition of ganitumab
      (AMG 479).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the toxicity of the addition of ganitumab to multimodality therapy for
      patients with newly diagnosed metastatic Ewing sarcoma.

      II. To compare overall survival in patients with newly diagnosed metastatic Ewing sarcoma
      treated with multiagent chemotherapy with and without the addition of ganitumab.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare bone marrow response rates in patients with newly diagnosed metastatic Ewing
      sarcoma treated with multiagent chemotherapy with and without the addition of ganitumab.

      II. To describe the toxicity of 6 months of ganitumab monotherapy as maintenance therapy
      following multimodality therapy in patients with newly diagnosed metastatic Ewing sarcoma.

      III. To describe trough levels of ganitumab in a cohort of patients with Ewing sarcoma < 21
      years of age treated with 18 mg/kg.

      IV. To describe the feasibility of and local failure rates following hypofractionated
      stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) directed at bone metastases in patients with newly
      diagnosed metastatic Ewing sarcoma.

      V. To determine if EFS, overall survival, bone marrow response rates, and toxicity differ
      based on serum markers of the insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) pathway in patients with
      newly diagnosed metastatic Ewing sarcoma treated with interval compressed chemotherapy with
      and without the addition of ganitumab.

      VI. To determine if EFS, overall survival, and bone marrow response rates differ based on
      protein, deoxyribose nucleic acid (DNA), and ribonucleic acid (RNA) marker in patients with
      newly diagnosed metastatic Ewing sarcoma treated with interval compressed chemotherapy with
      and without the addition of ganitumab.

      VII. To evaluate bone marrow micrometastatic disease and tumor cell surface IGF-1R expression
      at diagnosis and after 3 and 6 cycles of study therapy in patients with newly diagnosed
      metastatic Ewing sarcoma.

      VIII. To determine if the presence of germline polymorphisms in EGFR correlate with response
      to multiagent therapy with and without ganitumab.

      IX. To investigate the ability of fludeoxyglucose F 18-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET)
      to augment conventional response assessment of primary Ewing sarcoma tumors by magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI).

      X. To explore FDG-PET response at the primary tumor as a prognostic marker and as a
      predictive biomarker of clinical activity of IGF-1R inhibition in patients with newly
      diagnosed metastatic Ewing sarcoma.

      XI. To collect data on institutional testing for Ewing sarcoma breakpoint region 1 (EWSR1)
      translocation status in patients enrolling on study.

      XII. To explore the capacity of plasma cell-free DNA analysis to detect tumor-specific
      genetic changes at initial diagnosis and after initiation of protocol therapy.

      XIII. To collect a population of bone marrow metastatic tumor cells by flow cytometry for
      genomic profiling.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment regimens. (As of 3/20/2019, the study is
      closed to accrual and patients in Regimen B no longer receive ganitumab.)

      REGIMEN A (vincristine sulfate, doxorubicin hydrochloride and cyclophosphamide [VDC] and
      ifosfamide and etoposide phosphate [IE]):

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive vincristine sulfate intravenously (IV) over 1 minute on
      day 1, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 1-15 minutes on days 1 and 2, and cyclophosphamide
      IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1 of weeks 1, 5, and 9, and ifosfamide IV over 1 hour on days 1
      to 5 and etoposide phosphate IV over 1-2 hours on days 1 to 5 of weeks 3, 7, and 11.

      LOCAL CONTROL THERAPY: Between weeks 13-18, patients undergo surgery and/or radiation
      therapy.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients receive vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute on day 1 of
      weeks 1, 7, 9, and 13; doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 1-15 minutes on days 1 and 2 of
      weeks 1 and 7, cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1 of weeks 1, 7, 9, and 13,
      ifosfamide IV over 1 hour on days 1 to 5 of weeks 3, 5, 11, and 15, and etoposide phosphate
      IV over 1-2 hours on days 1 to 5 of weeks 3, 5, 11, and 15.

      METASTATIC SITE IRRADIATION: Patients with lung metastases undergo definitive SBRT or
      external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) over 5 days.

      REGIMEN B (VDC/IE + ganitumab):

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive Induction therapy as in Regimen A and receive ganitumab
      IV over 30-60 minutes or 60-120 minutes on day 1 of weeks 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, and 11.

      LOCAL CONTROL THERAPY: Between weeks 13-18, patients undergo surgery and/or radiation
      therapy.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients receive Consolidation therapy as in Regimen A.

      METASTATIC SITE IRRADIATION: Patients with lung metastases undergo definitive SBRT or EBRT
      over 5 days.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 10 years.
    
  