
    
      Background:

      Brain tumors are the most common solid neoplasm in childhood and the second most common group
      of pediatric cancers.

      Standard therapeutic options for brain tumors consist of surgical resection, radiation
      therapy and chemotherapy; yet overall survival rates for malignant brain tumors remain low.

      Radiation therapy plays a key role in the treatment of diffuse intrinsic pontine gliomas
      (DIPG) and high-grade gliomas (HGG), and thalidomide has been shown in an animal model to be
      a radiosensitizer.

      Lenalidomide, a thalidomide analog with antiangiogenic, cytotoxic and immunomodulatory
      effects, is being evaluated for the treatment of CNS tumors, and has shown tolerability and
      activity in pediatric studies.

      Objectives:

      To determine the tolerability and toxicity profile of oral lenalidomide when administered to
      children with newly diagnosed HGG and DIPG with concurrent radiation at doses up to 116
      mg/m(2)/day.

      To evaluate long-term tolerability of lenalidomide in children with newly-diagnosed HGG and
      DIPG.

      To evaluate magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) sequences for noninvasive monitoring of
      metabolic and biologic changes in malignant brain tumors with therapy.

      To estimate 6 month and 12 month progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in
      this patient population.

      To determine if angiogenic and/or immunomodulatory biomarkers in the blood and urine
      correlate with toxicity and disease response.

      To determine the rate of CNS metastatic disease in patients treated with antiangiogenic
      chemotherapy.

      To determine any correlation of steady state pharmacokinetics of lenalidomide with time to
      progression, number and type of toxicities, and dose limiting toxicities.

      Eligibility:

      Children with newly diagnosed HGG or DIPG, less than 22 years of age, no prior chemotherapy
      or radiation therapy, and performance score greater than or equal to 60%.

      Children with HGG must have an inoperable or incompletely resected tumor.

      Clinical laboratory tests must be within stated limits.

      Design:

      There will be two phases to therapy on this study, the Radiation Phase and the Maintenance
      Phase. The MTD will be determined by tolerability during the Radiation Phase.

      Eligible patients will receive radiation therapy five days per week to a prescription dose of
      54-59.4 Gy, with concurrent administration of lenalidomide daily in a standard Phase I dose
      escalation design.

      At the conclusion of radiation therapy, there will be a two week break followed by
      maintenance dosing of lenalidomide for 21 days of a 28 day course, until unacceptable
      toxicity, disease progression or completion of 24 courses of lenalidomide beyond radiotherapy
      (unless otherwise approved by PI).

      Using a multi-center, standard phase I dose escalation design, the total sample size

      and the study duration are expected to be 18 30 patients and 5-6 years, respectively
    
  