
    
      Randomized Clinical Trial:

      Participants in this study will be interviewed before and after they see the doctor for their
      first visit. They will be asked about their moods and the tests used to detect cervical
      cancer. They will also be asked about their symptom, how it is affecting their lives, and
      their satisfaction with their visit.

      Participants will be called approximately 2 weeks, 6 weeks, and 3 months after their
      appointments to answer questions about their health and quality of life, and the test and
      treatment they received. In addition, the participants will complete assessments at the 6,
      12, 18, and 24 month clinic visits. If participants do not return for these follow-up
      appointments, the research staff will attempt to contact the participants to do brief
      interview by phone.

      Research staff will also review participant's medical records and gather information on
      diagnosis, treatment plans and adherence.

      This is an investigational study. A total of 360 patients will take part in this multicenter
      study. About 180 participants at M. D. Anderson will take part in this study.

      Studies A and A Prime:

      Participants in this study will be interviewed before they see the doctor. They will be asked
      about their moods and the tests used to detect cervical cancer.

      During the medical tests, participants will rate their pain and how tense they are. Someone
      will watch them to see whether they are upset or in pain. After they see the doctor,
      participants will be interviewed again about their mood and how much they liked or did not
      like the test.

      Some participants will be interviewed about their opinion of the test at the appointment when
      they receive their test results. Some participants will complete the Sequelae of LEEP/biopsy
      and medication use questionnaire. Some participants will be called 7 to 14 days and/or three
      months after their appointments. Some participants may answer some of the questions on a
      computer as well as in an interview. They will be asked to answer questions about their moods
      and about getting tests to detect cervical cancer. A sample of the participants will be
      selected to have their results visit tape recorded and to answer a few questions about what
      the doctor told them.

      Participants may be contacted to participate in discussion groups about tests for cervical
      dysplasia. Participation in the discussion groups is voluntary. Research staff will also
      review participant's medical records and gather information on diagnosis, treatment plans and
      adherence.

      This is an investigational study. A total of 3980 patients will take part in this multicenter
      study. About 2400 participants at M. D. Anderson will take part in this study.
    
  