
    
      This is a cluster randomized design in which 31 high schools across Montreal, Canada will be
      randomly assigned to receive training and to deliver the program to two cohorts of Grade 7
      students or to be trained and assisted in delivering the program to future Grade 7 cohorts.
      Assessment of participating students will occur annually from September to May until the end
      of high school year. Students will be assessed on personality, substance use, mental health
      and cognitive measures.

      The program involves delivering specialized coping skills group workshops to students when
      they are in the 7th or 8th grade. About 45% of students in a given grade will be invited to
      participate in the workshops.

      The workshops will focus on motivating children to understand how their personality style
      leads to certain emotional and behavioural reactions. They will be guided in learning
      cognitive behavioural skills on how to channel their strengths towards their long-term goals.
      Four different workshops will be run, focusing either on managing impulsivity, sensation
      seeking, anxiety sensitivity or negative thinking.

      The students will first be asked to participate in a 45-60 minutes survey asking them about
      their personality, their strength and weaknesses, their risk-taking behaviour and their
      learning style.

      Then, if their school has been trained to deliver the program, they might be invited to
      participate in two 90-minute workshops, delivered at school during class time or lunch hour.
      All children who agree to participate in the study will be invited to complete the same
      survey in each subsequent academic year for the next four years.

      Primary outcomes:

        1. Short-term: delayed onset of alcohol and substance use (up to two years post
           intervention)

        2. Long-term: prevention of onset of substance use disorder (at 5th year follow-up).

      Secondary intermediate outcomes are neuropsychological functions, for which two hypotheses
      will be investigated regarding the possible effects of delaying early substance use:

        1. Global Effects Hypothesis: substance use and binge drinking will have global harmful
           effects on cognition and interventions that successfully prevent substance use onset
           will result in global improvements in cognitive function in participants who received
           the intervention relative to those randomized to control condition.

        2. Critical Developmental Period Hypothesis: the toxic effects of alcohol and drug use are
           developmentally specific, so effects of interventions will be observed on cognitive
           processes that are maturing in adolescence, namely, executive functions and reward
           sensitivity, after controlling for general intelligence quotient (IQ) and memory
           function following procedure described by Séguin, et al (2004).

      Secondary outcomes will be measures of poor mental health and functional cognitive measures
      such as academic achievement and school drop-out.
    
  