
    
      During the routine post-natal visit, trained research personnel will inform the mother of the
      infant or medical practitioner that a study in being carried out to better understand the
      knowledge, attitudes and practices of mothers and health care providers for neonatal
      jaundice. The investigators will then proceed to ask the mothers or health care professionals
      if they would be interested in filling out an anonymous survey that will assess their
      knowledge of neonatal jaundice and their practices, if any, in caring for this condition. No
      PHI will be included and no written consent will be obtained as the written consent would be
      the only link to the person participating in the survey. Verbal consent will be obtained and
      we will explain that their medical care and care of the children will in no way be affected
      by their answers to the survey. We will carefully explain that their participation in the
      survey is voluntary.

      For medical students, they will be informed that a study is being carried out to better
      understand the knowledge, attitudes and practices of medical trainees for neonatal jaundice.
      They will then be asked if they would be interested in filling out an anonymous survey that
      assess their knowledge of neonatal jaundice, and their practices, if any, in caring for this
      condition. No PHI will be included and no written consent will be obtained, as the written
      consent would be the only link to the person participating in the survey. Verbal consent will
      be obtained and we will explain that their academic standing will not be affected by their
      answers to the survey. We will carefully explain that their participation in the survey is
      voluntary.

      All surveys will contain the names and contact information of the investigators.

      The survey will be administered under the direction of the researchers by the researchers
      and/or their trained research team.
    
  