
    
      With the ageing of the United Kingdom population, it is crucial that evidence on optimal
      healthcare is effectively translated into improved clinical practice to both maximise the
      health and independence of older people as well as contain costs. Comprehensive Geriatric
      Assessment (CGA) is a multidimensional, interdisciplinary process used to identify and
      address the complex healthcare needs of older people. Evidence of its effectiveness has been
      confirmed in a number of systematic reviews and meta-analyses and beneficial outcomes
      reported include improved function and independence. However its implementation across
      healthcare settings remains variable. This study aims to establish the feasibility,
      acceptability and cost of implementing a Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment Clinic in a
      single primary care practice.

      The Fit for Later Life Project describes the implementation of a Comprehensive Geriatric
      Assessment Clinic in primary care for older people who referred by their General Practitioner
      (GP). We will utilise a mixed-methods design including Normalisation Process Theory (NPT), a
      sociological toolkit designed to explore how different stakeholders engage with the
      real-world process of translating evidence into practice. Interviews and focus groups will be
      used to collect data from patients, carers and health professionals on coherence, cognitive
      participation, collective action, and reflexive monitoring. These data will be thematically
      analysed to identify barriers, strengths and weaknesses for the implementation of a
      Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment Clinic in primary care. A clinical audit of the records of
      older people who are service users at the participating practice will be conducted and an
      assessment will be made of the costs of the clinic. Together these data will provide
      implementation guidelines describing the feasibility and acceptability of a United Kingdom
      primary care Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment clinic.

      The planned outcome is guidelines for the implementation of a Comprehensive Geriatric
      Assessment Clinic in United Kingdom primary care. The barriers and facilitators that affect
      starting and running the service will be described as will the patients who could potentially
      attend and those who actually attend. The costs will also be determined.

      This research is funded by the National Institute for Health Research Collaboration for
      Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care (NIHR CLAHRC) Wessex.
    
  