
    
      Blood pressure monitoring displays a crucial part of anesthetic management. An intraoperative
      hypotension (IOH) is an unwanted complication that can occur during an anaesthetization or
      during the following duration of the surgery. Causes for this can be vasodilatation (e.g. due
      to medication), loss of blood volume (e.g. bleeding) or lack of inotropy (reduced left
      ventricular function, e.g. due to medication).

      The main high-risk factors for intraoperative hypotension are age of the patient,
      pre-existing diseases (especially ASA 3 and higher), the duration of surgery, the urgency of
      the surgery (emergency surgery), antihypertensive long-term medication as well as combined
      anaesthesia (regional and general anaesthesia).

      According to the examined collective, the definition of IOH and the level of training of the
      performing doctor we can monitor IOH in up to 100% of patients (depending on the data
      collection). Monk et al. show that the one-year mortality of patients undergoing surgery was
      elevated to 3.6% for every minute the systolic pressure was less than 80mmHg. Also, the risk
      of mortality was 1.4 higher if the MAP decreased <55mmHg. The consequence of IOH can be a
      critical reduction of the oxygen supply in the organs. Therefore, organs with low tolerance
      for hypoxia or a high necessity for oxygen are prone to hypotension induced complications.
      Those include ischemic stroke or myocardial ischemia (especially in patients with preexisting
      anemia), mostly happening to older or critical ill patients.

      The extensive surgeries in ENT- and OM surgery are usually due to tumor diseases. The
      incidence for hypopharynx carcinoma is between 2-3/10.000 cases each year with an increasing
      tendency. The peak of this disease is in the 5.-6. decade of life. Causes for this are
      chronic noxas like alcohol and cigarettes. Numbers show, that the percentage of malignant
      tumors in the oral cavity and the pharynx in Germany in 2012 were at 3.7% with men and 1.6%
      with women in the entirety of incidence of malignant tumors. Especially these tumors require
      a radical resection also in the initial state of the disease which comes along with a long
      duration of surgery. The operative interventions include a radical resection of the tumor,
      neck dissection and if necessary a skin flap depending on the state of the tumor, TNM
      classification and status of lymph nodes. Complications that can occur with these types of
      surgery are (secondary) bleeding, stenosis, dyspnea, oedema of the mucosa, subcutaneous
      emphysema, dysphagia and aspiration. Because of the surgical treatment these patients require
      a postoperative sedation and ventilation. This enables the protection of the respiratory
      system when patients are at high risk for intra- or postoperative secondary bleeding and/or
      swelling. Also, the sedation will help not to imperil the success of the intervention (e.g.
      through coughing, pressure or choking).

      The Hypotension Prediction Index (HPI) was developed by Edwards Lifescience (Irvine,
      California, USA) and is certified in the US and Europe. As part of the Edwards Acumen
      Decision Support software suite, the HPI is based on the minimal invasive FloTrac IQ sensor.
      The HPI indicates the probability of an occurring hypotensive event. The software was
      developed using 20,000 cases of past patient events. If the upper limit of hypotension is
      reached, the software will alert the responsible physician.

      The main outcome criteria are the numbers (n) and duration in minutes (t [min]) of
      intraoperative and postoperative hypotension. These are defined as MAP below 65 mmHg for more
      than one minute in ventilated patients with and without the use of HPI.

      The secondary objective criteria are the following:

        -  Assumed reason for hypotension

        -  Amount of applied infusion volume (crystalloids, colloids, blood products and blood)

        -  Type and dose of applied vasopressors

        -  Type and dose of applied inotropic agents

        -  Acute Kidney Injury Risk Score
    
  