
    
      Pain after knee surgery is reported as severe for 60% of patients, and is a major concern in
      both hospitalised and ambulatory surgery patients. Pain control is particularly important, as
      adequate analgesia allows rapid mobilisation of the operated knee and prevents complications
      related to immobility. Several methods have been proposed to treat this pain, the most
      promising being injection of local anesthetic close to the femoral nerve. The injection of
      local anesthetics around the femoral nerve reduces sensation from the knee and provides
      better pain relief after surgery than narcotic medication. To prolong the duration of the
      analgesia, a small catheter must be positioned next to the nerve. Through this catheter,
      small quantities of local anesthetics can be continuously delivered for several hours after
      surgery, effectively relieving the worst of the pain.

      To date, the administration of local anesthetics through a catheter next to the femoral nerve
      has been shown to improve pain relief after knee replacement surgery. These pain relief
      benefits have resulted in faster recovery after total knee replacement. Until recently,
      catheter techniques were not frequently used due to technical difficulties encountered when
      attempting to find the femoral nerve, as well as difficulties related to catheter
      displacement after surgery. Due to recent improvements in nerve and catheter localisation,
      catheter installation has become easier, more precise and more reliable. However, the
      distance at which the catheter must be advanced next to the femoral nerve in order to provide
      the best pain relief remains unknown. Insertion distance could influence the initial quality
      and distribution of the freezing, its duration, or both. Therefore, this study is designed to
      compare two catheter insertion distances, in order to help determine which is best for pain
      relief after knee surgery.

      Patients will be randomly assigned to the following groups:

        -  Group 1: 3 cm insertion

        -  Group 2: 7 cm insertion

      The anesthesiologist will insert a catheter close to the femoral nerve, at the junction of
      the thigh and torso immediately before beginning of anesthesia for surgery. The usual
      medication will be used to make installation more comfortable. The exact location where the
      catheter will be put into place will be identified using an ultrasound machine. This device
      will allow the anesthesiologist to identify the various anatomical structures. A specially
      designed needle will be inserted next to the femoral nerve, and its position will be
      confirmed with a neurostimulator. Once the adequacy of needle position is confirmed, the
      anesthesiologist will introduce 3 cm(Group 1) or 7 cm (Group 2)of the catheter through the
      needle, and then will withdraw the needle. The catheter will be fixed in place to avoid
      displacement.

      Patients will receive standard regional or general anesthesia for this type of surgery.

      After surgery, pain will be assessed using a verbal numeric pain scale. A Patient Controlled
      Analgesia pump will be provided to the patients. In addition, all patients will receive local
      anesthetics through their femoral catheter for at least 24 hours after surgery, which will
      partially freeze the knee.

      Patients will be asked to fill out a pain intensity measurement form using a 0-10 pain scale
      at 3, 6 and 24 hours after surgery.
    
  