
    
      Generalized aggressive Periodontitis (GAgP) is a multifactorial, destructive, inflammatory
      and complex disease. The progression of the disease is undercontrol of immunologic,
      microbiologic, environmental and genetic factors. The immunologic and genetic factors are not
      clearly defined yet.

      Chronic periodontitis (CP) is an infectious disease resulting within the supporting tissues
      of the teeth. It is commonly detected in adults. CP is initiated and sustained by bacterial
      plaque.

      Both AgP and CP are inflammatory diseases. Little is known about molecular changes and
      signaling cascade of host response. Inflammatory diseases are undercontrol of genetic and
      environmental factors. Transcription factors are gene-specific factors that are often
      considered to act as a link connecting genetic and environmental factors.

      This research is a continuation project. In the previous 2 studies which were conducted and
      published with the support of TÜBİTAK 1001 and KOU BAP, it was found 2 gene regions thought
      to have an effect on GAgP and KP pathogenesis by genomics, proteomics and immunohistochemical
      methods; MZB1 and ECH1. The aim of this study is to confirm these gene regions by gene
      expression analysis, mutation analysis and polymorphism studies.

      In the literature, there was no study on the genome analysis, protein activity and
      immunohistochemical examination of these genes in the CP and GAgP. There was no study that
      evaluated the expression, mutation and polymorphism studies.

      The first 2 steps of the study were completed with the support provided by Kocaeli University
      Scientific Research Project Unit [119.500,00 TL (KOU BAP 2013/5)] and TUBITAK [(TÜBİTAK 1001
      214S008, 261.500,00 TL)].

      The aim of this study is to investigate the gene regions that are thought to play a role in
      the pathogenesis of GAgP and CP, and to interpret new and reliable pathognomonic-prognostic
      markers in the diagnosis and treatment of these diseases with the help of expression and
      mutation analyzes and polymorphism studies. Gene sites identified and clinically relevant in
      this study will serve as the basis for another study in which these genes are aimed at
      silencing.,,,

      This research is a continuation project. In the previous 2 studies which were conducted and
      published with the support of TÜBİTAK 1001 and KOU BAP, it was found 2 gene regions that
      concluded which may have an effect on GAgP and KP pathogenesis by genomics, proteomics and
      immunohistochemical methods; MZB1 and ECH1. The aim of this study is to confirm these gene
      regions by gene expression analysis, mutation analysis and polymorphism studies.
    
  