
    
      Background:

      Current algorithms for assessment of the severity of brain injury include Glasgow Coma Scale
      score and other measures. These measures are adequate for relating acute severity but are
      insufficiently sensitive for subtle pathology which can result in persistent deficit. The
      Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) and other measures also do not enable differentiation among types of
      injury. Thus patients grouped into a single GCS level entering a clinical trial may have
      vastly heterogeneous severity and type of injury. Because outcomes also vary accordingly,
      inappropriate classification undermines the integrity of a clinical trial. Improved
      classification of injury will enable more precise delineation of disease severity and type
      for patients with a traumatic brain injury (TBI) in clinical trials.

      Additionally, current brain injury trials rely on outcome measures such as Glasgow Outcome
      Scale Extended, which capture global phenomena but fail to assess for subtle differences in
      outcome. Thus, many recent trials for brain injury therapeutics have failed. Sensitive
      outcome measures are needed to determine how well patients have recovered from brain injury
      in order to test therapeutics and prophylactics.

      Overview of Methods:

      All trauma patients that span the full spectrum ranging from non-brain injured, to
      CT-negative, to structurally brain injured, requiring surgery will be included in this study.
      A total of 1000 patients and 200 controls will be recruited over approximately 2 years.

      The study has been approved by the Institutional Review Board (IRB), enabling a waiver of
      consent for all trauma patients until it becomes appropriate to obtain consent. The trauma
      patients will be screened upon admission, and potentially during the period of waived
      consent, for participation in the study (target N for screening = 16,000 per year). The
      screening process will include:

        1. A standardized history and physical examination done as a part of the standard of care.

        2. A standardized assessment to be done by research personnel.

        3. Eye tracking.

        4. Analysis of serum biomarkers at three time points within the first 24 hours.

        5. MRI scans for a subset of patients within one week of their injury.

        6. CT scans as clinically indicated.

        7. Pathologic specimen as clinically indicated.

        8. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis in patients that receive a ventriculostomy catheter.

        9. Brain tissue oxygenation analysis in patients receiving Licox.

      The screening process that takes place, potentially during the period of waived consent, will
      allow for patients to be stratified into the following groups with the associated targeted
      sample sizes over two years:

        1. Isolated TBI (N=400)

        2. Combined TBI and Body Trauma (N=400)

        3. Isolated Body Trauma (N=200)

        4. Healthy, Uninjured Controls (N=200)

      Upon discharge, patients will be recruited to enroll in a long-term follow-up assessment.
      They will be seen in the hospital at the following time points post-injury: 2 weeks, 4 weeks,
      3 months, 6 months, and 1 year. At these follow-up visits, participants will be asked to
      undergo various assessments depending on the follow-up visit, including:

        1. Eye Tracking.

        2. Blood draw for blood-based biomarker analysis.

        3. MRI scan if they had one within one week post-injury.

        4. CT scan if they had one at admission.

        5. Cognitive, Neurologic, and Quality of Life Assessments

      Data Analysis:

      Patient outcomes, measured with sensitive outcome measures, will be linked to acute research
      findings in order to create a classification scheme for brain injury that is based on
      objective measures and can accurately predict prognosis.
    
  