
    
      ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR OCTOBER 2015 THROUGH DECEMBER 2015

        1. October 2015: The Barbra Streisand Women's Heart Center (BSWHC) research team will work
           closely with the Preventive Cardiovascular Nurses Association (PCNA), Los Angeles (LA)
           Chapter as well as the community partners will develop a detailed, comprehensive
           screening, education, referral and ASCVD tool kit. The tool kit will include a basic
           demographic screening questionnaire, smart-phone ASCVD risk calculator software,
           cholestech finger stick supplies, blood pressure equipment, Heart Truth program
           materials, and Red dress pins. Educational materials developed by all partners for each
           community highlighting Heart Truth branding will be included. A list and specific
           contacts for proximate California Affordable Care Act (ACA) Community Medical Homes will
           be included.

        2. October 2015: 2 women heart disease patient volunteers from Central and/or East Los
           Angeles will travel to the Mayo Clinic through the WomenHeart Program for public
           speaking and peer group leadership training.

        3. November 2015: The 88th Street Temple Church in central Los Angeles will help develop a
           detailed screening tool kit with training, educational materials and collaboration with
           Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (CSMC) staff to perform 100 ASCVD risk assessments after
           church services.

        4. DECEMBER 2015: The Hadassah Zionist Women's Group, Los Angeles Chapter will host a mall
           walking event targeting Orthodox Jewish women for screening. They will help develop a
           detailed screening tool kit with training, educational materials and collaboration by
           CSMC staff to perform 100 ASCVD risk assessments.

      ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR JANUARY 2016 THROUGH MAY 2016

        1. February 2016: The CSMC Heart Truth, Wear Red Day Event: Our 2015 Heart Truth/Wear Red
           Day event had over 600 attendees and screened 200 women CSMC employees. If funded, the
           2016 program will be open to the public.

        2. February 2016: Beauty Shop Screenings. 3 local nursing organization chapters (Hispanic
           Nurses Society Los Angeles Chapter, Black Nurses Society LA Chapter, and Philippine
           Nurses Association of Southern California) will individually host a screening day in a
           community hair salon for at least 100 women at each site. This project is modeled after
           the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI)-sponsored Cedars-Sinai (CS)
           Barber-1 project which demonstrated blood pressure reduction in African American men
           using their barber as health educator. Each organization will receive a screening tool
           kit with training, educational materials and collaboration with CSMC staff.

        3. May 2016: CSMC Telemundo Community Outreach Program. Nearly 1,500 Latino women were
           screened last year at the CSMC Telemundo event. The investigators will utilize the
           screening tool kit with intensive training, educational materials and close
           collaboration with CSMC staff. The theme of the 2016 event will be The Heart Truth: for
           women by women.

        4. May 2016: Mother's Day Dinner and Health Fair at Jordan Downs Housing Development. CSMC
           Coach for Kids will host an annual Mother's Day Dinner for approximately 200 women at
           the Jordan Downs (public) Housing Development in Central Los Angeles. The community is
           low-income with approximately 50% African American and 50% Latino ethnicity. A health
           lecture (presented in both English and Spanish) and a health fair will utilize the
           detailed screening tool kit with Heart Truth materials.
    
  