
    
      Retinopathy of Prematurity (ROP) is a leading cause of blindness in children in developed
      countries around the world, and an increasing cause of blindness in developing countries. The
      retina lines the inside of the eye. It functions as "film" within the camera which is the
      eye. When an infant is born prematurely, the vascular network necessary to nourish the retina
      has not fully developed. As a consequence, in some infants abnormal vessels proliferate
      instead of the normal ones - a condition known as ROP. The abnormal vessels carry scar tissue
      along with them, and may lead to retinal detachment and blindness if the eye is not treated.
      The Multicenter Trial of Cryotherapy for Retinopathy of Prematurity (CRYO-ROP) Study
      demonstrated that ablation of the peripheral avascular retina reduced the risk of poor
      structural and visual outcome due to retinal distortion or detachment in ROP (1980's). The
      ablated retina is not functional and is not amenable to regeneration. Peripheral retinal
      ablation is not universally effective in fostering regression of ROP. This is particularly
      true for an aggressive form of ROP (aggressive posterior ROP, or APROP) which typically
      afflicts profoundly premature and infirm neonates. In this subset of infants, progression of
      ROP to bilateral retinal detachment and blindness occurs despite timely and complete
      peripheral retinal laser ablation.

      The development of ROP is largely dependent on vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF).
      When an infant is born prematurely the relatively hyperoxic environment the baby is
      introduced to shuts down the production of VEGF. Retinal maturation is delayed. Subsequently,
      at a time when intraocular VEGF levels would normally be declining late in the third
      trimester of pregnancy, abnormally high levels of VEGF are seen due to large areas of
      avascular retina and associated tissue hypoxia. The availability of FDA-approved drugs for
      anti-VEGF treatment renders it possible to treat such eyes off-label. Available drugs include
      pegaptanib sodium (Macugen) for partial blockage of VEGF-A, or drugs such as ranibizumab
      (Lucentis) and bevacizumab (Avastin), which cause complete blockage of VEGF-A. As VEGF is
      required in the developing retina for normal angiogenesis, our goal is not to penetrate
      tissue, but to block the excessive levels of VEGF trapped within the overlying vitreous which
      is responsible for the abnormal vasculature in ROP.

      For purposes of this study we have chosen bevacizumab (Avastin), which will: a) attain
      complete blockage (vs. Macugen) of intravitreal VEGF-A, and; b) which is limited in its
      ability to penetrate tissues because it is a full antibody (vs. Lucentis, an antibody
      fragment specifically designed for better tissue penetration), and is more likely to restore
      VEGF homeostasis within the developing retina.

      There is a nearly identical multi-site trial (NCT00702819) currently recruiting, which
      Childrens Hospital Los Angeles is a part of. However, that study has limiting enrollment
      criteria; this compassionate-use study was created to provide access to bevacizumab (Avastin)
      for high-risk infants who do not qualify for study NCT00702819.
    
  