
    
      Rationale: Two Food and Drug Administration drugs approved for blood cancers such as
      non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) include fludarabine (Fludara) and cladribine (Leustat). The drug
      offered in the current study, clofarabine was designed to combine the anti-cancer strength of
      both fludarabine and cladribine. Laboratory research suggests that clofarabine targets
      anti-cancer mechanisms in cells, helps repair DNA, and inhibits tumor growth. Research also
      indicates that clofarabine has some efficacy against a variety of blood cancers and solid
      tumors. Numerous tumor responses have been observed with high doses of clofarabine in heavily
      pretreated patients with different types of lymphoma. The current study build on this
      previous research to test clofarabine in patients with aggressive NHL.

      Purpose: This study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of clofarabine for aggressive NHL.
      Toxicities resulting from the combination of clofarabine and the supportive care drug GM-CSF
      will also be analyzed in patients. GM-CSF is a blood-forming agent that stimulates the
      production of white blood cells. In addition, several tests, including blood and tumor tissue
      analysis, will assess immune response and biological changes to the tumor as a result of
      study drugs.

      Treatment: Patients in this study will be given clofarabine through intravenous infusions.
      This drug will initially be provided to patients for five consecutive days. Several tests
      will then be conducted and supportive care agents will be administered to stabilize patients'
      blood cell counts, immune response, and reduce the risk of infection. The first ten patients
      in this study will be hospitalized until recovery from the first five days of clofarabine to
      carefully monitor any additional toxicities resulting from the dosing regimen. Patients will
      receive another five day treatment cycle with clofarabine within seven days after recovering
      from each previous cycle and no more than four weeks from the start of the previous cycle.
      Disease response will be measured after every two cycles of treatment with clofarabine.
      Patient with stable or reduced disease will receive a maximum of six treatment cycles with
      clofarabine. Treatments will be discontinued due to disease growth, unacceptable side
      effects, or a treatment delay of more than 21 days.
    
  