
    
      Each patient will complete a clinical consultation followed by admission to the HELIOS Klinik
      Hagen-Ambrock facility to undergo routine assessment, diagnosis and CPAP titration (if
      necessary) of OSA. This will be performed according to the routine clinical care procedures
      and protocols of the site. The eligibility of each participant will be established during
      these routine clinical care nights. After night 2 eligible participants will be offered
      participation in the investigation.

      Phase One:

      Night 1 (Routine Clinical Care) Participants will attend the HELIOS Klinik Hagen-Ambrock
      sleep lab to undergo a comprehensive overnight diagnostic PSG, in order to establish the
      existence and severity of OSA. If the participant has

        1. a positive diagnosis of OSA with an AHI > 15 events/hr and

        2. ≥ 90% of all events are Hypopneas they will be eligible to progress to Night 3. Night 2
           (Routine Clinical Care) Participants will attend the HELIOS Klinik Hagen-Ambrock sleep
           lab to undergo a standard CPAP titration, in order to determine their therapeutic CPAP
           pressure. At this stage, if the participant is eligible, they will be offered
           participation in the investigation. If potential participants are ineligible or
           unwilling to participate, they will continue along the routine clinical care path.

      Night 3 (Flow Titration) Consented participants will attend the HELIOS Klinik Hagen-Ambrock
      sleep lab to undergo a comprehensive split-night respiratory PSG.

      Each participant will be randomized to one of 20 L/min or 35 L/min of HF-CPAP for the first
      half of the night. A minimum of three hours on this flow must be recorded on the PSG before
      participants can be swapped to the alternate flow. Three hours on the alternate flow is also
      required for this half of the night to be deemed successful.

      Responder/Non-responder Determination At the completion of night 3 participants will be
      categorized as responders or non-responders.

      Only responders will continue to Phase 2 of the investigation. A responder is someone who;

        1. Achieves a > 50% reduction in AHI and

        2. Achieves an RDI < 10 events/hr. Investigation Break Before responders progress to Phase
           Two participants will be sent home for 1 week. During this time they will be instructed
           to undertake CPAP treatment. Their CPAP device will be set to their therapeutic pressure
           which was determined on Night 2.

      Phase Two:

      Night 4 (HF-CPAP compared with CPAP) Participants will attend the HELIOS Klinik Hagen-Ambrock
      sleep lab to undergo a comprehensive overnight respiratory PSG.

      Each participant will be randomized to OpenCPAP at a flow rate of 35 L/min or to conventional
      CPAP at their therapeutic pressure. They will spend the entire night on this treatment arm.

      Night 5 (HF-CPAP compared with CPAP) Participants will attend the HELIOS Klinik Hagen-Ambrock
      sleep lab to undergo a comprehensive overnight respiratory PSG.

      Participants will be swapped to the alternative treatment arm, either HF-CPAP at a flow rate
      of 35 L/min or to conventional CPAP at their therapeutic pressure. They will spend the entire
      night on this treatment. In the morning at completion of the PSG, participants will be asked
      which treatment Night (4 or 5) they preferred.
    
  