
    
      Treatment:

      Treatment with the anti-CTLA-4 mAb Ipilimumab monotherapy of each patient in the scope of
      this trial is defined as induction plus re-induction of eligible patients until 12 months
      after first receipt of study medication

      Induction phase:

      Ipilimumab will be applied to melanoma patients according to the protocol of the completed
      Medarex study MDX-010-20: Ipilimumab by IV infusion, 3 mg/kg, day 1 (Week 1), 22 (Week 4), 43
      (Week 7), 64 (Week 10)

      Re-induction:

      Patients who progress following stable disease of ≥ 3 months duration starting from diagnosis
      at week 12 tumor assessment or patients who have progressed following an initial response
      (partial or complete) assessed at week 12 may be offered additional cycles of therapy with
      the originally assigned treatment regimen until off-treatment criteria are met, provided they
      meet re-treatment eligibility requirements. No patient will be re-treated if they experience
      a Grade 3 or higher gastrointestinal or certain other immune-related adverse events (irAE)
      (refer to section 5.2 and 5.3). No patient with disease progression following the first cycle
      of study medication will be permitted to be re-treated with study medication.

      Examinations:

      The disease will be assessed at baseline, after 12 weeks and for patients with stable disease
      or better responses, thereafter every 12 weeks in the absence of PD with a maximum of one
      year. Response evaluation will be done according to immune-related response criteria (Wolchok
      et al., CCR 2009).

      All patients who prematurely discontinued treatment due to a drug-related adverse event prior
      to Week 12 (in the absence of disease progression) will return for all study visits and
      procedures including Week 12 and, if appropriate, further re-staging assessments. Any patient
      with documented progression at any scheduled re-staging visit and who will not receive any
      re-induction will undergo no further re-staging visits.

      Follow-up phase:

      Survival will be assessed every 3 months after the final dose of Ipilimumab until the end of
      the follow-up phase for the individual patient. FU phase for each subject is 1 year following
      first treatment dose. End of study will be at recruitment finished plus 1 year post start of
      treatment of last patient thus ensuring that 1 year survival rate can be estimated.

      Study duration:

      End of study is 1 year post LPFV. Recruiting period for the ocular melanoma:

      Period of recruiting 12-18 months Enrolment start date (FPI): QIII 2011 Enrolment finish date
      (LPI): QI 2013 End of study: QI 2014
    
  