
    
      Hypothesis PillCam Esophagus is effective in identifying genuine UGIB and hence able to
      reduce hospital admission due to unsubstantiated UGIB cases

      Methodology

        -  Patients presented to the Accident & Emergency Department (A&ED) of the Prince of Wales
           Hospital Hong Kong with symptoms suggestive of UGIB will be recruited into this study

        -  Patients will receive the following tests

             -  Complete blood count

             -  Coagulation profile

             -  Renal and liver function tests

             -  Hourly BP, Pulse up to 6 hours

             -  Glasgow Blatchford score calculated on admission

        -  Randomization

             -  Capsule Group: Capsule Endoscopy (CE) by using PillCam Esophagus (PillCam ESO) OR

             -  Standard group: Hospitalization and Standard of Care

        -  The video in capsule endoscopy will be read by trained personnel who have undergone at
           least one hour lecture about realtime reviewing.

        -  Legally a patient has to be signed off by a clinician within 6 hours. The finding of
           fresh blood or coffee ground will be documented. Upper GI pathology that may lead to
           bleeding will also be recorded.

      Capsule Endoscopy (CE) After confirming patient has been fasted for at least 5 hours, the
      subject ingested the PillCam® ESO 2 (Given Imaging Ltd., Yoqneam, Israel) (PillCam ESO) using
      the Simplified Ingestion Procedure.

      Thirty to sixty minutes prior to capsule ingestion, each subject received a single dose of
      intravenous Maxolon 10mg. Intravenous Maxolon, through its motilin receptor agonist effect,
      has been shown to promote gastric motility and improve visualization of the gastric mucosa at
      endoscopy. Moreover, use of Maxolon was thought to facilitate the capsule entering the
      duodenum.

      Using the REAL time viewer, UGI tract images (esophagus to the second portion of the
      duodenum) were obtained in real time at the patient's bedside. The video images that are
      transmitted by the PillCam ESO 2 are displayed in real time on the tablet computer screen.

      Each subject is also fitted with and wore the standard CE sensor array and data recorder so
      that a full-length CE video recording can be obtained for subsequent capsule workstation
      downloading and complete review.

      Other demographic data and parameters for Blatchford score calculation will be collected. 10
      ml of blood will be taken for routine blood checking. Patients will receive standard care
      according to EGD findings.
    
  