
    
      Heart failure (HF) management and readmissions remain at the top of the list of complex
      topics in cardiovascular medicine in the United States. Current system-wide programs to curb
      HF-related hospital readmissions have shown inconsistent results. However, outpatient
      transitional care supportive programs have been linked to improved HF-related outcomes,
      including reduced hospital readmissions, in small studies. Small studies also indicate that
      remote transfer of non-invasive data through telemonitoring (e.g., blood pressure and weight)
      and structured telephone support may reduce hospital readmissions in a cost-effective manner.
      The present pandemic has placed significant strains on the link between clinicians and
      patients highlighting the need for rapid innovation for virtual care.

      This study involves the AMAZE™ DMP, developed by AstraZeneca, to provide a unified experience
      for the management of HF patients throughout their patient care journey. The platform will
      integrate multiple systems, including a smartphone-based application where patients can enter
      daily mood, symptoms, weight measures, and vital signs such as blood pressure (BP) and
      medication adherence. This input will feed directly to a clinician facing dashboard embedded
      within the electronic medical record that will allow the clinical care team to access
      real-time views of patients' states both in and out of clinic.

      Patients will be identified via an automated electronic medical record (EMR)-based,
      computer-based algorithm and eligibility will be manually verified. Participants will be
      enrolled in the study following an inpatient HF admission at Massachusetts General Hospital
      (MGH).

      Clinical providers and study staff will be able to view and monitor the subjects' AMAZE™
      smartphone application entries within the electronic medical record via the AMAZE™ provider
      dashboard. The AMAZE™ secure messaging function will be used for study and clinical
      communications between the patient, study staff and clinical care team to facilitate
      outpatient HF management. The AMAZE™ smartphone application (app) will indirectly assess the
      patient's quality of life (Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire - KCCQ), as well as
      patient satisfaction with the app (mHealth App Usability Questionnaire - MAUQ). For
      clinicians, the MAUQ will measure provider satisfaction with the AMAZE™ dashboard.

      Baseline demographics and study outcomes will be assessed via direct patient survey by study
      staff at pre-specified time points (enrollment, 30-days post enrollment, 60-days post
      enrollment). Outcomes will include medication changes, hospitalizations, emergency department
      presentations, urgent care visits, primary care or cardiology office visits and cardiac
      rehabilitation enrollment. Medical history, including labs, procedures, and diagnoses will be
      collected from the electronic medical record and recorded in REDCap. The AMAZE™ app will
      track medication adherence, daily symptom(s) log, blood pressure, weight, heart rate and
      activity when entered by participants into a daily log. Participants will be asked and
      encouraged to enter information into the smartphone-based app daily by study staff.

      The primary goal of the present proposal will be to generate evidence on the feasibility and
      perceived value of the AMAZE™ platform implemented in clinical practice. The outcomes will be
      measured using conversion rate (study enrollment rate among total number of eligible
      patients) and utilization rate (percentage of days participants engaged with the AMAZE™ app
      during the 60-day study period). This study is a first necessary step before testing efficacy
      in a large multi-center study.
    
  