
    
      Research hypothesis The lung and diaphragm ultrasound findings provided to the
      physiotherapist will modify his/her clinical decision-making in regards to chest
      physiotherapy treatment in the critical care patient.

      Objectives Principal objective The principal objective of this study is to evaluate the
      impact of using the results of lung and diaphragm US on clinical decisions by
      physiotherapists regarding chest physiotherapy in patients hospitalized in an ICU.

      Secondary objectives

        1. Determine the accuracy of physiotherapist diagnosis of lung pathology using routine
           clinical assessment versus LUS findings;

        2. Determine the frequency of change in chest physiotherapy treatment with the addition of
           LUS results to clinical assessment;

        3. Determine the frequency of change in medical treatment (determined by intensivist)
           following the addition of LUS results to clinical assessment findings.

        4. Evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of LUS in predicting duration of mechanical ventilation
           and mortality.

      Methodology:

      Type of study This is a multi-centre prospective (patients enrolled on admission)
      interventional study evaluating a routine assessment/treatment. The study intends to assess
      the impact of lung and diaphragm ultrasound on the usual physiotherapist's clinical
      decision-making process. Each included patient will be clinically assessed by a clinical
      physiotherapist, and then will have a lung and diaphragm ultrasound by another
      physiotherapist/operator blinded to the clinical assessment findings. The lung and diaphragm
      ultrasound findings will then be presented to both the intensivist and clinical
      physiotherapist to evaluate the impact on the independent clinical decision-making by both
      the intensivist and physiotherapist.

      Data collections

      The following data will be collected:

        -  Demographic: age, sex, BMI, smoking, alcohol consumption, history of cirrhosis, diabetes
           or a chronic respiratory disease, heart failure;

        -  Reason for hospitalization, medical diagnosis if different;

        -  Treatments: hypnotics, opiates, steroids and anti-hypertensives, oxygen therapy,
           mechanical ventilation, NIV, tracheotomy;

        -  Duration of mechanical ventilation

        -  Duration of ICU stay

        -  Vital signs: RR, HR, PA, SpO2, RASS, Glasgow;

        -  Clinical hypotheses of the clinical physiotherapist;

        -  LUS findings;

        -  Choice of chest physiotherapy protocol (before and after ultrasonography).

      Nature of the routine care to be evaluated Procedure 1: Decision-making process in chest
      physiotherapy The clinical physiotherapist is the physiotherapist who manages patients in the
      CCU.

      As soon as chest physiotherapy is prescribed, the physiotherapist carries out a clinical
      examination and analyses the complementary tests (chest X-ray, chest CT-scan and blood gasses
      if available). He/she also consults the patient's medical record to find out the reason for
      admission to the CCU and the medical diagnosis if the critical care physician has made one.
      Following the examination, he/she will put forward one or several hypotheses concerning the
      respiratory deficiency (and not the disease - medical diagnosis) and will confirm or not the
      indication for chest physiotherapy. If respiratory physiotherapy is indicated, the
      physiotherapist will specify the protocol.

      A lung and diaphragm US will be done (see below) following the evaluation of the clinical
      physiotherapist, and will make it possible to answer the question: are the results of the
      lung and diaphragm US compatible with the hypotheses put forward? The LUS report will be
      given to the clinical physiotherapist. It will specify the respiratory physiotherapy protocol
      according to the results of the US-scan.

      Procedure 2: lung and diaphragm US The LUS will be performed by the physiotherapist/operator,
      who will be blinded to the clinical evaluation of the clinical physiotherapist and the
      patient's status. The operator will not take part in the management of the patients
      concerned. The semiology of lung and diaphragm US is described. The following syndromes will
      be searched for: normal profile, alveolar-interstitial syndrome, pulmonary consolidation,
      pleural effusion, pneumothorax and diaphragm dysfunction. The physiotherapist/operator will
      write a detailed LUS-scan report, which will be given to the clinical physiotherapist. It
      will include the LUS diagnosis and describe the signs observed in the different regions of
      the chest. The clinical physiotherapist is trained to interpret LUS reports.

      In case of mechanically ventilated patient at St. Vincent Hospital (Sydney, Australia), LUS
      scan will be performed immediately following intubation. Additionnal LUS scans will be
      performed 72h after intubation and Immediately prior to or following extubation.

      Number of patients to recruit and duration of participation for each patient Given the high
      prevalence of hypoxemia in ICUs, the systematic respiratory assessment in these patients by
      the physiotherapist and our relatively non-restrictive inclusion criteria, we believe we can
      recruit more than 300 patients per year.
    
  