
    
      The purpose of the project is to compare several antiepileptic drugs given to adult patients
      with epilepsy after they have not become seizure free on valproate as a first-line
      antiepileptic drug. The drugs will first be evaluated in combination with valproate and in
      case of success (being a seizure reduction of more than 50%) will also be evaluated in
      monotherapy.

      Patients who did not become seizure free on valproate will be identified by neurologists in
      the participating hospitals. When these patients are willing to participate, they are
      randomized to one of three drugs: carbamazepine, lamotrigine and levetiracetam. In phase 1 of
      the project they keep on using valproate. The randomized second-line drugs will be titrated
      to a first dose level and the effectiveness of the combinations will be evaluated. When
      seizures persist and adverse effects allow it, the add-on drug is titrated to a second dose
      level and again the effectiveness of the combination is evaluated. When seizures still
      continue and adverse effects allow it, the add-on drug is titrated to a third and final dose
      level. When a patient does not become seizure free on a combination on that final level or
      adverse effects have prevented a dose increase to a higher level, that combination has failed
      in phase 1. When the patients does become seizure free on his or her combination, the
      combination is deemed a success for that patient. A patient will proceed to phase 2, when he
      or she has at least experienced a 50% seizure reduction.

      In phase 2 of the project the second-line drug will be given in monotherapy. This means that
      valproate will be withdrawn. The dose of the second drug will be increased accordingly. The
      effectiveness of the drugs in monotherapy will be evaluated. The combined results of phase 1
      and 2 will enable us to interpret the results. When all patients who became seizure free on a
      combination in phase 1, stay seizure free in phase 2, the efficacy of the combination should
      be attributed to the add-on drug. When these patients all develop seizures again, the
      efficacy of the combination should be attributed to the combination.

      The primary outcome measure is percentage seizure free. Secondary outcome measures are
      adverse effects and the results of clinimetric epilepsy scales. Serum levels will be measured
      during the project. The projected sample size for each group has been lowered from 75
      patients per group to 20 patients per group.

      At this moment, neurologists of about 20 general hospitals are collaborating in this project.
      Inclusion of patients will continue until June 2006. The follow-up of patients and analysis
      of results will be carried until the projected end of the project.
    
  