
    
      Phase 1: Transradial amputees will be asked to come to the Rehabilitation Institute of
      Chicago, Walter Reed National Military Medical Center or the San Antonio Military Medical
      Center for initial fitting with a prosthetist for a multifunctional hand system or
      multifunctional hand and wrist system. The prosthesis system will consist of a custom-made
      socket and commercially available components. The first visit (up to five days)s involves
      casting, creating and fitting of a socket that will be used for the study. During the initial
      and subsequent visits, the subject will be asked asked to practice various control methods
      using a virtual reality system. EMG data and virtual "games" will be used to practice the
      control and will provide quantitative data that can be used to assess the various control
      methods mathematically, without the prosthesis.

      Once they receive a socket, they will complete 1-3 days of training to learn how to control
      the prosthesis with either conventional or pattern recognition control. The prosthetic
      training days may occur concurrently with the fitting appointment or it may require a
      separate visit. The subject will return home for the initial 8 week home use trial. They will
      be asked to use the prosthesis for an average of 2 hours per day across the 8 week home trial
      period. They will keep a home log of prosthesis use and check in weekly with a therapist to
      discuss usage and prosthesis performance. They may also be provided with a laptop computer
      with a camera for Skyping. The laptop can be connected to the prosthesis, and the screen can
      be viewed remotely. The research team can then continue with remote follow up with more
      training and problem solving as needed. Directly following the 8 week home trial period,
      usage data from the prosthesis will be downloaded. The subject will complete 1-3 days of
      outcomes testing with a therapist. A series of tests will be performed and data recorded of
      your performance. The subject will then repeat the 1-3 days of training, 8 week home trial
      period, and 1-3 days of outcomes testing with either the other type of control (i.e.
      conventional or pattern recognition).

      Phase 2: The subject will return to one of the three centers for Targeted Muscle
      Reinnervation (TMR) surgery. The surgery is an outpatient procedure that will be performed
      under general anesthesia, consistent with current standard of care. The surgery will involve
      the transfer of the median nerve to the flexor digitorum superficialis (DFS) muscle and the
      ulnar nerve will be transferred to the flexor carpi ulnaris (FCU) muscle. Both transfers can
      be done with a single incision. Alternative target muscles (e.g. the brachioradialis muscle)
      can be used if trauma interferes with use of the DFS and/or FCU. Some post-operative pain is
      expected and the subject will be given a prescription for pain medication if needed. Two
      weeks after the surgery the subject will be asked to start doing exercises to help with
      muscle recovery. They will return to using the prosthesis from Phase 1 with either
      conventional or pattern recognition control for 6 months after surgery. Socket adjustments
      will be made if needed. If they return to using pattern recognition control, their usage and
      performance data will be tracked during this 6 month period. The subject may be provided with
      a laptop computer and asked to perform a series of virtual tests. They will receive
      additional training on how to complete these tests. If the subject returns to using
      conventional control, they will not be asked to complete the additional tests, nor will the
      usage or performance data be tracked. Six months after surgery, when reinnervation of the
      target muscles has been completed, the subject will return to using the prosthesis with
      pattern recognition control. They will be asked to return to one of the three centers if
      socket adjustments or a replacement socket is needed. The subject will receive 1-3 days of
      pattern recognition control training, only this time special attention will be paid to
      utilizing EMG from target muscles for improved function. Preliminary testing will be done to
      ensure that they can adequately use the prosthesis. The subject will then take the prosthesis
      home for a third 8-week home-use trial. The subject will be asked to log daily use of the
      device, note any issues, and follow up weekly with a therapist. After this home-use trial,
      the same 1-3 days of comprehensive outcomes testing will be completed and usage data from
      their prostheses will be downloaded.

      Finally, the subject will continue using the prostheses at home for an additional 3-4 months.
      No usage requirements will be given during this time. At the end of this 3-4 month period
      (approximately 12 months after surgery), they will have a final round of 1-3 days of testing
      with the complete toolbox and data from the prosthesis will be downloaded.

      The days of prosthesis training and testing may take place at the Rehabilitation Institute of
      Chicago, Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, or the San Antonio Military Medical
      Center or near your home. Study coordinators will determine the best location.
    
  