
    
      Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is characterized by chronic worry that interrupts normal
      functioning. Some research has shown cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) to be an effective
      treatment for GAD, but only half of people treated with CBT for GAD experience treatment
      benefits long-term. Standard CBT for GAD may lose effectiveness over time because it does not
      address interpersonal and emotional processing problems. This study will determine the
      efficacy of a version of CBT with additional therapeutic techniques for addressing
      interpersonal interactions and emotional processing among adults with GAD.

      Participation in this study will include 14 weeks of treatment and 2 years of follow-up
      visits. All participants will receive 14 weekly, 2-hour, individual therapy sessions and one
      maintenance session scheduled after completing treatment. During the first hour of each
      session, all participants will receive standard CBT. Participants will be randomly assigned
      to receive one of two therapies during the second hour: training in interpersonal and
      emotional processing techniques or listening therapy. Participants may continue taking their
      current medications if they maintain a fixed dosage and keep a daily dairy of medication use,
      starting 2 weeks before study entry and lasting throughout treatment.

      In-depth study assessments will take place at baseline and after completing the 14 weeks of
      therapy. Assessments will include clinical interviews, self-report questionnaires, and a
      physiological measurement session. Questions will pertain to anxiety symptoms,
      self-perceptions, emotional experience, and perceptions of the world. The physiological
      measurement session will involve recording bodily reactions, including brain waves, heart
      rate, eye movement, and breathing, while performing simple perceptual tasks. Brief
      psychological assessments will also follow each therapy session. Follow-up assessments
      conducted 6, 12, and 24 months after completing treatment will involve interviews and
      questionnaires as well as recording a week's worth of medication diaries.
    
  