
    
      Spasticity associated with excessive activation of the stretch reflex, the second occurs when
      the upper motor neuron injury (Young, 1994), which leads to a reduction of spinal inhibition,
      manifested in the reduction of presynaptic inhibition of Ia afferents coming from muscle
      spindles flexor (Nielsen et al., 1995 ) and disinapticheskogo reciprocal Ia inhibition of
      antagonist muscle afferents (Meunier and Pierrot-Deseilligny, 1998; Nielsen et al., 2007),
      abnormal activity of Ib afferents from tendon Golgi complex (autogenous Ib inhibition),
      resulting in relief instead of inhibiting alpha-motoneurons ( Delwaide and Olivier, 1988),
      the deterioration of motor neurons inhibit rekkurentnogo Renshaw cells (Katz and
      Pier-rot-Deseilligny, 1982, 1999).

      There are two basic models of spasticity: cerebral (hemiplegic) and spinal
      (paraplegicheskaya) (Nikitin, 2005). Cerebral model shines through direct injury of the brain
      and is characterized by increased excitability of the monosynaptic reflexes with quick
      reflexes and the development of pathological characteristic hemiplegic posture. Model is
      characterized by spinal spasticity opposite lower segmental inhibition polysynaptic reflexes
      slow increase of nervous excitability due to the mechanism of cumulative excitation
      overexcitation of the flexor and extensor muscles, as well as expansion of the area of
      segmental responses (Nikitin, 2005). According to recent studies the mechanisms of cerebral
      and spinal spasticity are different.

      According to most researchers increased activity (excitability) of the motor cortex can
      increase the inhibitory effect of the corticospinal tract and reduce hyperactivity gamma and
      alpha motor neurons (Valero-Cabre, Pascual-Leone, 2005; Valero-Cabre et al., 2001; Valle et
      al. , 2007). According to this statement is a special place in the methods of correction of
      spasticity can take neuromodulation techniques, one of which is a rhythmic transcranial
      magnetic stimulation (RTMS). In the widely discussed mechanisms of action RTMS to reduce
      spasticity, explaining its efficacy in MS, spinal cord injury, stroke and cerebral palsy
      (Nielsen et al., 1996; Kumru et al., 2010; Mori et al., 2011). However, to date, conclusive
      evidence explaining the mechanisms reduce both spinal and cerebral spasticity under the RTMS
      not.

      From this point of view, it is particularly interesting to study the excitability of the
      motor cortex by paired TMS to the study of phenomena vnutrikorkovogo inhibition of motor
      response (SISI in English literature) and vnutrikorkovogo facilitate induced motor response
      (ICF in the English language), which allow to study the mechanisms of differentiated
      inhibition and excitation in central nervous system at different levels (Chen et al., 1998).

      Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a technique that, on the one hand, it can be
      considered as a way to assess neyroplasticheskih processes, and on the other, the special
      modes, as neyromoduliruyuschego impact.

      In assessing neyroplasticheskih processes using the TMS plays a major role TMS mapping. Since
      patients undergoing stroke, showed a significant decrease of cortical projection (map)
      muscles of the hand on the side of the affected hemisphere (Nikitin, Kurenkov, 2003), also
      points to a change of cortical excitability. A special role in the evaluation of the
      excitability of the cortical representation of muscles play doubles TMS at different
      intervals between stimuli. This technique allows to assess the processes intracrustal
      relationships: inhibition and facilitation.

      RTMS, as a method of neuromodulation, is used in a large number of neurological diseases:
      consequences of stroke, Parkinson's disease, epilepsy, pain, etc. With the success of this
      technique is applied in spasticity (eg, Mori et al., 2009).

      The mechanism of modulating influence of TMS is considered from two perspectives: the impact
      on the excitability of cortical and spinal centers.

      RTMS low frequency (1 Hz) is used to decrease the excitability of the motor cortex, as
      demonstrated by reduced amplitude of motor responses (WMO) (Chen et al., 1997).
      High-frequency stimulation (5 Hz) is used to increase cortical excitability - increasing the
      amplitude of the WMO (Berardelli et al., 1998). Continuous stimulation at 5 Hz leads to
      prolongation of the effect.

      It is believed that the application of TMS to the motor cortex is excited corticospinal
      neurons. These neurons, the founders corticospinal tract affect the alpha and gamma motor
      neurons of the spinal cord, Ia afferents, interneurons. Thus, the use of TMS and should lead
      to changes in the excitability of neurons in the spinal level. The main parameter of the
      study electrophysiological spinal excitability is an H-reflex (similar stretch reflex) (Mori
      et al., 2009). It is shown that TMS can change the parameters of H-reflex induced from soleus
      muscle. TMS single stimuli lead to changes in the muscles of the lower extremities, a
      decrease in the frequency of presynaptic inhibition of Ia afferents (Meunier and
      Pierrot-Deseilligny, 1998). Moreover, the above-threshold magnetic stimulation of the motor
      cortex with a frequency of 5 Hz results in reducing the H-reflex for 900 ms in the muscles of
      the forearm (Berardelli et al., 1998). In contrast, TMS of the motor cortex at 1 Hz decreased
      the amplitude of the WMO (Touge et al., 2001), or increase the effect on the H-reflex
      (Valero-Cabre et al., 2001). It also shows that the stimulation did not change the M & A in
      the stimulation of peripheral nerves, so that the amplitude ratio H / M was increased
      (Valero-Cabre et al., 2001). This fact indicates that low-frequency stimulation can
      facilitate monosynaptic spinal reflexes by inhibiting effects on corticospinal excitability
      of the spinal cord.

      More recent studies have examined the effect of short sessions of 20-pulse stimulation of the
      cortical representation feet at 5 Hz at the spinal level. Found that the WMO soleus and
      tibialis anterior muscles rose alone, while the H-reflex was reduced by 1 second. RTMS 5 Hz
      also caused an increase in long-term depression of H-reflex from the soleus muscle caused by
      stimulation of the common peroneal nerve and reduce the H-reflex facilitation during
      stimulation of the femoral nerve. Reduction of the H-reflex at high-frequency TMS can
      partially be explained by increasing presynaptic inhibition of Ia-afferents (Perez et al.,
      2005). This mechanism can be considered as one of the possible effects of antispastic TMS.
      However, to date, the question of the mechanisms underlying the effects of TMS
      neyromodulyatsionnyh with spasticity, remains open.

      In addition, at the present time for the study of motor areas of the brain by the method of
      transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) in addition to stimulation of one-off incentives also
      apply paired stimulation technique that allows to study the local changes in cortical
      excitability. The essence of paired stimulation is that consistently served two magnetic
      stimulus, first on any area of the brain is supplied conditioning, and then on the motor
      cortex - testing stimulus. Changes in cortical excitability measured by change in the
      amplitude of motor response (WMO) for steam stimulation compared with the amplitude of the
      WMO in response to isolated testing stimulus.

      The most widely used kind of paired stimulation is stimulation with subthreshold and
      above-threshold conditioning testing stimulus, consistently applied to the same area of the
      motor cortex. In this case, using interpulse intervals of 1 to 5 ms observed phenomenon of
      the so-called braking vnutrikorkovogo WMO, with interpulse intervals of 7 to 20 milliseconds
      - a phenomenon vnutrikorkovogo facilitate WMO (respectively, SICI and ICF in the English
      language) (Conte A. et al ., 2008). Many studies show the different nature of phenomena SICI
      and ICF and the absence of direct communication between them (V. Di Lazzaro et al., 2006).
      The high localization phenomena SICI and ICF, their dependence on the position of the
      magnetic coil (Cathrin M. Butefisch et al., 2005, Liepert J. et al., 1998). This suggests
      that subtle changes in the study of local cortical excitability using the paired stimulation
      is preferable to use TMS with the possibility of precise navigation, for example, systems for
      nTMS - NBS Eximia Nexstim. The study of the excitability of the motor cortex by paired TMS to
      the study of phenomena and SISI ICF might be interesting to study the pathogenesis of
      spasticity as in brain damage, and with the defeat of the spinal cord. The phenomena studied
      paired TMS stimulation, will approach the study of mechanisms of differential inhibition and
      excitation in the central nervous system at different levels.

      In the literature, there is no conclusive data on the effect of various parameters on RTMS
      vnutrikorkogo phenomena of inhibition and facilitation in different models of spasticity.
    
  