
    
      The combat stress-related nightmares and sleep disturbance that often follow exposure to
      military combat are distressing and frequently persistent symptoms that impair quality of
      life and both occupational and social (e.g., family) function. One of the most frequently
      reported and most troubling symptoms of PTSD is trauma-content nightmares. These nighttime
      symptoms have been notoriously resistant to treatment with psychotropic medications such as
      anxiolytics, the SSRIs, and sedating antihistamines such as cyproheptadine. The SSRIs
      sertraline (Zoloft®) and paroxetine (Paxil®) are the only drugs FDA approved for PTSD. This
      approval was based on modest overall PTSD improvement compared to placebo in large
      multicenter trials that enrolled almost exclusively noncombat trauma subjects.
      Placebo-controlled SSRI trials for PTSD in combat veterans have been negative or equivocal.

      Neurobiologic data suggest that combat stress-related nightmares and sleep disturbance in
      PTSD are related to enhanced central nervous system (CNS) adrenergic activity, particularly
      at night. Prazosin is a CNS-active, non-sedating alpha-1 antagonist that has long been
      generically available for the treatment of hypertension and benign prostatic hypertrophy. We
      recently demonstrated in Vietnam combat veterans with chronic PTSD that prazosin is robustly
      effective for previously treatment refractory combat trauma related nightmares, sleep
      disturbance and overall PTSD severity and functional impairment.

      The goal of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of prazosin compared to
      placebo for combat stress-related nightmares, sleep disturbance and overall function in
      combat-trauma exposed persons with PTSD.

      Primary outcome measures will be Clinical Global Impression of Change, Recurrent Distressing
      Dreams and Difficulty Falling and Staying Asleep items of the CAPS, total CAPS (exclusive of
      the dreams and sleep items), and the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index. Depression and quality
      of life also will be assessed.
    
  