
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the objective response rate in patients with newly diagnosed regionally
           advanced anaplastic thyroid cancer treated with induction chemotherapy comprising
           doxorubicin and cisplatin followed by combretastatin A4 phosphate (CA4P) and
           radiotherapy.

        -  Determine whether this regimen alters the natural history of anaplastic thyroid cancer
           by virtue of doubling the median survival of these patients from 10 to 20 months.

      Secondary

        -  Determine a tolerable dose of CA4P when administered with radiotherapy in these
           patients. (Phase I portion of the study closed as of 5/6/04; patients now receive a
           fixed dose of CA4P)

        -  Determine the safety profile of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine clinical predictors of response (e.g., pretreatment tumor microvessel density
           and immature vessel staining, changes in sICAM-1 levels and tumor blood flow, and
           pharmacokinetic parameters) in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Correlate the diminution in blood flow with tumor pain and response in patients treated
           with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study of combretastatin A4 phosphate (CA4P). (Phase I portion
      of the study closed as of 5/6/04; patients now receive a fixed dose of CA4P)

        -  Induction phase: Patients receive doxorubicin IV over 5-10 minutes and cisplatin IV over
           30-60 minutes on day 1. Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) on
           days 3-21 or pegfilgrastim SC on day 2.

        -  Combined modality phase: Beginning on day 22, patients undergo radiotherapy twice daily,
           5 days a week, for 3-4 weeks. Patients also receive CA4P IV over 10 minutes weekly on
           the fifth day of radiotherapy.

      Cohorts of 6 patients receive 1 of 2 escalating doses of CA4P to determine a tolerable dose.
      The tolerable dose is defined as the dose at which less than 2 of 6 patients experience
      dose-limiting toxicity. (Phase I portion of the study closed as of 5/6/04; patients now
      receive a fixed dose of CA4P)

        -  Consolidation phase: Beginning 4-6 weeks after the completion of the combined modality
           phase, patients receive CA4P IV over 10 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats
           every 28 days for 2 courses.

      Treatment in all phases continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 2 months for 1 year and then every 3 months for 2 years from
      study entry.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 33 patients will be accrued for this study within 18 months.
    
  