
    
      The study is coordinated by the Program on Psycho-Oncology and Palliative Care, University of
      Ferrara Northern Italy. Another centre from northern Italy will collaborate. The study is
      designed as a single-blinded randomized-controlled trial with two arms. Participants in the
      experimental group will receive the CALM intervention, while those in Control Group will
      receive a supportive intervention, which is usual psycho-oncology care in our settings.The
      primary outcome is depression. The primary endpoint is 6 months. Secondary outcomes include
      demoralization, generalized anxiety, death anxiety, spiritual well-being, quality of life,
      attachment security, posttraumatic growth, communication with partners, and satisfaction with
      clinical interactions.The study has received approval from Ethical Committees.

      Interventions:Patients in the experimental group will receive the CALM intervention, a
      semi-structured psychotherapy designed for patients with advanced cancer. In this Italian
      adaptation, CALM consists of 12 individual sessions (45-60 minutes each), instead of the
      original 6 sessions. The sessions are delivered bimonthly over a period of 6 months.

      The intervention covers four domains: 1) Symptom management and communication with health
      care providers; 2) Changes in self and relations with close others; 3) Spiritual well-being,
      sense of meaning and purpose; 4) Preparing for the future, sustaining hope and facing
      mortality.

      Non-manualized supportive psycho-oncology intervention (SPI):The Control group intervention
      includes counseling, information, crisis intervention, which is the usual care intervention
      provided in our center. As with CALM patients, SPI patients receive up to twelve sessions of
      individual therapy during a period of 6 months.

      Inclusion criteria are:18 years of age or more;fluency in Italian language; absence of
      cognitive deficit documented in the clinical records;diagnosis of "wet" stage IIIB or IV lung
      cancer; any stage of pancreatic cancer, stage III or IV ovarian and fallopian tube cancers,
      or other stage IV gynecological cancer; and stage IV breast, genitourinary, gastrointestinal,
      melanoma, sarcoma, or endocrine cancers (all with an expected survival of 12-18 months); a
      score ≥10 at the Patient Health Questionnaire and/or ≥ 20 at the Death and Dying Distress
      Scale. Exclusion criteria are: language barriers hindering psychotherapy;inability to commit
      to the required 12 sessions; concomitant psychotherapy.

      Randomization procedure:Study participants are randomly assigned to receive either CALM or
      SPI. After obtaining informed consent , a research assistant includes patient's data on the
      random allocation list and informs the PI's about treatment allocation (CALM or SPI). The
      patient is not informed about treatment condition (CaLM or SPI).

      Measures:The Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) is a 9-item measure of depression. It is
      composed by nine items, reflecting DSM-IV criteria for major depression. A four-point Likert
      scale scores from 0 (not at all) to 3 (nearly every day), with a cut-off score of ≥10
      suggesting depression. For study purposes, two additional items assessing self-harm intention
      and rating how difficult these symptoms have made it to do lead one's life, have been
      included.The Demoralization Scale (DS) is a 24-item self-report tool assessing demoralization
      components of loss of meaning and purpose, dysphoria, disheartenment and helplessness. Items
      are scored on a five-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (never) to 4 (all the time). Low
      levels of demoralization were indicated by a score 10, moderate demoralization by a score
      11-36, and high demoralization by a score > 37.The Generalized Anxiety Disorder Questionnaire
      (GAD-7) is a 7-item self-report instrument screening the severity of GAD symptoms. Items are
      scored on a four-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (not at all) to 3 (nearly every day).
      Scores ≤4 indicate absence of anxiety, scores from 5 to 9 suggest that mild anxiety is
      present, and scores from 10 to 15 indicate moderate levels of anxiety. An eighth item rating
      how difficult these symptoms have made it to lead one's daily life has been included. The
      Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Spiritual Well-Being Scale (FACIT-SP)[v] is
      a 12-item self-report tool, exploring spiritual well-being, in terms of sense of meaning,
      faith and inner peace. Items are scored on a five-point Likert scale from 0 (not at all) to 4
      (very much), with higher scores indicating a greater spiritual wellbeing.The Posttraumatic
      Growth Inventory (PTGI) is a 21-item self-report measure of positive psychological changes
      after traumatic events. It consists of four subscales: New Possibilities, Appreciation of
      Life, Relating to Others and Spiritual Change. Items are scored on a three-point Likert scale
      ranging from 0 (not at all) to 2 (very much) with higher scores indicating greater
      post-traumatic growth.The Quality of Life at the End of Life-Cancer Scale (QUAL-EC) is a
      self- report measure of quality of life in patients near the end of life. It originally
      consists of four subscales: Symptom Control, Relationship with Health Care Providers,
      Preparation for End of Life and Life Completion. For this study purposes, the symptom control
      subscale is not included, thus only items 4-17 are used. Items are scored on a five-point
      Likert scale ranging from 1 (not at all) to 5 (completely), with higher scores indicating
      higher quality of life.The Death and Dying Distress Scale (DADDS), is a 15-item self-report
      measure assessing specific concerns of advanced cancer patients about end of life, feeling a
      burden to others and wasted opportunities. It is scored on a six-point Likert scale from 0
      (no distress) to 5 (very much distress), with higher scores indicating higher death anxiety
      and distress.The Experiences in Close Relationships Inventory Modified Short Form Version
      (ECR-M16), is used in its 16-item self-report form to measure the attachment style. The scale
      yields scores on two dimensions of attachment: avoidance and anxiety. Items are scored on a
      seven-point Likert scale ranging from 1 (disagree) to 7 (agree), with a total sum score on
      each subscale ranging from 16 to 56. Higher scores on both subscales indicate higher
      attachment insecurity.The Memorial Symptom Assessment Scale (MSAS) [x]assesses the disease
      symptom severity. The scale, in its shortened version (MSAS- short form), measures the
      presence and severity of 28 common physical symptoms of cancer. Items are scored on a
      five-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much).

      The Couple Communication Scale (CCS) is used for participants who have a partner. The 10-item
      CCS taken from the PREPARE/ENRICH Inventory is concerned with an individual's feelings,
      beliefs, and attitudes about the communication in his/her romantic relationship. Each item is
      scored from 1 (strongly disagree) to 5 (strongly agree).

      Intervention and control participants will complete the Clinical Evaluation Questionnaire
      (CEQ) at 3 and 6-months. The CEQ is a seven-item self-report questionnaire which assesses the
      amount of clinical benefit patients have experienced by from therapy at the time of the
      assessment. Items are rated from 0 to 4, with 0 (no clinical benefit) and 4 (a great clinical
      benefit).Satisfaction of patients will also be qualitatively assessed by inviting them to
      share comments in a written form after completing CEQ questionnaire.

      Assessment:At baseline (T0), participants provide demographics and medical and treatment data
      using a standardized questionnaire and will complete all outcome measures, with the exception
      of the CEQ. The PHQ-9 and DADDS are first administered to assess eligibility prior to study
      entry, followed by the remaining baseline outcomes. Follow-up assessments on all outcomes are
      collected at three months (T1) and six months (T2). The CEQ is administered only at three
      months (T1) and six months (T2) as it is an evaluation of the intervention received to date.
      At T2, participants will also be queried about their having remained blind (or not) to
      randomization.

      Statistical methods:To calculate the required sample size, we used a validated, manualized
      online power and sample size calculator that is ideal for longitudinal multilevel designs,
      GLIMMPSE [ ]. A total sample size estimate for our primary hypothesis, that the treatment
      group (CALM) will demonstrate a greater higher improvement ind depressive symptoms (PHQ-9) at
      follow-up periods, as compared to the control group (SPI), was derived with a target power of
      80% and alpha of .05 and with estimated mean scores, with variability, and cross-time
      correlations entered. For the primary hypothesis, the calculated total sample size is 124
      patients (62 patients per treatment arm). To account for anticipated attrition while
      maintaining the targeted power, we used the following equation to calculated an adjusted
      sample size: N = N0 * (1 + DRP), where N0 = original estimated sample size required at
      baseline; DRP = anticipated dropout rate across participants. For an anticipated completion
      rate of 70% rate (30% dropout rate), the adjusted sample size for this attrition rate is N =
      124 * (1 + .30) = 161.2. The adjusted sample size at baseline will therefore be 162, with 81
      patients per treatment arm.

      Statistical analyses will be carried out by using SPSS Statistics program. For the final
      analyses we will use an intention-to-treat approach (ITT) and compare patients in the
      assigned treatment arms. To test the pPrimary hypothesis : we hypothesize that mean
      depression scores in the intervention arm will be lower than in the control arm at 3 and 6
      months, . We will use multilevel modeling (MLM) with maximum likelihood estimation to conduct
      the intent-to-treat analysis in testing hypotheses. MLM includes all participants, including
      those with missing data, in model estimation and also accounts for both inter-center and
      intra-center variability.To test for treatment-arm differences, we will compare the CALM and
      SPI groups on the primary outcome of PHQ-9 scores and on the secondary outcomes at the
      follow-up periods. This will entail the following set of MLM analyses:i)We will first test
      the level-1 predictor of Time, coded for the primary hypothesis as a categorical variable
      representing baseline and the 6-month follow-up period (primary endpoint). To code time for
      tests of secondary hypotheses, the categorical time variable will include baseline and the
      3-month (secondary endpoint) and 6-month follow-up periods. ii)Next, we will add the level-2
      treatment-group main effect and the cross-level treatment group x time interactions to test
      the hypothesized treatment-group differences at follow-up periods. Pairwise comparisons will
      evaluate the treatment-group difference at each follow-up period.iii)We will finally test
      whether the fixed effects in step ii change when any identified covariates are added to
      control for their effects. As a sensitivity analysis, we will use multiple imputation to
      examine the influence of missing values. Lastly, prior trial results suggest that there may
      be arm differences in the processing of death-related distress such that individuals with
      moderate death anxiety tend to be more responsive to the intervention than either those with
      low death anxiety (approximately the lower third of the distribution) or those with high
      death anxiety (the upper third). We will conduct a sub-analysis to confirm this effect, by
      examining the effect of removing individuals with low and high death anxiety scores at
      baseline (i.e., DADDS < 15), following the Canadian protocol.

      We will also qualitatively analyze the participants' comments about CALM and SPI on the CEQ.
      NVivo Plus software package will be used for the qualitative analysis of data.
    
  