
    
      Results from a recent clinical study (1) show that tamoxifen administered concurrently with
      chemotherapy reduces the efficacy of the latter in patients with estrogen and/or progesterone
      receptor positive breast cancer. Tamoxifen exerts its anti-tumour efficacy in breast cancer
      primarily by its anti-estrogenic effect on the breast tissue. Anti-estrogenic effects of
      tamoxifen are mediated by competitive inhibition of the estrogen receptor, resulting in
      reduced transcription of estrogen-regulated genes (2). This results in blockade of cell cycle
      transit in G1 phase and inhibition of tumour growth. This mechanism of action might be the
      theoretical basis of the negative effect of concomitantly administered tamoxifen on the
      efficacy of adjuvant chemotherapy and could be explained thus: Most human solid tumours grow
      (and regress) following Gompertzian kinetics rather than the exponential one (3). The
      fundamental difference between Gompertzian and exponential models is that the growth fraction
      of the tumour (the fraction of cells in cell cycle) decreases with tumour growth in the
      former whereas in the latter it remains constant. Since many chemotherapeutic agents cause
      cell kill only in the fraction that is in cell cycle, this is used to explain (partly) the
      failure of chemotherapy in large tumours. Since tamoxifen also causes cell cycle arrest (in
      G1) and decreases the growth fraction, it could also impair the effects of chemotherapy in an
      analogous fashion. This is the result seen in this randomized trial.

      The fraction of cells in cycle in breast cancer is low (5 to 10%) as determined by thymidine
      labeling index (4). Since most chemotherapeutic agents act preferentially or exclusively on
      cycling tumor cells, it is theoretically and intuitively appealing to increase the fraction
      of cycling cells to enhance the efficacy of chemotherapy. One way to do it in breast cancer
      would be to administer estrogen, which is known to enhance the proliferation of breast cancer
      cells. Weichselbaum et al (5) demonstrated that low concentrations of estradiol (10-9 M)
      increased the fraction of cells in S-phase and enhanced the rate of cell proliferation in
      estrogen receptor positive MCF-7 breast cancer cell line. The cell kill of this cell line on
      exposure to cytosine arabinoside was enhanced. Others have shown that even estrogen receptor
      negative tumors have increased cell proliferation in response to estrogenic stimuli (6). This
      has been explained partly as a result of modulation of the kinetic response of cancer cells
      to other growth factors (7,8). There have been a number of randomized studies in literature
      to test the concept of kinetic recruitment of breast cancer cells by estrogens to increase
      the efficacy of chemotherapy (9-14). All these studies have used diethylstilbesterol (DES)
      for few days before standard chemotherapy for breast cancer to recruit cells into cycle and
      all these studies have been in patients with locally advanced (LABC) or metastatic breast
      cancer (MBC). The results of these studies have largely been negative. In the trial by
      Baldine et al (14) in LABC patients there was no difference in the response rates between
      DES-CAF and CAF arms (56% Vs 63%) and no difference in the overall (47 Vs 49 months) and
      progression free (21 Vs 24 months) survival. DES-CAF was found to be more myelotoxic compared
      to CAF alone, which resulted in reduced dose intensity in the former. In the trial by Conte
      et al (13) patients of MBC were randomized to DES-CEF versus CEF alone. Again, there was no
      difference in the response rages (49% Vs 57%) and overall survival (20 Vs 17 months) in
      between DES-CEF and CEF, the former being more myelotoxic. In the trial by Ingle et al (12)
      in MBC patients, the response to DES-CMF was higher (39% Vs 25%, p=0.06) compared to CMF
      alone but there was no difference in time to disease progression or survival. In the study by
      Paridaens et al (11) in LABC and MBC patients, ethinyl-estradiol plus CAF was compared to
      CAF. There was no difference in response rates, time to progression or survival in the two
      groups. Toxicities were also similar.

      To summarize, the results of estrogenic recruitment in patients with LABC or MBC have been
      negative with respect to survival but some studies have shown a trend towards higher response
      rates in the recruitment arm. There are two possible explanations for these negative results.
      All these studies have been in metastatic or locally advance breast cancer patients. It is
      possible that the fraction of cells with inherent chemoresistance is higher in these patients
      compared to early stage patients and this would negate any beneficial effect of cell
      recruitment into cycle. Secondly, the total trial size has been small (less than 260) in all
      these studies and therefore they were grossly underpowered to detect meaningful differences
      between the two groups.

      As a direct corollary of the negative effect of tamoxifen administered concomitantly with
      chemotherapy and the proven ability of estrogens to increase the proliferating fraction in
      breast cancer cells, we hypothesize a beneficial effect of estrogen priming on the efficacy
      of standard adjuvant chemotherapy in operable breast cancer. Since the effect is hypothesized
      on micrometastasis, it is likely that chemoresistance will be a lesser or no impediment.

      Thus in a manner that is inverse to tamoxifen, estradiol could 'prime' the tumour for
      subsequent chemotherapy. Since only operable breast cancer patients who have undergone
      surgery and need adjuvant chemotherapy will be the test population, the estradiol priming
      will theoretically act on micrometastases that chemotherapy seeks to eradicate.
    
  