
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare overall survival (OS).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare progression free survival (PFS) by (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
      Tumors) RECIST 1.1 criteria.

      II. To compare PFS by immune-related (ir)RECIST criteria. III. To determine treatment-free
      interval (TFI) after immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) discontinuation. (Arm B) IV. To
      determine the rate of response by RECIST 1.1 criteria after ICI rechallenge. (Arm B) V. To
      assess adverse events in each study arm by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
      (CTCAE) 5.0.

      OUTLINE: Patient are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A (CONTINUATION OF ICI TREATMENT): Patients receive either pembrolizumab intravenously
      (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1, nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 15, atezolizumab IV
      over 30-60 minutes on day 1, durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on days 1 and 15, or avelumab IV
      over 60 minutes on days 1 and 15. Cycles repeat every 21 or 42 days for pembrolizumab, every
      21 days for atezolizumab, and 28 days for nivolumab, durvalumab, and avelumab in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, starting new treatment or withdrawn consent, patients
      are followed up at 4 weeks, and then every 6 months for 5 years following registration.

      ARM B (DISCONTINUATION OF ICI TREATMENT): Patients receiving ICI treatment will discontinue
      ICI treatment within 1 cycle length after randomization. Cycle length is determined by the
      ICI regimen the patient is receiving at randomization. At disease progression patients may
      restart the same ICI treatment they were receiving upon randomization at physician
      discretion.

      After initiation of new treatment (after ICI rechallenge or without ICI rechallenge), or
      progression (after ICI rechallenge or without ICI rechallenge), patients are followed up at 4
      weeks, and then every 6 months for 5 years following registration.
    
  