
    
      Objectives

      The project aims to aid to the Romanian healthcare system, by assuring new modernized
      monitoring equipment, specific for the department of anaesthesia and intensive care, for both
      clinical and paraclinical data, as well as for the existing information for modulation and
      optimizing of the general anaesthesia used in critically ill polytrauma cases based on modern
      techniques, such as entropy, and surgical pleth index (SPI). In this way, it aims to create a
      new prospect of developing a model, which will help the physicians in the decision-making
      process, hoping to improve the stats in the high morbidity and mortality rates in this
      specific field of medicine.

      Reducing the mortality and increasing the quality of the provided medical services is
      possible by assuring a modern monitoring system, because critically ill patients should be
      observed through complex techniques. Furthermore, interpretation and timely synthesis of the
      biological signals and their correlation with other clinical and laboratory data are useful
      in modulating general anesthesia in the critically conditions.

      General objectives comprise of developing a new research field regarding the international
      standards of research and combating the economic and social needs of Romania and Europe, by
      creating a complete protocol, which is innovative and helpful in improving the mortality and
      morbidity index for polytrauma patients admitted in the intensive care unit (ICU), by means
      of better monitoring procedures and modulating the anaesthesia and therapeutic management,
      therefore increasing the efficiency of the public health care system.

      The specific objectives of the study are to represent the integration of modern anesthesia
      methods used for monitoring and optimizing the management of anesthesia and therapy options,
      depending on each patient as an individual; calculating the severity scores and risk factors,
      both in the first 24 hours as well as continuously, providing support instruments designed to
      add to the medical decision making process, and make it possible in a very short time,
      developing an ergonomic mode, dynamic and standardized viewing of local and distant
      perioperative anesthetic protocols, modulated by non-invasive modern techniques for
      anaesthesia monitoring.

      Measurements:

      All the patients enrolled in the study will have a monitoring sheet from the start, which
      will contain details regarding the following: a) Demographic data: age, sex, BMI (registered
      at the time of admission); b) Clinical data: ASA score, ISS score, APACHE II score, trauma
      mechanism, type of surgical intervention (registered at the time of admission); c) Laboratory
      data: EAB parameters, complete blood count, fibrinogen, ESR, PCR, total bilirubin (T0 -
      before orotracheal intubation, T1 - at extubating, T2 - at 24 hours post-operatively, T0 -
      before orotracheal intubation, T2 - at 24 hours post-operatively; d) Clinical parameters:
      heart rate, mean blood pressure, SpO2 plethysmography, EtCO2 capnography, entropy, SPI,
      axillary skin temperature probe, diuresis (T0 - before orotracheal intubation, at an interval
      of 15 minutes perioperative, T1 - at extubating); e) Perioperative events: hypotension,
      bradycardia, bronchospams, SpO2 drop (desaturation) lower than 90% via pulse oximetry (Every
      event should be noted in the monitoring sheet of the study); f) Events related to intubation:
      laryngospasms, failed intubation, tissue injury resulting from difficult intubating
      conditions, postoperative airway complications due to difficult intubation (Every event
      should be noted in the monitoring sheet of the study). The database officer should register
      all the patient data relevant for the study in electronic format including all details noted
      in the monitoring sheet.

      Statistical Analysis:

      For statistically analysis of the study, in concordance to these objectives, a series of
      statistical tests were utilized which can satisfy all the statistical objectives of the
      study. For analysis if the normal distributions of continuous data, the Kolmogorov-Smirnov
      test will be utilized. Similarly, data with a normal distribution were compared using the
      Student t test and presented as mean with SD. Last but not the least, data with an
      inhomogeneous distribution will be compared using the Mann-Whitney U test and presented as
      median. Nominal data will be compared using the chi-square test. For highlighting the
      statistical differences, a P value less than 0.05 was considered as significant. The
      statistical analysis of data will be performed computerized with the programs Microsoft
      Office Excel for Mac 2011 v.14.4.7. (Microsoft Corporation, Bucharest, Romania) and Prism 6
      for Mac OS X v.6.0. (GraphPad Software, Inc., San Diego, CA). This analysis consisted, in the
      calculation of frequencies and the percentages for qualitative variables, as well as the
      calculation of the arithmetic means and the standard deviations for quantitative variables.
      The statistical estimation of the results was performed using the criteria decision of the
      statistical test. Similarly, the lot will be further statistically analyzed for determining
      the heterogeneity/homogeneity in between the groups. Similarly, for increasing in the
      transparency between the different groups, patients will be divided into more groups, as
      presented in this study.
    
  