
    
      To investigate the benefit of postoperative adjuvant therapy using sequential administration
      of the hormone, toremifene citrate (TOR) or anastrozole (ANA), after chemotherapy in breast
      cancer.

      TOR is reported to be as effective, or more effective, than TAM on both DFS and OS for
      postoperative adjuvant therapy. The incidence rate and severity of its adverse effects are
      similar to those of TAM as shown in two clinical trials, the Finnish Breast Cancer Group
      (FBCG) and the International Breast Cancer Study Group (IBCSG). Although no significant
      difference was observed in these trials, other studies report that TOR produced a lower
      number of thromboembolism events compared with TAM, a undesirable side effect seen in
      patients treated with TAM. Additionally, compared with TAM, TOR showed less endometrial
      hypertrophy which is induced by estrogen.

      Endometrial cancer remains one of the significant problems associated with TAM. A TAM
      metabolite binds to DNA and forms DNA adducts which damage cells. It is reported that TAM has
      an expanded ability to form DNA adducts compared with TOR in vitro. A recent study compared
      endometrial cells collected from patients in which TAM or TOR had been administered. The
      k-ras gene mutation was investigated in these cases, and it showed that TAM held a higher
      frequency of gene mutation. Although we still need to discuss whether or not k-ras mutation
      is directly related to the development of endometrial cancer, TAM seems to have a higher risk
      of inducing cancer compared with TOR.

      In the IBCSG14-93 trials, two chemotherapy protocols were studied subsequent to
      administration of TOR. They were doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (AC) and cyclophosphamide,
      methotrexate, and 5-fluorouracil (CMF). These two chemotherapy protocols were administered in
      the following sequence: AC four times followed by CMF three times after administration of
      TOR. The findings revealed that in estrogen-receptor (ER) positive cases, DFS equaled 73% in
      the TOR group, 65% in the TAM group; hormone receptor (HR=0.80 (0.57-1.11); P=0.18). OS was
      found to total 88% in the TOR group, 84% in the TAM group; HR=0.78 (0.48-1.27); p=0.32).
      Although there was no significant difference in two groups, the TOR group has showed somewhat
      improved survival.

      Based on the information provided above, we consider TAM and TOR to have similar efficacy
      with less adverse effects, and this trial will compare the two drugs, TOR and ANA.
    
  