
    
      Background: Upper extremity deep vein thrombosis (UEDVT) constitutes approximately 10% of all
      DVT. A recent increase in incidence is largely secondary to the increasing use of
      peripherally inserted central venous catheters. Treatment for UEDVT is derived from evidence
      for treatment of lower extremity deep vein thrombosis (LEDVT). No evidence exists for the use
      of a direct oral anticoagulant (DOAC) for the treatment of UEDVT.

      Population: Sequential patients identified within the Intermountain Healthcare system with
      UEDVT defined as the formation of thrombus within the internal jugular, subclavian, axillary,
      and brachial veins of the arm demonstrated by imaging.

      Comparison: In the primary analysis, the principal investigator will report the rate of
      clinically overt objective VTE and VTE-related death in comparison to the rate reported upon
      literature review ("reference value in the literature"). If the confidence interval for this
      rate excludes the commonly accepted threshold event rate of 4%, the principal investigator
      will conclude that treatment with apixaban is noninferior, and therefore a clinically valid
      approach to treat UEDVT. As a secondary analysis, the principal investigator will compare the
      rate of the primary efficacy outcome and primary safety outcome with a historical control of
      case matched patients with UEDVT ("historical control") treated with therapy conventional
      (low molecular weight heparin plus warfarin) prior to the approval of DOACs.

      Sample Size: A sample size of 357 patients who meet eligibility criteria was chosen so that
      an exact 95% confidence interval would exclude an event rate of venous thromboembolism (VTE)
      in the observation cohort of 4%. The principal investigator will add 5% for anticipated
      withdrawal to assure adequate patient enrollment in the case of patient withdrawal and enroll
      375 patients.

      Outcome: 90 day rate of new or recurrent objectively confirmed symptomatic venous thrombosis
      and VTE-related death. The primary safety outcome is major bleeding and clinically relevant
      nonmajor bleeding.
    
  