
    
      The study will be conducted in several Latin American countries. Currently, the study has
      started in one site in Colombia and soon another site in Mexico will start. In each
      participating center, women aged 30-64 years who are attending clinics for cervical screening
      will be invited to participate in the study. Women who agree to participate and sign the
      corresponding Institutional Review Board (IRB) approved consent forms will undergo a pelvic
      examination, and cervical cells for primary screening and triage will be collected.
      Recruitment specimens will be used for primary screening with an established HPV DNA test
      (Food and Drug Administration FDA approved). All women who are HPV-positive by the
      recruitment test will be referred for a standardized colposcopy examination for diagnosis. At
      the colposcopy visit, but before colposcopy is performed, a risk factor interview will be
      administered and participants will undergo visual inspection of the cervix with acetic acid
      (VIA) and collection of additional cervical cells and a blood specimen. The results of VIA
      will not be disclosed to the colposcopist. During colposcopy, the colposcopists will obtain
      (2-4) biopsies from any abnormally-appearing areas to ascertain neoplastic outcomes (CIN3+)
      and to direct treatment as required. All women who attend colposcopy will have a second round
      of HPV testing approximately 18 months after recruitment and those who are HPV-positive will
      be referred to colposcopy for final diagnosis. Data management and study supervision will be
      the responsibility of the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) and the local
      Principal Investigators, most of whom are experienced HPV researchers.

      The combined number of histologically-confirmed diagnoses of CIN3+, including CIN2 lesions
      positive for p16, (estimated n=500) will be the outcome of primary interest for evaluation of
      the performance of the various triage modalities. Our initial analyses will focus on
      comparisons of triage strategies that employ a single method: VIA, conventional/liquid-based
      cytology, HPV DNA genotyping, HPV RNA detection, detection of E6 proteins of high risk HPV
      types, or markers of HPV-induced cell-cycle alterations (e.g., p16, ki67, etc). To the extent
      possible, molecular testing for HPV triage will be carried out on the recruitment specimens
      to simulate a 'reflex testing' approach wherein screening and triage are done on the same
      specimen without additional visits. Subsequent analyses will consider various alternative
      strategies that employ more than one triage methodology; e.g., HPV DNA genotyping followed by
      cytology. The effectiveness and costs of each alternative strategy will be assessed under
      various scenarios of feasibility, cost, and effectiveness.
    
  