
    
      Cycling is a form of physical activity that is positively associated with health and
      functional benefits. In Germany, the use of bicycles, especially of those with motorized
      assistance (e-bikes), is steadily increasing among older adults. Despite the benefits
      mentioned, cycling also poses potential health risks. For instance, there is a significant
      association between increased bicycle use and bicycle crashes. This relationship is
      particularly evident in older adults with a higher prevalence of bicycle crashes leading to
      minor and serious injuries. This might be explained by the age-related decline of physical
      and cognitive function, which may essentially affect (reduce) the ability to cycle safely. In
      order to prevent crashes and falls from bicycles, targeted training of the required skills
      for safe cycling could be effective. However, there is a lack of scientifically evaluated
      bicycle-training concepts that have been developed specifically for older adults.

      By developing and providing a structured and progressive multi-component exercise program
      related to cycling for older adults, the SiFAr-project will address the improvement of
      bicycle-related basic motor competence (e.g. balance, strength, ability to react, cycling
      skills and techniques) and the reduction of stress and fall-related psychological concerns.

      The ability to ride a bike safely will be measured in both arms before and after the training
      period by completing various tasks in a cycling course.

      The aim of the program is that the participation in the three-month exercise intervention
      program will lead to a reduction of failures in the bicycle course. As comparative values,
      the number of faults in the bicycle course before the training period and the number of
      faults in the control group will be used. Furthermore, a substudy aim to investigate stress
      biomarkers targeting inflammatory and stress associated physiological parameters during
      cycling. The activity of stress systems will be determined by measuring stress hormones like
      cortisol and inflammatory responses in the body by measuring C-reactive protein. To analyse
      biomarkers, saliva, hair and blood specimen will be collected.
    
  