
    
      This study is a randomized prospective trial comparing US-guided PIVC insertion with standard
      PIVC insertion technique. This study will evaluate the predictive strength of
      catheter-to-vein ratio to PIVC post insertion success.

      The study population is all patients presenting to the ED. The sample population will be
      patients requiring a PIVC for treatment or diagnostic purposes and don't have an existing
      PIVC (EMS or other). Inclusion and exclusion criteria focusing on most suitable participants
      and safety will determine the participant population. Participants will be randomized to one
      of two cohorts; 1) PIVC insertion based on standard technique and 2) US-guided PIVC
      insertion.

      There will be two data collection phases in this study:

      Phase one occurs in the emergency department (ED). ED staff will be notified of the study
      period, however to minimize bias, details of the study will not be given. Patients in this
      phase include those registered in the ED seeking treatment. To identify potential candidates,
      the investigator will perform an initial screening by communicating with ED staff. Initial
      screenings will be recorded without using any identifying data. When a potential participant
      is identified, the investigator will then coordinate with ED staff, approach the candidate
      and confirm that they meet inclusion and exclusion criteria. If the patient qualifies for
      enrollment, the investigator will review the study purpose including risks and benefits of
      enrolling, and have the patient sign the consent form. Randomization will occur after
      obtaining consent. Patients will have a PIVC inserted by any qualified Nurse or Medic. The
      PIVC will be placed according to the Reading Hospital Peripheral Intravenous Therapy for
      Adults guideline. After the PIVC (Standard or US-guided) is inserted, the investigator will
      then measure the vein prior to any infusion that could distort vein measurement.

      All investigators involved with vein measurement will complete vein measurement training. The
      vein size will be measured using one of the following US machines: SonoSite Edge II or
      X-Porte each equipped with a 13-6 MHz, 6 cm linear probe (FUJIFILM SonoSite, Inc. Bothell,
      WA, USA). The investigator will then record collected data on the phase one data collection
      form and place the form in a secure container. A member of the research team will then
      collect the completed data collection forms and enter the data in a secured study database.
      To limit bias, investigators will not inform the ED staff of the specifics of this study and
      will only provide enough information for data to be collected safely and accurately. In the
      event that a PIVC could not be successfully inserted according to the randomized technique,
      the PIVC will be analyzed in an intention to treat (ITT) format and the participant will
      receive vascular access as per the treatment team.

      Phase two of data collection is divided into two parts, and participants in this phase
      include those that had a PIVC inserted by either randomized method and were subsequently
      placed in an observation status, inpatient status or discharged home. Phase two part one
      occurs after the PIVC has been removed. Data collection is performed electronically and may
      also involve verbal follow up. Trained investigators will obtain an active list of subjects
      whose PIVC was removed. Each subject will have a blank phase two part one data collection
      form completed in its entirety when possible. Subjects who remain on an inpatient or
      observation status will be followed in the electronic health record (EHR). In this study post
      insertion failure is identified when any of the following reasons for PIVC removal has been
      entered into the participants EHR: leakage, drainage, phlebitis, painful, occluded,
      infiltrated, and catheter damage. If more than one of these reasons has been entered, the
      investigator will further investigate the EHR to determine the primary reason for removal. If
      electronic data is not sufficient and the subject is still hospitalized, the investigator
      will attempt to visit the subject for completion of data collection. Completed phase two part
      one forms will be placed in a secure container until entry into the study database. Following
      data entry, paper forms involved in this part will be destroyed. Subjects with a PIVC that
      was removed for a reason not determined as a failure will proceed into phase two part two.

      Phase two part two occurs when a PIVC was removed without complication. A trained
      investigator will obtain a list of subjects whose PIVC was removed without complication. The
      investigator will determine if 48 hours has passed since the removal of the PIVC. If so, a
      post removal follow-up interview is performed if the patient is still admitted in the
      hospital or a phone interview is conducted if the patient was discharged home. Participant
      charts will also be reviewed for any subsequent ED or primary care physician visits related
      to PIVC complication(s). The investigator completes the phase two part two data collection
      form and places it in a secured container. A time limit of 48 hours to contact the
      participant has been set for this study. A member of the research team will then collect the
      data collection forms and enter the data in the secured study database.

      Statistics and data analysis

      Sample size calculation:

      The baseline failure rate for post-insertion PIVCs at Reading Hospital is 30%. Our study has
      set an a priori improvement of an absolute percentage change of 10% as significant. Using a
      single tail change in improvement (alpha = 0.025) with the intervention with an 80% power, we
      calculated the number needed for each cohort to be 291 subjects, however we will randomize
      for 360 in each cohort for a total of 720 subjects to allow for attrition.

      Randomization:

      Using the statistical package 'R', a series of random numbers will be generated to allocate
      individual patients to groups. This random number series will be validated for randomness
      using the 'runs test' available in SPSS. A conservative P value of 0.50 will be used to
      determine if the sequence of numbers is random. Randomization will continue until a sequence
      with a p-value greater than 0.50 is obtained. Once completed, the random number sequence will
      be saved to an Excel file and passed to Reading Hospital researchers for processing.

      Data analysis:

      Data analysis will occur in two separate phases. First descriptive analysis for all variables
      for patients within each group. For this analysis discrete variables will be reported as
      count, and percent within each category. For continuous variables statistics will include
      mean, minimum and maximum values, standard deviation and median. Significance testing will be
      conducted between groups. Discrete variables will use chi-square test and continuous
      variables will use group or independent t-test. An a priori p-value of 0.050 will determine
      statistical significance between groups.

      The second phase of this analysis will include inferential statistics on the comparison
      between groups for both primary and secondary outcomes.

      The primary outcomes to be compared between the PIVC insertion techniques include:

        1. Failure rate (overall and individual cause/reason).

        2. Utility time

        3. Catheter-to-vein ratio

      For the analysis of failure rate chi-square analysis will be used between the two groups.
      Utility time will be analyzed by group t-test. Catheter to vein ratio will be aggregated
      among all patients within group and a rate analysis defined by Fleiss will be used to
      determine if the ratios between treatment cohorts are significantly different. A standard
      p-value of 0.05 will be used for these analyses.

      The secondary outcomes will be:

        1. Describe post removal complication rates among traditional and US-guided PIVC insertion
           techniques

        2. Identifying a catheter-to-vein ratio that predicts complication

      The complication rate will be analyzed by standard rate analysis by Fleiss. Complication
      rates will be calculated as the number of complication divided by the number of patients.

      In order to determine the catheter to vein ratio that may predict a complication, both groups
      will be added together in aggregate, and a ROC curve will be calculated using the catheter to
      vein ratio as the independent variable and the complication (0, 1) as the dependent variable.
      Standard methodology to determine the cutoff point will be used, (diagonal line drawn to ROC
      curve then projected down to sensitivity value) to determine the cutoff point. Standard ROC
      descriptive statistics will be used including area under the curve, standard error of the
      area, 95% confidence interval of the area, p-value as well as sensitivity and specificity of
      the cutoff value. The null hypothesis for the ROC curve will be area is equal to 0.50.

      Due to the exploratory nature of these analysis there will be no corrections for multiple
      comparisons.
    
  