
    
      Adalimumab (Humira®), a fully human monoclonal antibody to TNF, has been given an important
      position in the treatment of patients with an inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). However, not
      all patients respond adequately to this relatively expensive and potentially toxic therapy.
      Adapting the standard treatment regimen to the individual needs of the patient may favor the
      short and long term outcome of this therapy.

      Following daily clinical practice, patients will receive standard induction therapy with 160
      mg adalimumab at week 0, followed by 80 mg adalimumab at week 2. Starting at week 4 patients
      will receive a maintenance therapy with 40 mg adalimumab every other week. If a patient shows
      an insufficient response, the dose can be increased to 40 mg adalimumab every week.

      Defining predictors of response to ADA has become a major objective in scientific research.
      One of the predictors of response may be an early decrease in faecal calprotectin. Faecal
      calprotectin is a protein which presence in the stool of a patient correlates with endoscopic
      disease activity. A persistently elevated faecal calprotectin after start up with adalimumab
      treatment may suggest that this patient needs a higher dose.

      Recently a smartphone application IBDoc® was developed to enable patients to measure faecal
      calprotectin at home in an easy way. In this HELP-AID trial we want to evaluate the value of
      these home based IBDoc® faecal calprotectin measurements in predicting short- and mid-term
      outcome to ADA induction therapy in patients with moderate-to-severe IBD.

      Patients known with moderate-to-severe CD and ulcerative colitis starting ADA therapy will be
      asked to participate in this study. They will be asked to collect a stool sample at 3
      different time points (week 0, 4 and 8). This faecal sample needs to be loaded on a test
      cassette with an extraction device. In a second step, the patient can turn his smartphone
      into an easy to use test cassette reader by taking a picture and using the CalApp® which is
      based on an immunochromatographic test. Finally, the CalApp® will transmit the test results
      securely to the health care professional.

      In this study we want to evaluate the predictive value of absolute and relative faecal
      calprotectin values measured by IBDoc® on clinical, biological and endoscopic outcome at week
      12. Furthermore, we want to evaluate the correlation between IBDoc® and classical ELISA
      measurements of faecal calprotectin, and the convenience of this system to the patient and
      the health care professional.
    
  