
    
      Carcinoma of unknown primary site (CUP) accounts for approximately 5% of all newly diagnosed
      malignancies. The overall prognosis for patients with CUP remains poor, with median survival
      less than one year with modern chemotherapy combinations and virtually no long-term
      survivors.

      It has been recognized that patients with CUP represent a heterogeneous group of tumors.
      Managing patients with CUP requires a complete medical history, careful consideration of
      findings on physical exam, targeted radiologic studies and pathologic analysis of biopsy
      and/or surgical specimens. Within this heterogeneous group there exist at least four subsets
      of patients with CUP, that based on clinicopathologic features are treated with regimens
      which have demonstrated efficacy in tumors originating in the most likely primary site of
      that CUP; squamous carcinoma involving mid or high levels of cervical lymph nodes, women with
      isolated axillary adenopathy containing adenocarcinoma, women with a predominant presentation
      of peritoneal carcinomatosis and young men with extragonadal germ cell syndrome.

      Unfortunately, a majority of patients with CUP do not fall into any of the above subsets and
      these represent a therapeutic dilemma, as there is no single regimen to date that has shown
      significant activity or has resulted in prolonged survival for these patients with
      particularly poor prognosis. Thus, new therapeutic combinations need to be investigated for
      treatment of these patients with CUP.

      Platinum compounds have been the cornerstone of chemotherapy regimens for a wide variety of
      solid tumors, including lung, urothelial, head and neck, ovarian and endometrial carcinomas,
      as well as testicular carcinomas. Cisplatin and its analog carboplatin are currently used in
      chemotherapy combinations to treat CUP. Carboplatin has fewer non-hematologic side effects
      compared to cisplatin including less nausea and vomiting, peripheral neuropathy,
      nephrotoxicity and ototoxicity making it an attractive agent to combine with other drugs.

      In recent years, new agents active in solid malignancies have been developed. Gemcitabine is
      one such agent. It is a deoxycytidine analogue structurally related to cytosine arabinoside.
      Gemcitabine is activated by deoxycytidine kinase in three steps of phosphorylation into
      difluorodeoxycytidine triphosphate, which when incorporated into DNA, leads to chain
      termination. Gemcitabine has been shown to have activity in pancreatic, breast, non-small
      cell lung carcinomas as well as in carcinomas of unknown primary site. Because of its mild
      toxicity profile, gemcitabine has been used in combination with other chemotherapy agents.
      There is evidence of in vitro and in vivo synergy between gemcitabine and the platinum
      compounds.

      Capecitabine is an orally administered fluoropyrimidine that undergoes a three-step
      conversion into 5-FU, with pharmacokinetics that mimic low dose continuous infusion 5-FU. The
      oral formulation allows for convenient continuous therapy, avoiding a need for central venous
      catheters and external infusion pumps.

      The final step of conversion of capecitabine into 5-FU is catalyzed by thymidine
      phosphorylase (TP), an enzyme which has been shown to be over expressed in colorectal tumors.
      This selective tumor activation has been demonstrated to lead to higher concentrations of
      5-FU in tumor cells as compared to normal tissue, suggesting tumor targeting by the oral
      drug. Capecitabine was initially approved by the FDA for treatment of refractory breast
      carcinoma and has shown activity in metastatic colorectal carcinoma. Capecitabine is an
      attractive agent for use in combination chemotherapy due to its non-overlapping toxicity
      profile with many agents and lack of hematologic toxicity.

      Gemcitabine has been combined with 5-FU, and may enhance the activity of 5-FU in vivo.
      Gemcitabine is an inhibitor of ribonucleotide reductase, an enzyme needed for synthesis of
      deoxynucleotides, and 5-FU interferes with dTTP synthesis by inhibition of thymidylate
      synthase (TS). It is plausible that concomitant administration of gemcitabine and
      capecitabine, may result in increased cytotoxicity by reducing intracellular dTTP thru two
      different mechanisms, thereby inhibiting DNA replication and repair. Platinum compounds lead
      to cell death by forming DNA adducts and causing double strand breaks. By inhibiting DNA
      synthesis and repair, both gemcitabine and 5-FU analogues could potentiate the activity of
      carboplatin. These interactions may underlie the clinical synergism that has been observed
      with platinum/5-FU and platinum/gemcitabine combinations.

      We propose to combine carboplatin, gemcitabine and capecitabine as a palliative treatment for
      patients with CUP. Programs evaluating the incorporation of newer chemotherapy agents into
      combinations are reasonable in an attempt to improve outcome in patients with CUP. In
      addition to anticipated anti-tumor activity, the proposed combination provides a convenient
      schedule of brief intravenous treatment, the use of the oral agent capecitabine, and a
      toxicity profile which is expected to be mild, characteristics which are important in
      palliative treatment programs.
    
  