
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is associated with a 2-fold increased risk of cardiovascular
      disease (CVD), which is not explained by traditional cardiovascular (CV) risk factors alone;
      this risk is likely mediated in part through systemic inflammation. Indeed, RA itself is
      deemed to impart a CV risk equivalent to diabetes mellitus (DM). However, unlike in DM,
      optimal CV management strategies in RA are lacking. Despite improved anti-inflammatory
      therapies for RA, the mortality gap in RA compared to the general population is still
      widening, in part due to suboptimal primary and secondary CV preventive care in RA. To date,
      there have been no published controlled intervention trials for primary CV prevention in RA,
      despite this clearly urgent unmet need.

      One of the early stages of atherogenesis is endothelial dysfunction, and drugs that target
      improvement in this are promising novel strategies for CVD prevention. The fundamental
      feature of endothelial dysfunction is impaired nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability. Sildenafil
      improves endothelial function by increasing NO signaling by inhibition of phosphodiesterase-5
      (PDE5). PDE5 inhibitors improve endothelial function in pulmonary hypertension and DM, and
      were safe and well tolerated in patients with erectile dysfunction and other CV
      comorbidities. Furthermore, PDE inhibitors have immunomodulatory properties that may be
      utilized to treat autoimmune conditions like RA. The investigators' central hypothesis is
      that sildenafil is a uniquely suited agent targeting endothelial dysfunction as a novel
      adjunctive CV prevention strategy and immunomodulatory agent in RA. Specifically, their goal
      is to determine if sildenafil use in RA improves endothelial dysfunction and atherosclerosis
      biomarkers.

      The proposed study is a phase II, randomized double-blind placebo-controlled crossover
      efficacy trial of 60 RA patients, with no known history of CVD but at least one traditional
      CV risk factor, on stable baseline doses of RA medications; randomized 1:1 to receive either
      sildenafil 50 mg or placebo orally once daily for 3 months, with a 2-week washout before the
      crossover phase for another 3 months. Vascular studies validated in assessing endothelial
      dysfunction and laboratory studies for selected atherosclerosis biomarkers will be performed
      at baseline, 3 months pre- and post-washout, and 6 months. Adverse events will be collected
      to assess safety. The Specific Aims are:

        1. To determine whether sildenafil use in RA leads to improvement in parameters of vascular
           function; and to confirm its safety profile.

        2. To determine whether sildenafil use in RA is associated with improvement in
           atherosclerosis biomarkers.

      The results of this study will serve as preliminary data for future larger trials evaluating
      sildenafil as a CV prevention strategy by reducing endothelial dysfunction in RA. It will
      provide needed data on potential benefits of sildenafil for immunomodulation and CV
      prevention in this high-risk population.
    
  