
    
      For the purposes of the present part of the Atahualpa Project, field personnel were trained
      to achieve expertise with the use of the screening questionnaires, and to assure uniformity
      in data collection. The independent review board of Hospital-Clínica Kennedy (Guayaquil,
      Ecuador) approved the study design and the informed consent form that has to be signed by all
      Atahualpa residents aged ≥40 years before enrollment in the study.

      Field workers will perform a census of the population to detect all Atahualpa residents aged
      ≥40 years (including those who were not living at the village by the time of our previous
      census). Those "new" persons will be interviewed to assess their social and demographic
      characteristics and to evaluate their CVH status in the same way as it was done with the rest
      of the population in our most recent survey.

      During the current survey, all consented persons will undergo a physical examination with
      attention to the measurement of the neck circumference, as well as the evaluation of facial
      characteristics relevant to the coexistence of sleep disorders, including retrognathia, nasal
      septum deviation, asymmetry of the nares, and palate position. The latter will be evaluated
      with the tongue resting inside the mouth (using the Friedman classification) and categorized
      into four classes according to which structures are visible: Grade I allows visualization of
      the entire uvula and tonsils/pillars, Grade II allows visualization of the uvula but not the
      tonsils/pillars, Grade III allows visualization of the soft palate but not the uvula, and
      Grade IV allows visualization of the hard palate only.

      From the many questionnaires available for the detection of persons with suspected sleep
      disorders, our panel agreed to choose those that have been more widely used and have shown to
      be time-efficient, consistent and reliable for prediction of major sleep disorders. Field
      instruments include validated Spanish versions of the insomnia severity index, the Pittsburgh
      sleep quality index, the Epworth sleepiness scale, the Berlin questionnaire, and the four
      minimal diagnostic criteria for restless legs syndrome.

      The insomnia severity index consists of seven questions evaluating nighttime sleep
      difficulties, sleep dissatisfaction, and impact of insomnia on the quality of life.
      Time-frame of such evaluation is in the two weeks before the test. Each question is rated on
      a five-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (not at all) to 4 (extremely) with a maximum total
      score of 28. Scores from 0 to 7 mean no clinically significant insomnia, 8 to 14 mean
      subthreshold insomnia, 15 to 21 mean moderate clinical insomnia, and 22 to 28 mean severe
      clinical insomnia.

      The Pittsburgh sleep quality index basically discriminates between "good" and "poor"
      sleepers. Time-frame of such evaluation is in the month before the test. It consists of 18
      questions grouped into seven component scores, each weighted on a 0 to 3 scale, for a total
      score of 21, with higher scores indicating poorer sleep quality. Components include
      assessment of sleep duration (total sleep time), sleep disturbances, sleep latency, day
      dysfunction due to sleepiness, sleep efficiency, overall sleep quality, and medications
      needed to sleep. Total sleep time will be categorized as follows: <6 hours, 6 to 7 hours, 7
      to 8 hours (referent category), 8 to 9 hours, and >9 hours. The original instrument also
      includes five additional questions that should be directed to bedpartners or roommates. Such
      questions will not be used in the present survey as they are not included in the scoring and
      have not been validated in the Spanish language.

      The Epworth sleepiness scale originally evaluates the level of a person's daytime sleepiness
      based on the likelihood of dozing in eight different sedentary situations, and is used to
      help diagnose hypersomnia or sleep-disordered breathing such as obstructive sleep apnea. Each
      of the eight questions is rated on a four point Likert scale ranging from 0 (no chance of
      falling asleep) to 3 (high chance of falling asleep) with a maximum total score of 24. While
      there has been noted a considerable overlap among scores and the chance of sleep-disordered
      breathing, it has been shown that a score of ≥10 highly correlates with the presence of
      severe obstructive sleep apnea.

      The Berlin questionnaire mainly evaluates sleep-disordered breathing (obstructive sleep
      apnea), but also assess waketime sleepiness or fatigue and the presence of obesity or
      arterial hypertension. It consists of 10 questions, divided in three categories. The first
      five questions are included into category 1, questions from six to eight into category 2, and
      question 10 in category 3 (question nine is evaluated separately). A positive response to two
      questions of the first 2 categories, or to the single question of category 3, marks the
      corresponding category as "positive", and positivity of two or more categories classifies the
      person as at "high risk" for having obstructive sleep apnea.

      The four minimal diagnostic criteria for restless legs syndrome were developed to facilitate
      the recognition of this sleep-related movement disorder. All four questions must be positive
      to establish the diagnosis of restless legs syndrome.

      In the second phase of this epidemiological survey, a board-certified sleep neurologist
      (P.R.C.) will provisionally move to Atahualpa to examine all persons who screened as
      suspected cases of having a sleep disorder (in one or more of the field instruments used). In
      addition, a random sample of 2% of individuals who were considered negative during the
      screening phase (matched by age and gender to suspected cases) will also undergo a
      specialized examination to assess possible false negative cases during the survey.
      Neurologists will be blinded as to whether the individual was positive or negative during the
      screening phase. All these persons will be evaluated with a unified sleep history focusing on
      sleep-related symptoms, associated nocturnal symptoms, time during the sleep period that
      symptoms occur, daytime functioning, sleep schedule, and the use of sleep medications; in
      addition, a complete physical and neurological examination will be performed. For persons
      with suspected restless legs syndrome, questions will be directed to assess frequency and
      severity of symptoms, age of symptoms onset, and family history of restless legs syndrome. In
      additions, mimics of this condition will be ruled out (leg cramps, positional discomfort,
      fibromyalgia, arthritis, neuropathies, claudication, etc).

      Correlation of the presence of specific sleep disorders with the CVH status as well as with
      history of stroke or ischemic heart disease will be noted. Procedures that will be used for
      evaluation of the CVH status and for the diagnosis of stroke and ischemic heart disease will
      be the same that have been previously used during step one of the Atahualpa Project. In
      brief, CVH status will be evaluated using the seven metrics proposed by the American Heart
      Association, stroke will be diagnosed in patients who had experienced a rapidly developing
      event characterized by clinical signs of focal or global disturbance of cerebral function,
      lasting ≥ 24 hours, with no apparent cause other than vascular, and ischemic heart disease
      will be diagnosed if the person is positive by clinical judgment or ECG findings.

      In the third phase, all patients with a confirmed diagnosed of a sleep disorder will be
      invited to undergo an attended nocturnal polysomnography that will objectively evaluate the
      presence of sleep-disordered breathing, as well as well as other sleep disorders. EEG
      activity, nocturnal movements, cardiac rhythm, and oxygen saturation. Studies will be
      performed in the Community Center of The Atahualpa Project, with multiple channel recordings,
      including: electroencephalogram, electro-oculogram, electromyogram on chin and legs,
      electrocardiogram, body position sensors, nasal and oral airflow, oxygen saturation, video
      and audio recording, and may involve trials of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) or
      other investigations.
    
  