
    
      This cluster randomised controlled trial will be conducted to provide evidence on the
      efficacy of an integrated active vector surveillance and preventive strategy in the
      community. It aims to demonstrate effectiveness of a new proactive paradigm in reducing
      dengue epidemics. The main hypotheses are 1) This new paradigm (GOS trap and dengue NS1 kit
      for detection of dengue in Aedes) will reduce dengue epidemics compared to the usual current
      vector surveillance/control carried out by the Ministry of Health. 2) Community will be more
      receptive to this new surveillance activity as they will receive information of dengue
      transmissions before dengue cases are reported.

      The study sites at PJU10, Damansara Damai, Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia are

        1. Intervention arm: Harmoni Apartment, Impian Apartment, Park Avenue Condominium, and
           Suria Shop Apartment

        2. Control arm: Permai Apartment, Lestari Apartment, Indah Apartment, and Vista Shop
           Apartment

      Activities to be carried out include:

      A. Questionnaire survey and blood taking for dengue seroprevalence among residents from both
      arms When people in the community are gathered at an identified, suitable area, the
      Knowledge, Attitude and Practice (KAP) questionnaires will be distributed for them to answer.
      After the questionnaire survey, about 3 ml of venous blood would be taken by trained
      personnel for dengue IgG and IgM serology.

      B. Placement of the GOS mosquito trap in the intervention arm The GOS mosquito traps will be
      placed in the intervention arm and serviced weekly. The trapped Aedes mosquitoes would be
      checked for dengue virus via dengue NS1 rapid diagnostic test kit.

      The GOS mosquito traps will also be placed randomly in the control arm once per month for
      entomological survey.

      C. If a dengue-positive mosquito is found, flyers and banners will be distributed and hung to
      inform the residents of the presence of dengue transmission in the apartment block/apartment.
      Alternatively, the residents may also be approached house-to-house or an educational booth
      set up at strategic locations in the apartment to warn and educate the residents.

      D. The KAP questionnaire survey will be carried out again 3 months before the completion of
      the trial in the intervention arm to gauge the communities' perception of this intervention.
    
  