
    
      -  Type of study : randomized clinical trial

        -  Study site: The study will be carried out at the Hospital Santa Casa de Londrina.

        -  Subjects: all patients scheduled for cardiac surgery will be studied ( CABG and / or
           valve replacement )

        -  Patients will be evaluated both preoperatively, and on the fifth postoperative day
           (POD). They will be informed about the procedures to which they will be submitted, as
           well as the objective of the proposed study preoperatively. If approved by the patient,
           the "Statement of Informed Consent - SIC" will be signed.

        -  Inclusion Criteria

           a. Individuals admitted to the Hospital Santa Casa de Londrina (HSCL) with programming
           for cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass, age above 18 years; and referral for
           surgery by the study teams. Individuals must be aware, informed, and agreed to
           participate in the study, including signing of SIC.

        -  Exclusion Criteria a. Individuals with cognitive impairment that prevents the
           implementation of spirometry (lung function ), manovacuometry (MIP and MEP) and
           incentive spirometry, below 18 years of age, patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary
           disease diagnosed by clinical history and spirometry ( FVC < 80 % predicted and / or
           FEV1 < 70 % predicted ) and individuals with a history of asthma.

      b . Patients will be withdrawn from the study and the Intention to Treat Analysis will be
      performed in the case of: patients who cannot be extubated because of the need for continuing
      mechanical ventilation after 24 hours of post-operative complications in the postoperative
      period; hemodynamic instability ; myocardial infarction during operation ; severe blood loss
      defined by the medical staff; loss of 20 % or more of total blood volume ( 12 ); mean
      arterial pressure (MAP ) < 70 mmHg,; reduced cardiac output requiring the use of intra-aortic
      balloon or vasoactive drugs for more than 72 hours, after ICU admission or need for new
      reintubation. Patients who did not agree to participate by not signing the SIC.

        -  Procedures and interventions a. randomization

           a.1 . After being selected by the inclusion criteria and had signed the informed consent
           preoperatively, patients will be allocated to one of two groups based on Consort ;

           a.2 . The allocation will be generated through a standardized random table. The
           allocation concealment will be ensured using opaque envelopes, sealed, and numbered
           serially. The envelope containing a card with the treatment will be opened by a
           secretary responsible for that.

        -  Formation of groups a. EI Group I - Intervention with flow-oriented incentive spirometry
           (IS) ( Trifllo ® - II ).

      b . BS Group II - Intervention with Breath- Stacking technique (BS).

        -  Recording and evaluation of the patient: patients included in the study will be recorded
           and evaluated by a physical therapist involved in the trial (blind) according to the
           standardized forms.

        -  Duration of the intervention: Both therapy modalities (Group I and Group II) will be
           held twice daily during the ICU stay, and once a day during hospitalization in the ward,
           until the fifth postoperative day. Each session will consist of three sets of five
           maneuvers.
    
  