
    
      People with Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) have narrow or blocked arteries that supply blood
      to the heart. Reduced blood flow to the heart muscle from CAD can cause chest pain or aching,
      especially with exercise or activity. CAD can lead to weakening of the heart muscle or heart
      failure, and a higher risk of heart attack or death. Certain proteins in the blood, known as
      biomarkers, can be found in people with CAD. Higher levels of these biomarkers are associated
      with a greater risk of complications from CAD. The purpose of this study is to see if a
      customized treatment based on biomarkers will reduce the biomarker levels and lead to lower
      risk of complications from CAD.

      Participants with high biomarker levels will be randomly assigned (like flipping a coin) to
      either the treatment group or usual care. Both groups will have physical exams, blood tests,
      and answer questionnaires. Participants in the treatment group will have their medications
      adjusted based on their biomarker levels. They will also be asked to make lifestyle changes
      like diet, exercise, and quitting smoking. Participants in the usual care group will receive
      the standard of care prescribed by their doctor.

      This study will take place in research rooms at Emory University Hospital and the Woodruff
      Memorial Research Building.

      Participants will be paid for being in the study.

      Participants will be recruited from Emory Healthcare outpatient cardiology clinics and cath
      labs. Participants will be identified through the medical record and by their doctors.
      Written consent will be obtained from Participants before they can join the study.

      Study data and blood samples will be collected and banked for possible research in the
      future. These may also be shared with other researchers including researchers outside of
      Emory.

      This study will advance scientific knowledge and benefit human health by giving us more
      treatment options for CAD.
    
  