
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of nedisertib (M3814) in combination with
      standard of care radiation dose (60 Gy, 2 Gy/fraction over 6 weeks) in patients with newly
      diagnosed MGMT unmethylated glioblastoma (GBM). (Stage I) II. To determine the ability of
      M3814 to cross the blood brain barrier and to evaluate its pharmacodynamic properties in
      resected tissue. (Stage II)

      SECONDARY AND EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the dose limiting toxicities (DLT). (Stage I) (Secondary Objective) II. To
      determine the overall response rate (ORR), median progression free survival (mPFS) and median
      overall survival (mOS) of M3814 in combination with radiation. (Stage I) (Secondary
      Objective) II. To determine the overall response rate (ORR), median progression free survival
      (mPFS) and median overall survival (mOS) of M3814 in combination with radiation. (Stage II)
      (Exploratory Objective)

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate pharmacodynamic properties of M3814. II. To assess the alterations in tumor
      immune microenvironment as a result of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)-dependent protein kinase
      (DNA-PK) inhibition.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of nedisertib. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2
      stages.

      STAGE I (CONCURRENT): Patients undergo standard of care radiation therapy daily
      (Monday-Friday) for 30 fractions. Patients also receive nedisertib orally (PO) on each day of
      radiation therapy and given 1-2 hours before each treatment fraction. Treatment continues for
      6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      STAGE I (ADJUVANT): Patients receive temozolomide PO once daily (QD) on days 1-5. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      STAGE II (CONCURRENT): Patients receive nedisertib and undergo standard of care radiation
      therapy as in Stage I. Within 1-14 days after the completion of radiation therapy, patients
      undergo surgical resection.

      STAGE II (ADJUVANT): Patients receive temozolomide as in Stage I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.
    
  