
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of ivosidenib in combination with
      fludarabine, cytarabine, plus granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) (FLAG)
      chemotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety profile of ivosidenib in combination with FLAG chemotherapy.

      II. To determine the rate of complete remission (CR + complete remission with incomplete
      hematological recovery [CRi] + complete remission with incomplete platelet recovery [CRp])
      with ivosidenib in combination with FLAG chemotherapy.

      III. To evaluate the 1 year progression free survival. IV. To evaluate the 1 year overall
      survival. V. To assess the number of patients that receive allogeneic stem cell transplant
      after ivosidenib in combination with FLAG chemotherapy.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess for minimal residual disease negativity by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for
      IDH1 mutations after treatment with ivosidenib in combination with FLAG chemotherapy.

      II. To assess for minimal residual disease negativity by PCR for IDH1 mutations after 3
      cycles of maintenance therapy.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION: Patients receive filgrastim subcutaneously (SC) once daily (QD) on days 0-6,
      fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV) QD over 30 minutes on days 1-5, cytarabine IV QD
      over 4 hours on days 1-5, and ivosidenib orally (PO) QD on days 7-28. Treatment continues for
      28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      CONSOLIDATION: Patients receive filgrastim SC QD on days 0-5, fludarabine phosphate IV QD
      over 30 minutes on days 1-4, cytarabine IV QD over 4 hours on days 1-4, and ivosidenib PO QD
      on days 1-28. Treatment continues for 28 days for 1 cycle in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE: Patients receive ivosidenib PO QD on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days
      for up to 26 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every month
      for up to 1 year.
    
  