
    
      One important goal in anesthetic management during ocular surgery is to provide adequate
      control of intraocular pressure (IOP). An increase in IOP may be catastrophic in patients
      with glaucoma or a penetrating open-eye injury. There is an ongoing debate over the effect of
      anesthetic agents on the IOP. Anesthetic regimens in this surgical field commonly consist of
      short-acting anesthetic agents, such as propofol and sevoflurane, usually combined with
      short-acting analgesics, such as remifentanil. Both propofol and sevoflurane are known to
      reduce the IOP. Previous studies have compared these two anesthetics protocols in order to
      determine which provides superior control of the IOP. Propofol produced significantly lower
      IOP measurements compared to sevoflurane (both combined with remifentanil), in cataract
      surgery, whereas in non-ophthalmic surgery propofol and sevoflurane caused a comparable
      decrease in IOP. Sevoflurane, an inhalational anesthetic, has a rapid onset of action faster
      recovery time and is also suitable for inhalation induction because it does not irritate the
      airway. A prospective randomized clinical trial compared the effects of ketamine and
      sevoflurane on IOP during the eight minutes after induction of anesthesia (in 2-minute
      intervals) in children with suspected or diagnosed glaucoma undergoing EUA. During these 8
      minutes the IOP decreased significantly only in the sevoflurane group. This finding
      contradicted claims that measurements immediately after induction are relatively unaffected
      by anesthetics and suggested that variations in sevoflurane concentration do affect the IOP.
      Yoshitake et al showed that the remarkable reductions of IOP after inductions are probably
      caused by induction agents, suggesting that sevoflurane is a useful anesthetic for elderly
      patients receiving ophthalmic surgeries. To this end there is no data in the literature to
      support or disprove this finding.

      Study Hypothesis Variations in the end-tidal sevoflurane concentrations have no significant
      effect on the IOP.
    
  