
    
      -  Study cycle:

             1. Check of criteria of inclusion/exclusion

             2. Informed consent

             3. Recording preoperative data via paper case report form

             4. Preoperative EIT measurement

             5. Postoperative EIT measurement

             6. Recording postoperative data via paper case report form

                Patients therapy and any diagnostic investigation during hospital stay (apart from
                EIT measurement) are performed appropriate to patients individual clinical needs
                and are independent from participation in this clinical trial. As PPC may result
                from surgical complications (e.g. intra- /postoperative bleeding, anastomotic leak,
                infection of the wound, injury of neighboring organs) they are monitored.

        -  Statistical analysis:

      Sample size:

      After consultation of Johannes-Gutenberg-University Institute of Medical Biometry and
      Epidemiology the following procedure was developed: Pre-analysis with 20 patients, then
      determination of definitive sample size (advised 80 patients).

      Population:

      Any registered patient is included in population even if no study-treatment was performed. To
      fulfill Pre-Protocol-Population-criteria EIT-measurement has to be performed before and after
      elective epigastric surgery and information about PPC must be revealable from patients
      medical file/records.

        -  Analysis of efficacy:

             1. Primary objective:

                (A) Incidence of any PPC (postoperative pulmonary complication) until postoperative
                day 7; Acquisition of PPC might require diagnostic investigation during hospital
                stay; investigations are only performed appropriate to patients individual clinical
                needs. As PPC are defined:

                  -  I: desaturation, increased oxygen demand (data from electronic health record)

                  -  II: dys-/atelectasis, pleural effusion, pneumothorax, pulmonary vein
                     congestion (data from thoracic x-ray)

                  -  III: detected respiratory infection/pneumonia, pulmonary edema, Aspiration,
                     non-invasive/CPAP-Ventilation, necessity of pleural drain/of bronchoscopy
                     (data from electronic health record, x-ray)

                  -  IV: Reintubation (data from electronic health record), ARDS (according to
                     Berlin Definition)

                (B) regional Distribution of Ventilation (Analysis of EIT raw data pre- and
                postoperative in 4 regions of interest: ventral, mid-ventral, mid-dorsal, dorsal;
                correlation between PPC and difference in regional Distribution of Ventilation at
                defined moment)

             2. Secondary objective: post-hoc Analysis (see down Secondary Outcome Measure)

                Average, Median, Quartile, Standard Deviation are detected and shown in Box-plots
                (type of graphic). Explorative comparison of parameters is effected by t-Test,
                Mann-Whitney-U-Test, Fisher-Test dependent on normal distribution.

        -  Quality assurance and data management Design, execution and analyzation of the study is
           ICH-GCP-conform (Good-Clinical-Practice-Guideline of the International Conference on
           Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human
           Use). All responsible persons are obliged to good clinical practice. All changes in
           study protocol are to be authorized by responsible Ethics Committee. The P.I. is
           responsible for source data verification to assess the accuracy, completeness, or
           representativeness of registry data by comparing the data to external data sources
           (e.g., medical records, paper or electronic case report forms).

      Prior to written informed consent all patients are to be informed about character and
      consequences of the study. With their signature patients permit collection and use of source
      data. Every patient receives an Identification code for pseudonymization of data. Analyzation
      and publication of data is effected anonymously only. Data collection is mainly provided in
      an electronic data base, besides in a paper-based Case Report Form. All electronic and
      paper-based data and archived in our Clinical Research Center and are accessible for
      authorized persons (Monitor, Auditor). The study protocol does not provide audits.
    
  