
    
      Poor sleep quality and sleep disturbances are common in patients with rheumatoid arthritis
      and are associated with an increased risk of co-morbidity, including cardiovascular diseases,
      diabetes, hypertension, and all-cause mortality. In addition, poor sleep quality is
      associated with fatigue, pain and physical disability. Few studies have examined the
      possibilities of improving sleep in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, and the focus has
      primarily been on medical treatment. Aerobic exercise training constitutes a potentially
      promising, non-pharmacological alternative to improve sleep in healthy people and patients
      with insomnia.

      The present study is a blinded randomized controlled trial of 44 patients with a diagnosis of
      rheumatoid arthritis.

      The aim is to examine the effect of an aerobic exercise intervention, consisting of 18
      exercise sessions, on sleep quality and sleep disturbances in patients with rheumatoid
      arthritis who experience poor sleep quality.

      The primary hypothesis is that moderate to high intensity aerobic exercise will improve
      objective measured (by polysomnography) sleep quality and sleep disturbances. The secondary
      hypothesis is that the intervention may improve fitness, subjective sleep quality and
      physical function as well as reduce pain, fatigue, depressive symptoms and improve
      health-related quality of life.

      The study will provide evidence on the effect of moderate-to-high-intensity aerobic exercise
      on the improvement of sleep in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Specifically, the results
      are expected to provide important evidence about the potential of interval training to
      improve quality of sleep and sleep disturbances. As such, the study meets a currently unmet
      need for non-pharmacological treatment initiatives of poor sleep in patients with a systemic
      inflammatory disorder.
    
  