
    
      Disability is a life-long condition that involves different care needs and includes many
      psychosocial problems. Having a disabled child is for all family members; creates stress. In
      the studies, it was found that mothers with disabled children were more stressed and their
      anxiety levels were higher. There are many disabled people in Turkey and researches related
      to the caregiver, although there is not enough research on these people. Since activity
      limitations, participation restrictions and social and physical barriers are different in
      each disability group, caregivers' influences may also be different. Comparing the quality of
      life of caregivers of different disability groups and guiding the family in line with the
      results obtained is important for public health. It is known that the mothers of children
      with physical disabilities have more symptoms of depression depending on the functional
      levels of the children. The severity of depression was also found to be higher in people with
      physical disabilities than other disability groups. In addition, it has been shown that there
      is a positive relationship between the time spent on care of the child and the level of
      strain of caregivers. As the time spent on care may vary in different types of disability,
      families' levels of distress and anxiety may also be different. This is the rehabilitation
      services; In addition to the physiotherapy applied to physically disabled individuals, it is
      thought that the social needs of caregivers should be determined and met.In the literature,
      there are no studies comparing the effects of disease, anxiety levels and quality of life of
      parents with Muscular Dystrophy (MD), Spina Bifida (SB), Cerebral Palsy (SP) and Down
      Syndrome (DS). This study was planned to investigate the quality of life, anxiety level,
      family effects and social effects of the mothers with different physical disabilities.
    
  