
    
      Aim To determine the mean and standard deviation for Echocardiographic 2 dimensional, Doppler
      and strain parameters in Indian population and compare it with the reference range
      established by ASE

      Materials and Methods After getting ethical clearance and informed patient consent, the study
      will be performed in 150 individuals who visit pre-anaesthetic check up (PAC) clinic for
      minor surgery which includes plastic, rhino-otolaryngeal, ophthalmologic, orthopaedic,
      abdominal, urological, gynaecological surgeries, who are free of cardiac disease or any known
      risk factors for the cardiac disease like chronic alcoholism, chronic smoking, metabolic
      syndrome, morbid obesity. The duration of study will be from October 2017 to June 2018 or
      till 150 individual studied.

      Echocardiographic Study For all the individual electrocardiogram (ECG) integrated TTE will be
      done using general electric (GE) Echocardiographic machine using the cardiac probe of
      frequency 5 Hz in supine or left lateral position in a comfortable environment. All images
      will be recorded as per the ASE recommendations and the images will be analysed by echo
      cardiographer accredited by the national board of echocardiography. Three consecutive cardiac
      cycles were measured and average of the three will be taken for analysis.

      Image acquisition By placing the Transducer in the left third or fourth intercostal space
      adjacent to the sternum parasternal short axis (PSAX) view is obtained, by tilting the probe
      superiorly and inferiorly, the true short axis view of the LV where both the papillary muscle
      are seen. Parasternal long axis (PLAX) view is formed by rotating the probe perpendicular
      from the true PSAX view. By applying M mode across the tip of the MV in PLAX view the end
      diastolic, end systolic dimensions of LV, posterior wall and inter-ventricular septum
      thickness, relative wall thickness (RWT) and LV internal dimension will be measured from
      leading edge to leading edge.1 From the same image FS, LVEF by Teicholtz method, LV mass by
      linear cube method will be calculated.

      LV EF (Teicholtz)32 :

      LVEDV = 7/(2.4+LVEDD) X LVEDD3 LVESV = 7/(2.4+LVESD) X LVESD3 LV FS32 = (LVEDD-LVESD/LVEDD) x
      100 LV mass in grams = 0.8x{1.04x[(IVSd+PWd+LVEDD)3 - LVIDD3]} +0.6.1 RWT = (2 X PW
      thickness)/ LVEDD.33

      By moving the transducer cranially and medially towards sternum, and by placing M mode across
      the aortic sinus, perpendicular to the long axis of the aorta, LA AP diameter will be
      measured from leading edge to leading edge at the end of systole. From the same 2D image the
      aortic annulus, sino-tubular junction (STJ), aortic sinus and ascending aorta diameter will
      be measured from leading edge to leading edge.1 By tilting the probe from the PLAX view
      towards the sternum, the distal RVOT will be in view and diameter of which is measured from
      the leading edge to the leading edge. Proximal RVOT diameter is measured from the leading
      edge to the leading edge at the diastole in PSAX view in which the right ventricular (RV)
      inflow and outflow is visible,31 in the same view the diameter of the pulmonary valve (PV)
      annulus will be measured.

      On palpation, the apical impulse will be identified and by placing the transducer in that
      point with the probe pointing toward the right shoulder, apical 4 chamber (A4C) view is
      obtained. The image will be optimized to get the maximum length of the LV to avoid
      foreshortening by identifying the pinching apex. LV end systolic volume (LVESV) and EDV and
      EF will be measured by Simpson's method. And by applying pulse wave Doppler with the sample
      volume at the tip of the mitral leaflet, mitral valve E, A velocity and deceleration time and
      A wave duration are calculated.

      In the same image by applying Tissue Doppler (TDI) over mitral valve lateral and septal
      annulus e', a', S', TEI index, isovolumic relaxation time (IVRT) and isovolumic contraction
      time (IVCT) are calculated. TEI index is calculated using the formula (IVRT+IVCT)/ET, where
      ET is the ejection time. By applying M mode across the lateral annulus of the MV, mitral
      annular plane systolic excursion (MAPSE) is measured in cms. All the Doppler measurement will
      be done with the acceptable alignment between the cursor angle and movement of the tissue or
      blood flow (<20 degree).

      Strain will be measured for both the lateral and septal wall of the LV in the same image.

      By tilting the probe towards sternum and bringing the TV in the focus, the apical RV focussed
      view is formed. TV annulus, RV basal and mid diameter and the RV length are measured from the
      leading edge to the leading edge. And by applying TDI at the lateral annulus of TV e', a',
      s', TEI index are measured. On applying M mode across the lateral annulus, tricuspid annular
      plane systolic excursion (TAPSE) is measured. FAC which is measured by {RV diastolic area
      (DA) - RV systolic area (SA)}/ RV DA, and RV lateral wall strain are measured.

      Subcostal view is obtained by placing the probe in the xiphi-sternum directing towards the
      left shoulder. Patient can be asked to flex the legs to make the abdominal wall relax for the
      placement of the probe. The RV lateral wall thickness and TV annulus diameter is measured in
      the subcostal 4 chamber view. And on placing the probe vertically with the pointer directed
      cephalad the inferior vena cava (IVC) is seen in the long axis which can be used for
      measuring the IVC diameter at the end expiration.

      All measurements were divided by BSA for the indexed measurements. The peak of R wave and the
      beginning of the T wave in the ECG are used to identify the end of diastole and end of
      systole respectively while performing measurement.
    
  