
    
      Background and objectives:

      This study is driven by the hypothesis that provision of task-orientated training via a
      non-immersive virtual reality platform enhances upper limb motor and neural function more
      than current routine physical therapy for people with stroke. Before this hypothesis can be
      tested in a randomised controlled clinical trial. If evidence of concept is found, then the
      next step is identification of the optimum therapeutic dose of exercised-based therapy
      delivered via the Virtualrehab Platform as a precursor to a clinical efficacy trial. The
      specific objectives of the study reported here were:

        1. to assess the acceptability and usability of the VirtualRehab platform for delivery of
           stroke rehabilitation at home:

        2. to find if stroke survivors adhere to 'prescribed' use of the VirtualRehab platform over
           a 12-week period;

        3. to assess the viability of using randomised length of baselines and repeated measures
           during the intervention period to inform subsequent study to find the optimum
           therapeutic dose

        4. to estimate how a 12-week period of

      Design:

      A series of replicated single case studies with an AB design (2.1). During the A, control,
      phase participants will not receive the experimental intervention. Participants will receive
      the experimental intervention during the B phase. At the beginning of the control phase,
      participants will complete the measurement battery. These will be the baseline-one measures.
      The measurement battery will be repeated at the end of the baseline phase (baseline-two) and
      at the end of the intervention phase (outcome). Progress measures will be made at the end of
      every week of the intervention (B) phase.

      Both sets of baselines and the outcome measures will be taken in the Movement and Exercise
      Laboratory (MovExLab) at the University of East Anglia (UEA). Progress measures will be made
      in participants' homes. The control phase will last for a randomised period of between one
      and four weeks. The time period for the control phase will be decided for each participant by
      a randomised sequence generated before the study begins, by a researcher independent of the
      research team for this study. The intervention phase will last for 12 weeks. During the
      intervention phase, each participant will undertake weekly progress measures in their home.
      These will be administered by the researchers prescribing and monitoring training. At the end
      of the control and the intervention phase, all participants will participate in a 1:1
      semi-structured interview with the researcher.

      A group of adults without any reported neurological damage undertook the measurement battery
      to provide reference values. The measurement battery and progress measures are described
      below.
    
  