
    
      Critically ill patients have low plasma levels of vitamin C. Additionally, ascorbic acid
      levels were inversely correlated with multi-organ dysfunction. Several studies have shown the
      benefit of using Vitamin C for treatment of critically ill patients; these benefits included
      dose dependent decrease in the SOFA score, lower vasopressor doses and duration, and lower
      fluid resuscitation requirements. Additionally, Intravenous Vitamin C has been shown to be
      safe and tolerable.

      A small study demonstrated that septic shock is associated with thiamine deficiency.
      Additionally, a randomized controlled trial has shown that intravenous thiamine has decreased
      lactate levels and mortality in a subgroup of patients with thiamine deficiency. However,
      this benefit was not observed in the entire population of the study.

      A recent study examined the effect of early treatment of patients with severe sepsis and
      septic shock with a combination of hydrocortisone, vitamin C, and thiamine and demonstrated a
      significant reduction in mortality as well as preventing organ failure progression. In this
      study, It has been suggested that this combination of the three agents work synergistically.
      The use of hydrocortisone in combination with vitamin C will increase the transport of
      vitamin C into the cells; since the pro inflammatory cytokines have shown to decrease the
      expression of the sodium-vitamin C transporter-2 (SVCT2) while glucocorticoids increase the
      SVCT2 expression. In an in vitro study a combination of hydrocortisone and vitamin C
      preserved the endothelial integrity of the lung vascular endothelial cells which was exposed
      to endotoxins. On the other hand either agent alone was not effective in comparison to
      placebo.

      The objective of the current study is to explore the clinical benefits of using a combination
      of hydrocortisone, vitamin C, and thiamine (triple therapy) for the management of septic
      shock. To achieve this objective, we will compare two alternative treatment strategies,
      either triple therapy or usual care in patients with septic shock.

      First aim: To assess the effectiveness of the triple therapy for septic shock Second aim: To
      assess the safety of triple therapy

        1. Study Sites The study will be conducted in two hospitals (4 intensive care units)
           throughout the State of Qatar. All of the participating sites are part of Hamad Medical
           Corporation; the sites will include the MICU and SICU at Hamad General Hospital and the
           MICU and SICU at Al Wakra Hospital.

        2. Initial screening The initial assessment will take place in the ED, inpatient ward,
           medical or surgical intensive care unit after the patient has been assessed by the
           clinical team. If the primary diagnosis is septic shock, the clinical team will follow
           the hospital septic shock pathway. The diagnosis of septic shock as well as the type of
           the suspected infection will be left to the discretion of the patient's clinical team.
           Initial management according to the hospital septic shock pathway includes: giving IV
           fluids bolus, oxygen (if needed), and antibiotic based on the hospital antibiotic
           guidelines; and taking blood lactate, blood cultures, and other blood tests.

        3. Recruitment and consent signing All patients who present to the study site's ED),
           inpatient ward, medical or surgical intensive care unit and diagnosed with septic shock
           will be approached for study participation. Each site will follow the Ministry of Public
           health in Qatar, MRC and the IRB guidelines regarding HIPAA authorization, informed
           consent and use of the Deferred Consent. Prior to obtaining consent or waiver, all
           potential subjects will undergo standard of care management procedures.

           The clinical team will obtain potential subject or legally authorized representative
           (LAR)/family agreement (verbally, but noted by ED, inpatient ward, MICU or SICU provider
           on screening form) to be approached by the study representative to participate. This
           will avoid "cold calling" coercion that could occur if direct contact by research team
           members was the initial method of assessing willingness to enroll. If that agreement is
           obtained, a trained study representative will approach the potential subject to gain
           written authorization and consent.

           In situations where the potential subject is unable to provide written authorization and
           consent, and their LAR/family is not available, it is permissible to use the Deferred
           Consent. Sites will seek this consent waiver according to the local standards and
           procedures.Detailed description of the recruitment and consent signing are available in
           the study protocol approved by the IRB

        4. Randomization and initiation of study The investigators will assure that physicians
           (members of the study team) are available to prescribe the study interventions (triple
           therapy) in the ED, inpatient ward and the ICU, and will assure that required
           documentation of authorization and consent, or the Deferred Consent have been properly
           completed prior to enrollment in the study. Randomization will be 1:1 into each arm and
           will be done by computer via a web-based randomization system. If consent is refused, No
           data will be collected, as the IRB does not approve of any information collection for
           research from the patients if consent is not provided.

           The study investigator will inform the clinical team as soon as the treatment allocation
           is assigned. If the subject is assigned to the usual care, the clinical team will follow
           the hospital septic shock pathway. If the subject is assigned to the triple therapy arm,
           the clinical team will follow the hospital septic shock pathway plus the addition of the
           triple therapy as described previously in this protocol. The assigned clinical team will
           continue to provide all other aspects of care to the subject.

        5. Study coordination and randomization details:

           Each study site will be led by a designated site coordinator. These individuals will
           attend the study training sessions at the Hamad General Hospital then they will in turn
           train physicians and nurses at their site to execute all relevant study procedures.

           The site coordinator will assure that study-trained physicians and nurses are available
           to perform the study interventions in the ED, inpatient ward and the ICU, and will be
           responsible to assure that study required documentation have been properly completed
           prior to enrollment in the study.

           Once the consent is obtained, inclusion criteria and other baseline data will be entered
           into a web-based enrollment application.

           Stratified block randomization will be used in the ratio of 1:1. Randomization will be
           stratified by study sites and will be done completely at random in order to conceal
           group allocation. Each enrolled subject will be assigned an identification number. If
           consent is refused, baseline characteristics will be collected to compare patients who
           did and did not enroll in the study to be used for analysis of potential selection bias
           and to determine the generalizability of the study results.

           Once a patient is allocated to triple therapy arm, the site coordinator will inform the
           clinical team and the intervention will begin in addition to other aspects of usual care

        6. Study interventions

             1. Protocol delivery When a subject is assigned to the triple therapy, the study team
                receives a packet of the study materials. These will include an instruction sheet
                that outlines the protocol arm with accompanying data collection forms (flowsheet).
                A similar data collection form but without instructions or prompts, will be used by
                the site investigator for subjects in the 'usual care' arm to ensure equivalent
                data collection.

                If the subject is transferred from the ED or inpatient ward to the ICU and the
                protocol will continue as planned. At the end of the 7 days intervention, study
                medications will be discontinued to the extent possible.

             2. Data variables collected Study data in both arms will be collected by the unit
                study coordinator as per the study protocol, reviewed by the co-primary
                investigators, and will then become part of the subject's research record.

        7. Adverse and disease-related events The research group will be responsible for notifying
           the DSMB regarding all reported AEs as per the definition and the procedures in the
           study protocol.

        8. Data collection and statistical considerations Aim #1 and Aim #2: Mortality and
           Morbidity benefits:The primary hypotheses to be tested sequentially as part of Aim 1
           are: Hypothesis 1, that triple therapy results in lower hospital mortality than usual
           care (arm A vs. arm B) and; Hypothesis 2, that that triple therapy results in lower
           hospital morbidity than usual care (arm A vs. arm B) The primary hypothesis to be tested
           as part of Aim 2 is that triple therapy results in no more adverse effects than placebo

        9. Sample size We estimated that a total of 188 patients will give the study a power more
           than 80% to detect a relative risk reduction of approximately 50% in the primary outcome
           between the two arms assuming that the mortality in the control arm will be around 40%
           (based on institutional data and mortality rate in the control group of Marik study)
           using a two-sided test at significance level of 0.05.

           To be able to perform the interim analysis after recruitment of 50% of patients, the
           sample size is increased to 190 patients. We decided to enroll 212 patients (106 in each
           group) to account for 10% possible withdrawals.

       10. Analysis plan The trial is designed to test the primary hypothesis (whether triple
           therapy is superior to usual care for treatment of septic shock).

             1. Descriptive analysis:

                Baseline characteristics and outcome data will be described as mean with standard
                deviation for continuous variables, median with interquartile range for ordinal
                variables and frequencies and percentages for categorical variables. The baseline
                characteristics will be compared between the two arms to observe balance and the
                success of randomization. These comparisons will not be subjected to statistical
                testing; as such tests are not recommended.

             2. Primary outcome: the number and percentage of hospital mortality after
                randomization will be reported for each treatment group. A multivariate logistic
                regression will be used with adjusted for APACHE II score at baseline. At the final
                analysis, the null hypothesis will be rejected when p<0.048. Analysis will be
                performed according to intention to treat principle.

       11. Interim analysis is planned after recruitment of 50% of the predefined sample size (50
           patients in each group). Decision to terminate the study at the interim analysis will be
           based on the O'Brien-Fleming boundary and will be taken by the DSMB as per the protocol.
           Thus, the study will be terminated if the two-sided P value of statistic test at the
           interim analysis is less than 0.005 and a boundary P value of 0.048 will be used for the
           statistical testing at the final analysis. If the intervention shows clinical
           superiority (defined as relative risk reduction of 10% or more) compared to usual care
           at the interim analysis but doesn't meet the statistical criteria for early termination,
           sample size adjustment will be performed. In this case, the sample size will be
           recalculated based on the observed event rates in both groups.
    
  