
    
      Aims and Hypotheses Aims

        1. To determine whether routine preoperative focused cardiac ultrasound (FCU) leads to a
           reduced composite outcome of death, major adverse cardiac events, and acute renal
           failure (adverse composite outcome) 30 days after hip fracture surgery compared to
           patients who do not receive preoperative FCU (current standard of care).

        2. To identify the changes in team management of the patient due to FCU that are associated
           with improved outcome, compared to current standard of care.

        3. To determine whether routine preoperative FCU is more cost-effective than current
           standard of care.

      Hypotheses

        1. FCU reduces adverse composite outcome by at least 20%, 30 days after hip fracture
           surgery.

        2. FCU leads to changes in cardiac diagnosis, and subsequent changes to perioperative and
           post-discharge management plans, which are associated with improved outcome compared to
           current standard of care.

        3. Routine FCU before hip fracture surgery is more cost-effective than current standard of
           care.

      Identifying cardiovascular disease: Preoperative cardiac assessment, which enables improved
      cardiac treatment and reduction of cardiac complications, is recommended by the American
      Heart Association. However, cardiovascular disease is often unrecognised and under-diagnosed
      in this age group because of frailty, general immobility, and the high frequency of poor
      cognitive function including dementia, which inhibits accurate clinical assessment. Careful
      cardiac assessment and treatment is often not undertaken because of the belief that surgery
      should be performed urgently and a delay for cardiac investigations may worsen outcome.

      Cardiac risk factors for death after hip fracture surgery (cardiac failure, aortic stenosis,
      pulmonary hypertension and right ventricular hypertrophy) cannot be reliably diagnosed with
      clinical examination and require echocardiography (FCU or transthoracic echocardiography
      (TTE)). Although a pulmonary embolus cannot be reliably diagnosed with echocardiography, the
      haemodynamic effects from a significant pulmonary embolus are readily seen (right ventricular
      dilatation and failure). Currently, preoperative TTE is only used in selected patients, based
      on the clinical assessment and the opinion of the clinician as to whether it is justified. If
      the anaesthetist reviews the patient just prior to surgery and is concerned about
      cardiovascular disease, there is a lot of pressure to proceed with booked surgery due to the
      current belief that early surgery saves lives, rather than to delay surgery for a TTE.
      Treatment is therefore often based on "best guess" clinical assessment. This management
      approach may lead to inadequate treatment with resultant hypotension, leading to organ
      failure and death.

      Focused Cardiac Ultrasound (FCU): The conventional TTE investigation is ordered by the
      treating doctor, performed by a technician and reported by a cardiologist or radiologist at a
      later time. The TTE provides detailed information on structure and function of all of the
      valves and chambers and is also referred to as diagnostic echocardiography. A TTE or other
      complex cardiovascular investigation leads to delay, as the process of obtaining a TTE and
      then waiting for the report may take days depending on resource availability. Any
      echocardiography examination is a "snapshot" in time, and heart function can change between
      the performance of the TTE and the commencement of surgery. A FCU utilises the same
      echocardiography techniques as conventional TTE but is performed as a bedside test by the
      treating doctor to answer a clinical question to aid clinical decision-making in real time.
      It provides specific information relevant to perioperative care in time for acute
      resuscitation and potentially life-saving decision-making.

      A type of FCU, iHeartScanTM , that is specifically designed for critical and perioperative
      care has been developed by the Ultrasound Education Group at The University of Melbourne. FCU
      has been confirmed to be as accurate as comprehensive TTE for purposes of acute clinical
      care. FCU has been endorsed by The American Society of Echocardiography and embraced by the
      critical care community.

      The case for equipoise: The conventional approach to proceed to early surgery without delay
      for cardiovascular investigations is contrary to the proof-of-concept data that preoperative
      FCU may reduce mortality through the provision of better cardiovascular diagnostic
      information, leading to management changes. The use of conventional TTE, however, causes
      considerable delay to surgery, which may increase mortality risk. FCU has the advantage of
      providing improved diagnosis without causing substantial delay to surgery, and can therefore
      is additive to rather than competitive with current "best practice". An economic analysis of
      routine FCU has not been performed.

      Feasibility of the trial - the ECHONOF II trial In the preliminary study, feasibility of
      routine FCU in hip fracture surgery was demonstrated, with more than one patient per week at
      one centre. To determine feasibility of the proposed outcome randomised controlled trial
      (RCT) a pilot study of feasibility, safety, protocol compliance and group separation will be
      conducted in 2016 at 4-5 sites across Australia, with the lead site at Royal Melbourne
      Hospital. The pilot study analysis will include patients recruited who have 30-day data
      available a in 2016, though data will continue to be collected out to 12 months.

      The pilot study protocol will be the same as the proposed (future) definitive clinical trial
      , but the endpoints are aimed at assessing feasibility and compliance.

        1. Feasibility outcomes

             1. the number of patients screened: recruited ratio < 4:1

             2. recruitment rate of 1 patient/week/centre

        2. Safety

             1. No harm to patients from performing FCU

             2. No surgical delay > 1 hour by waiting for FCU to be performed

        3. Protocol Compliance

             1. FCU performed < 24 hrs. of surgery

             2. Treating team notified of FCU result

             3. Follow up at all time points (unless death)

             4. Incidence of comprehensive TTE in standard group before and after surgery

             5. Adverse complications adjudication performed by the adjudication committee

        4. Group separation

             1. Completion of preoperative and actual perioperative management plans in both groups

             2. Analysis for difference in diagnosis and management between groups: aim > 20%
                difference between groups

      Research protocol Trial Design: A parallel group, randomised controlled, multicentre trial
      with 1:1 allocation ratio.

      Participants: Patients presenting with isolated, primary, non-metastatic fractured neck of
      femur, where surgery is expected within 48 hours after hospital admission will be recruited.
      Patients with prior hip surgery on the affected side, or where the cause is likely to be due
      to metastatic cancer, or where survival is unlikely in the 24 hours from admission will not
      be included.

      Settings and Locations: teaching and regional hospitals in Australia with a high volume of
      hip fracture surgery and the necessary equipment and expertise to perform FCU have agreed to
      participate.

      Intervention: Participants randomised to the FCU group will receive a preoperative FCU
      performed by an independent operator within 24 hours of planned surgery, following The
      University of Melbourne iHeartScanTM protocol. Patients randomised to the standard care group
      will not undergo FCU before surgery.

      There are no restrictions on the treating team in either group determining what management
      they will employ, including anaesthesia technique, surgical management, perioperative care
      and preoperative investigations including comprehensive TTE by the cardiology department.
      However the treatment of patients will be recorded, allowing comparison of the effect of FCU
      on diagnosis and management between groups.

      The control group will represent the standard of care in each of the participating hospitals.
      This typically includes early surgery with minimal preoperative investigations. Some
      patients, however, based on the clinical assessment of their treating doctors, will have
      additional investigations such as comprehensive TTE, which could result in changes in
      management including an associated delay in surgery. This trial will not interfere with the
      standard of care management, and, once recruited, patients will remain in the standard of
      care group even if they receive comprehensive TTE or have delayed surgery. Treatment in both
      groups will be according to individual and institutional practice, working with the
      diagnostic information available at the time.

      Randomisation: Randomisation codes will be in blocks using a web-based automatic enrolment
      system to participating institutions in order to facilitate recruitment across different time
      zones and out-of-hours cases. Patients will be stratified to severity of surgery (hip
      replacement/hemiarthroplasty, or femoral fixation) and institution (tertiary referral, or
      non-tertiary metropolitan/ regional hospitals). The randomisation sequence will be generated
      using a computer random sequence generator for each strata in blocks of 10 to ensure close
      balance of the numbers in each group at any one time during the trial.

      Allocation concealment and implementation: The allocation sequence will be concealed by the
      web-based enrolment system. The site research staff will recruit patients and organise an in
      dependent practitioner to perform FCU (or not). The independent practitioner will receive the
      allocation and whether to perform FCU or not, and place the completed or blank FCU form in a
      sealed envelope. The treating doctors will first complete a management plan before opening
      the envelope to obtain the completed or blank FCU form. The FCU form will then be placed in a
      second sealed envelope which is not opened until the allocation sequence is revealed. The
      research staff who will collect outcome data are not involved in patient recruitment and will
      therefore be blinded to group allocation. The central trial monitor who adjudicates outcomes
      with the assistance of 2 clinicians are also blinded to allocation.

      Statistical methods: The Statistical Consulting Group (University of Melbourne), supervised
      by team statistician Dr Sandy Clarke,will advise and supervise statistical methods, data
      management, integrity, security and analysis. The primary outcome will be compared between
      FCU and control groups using binary logistic regression, with the control group as the
      reference category. The survival times will be analysed using Cox proportional hazards
      regression. A pre-determined sub-group analysis will separate those with and without an
      existing TTE in the previous 12 months. Relative risk of death will be analysed using Cox
      proportional hazard regression. Patterns of management and relative risk (of death) will be
      compared between groups using a two-sample t-test including sub-group analysis of pathology
      identified by FCU (e.g., hypovolaemia, cardiac failure and aortic stenosis).

      Clinical trial coordination: The trial will be managed through the Department of Surgery, The
      University of Melbourne. This will include all aspects of trial control, data collation, and
      site co-ordination. An independent committee including a statistician, clinical trial
      monitor, clinician, and member of the Melbourne Health Human Research Ethics Committee will
      oversee trial safety and data integrity. The committee will perform a planned, blinded
      interim analysis, after 50% recruitment.

      Endpoint adjudication committee An end point committee consisting of a trial monitor and 2
      clinicians, blinded to treatment allocation, will be established to adjudicate the non-fatal
      cardiovascular events at 6 monthly intervals. This committee will also advise on event rate,
      (blinded) group separation, feasibility and stopping rules.
    
  