
    
      Background: There is tremendous controversy regarding the adequacy/effectiveness of the
      nutritional care provided in VA Transitional Care Units (TCUs). The interrelationship between
      concurrent inflammatory disease, the adequacy of a resident's nutrient consumption, the
      development or resolution of putative nutritional deficits, and clinical outcomes is not
      established. Given the known obstacles to increasing nutrient intake (e.g. cost, resident
      acceptance, associated morbidity) and the lack of proven effectiveness of all forms of
      nutrition support and nutritional supplementation to improve clinical outcomes, a better
      understanding of these interrelationships is needed and will be the focus of this study.

      Objectives: The primary objective of this study is to determine how best to define
      nutritional risk (i.e., risk for adverse clinical outcomes due to inadequate nutrient intake)
      among older VA TCU residents. As part of this objective, we will seek to develop a better
      understanding of the interrelationship between nutrient intake, weight change, serum
      concentration of albumins, health status/illness severity, and mortality. The secondary
      objective is to develop a prediction model for identifying which TCU residents are likely to
      have ongoing problems with low nutrient intake. The ultimate objective is to develop a
      clinically useful system to identify residents who are likely to benefit from specific
      interventions aimed at improving nutritional risk.

      Methods: To meet these objectives, 400 older, non-terminally ill veterans admitted to a VA
      TCU (where average length of stay is approximately 90 days) will be prospectively studied
      using the same methodologic approach validated in prior VA hospital-based investigations.
      After completing a comprehensive admission assessment, each subject will be monitored closely
      throughout his/her TCU stay with serial nutrient intake and recurring metabolic, functional,
      neuropsychological, cognitive, nutritional, and medical assessments. Weights,
      anthropometrics, and blood for serum proteins, inflammatory markers (e.g., cytokines), and
      other select lab indices will be obtained at least monthly until discharged. Resting
      metabolic rate (by indirect calorimetry) will be obtained on select residents. Each subject
      will remain in the study for 12 months. From discharge through the end of the subject's study
      year, each subject will be monitored by phone to determine survival and days of institutional
      (e.g., hospital, NH) care. At study's end, strengths of associations will be assessed using
      univariable and multivariable analytic techniques including logistic and Cox
      Proportional-Hazards analyses.

      Findings: See citations linked.

      Status: Status: Funding began 9-1-2005. Subject recruitment began 3-1-2006. To date, we have
      recruited 446 subjects into the study. 446 subjects have been discharged from the inpatient
      phase of the study. The average length of stay for these subjects is 32 days.

      Impact: Our study will provide a clearer understanding of what factors contribute to the
      apparent nutritional deficits seen in many older veterans residing in VA nursing home TCUs.
      The study will also lead to the development of a clinically useful system to identify TCU
      residents who are likely to benefit from specific interventions aimed at improving
      nutritional risk and thus clinical outcomes.
    
  