
    
      While pulmonary hypertension is frequently present in COPD, particularly in the presence of
      hypoxemia, it is generally limited to a mild increase in mean pulmonary artery pressure in
      the face of a normal cardiac output.

      Apart from this classical and widely observed profile of PH with modestly elevated mPAP, some
      COPD patients are characterized by higher levels of mPAP at rest, fulfilling the definition
      of moderate or severe PH . This kind of PH may be observed in patients presenting with a
      severe obstructive disease, but sometimes contrasts with a mild or moderate obstruction. In
      the latter case, the term disproportionate PH has been proposed, but it can be extended to
      describe all COPD patients with moderate to- severe PH.

      Therefore, it is possible that in some patients with COPD, pulmonary hypertension contributes
      to the clinical picture because of right ventricular output limitation and is responsible for
      the poor prognosis of these patients, which is similar to that in primary pulmonary arterial
      hypertension.

      The exact incidence of clinically significant pulmonary hypertension, defined as pulmonary
      hypertension that contributes to symptomatology and prognosis, is difficult to estimate in
      COPD. A prevalence of 5.8%- 13.5% in patients seems reasonable which would suggest an
      incidence of 1-3/10,000, which is 100 times the incidence of idiopathic pulmonary arterial
      hypertension.

      These patients are characterized by marked effort dyspnea , profound hypoxemia, hypocapnia,
      moderate airway obstruction and a very low DLCO.

      PH in COPD was an independent prognostic factor. Indeed, patients with similar airflow
      limitation had lower life expectancy when PH was resent. Patients with PH had a significantly
      lower survival rate at 5 yrs compared with patients without PH (33 versus 66%). Pathologic
      studies that stemmed from long-term oxygen trials pointed to the fact that pulmonary vascular
      remodeling in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is more than just medial
      hypertrophy from long-lasting hypoxic vasoconstriction. In these patients, all vessel wall
      layers appear to be involved, with intimal changes actually being the most prominent. Major
      remodeling of all pulmonary arterial vessel layers explains why pulmonary hypertension in
      COPD is often not,or minimally, reversible by supplemental oxygen, acutely or chronically.
      The pathobiology of pulmonary artery remodeling in advanced COPD remains incompletely
      explored. There are data supporting an endothelium-derived vasoconstrictor-dilator imbalance,
      mainly from a decreased endothelial nitric oxide expression. Plasma levels of ET-1 are
      increased both in patients with severe COPD and there is evidence that ETA and ETB receptor
      expression is increased in the pulmonary arteries of patients with COPD.

      The major unmet medical need is the absence of a simple drug therapy that relieves the
      breathlessness or muscle fatigue, reduces pulmonary vascular resistance and the overloaded
      right ventricles that severely limits exercise tolerance in COPD and affects survival.

      The only validated therapeutic approach of the 'common' PH in COPD patients is long-term
      oxygen therapy. A large variety of vasodilators has been tested in numerous studies both
      after short- and medium-term administration. The early enthusiasm vanished subsequently for
      several reasons: modesty of the vasodilator effect, inability for some drugs to sustain the
      acute benefit, no specificity of the vasodilator effect with concomitant systemic
      vasodilatation, deleterious effect on gas exchange due to a diminution of the
      ventilation/perfusion ratio and no demonstration of a survival benefit. At the present time
      vasodilators cannot be recommended in the management of COPD.

      Treatments of PAH have shown a dramatic change in the past few years. Synthetic prostacyclin
      (epoprostenol), prostacyclin analogues, endothelin-1 receptor antagonists and
      phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitors are in use in group I PAH with improve clinical outcome.

      Based on analogy to primary pulmonary hypertension, a specific interventions aiming at the
      restoration of endothelial vasoconstrictor- dilator imbalance could be undertaken.

      Selective pulmonary vasodilatation by inhalation of the vasorelaxant agent is an appealing
      concept to circumvent some of the hazards inherent in systemic vasodilator therapy in COPD
      patients with PH. Treatment of these patients with aerosolization of iloprost may reduce
      pulmonary vascular resistance , increases cardiac output while conserving
      ventilation-perfusion matching and and shunt preventing worsening of arterial hypoxia and
      wasting of the small ventilatory reserve of these patients.

      In order to resolve these uncertainties we suggest evaluating the effectiveness of an inhaled
      iloprost in COPD patients with moderate to severe pulmonary hypertension. This evaluation
      would include monitoring and measurement of all the relevant cardio-respiratory variables as
      set out in detail below.
    
  