
    
      In the intervention study a total of 100 overweight and 50 normal weight children, aged 5-8
      years have to be included. At the beginning, two 24-h dietary recalls are performed to assess
      nutritional intake and fructose consumption. Anthropometric parameters (body weight and
      height) are measured to calculate BMI and BMI-SDS of the children. Physical activity during
      leisure time as well as socio-demographic status and "family background" are assessed using
      different questionnaires. An ultrasound examination of the liver is performed in all
      participants for detection of signs of fatty liver. From each child included in the study a
      fasting blood sample is taken to determine the following blood parameters: ALT, AST, γ-GT,
      uric acid, blood lipids (TG, HDL, LDL, Total cholesterol), blood alcohol, PAI-1 and endotoxin
      concentration. A part of the blood sample is used for DNA-analysis. In all children systolic
      (SBP) and diastolic (DBP) blood pressure are also measured. An oral glucose tolerance test
      (OGTT) is performed after an overnight fast of 12 h (glucose concentration: 1.75 g/kg body
      weight, maximum 75g). Simultaneously a glucose hydrogen breath test is performed to assess
      small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO). After the check-ups at the beginning of the
      study, children are divided into two study groups: the intervention group and the control
      group. Based on the daily fructose intake assessed at the beginning of the study, children
      participating in the intervention group are advised to reduce their daily fructose intake by
      50%. In the first study year, every three months and in the second study year, every six
      months, nutritional counseling is repeated in small groups in which parents and children are
      separately trained. If families participating in the control group wish, they receive a
      dietary counseling based on the references of the "DGE" at the beginning of the study. After
      the first and the second study year the examinations are repeated in all participants
      (ultrasound examination only after the second study year).
    
  