
    
      Title: COMPARISON of LANTUS and NPH INSULIN IN THE DAWN PHENOMENON

      I. Background and Significance

      Diabetes mellitus affects greater than 6% of the population, with type 2 more prevalent than
      type 1. For individuals with type 1 diabetes, the challenge has been to replicate insulin
      secretion of the healthy pancreas to maintain blood glucose as close to the non-diabetic
      range as possible. Insulin regimes using insulins with varied activity profiles (multiple
      daily injections or MDI) and continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII) have been
      somewhat successful in "mimicking" normal pancreatic function (1, 2). For individuals with
      type 1 diabetes, the benefits of near-normal, long-term glycemic control in delaying the
      development and slowing the progression of long-term complications was demonstrated in the
      Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (3). Intensive insulin therapy to achieve
      near-normal glycemic control has been limited by a three-fold increase in episodes of
      hypoglycemia (3, 4). Insulin analogs that provide more stable physiologic insulin levels have
      led to the development of newer MDI regimes (5). Glargine (Lantus) is a long-acting
      recombinant human insulin analog demonstrated to provide a continuous, smooth supply of
      insulin with no pronounced peak over a 24-hour period (6).

      An increase in blood glucose in type 1 and type 2 diabetics, and an increase in insulin
      secretion to maintain normoglycemia in non-diabetics, was documented in several studies in
      the 1980s (15-17). This physiological requirement for more insulin delivery (or secretion) in
      the early (4:00-6:00 AM) hours was termed the "dawn phenomenon". The mechanism for the dawn
      phenomenon was thought to be the overnight increase in growth hormone section, rather than
      diurnal glucocorticoids (16, 18, 19). Most intensive treatment regimens of the 1980-90's,
      with MDI or CSII, were designed to provide more insulin in the 4:00-7:00 AM period to cope
      with the dawn phenomenon which cannot be be achieved with glargine (20-21). Continuous
      monitoring of blood glucose has revealed that individuals treated with CSII had significantly
      better glycemic control than glargine treated individuals (22). Whether the dawn phenomenon,
      with increased area under the curve blood glucose levels during the dawn period is limiting
      the effectiveness of regimens with glargine is of crucial importance.
    
  