
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Heart disease, with coronary heart disease as the main form, and stroke are respectively the
      first and third most common causes of death in the Unites States. Hypertension, diabetes,
      hyperlipidemia, and cigarette smoking have been demonstrated to be major risk factors for
      coronary heart disease and stroke. The first three risk factors have all been suggested to be
      determined in some degree by genetic factors.

      In 1975 the National Heart and Lung Institute convened a Task Force on Genetic Factors in
      Atherosclerotic Disease to review what was known in the field and to identify fruitful
      research priorities for future study. The Task Force recommended utilizing existing
      genealogical files, sampling and studying large kindreds from a general population,
      evaluating both genetic and modifying factors, and encouraging collaborative studies by
      epidemiologists, biostatisticians and population geneticists.

      The Utah population was well suited for a study of coronary prone pedigrees. The high birth
      rate and polygamy in ancestral founders of the state produced very large pedigrees. Pedigrees
      were relatively easy to find and trace with available genealogical records.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      A computer data base of Utah residents was developed which included 1.2 million persons in
      genealogical files, 240,000 persons in death certificate files and 120,000 persons in Health
      Family Tree questionnaire files. Over 1,400 persons who were members of 21 coronary prone
      pedigrees were clinically screened.

      Death certificate files were used to identify early coronary deaths which were defined as
      before age 55 in men and before age 65 in women. Mail and phone contacts were made to the
      surviving offspring, spouses, or siblings of the deceased proband to determine risk factor
      profiles for probands and close relatives. Hospital charts were also abstracted to assess
      risk factor profiles for probands. Clinical screening of the relatives of coronary probands
      were conducted using a detailed protocol assessing all standard coronary risk factors.
      Fasting blood tests were obtained for total cholesterol, triglycerides, high density
      lipoprotein, apo B, apo A-1, and apo E. At clinical screening, information was obtained on
      relationships, dates and places of vital events for the index person, spouse, offspring,
      siblings, parents, aunts and uncles, grandparents, grand aunts and uncles, and
      great-grandparents. Information was obtained on blood pressure, height, weight,
      electrocardiograms, physician's history and physical examination. Information was also
      collected on tobacco and alcohol use, hospitalization, medication usage, socioeconomic
      status, Type A personality, physical activity, and reproductive history.

      Beginning in 1983 the investigators expanded the collection of computerized detailed family
      histories from the families of high school students participating in the Health Family Trees,
      a required health education course. Using the Health Family Trees, siblings were identified
      in which two or more siblings had early coronary heart disease. The information from the
      Health Family Trees was validated by contacting affected relatives and by collecting hospital
      data. These individuals then attended clinic screening. Detailed biochemical analyses of
      blood samples from these individuals were compared to find abnormalities that occured in both
      siblings with coronary heart disease and to identify specific subtypes of inherited early
      coronary disease. Testing for genetic linkage of DNA markers for apolipoproteins with these
      specific abnormalities was also done. Healthy age-sex matched controls with at least three
      siblings and no coronary heart disease in siblings or parents served as controls.
    
  