
    
      At the time of diagnosis most subjects with type 1 diabetes retain significant endogenous
      insulin secretion as assessed by C-peptide measurements. Although not sufficient for the
      needs of the individual, residual insulin secretion is important for metabolic control, for
      avoidance of hypoglycemic episodes and, perhaps, for protection against diabetic
      complications. To retain residual endogenous insulin secretion in type 1 diabetes is thus
      highly desirable.

      Residual insulin secretion deteriorates during the course of type 1 diabetes. The underlying
      autoimmune process is a major determinant of deterioration.

      However, also measures that do not directly target the immune system could be beneficial. The
      DCCT study randomised subjects with type 1 diabetes to either intensive or conventional
      insulin treatment. The intensive insulin treatment markedly retarded deterioration in
      C-peptide levels during 5 years of observation. The favourable effect could be due to lesser
      hyperglycemia per se. Alternatively, the effect of intensive insulin treatment could be
      secondary to lesser degree of over-stimulation of the patients' beta-cells.

      It is by now established that relief from over-stimulation by diazoxide favourably affects
      beta-cell function and that such treatment can retard a decline in residual insulin secretion
      in subjects with newly diagnosed type 1 diabetes. Diazoxide has been used in clinical
      practice for > three decades without major safety concerns.

      Disturbing, albeit reversible, side effects are halting long-term studies with diazoxide in
      type 1 diabetes. The researchers find that lower and intermittent (i.e. night time) dosing of
      diazoxide produces no measurable side effects in subjects with type 2 diabetes.

      This is a double blinded placebo controlled study, with 35 participants with newly diagnosed
      type 1 diabetes are randomised into either placebo or Diazoxide for 6 months. The patients
      will be followed up after intervention for at least 12 months.

      Beta cell function and glycemic control will be monitored.
    
  