
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH) is a serious disease of unknown cause in which small
      arteries in the lungs become obstructed. Mean survival is less than three years, and women
      develop PPH twice as commonly as men. It is familial (FPPH) in about 6 percent of cases. The
      National FPPH Registry was established in 1994 to collect and analyze family history and
      clinical data from PPH families to better characterize the disease phenotype as well as to
      identify the underlying genetic etiology. Through the collection of 72 families, FPPH has
      been shown to be inherited as an autosomal dominant disorder, with incomplete penetrance and
      genetic anticipation. Micro-satellite marker studies in six families have identified linkage
      to chromosome 2q31 without evidence of genetic heterogeneity.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study established a national registry of familial PPH (FPPH). The primary goal of the
      family registry was to establish and expand the database of FPPH pedigrees to definitively
      establish the mode of inheritance of FPPH, which initial segregation analysis suggested was
      autosomal dominant. The FPPH family registry provided the framework for the linkage analysis
      of the molecular search for basic mechanisms of PPH. The investigators developed a tissue
      bank for specimens (DNA and transformed lymphocytes) from families and patients with
      pulmonary hypertension, both for their investigations and as a national resource for other
      interested investigators. Their search used three different approaches to investigate for a
      FPPH gene locus. First, they performed karyotyping and high resolution chromosome studies to
      search for a chromosomal translocation, interstitial deletion, or inversion, the finding of
      which would implicate a specific gene locus. Second, they pursued the proposed association of
      human leukocyte antigen (HLA) tissue type with familial PPH in a parallel attempt to identify
      a related locus about which to perform an intensified molecular search, using regional
      mapping studies of closely linked markers. Finally, they performed linkage analysis in
      selected PPH families which had the most informative inheritance patterns, using polymerase
      chain reaction (PCR) based microsatellite markers for selected candidate genes, including
      those for transforming growth factor beta, endothelin, beta globin, and HLA. An additional
      promising approach included a search for linkage of FPPH to genes with GC-rich trinucleotide
      repeats, as had been successful for other diseases with genetic anticipation, including
      Fragile X syndrome, myotonic dystrophy, and Huntington's disease.

      The study was renewed in 1999 through 2003 to expand the registry in order to obtain enough
      PPH families to localize and clone the PPH gene, and support the DNA bank for these and
      further studies. Other goals included prospective and biochemical mediator studies of
      obligate gene carriers, who did not have clinically evident PPH. This aim determined which
      mediators first became abnormal during developing PPH, and defined the natural history of
      pre-symptomatic diseases. In addition, the registry broadened its scope to include sporadic
      PPH patients, including those who had used appetite suppressant medications, who were
      screened for gene mutations.
    
  