
    
      If you are found eligible and agree to take part in the study:

        -  You will complete a baseline exercise assessment which will last about 30-45 minutes and
           include the following:

        -  A sit-to-stand test. You will sit in chair with your arms across your chest. Then you
           will be timed as you stand and sit down 5 times as quickly as possible.

        -  A hand-grip strength test. You will grip a device with each hand as hard as you can.

        -  A 6-minute walk test. You will be timed while you walk on a 100-foot loop. You will walk
           50 feet and then turn and walk back to the beginning. You will do this at a walking
           speed that feels comfortable and for as many times as you can in 6 minutes.

        -  You will be given a belt (accelerometer) that you are required to wear for the first
           week of treatment. The accelerometer measures your physical activity.

      Study Groups:

      You will be randomly assigned (as in the roll of dice) to 1 of 8 study groups. You will have
      an equal chance of being assigned to any group. You will have a 50% chance of receiving the
      placebo.

      The exercises and skills learned during counseling will be different for each study group.
      The study staff will talk to you about your assigned exercises and skills. You will be
      assigned to 1 of 2 types of exercise groups. One group will do resistance exercises and
      walking, and the other group will do stretching.

      You be assigned to 1 of 2 types of counselling groups. One group will receive education on
      relaxation and symptoms. The other group will receive standard supportive counseling.

      Neither you nor the medical study staff will know which group you are in. Only the study
      staff who will work with you for the exercise and counseling will know which group you are
      in. If needed for your safety, the medical staff will be able to find out which group you are
      in.

      Study Drug/Placebo Administration:

      You will take the methylphenidate/placebo capsules by mouth with water, 2 times each day. You
      must take both doses before 3 PM and wait at least 2 hours between doses.

      Study Visits:

      For all study visits/calls, you will be asked about any drugs you may be taking or any side
      effects that you may be having. At home during the study, you will continue practicing
      exercises from the exercise sessions and skills from the counseling sessions.

      On Day 1, if not done at Screening:

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  You will complete 5 questionnaires, which should last about 30 minutes. The
           questionnaires ask about:

        -  Your emotional and physical well being

        -  Your level of fatigue

        -  Any anxiety and/or depression you may be having

        -  Any symptoms you may be having

      On Day 8 (+/- 3 days):

        -  You will meet with a counselor. You will be asked to discuss your thoughts and feelings
           on different topics related to your well-being. The counseling session will last about
           45 minutes.

        -  You will meet with the exercise trainer. The exercise trainer will teach you exercises
           and give you written instructions for how to do them at home. The exercise meeting will
           last about 30-45 minutes.

        -  You will be asked to complete a questionnaire that asks about any symptoms and/or side
           effects that you may be having. This should take about 10 minutes.

      On Days 15 and 29 (+/- 3 days):

        -  You will exercise and then be asked how the exercises are going either in person or
           later over the phone. This should last about 30 minutes.

        -  You will have a counseling session with a counselor over the phone. This should last
           about 45 minutes.

        -  You will complete the 5 questionnaires.

      On Days 22 and 36 (+/- 3 days) the exercise trainer and the counselor will call. These calls
      should last between 30-45 minutes.

      On Day 43 (+/- 3 days) the exercise trainer and the counselor will call. These calls should
      last between 30-45 minutes.

      -You will complete a questionnaire that asks about any symptoms and/or side effects you may
      be having. This should take about 10 minutes.

      On Day 50 (+/- 3 days) the exercise trainer and the counselor will call if you have any
      uncompleted sessions. These calls should last between 30-45 minutes.

      -You will be given an accelerometer that you are required to wear for the last week of
      treatment.

      On Day 57 (+/- 10 days) you will return to the clinic:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  You will complete a sit-to-stand test.

        -  You will complete a hand-grip strength test.

        -  You will complete a 6-minute walk test.

        -  You will complete the 5 questionnaires.

      Length of Study Participation:

      You may continue taking the study drug/placebo for up to 57 days (+/- 10 days). You will no
      longer be able to take the study drug/placebo if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side
      effects occur, if you are unable to follow study directions, or if you cannot complete enough
      of the treatment combination as planned.

      Your participation on the study will be over after you have completed the follow-up visit.

      Follow-Up Visit:

      About 3 months after your last dose of study drug/placebo, you will return to the clinic for
      a follow-up visit:

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have had.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will complete a sit-to-stand test.

        -  You will complete hand-grip strength tests.

        -  You will complete a 6-minute walk test.

        -  You will be asked to complete the 5 questionnaires.

      This is an investigational study. Methylphenidate tablets are FDA approved and commercially
      available for the treatment of attention deficit disorder (ADD). The methylphenidate capsules
      made from the methylphenidate tablets especially for this study are not approved by the FDA.
      The combination of methylphenidate, exercise, and counseling is considered investigational.

      Up to 175 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  