
    
      Despite its incurability, surgical reconstruction of arm and hand function is a powerful tool
      to restore upper limb functions, as well as independence and control in individuals with
      tetraplegia. Patients with tetraplegia rank better use of the upper limb as their top
      functional priority, and surgical rehabilitation of the upper limb is proven highly
      rewarding. Starting in the 70s, pioneering work by dr. Moberg, and continued work by
      professor Fridén at SUH has guided the development of reconstructive surgical procedures in
      tetraplegia. As one of the leading units in the field C.A.R.E., SUH/Mölndal is responsible to
      continue the refinement of surgical treatment strategies. The center works in a value-based
      patient-oriented environment, with high demands on quality.

      The traditional approach to surgical reconstruction of hand function in SCI uses tendon
      transfer, in which a functionally intact muscle is detached, rerouted and re-attached to a
      nonworking muscle to replace its original function. By this procedure, finger- and thumb
      flexion can be successfully and predictably restored, enabling strong active grip functions,
      but with passive and limited hand opening. Successful nerve transfer surgery in brachial
      plexus injuries has inspired interest in nerve transfers for patients with C-SCIs. Nerve
      transfers are conceptually quite similar to tendon transfers but are rarely applied in
      tetraplegia. To maximize outcome, nerve transfers must be done no later than 1 year after
      injury. In this procedure, a healthy nerve serving one function is cut and reconnected to a
      nonfunctional nerve (below the injury level), serving a more important function. Within 6-12
      months, the recipient muscle has begun to receive nerve impulses. The preliminary results are
      very promising and show re-innervation of paralyzed muscles, enabling active opening of the
      hand. It is an attractive surgical procedure since it allows direct reanimation of the
      muscle, which is anatomically and mechanically designed to perform that function.

      Further advantages of nerve transfers include less extensive surgical dissection, minimal
      hospital stay, rehabilitation and restrictions, and thereby less health care use and costs.
      Although the utility of nerve transfers in tetraplegia has yet to be fully determined, early
      results show promise.

      The application of nerve transfer surgery to incomplete tetraplegia offers novel and exciting
      reconstructive possibilities when combined with tendon transfer techniques, especially in
      groups with very limited resources. Due to nerve regeneration factors, nerve transfers are
      not as reliable as tendon transfers, why restoring finger flexion in terms of strength is
      preferably performed with tendon transfers. It has been suggested that research should be
      directed at evaluating combined tendon and specific nerve transfer techniques, such as the
      Bertelli S-PIN (supinator to posterior interosseous nerve transfer) procedure. The S-PIN
      nerve transfer procedure can reanimate not only the finger extensors, but also allows
      independent thumb extension and abduction, and thereby enables active opening of the hand.
      Opening of the hand does not require much strength, and partial outcomes may work
      satisfactory. The S-PIN procedure combined with the tendon transfer technique has the unique
      potential to restore hand function to a level as near normal as possible in patients with
      tetraplegia. This strategy referred to as Combined Nerve and Tendon Transfer (CNaTT)
      procedure thus allows both opening and strong active closing of the hand, and most likely
      also result in fewer compensatory movements, which reduces the risk for shoulder pain that
      interfere with daily activities. At C.A.R.E. there is empirical evidence that support the
      potential of the combined procedure, such as patients' satisfaction and reporting of being
      able to better engage in activities in daily life that requires active opening of the hand.

      The study has an observational controlled design to which the investigators plan to include
      40 cases of CNaTT. As control, patients who undergo tendon transfer alone will be included
      (due to lack of the prerequisite for nerve transfer; >12 months since injury), in parallel
      with the cohort of patients who have undergone the traditional procedure in the past (20
      prospective cases and 100 historical cases). The results at one year after the tendon
      transfer procedure will constitute the main outcome.

      SURGICAL PROCEDURES

      Nerve transfer to achieve opening of the hand by means of Bertelli S-PIN

      In this procedure performed bilaterally, the supinator motor nerve gets transferred to the
      posterior interosseous nerve (S-PIN) according to the technique described by Bertelli.
      Preoperatively, both donor and recipients nerves and muscles are assessed with
      electromyography to make sure they are stimulatable on both sides. After a short
      immobilization period of 2 weeks in a hinged orthosis restricting full extension of the
      elbow, patients are free to move and train without restrictions. When the first evidence of
      re-innervation is noticed, patients are instructed to enhancing strength in extensor muscles.
      Initially, patients activate the donor nerve movement (supination) while the forearm is
      locked in pronation to facilitate thumb- and finger extension.

      The traditional approach to surgical reconstruction of grip by means of tendon transfer

      The so-called grip reconstruction is a combination of surgical procedures, customized
      according to the patient´s needs that can be done many years after a C-SCI. The procedure is
      developed at SUH by professor Fridén, and has been entitled the alphabet or ABCDEFG
      procedure, an abbreviation for Advanced Balanced Combined Digital Extensor Flexor Grip
      reconstruction. The procedure is a one-stage grip and release procedure, a result from
      several previous studies to improve strength of tendon attachments, early active mobilization
      etc. The active tendon transfers will typically include brachioradialis to flexor pollicis
      longus (BR-FPL) transfer and extensor carpi radialis longus to flexor digitorium profundus
      (ECRL-FDP) transfer. The balancing procedures differ depending on the muscle strength (MRC)
      after the nerve transfer procedure. A typical OCu 4 patient with some finger extension will
      undergo: split flexor pollicis longus (FPL)- extensor pollicis longus (EPL) tenodesis,
      passive reconstruction of the interossei, carpometacarpal (CMC) joint capsulodesis, EPL
      tenodesis and extensor digiti minimi (EDM)- abductor pollicis brevis (APB)
      transfer/tenodesis. Our specific and active rehabilitation protocol start within 24 hours
      after surgery and has previously been described in detail.
    
  