
    
      Gastric aspiration represents the third cause of perioperative death in France. The
      physiopathology of this complication is multifactorial, implying among other things the lack
      of respect for the rules of preoperative fasting, especially during emergency operations.
      Indeed, the presence of food content in the stomach, combined with the decrease in the
      pressure of the lower sphincter of the esophagus and the protection of the upper airways
      during the induction of general anesthesia, is accompanied by a significant increase in the
      risk of regurgitation and inhalation of gastric contents.

      There are more than 3 million diabetic patients in France, with an increase in prevalence of
      more than 5% per year. The main digestive disorder linked to autonomic neuropathy in the
      diabetic subject is represented by gastroparesis, characterized by a delay in gastric
      emptying without mechanical impediment, associated with signs of abnormal gastric motility.
      Gastroparesis results from an impairment of the neurovegetative regulation of the stomach
      related to exposure to prolonged hyperglycemia. It is estimated that approximately 1/3 of
      diabetics are affected.

      Ultrasound measurement of the antral section area was originally described for the evaluation
      and study of gastric emptying in obstetrics and medicine. Several studies have shown the
      interest of this measurement for the evaluation of gastric content and volume in the
      preoperative period. The antral ultrasound makes it possible to discriminate a "full" stomach
      from an "empty" stomach with excellent performance. Thus, investigators have at our disposal
      a simple and non-invasive tool to evaluate in real time the state of gastric vacuity in
      patients in the operating room.

      In practice, ultrasound measurement of the antral section area is performed using an
      ultrasound scanner equipped with a 2-5 MHz frequency probe. The diameters (longitudinal D1
      and anteroposterior D2) of the antrum are measured in the sagittal plane passing through the
      abdominal aorta and the left lobe of the liver. The value of the antral cross-sectional area
      is given by the formula: antral area = π x D1 x D2 / 4. This ultrasound measurement of the
      antral cross-sectional area is commonly performed in the operating room and is recommended in
      some anesthesia reference books. Several mathematical models have been constructed, in adults
      and children, to calculate the volume of gastric contents based on this measurement of anal
      area, with satisfactory accuracy (R² = 0.72 to 0.86). Gastric ultrasound is easily performed
      at the patient's bedside, before general or local anesthesia, and its use has recently been
      described to study gastric emptying.

      Investigators would like to evaluate the gastric content in diabetics in the perioperative
      period.
    
  