
    
      Longitudinal study utilizing a multimodal treatment protocol developing in six months time:

      Phase 1 : BoNTA injections localized in dystonic cervical muscles with EMG/US guides
      performed after polygraphy and kinematic analysis of cervical region Times: T0: pre
      treatment; T1: 6 weeks after T0 considered BoNTA pharmacological peak effect; T2: 12 weeks
      after T0 considered from guidelines and pharmaceutical data sheet the lowest BoNTA effect.

      Phase 2: BoNTA performed in the same way of Phase 1 associated to SPRInt protocol Times: T2:
      before combination of BoNTA and rehabilitation treatment (18 sessions of 45 minutes three
      times a week); T3: 6 weeks after T2 considered BoNTA pharmacological peak effect and the end
      of SPRInt protocol; T4: 12 weeks after T2 considered from guidelines and pharmaceutical data
      sheet the lowest BoNTA effect and follow up of SPRInt-consolidation.

      The SPRInt approach aims are to improve body perception, posture and movement quality and to
      restore body axis by using specific sensory feedbacks, both intrinsic (IFB) and extrinsic
      (EFB), and motor exercises (ME) with specific rhythmic temporal structure.The ME can be
      focused on different body parts (eyes, head, neck, trunk, arm) and involve different spatial
      planes (frontal, sagittal, horizontal, multiplanar).

      The exercises can be performed with eyes closed and with an external passive motor leading in
      order to improve proprioception and facilitate sensory integration by excluding visual or
      verbal information that can be misleading for the patient. The ability to perceive and
      integrate intrinsic feedback is the fundamental element to create mental image that define
      body scheme and motor behaviour.

      The extrinsic feedback can be continuous or discontinuous (on-off timing) and gives the
      patient information about the performance or result by positive or negative reinforcement;
      this process can be important to motivate and empower the patient in reaching new skills.

      The final goal for the patient is to reinforce and retain the informations collected with
      working memory and then stored with the consolidation process which ends in learning new
      skills (ie rescue postural axis) and improving motor tasks (ie move the head in the opposite
      position).

      At each time point these test are performed:

        -  CLINICAL SCALES i. Toronto Western Spasmodic Torticollis Rating Scale (TWSTRS)

             1. Severity

             2. Disability

             3. Pain ii. Quality of life iii. Depression Beck Scale iv. Zung Self Rating Anxiety
                Scale v. Rey Test to test visuo spatial abilities

        -  MOVEMENT ANALYSIS and KINEMATIC AND EMG MAPPING of cervical region ( head and neck)

        -  FUNCTIONAL MAGNETIC RESONANCE BRAIN STUDY to perform brain measurements of functional
           connectivity (resting state-Default Mode Network), morphometry (volume, area, cortical
           thickness, cortical curvature, node degree) and tractography.
    
  