
    
      OBJECTIVES

      1.1 Primary Objectives

        -  To assess the safety of MEK162 administered in combination with carboplatin and
           pemetrexed as first line treatment in advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

        -  To determine the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of MEK162 to be used when given in a
           continuous dosing schedule together with pemetrexed and carboplatin administered on a
           3-weekly schedule as first line treatment in advanced NSCLC.

        -  To explore the efficacy (as measured by tumor response in the Phase Ib portion) of the
           combination of MEK162 in addition to pemetrexed and carboplatin in treatment-naïve
           patients with EGFR wild-type, ALK-rearrangement negative NSCLC of the lung.

      1.2 Secondary Objectives

        -  To characterize the population pharmacokinetics of MEK162 administered in combination
           with carboplatin and pemetrexed (Phase I).

        -  To explore relationships between KRAS mutation (and sub-types) and additional genomic
           mutations and objective clinical response.

      1.3 Trial End-points Primary Phase I • Development of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), (defined
      in section 4.3) as measured with NCI CTC AE v4.

      Phase Ib

      • Objective response rate (ORR) as per RECIST v1.1.

      Secondary Phase I • Adverse events, serious adverse events, changes in hematology and
      chemistry values, vital signs, ECGs.

      Phase Ib

        -  Evaluation of response rate (RR), progression-free survival (PFS) and disease control
           rate (DCR) for patients with and without KRAS mutation in tumor tissue.

        -  Exploratory analysis of KRAS mutation sub-type.

      Exploratory end-points

      • A limited sampling strategy pharmacokinetic model will be used to ensure that the clearance
      of MEK162 is not influenced by the concurrent administration of pemetrexed-based
      chemotherapy.
    
  