
    
      Study Groups:

      If you have been found to be eligible to take part in this study and you agree, you will be
      assigned to a dose level of azacitidine based on when you join this study. Up to 7 dose
      levels of azacitidine will be tested. At least 3 participants will be enrolled at each dose
      level. The first group of participants will receive the lowest dose level. Each new group
      will receive a higher dose than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects were
      seen. This will continue until the highest tolerable dose of azacitidine is found.

      All participants will receive the same dose level of vorinostat, gemcitabine, busulfan, and
      melphalan, and all patients with B-cell cancer will receive the same dose of rituximab.
      However, if the first group has bad side effects, the dose level of gemcitabine may be
      lowered for all other groups.

      Busulfan Test Dose:

      You will receive a test dose of busulfan by vein over about 60 minutes. This low-level test
      dose of busulfan is to check how the level of busulfan in your blood levels changes over
      time. This information will be used to decide the next dose needed to reach the target blood
      level that matches your body size. You will most likely receive this as an outpatient during
      the week before you are admitted to the hospital. If it cannot be given as an outpatient, you
      will be admitted to the hospital on Day -12 (12 days before your stem cells are returned to
      your body) and the test dose will be given on Day -11.

      About 11 samples of blood (about 1 teaspoon each time) will be drawn for pharmacokinetic (PK)
      testing of busulfan. PK testing measures the amount of study drug in the body at different
      time points and will help the study doctor determine what your dose of busulfan should be on
      study. These blood samples will be drawn at various timepoints before you receive busulfan
      and over about the next 11 hours. The blood samples will be repeated again on the first day
      of high-dose busulfan treatment (Day -8). A temporary heparin lock line will be placed in
      your vein to lower the number of needle sticks needed for these draws. If it is not possible
      for the PK tests to be performed for technical or scheduling reasons, you will receive the
      standard fixed dose of busulfan.

      On Days -14, -13, and -12, you will receive palifermin by vein over about 30 seconds each day
      to help decrease the risk of side effects in the mouth and throat.

      Study Drug Administration (for all patients):

      In stem cell transplants, the days before you receive your stem cells are called minus days.
      The day you receive the stem cells is called Day 0. The days after you receive your stem
      cells are called plus days.

      Beginning on Day -9, you will swish the liquids caphosol and glutamine in your mouth 4 times
      a day, for about 2 minutes each time. You will swish these liquids every day until you leave
      the hospital. You will swallow the glutamine. These drugs are used to help decrease the risk
      of side effects in the mouth and throat.

      On Day -11 through Day -2, you will take vorinostat by mouth, with food. One hour later each
      day, you will receive azacitidine by vein over 1 hour. You will receive dexamethasone by vein
      2 times each day.

      If you have a B-cell cancer, you will receive rituximab (a treatment used for certain
      lymphomas) by vein over 3-6 hours as part of standard of care, on Day -9.

      On Day -8, you will receive gemcitabine by vein over 4 ½ hours.

      On Days -8, -7, -6, and -5, you will receive busulfan by vein over 2 hours.

      On Day -3, you will receive gemcitabine by vein over 4 ½ hours and then melphalan by vein
      over 30 minutes.

      On Day -2, you will receive melphalan by vein over 30 minutes.

      On Day -1, you will rest (you will not receive chemotherapy).

      On Day 0, you will receive your stem cells by vein over about 30-60 minutes.

      You will receive 3 more doses of palifermin by vein over 15-30 seconds on Days 0, +1, and +2.

      As part of standard care, you will receive G-CSF (filgrastim) as an injection just under your
      skin 1 time each day starting on Day +5 until your blood cell levels return to normal.

      Study Tests:

      About 100 days after the transplant:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 4 teaspoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you may have a bone marrow aspiration and biopsy to
           check the status of the disease. To collect a bone marrow aspiration/biopsy, an area of
           the hip is numbed with anesthetic, and a small amount of bone marrow and bone is
           withdrawn through a large needle.

      Length of Study:

      As part of standard care, you will remain in the hospital for about 3-4 weeks after the
      transplant. After you are released from the hospital, you will continue as an outpatient in
      the Houston area to be monitored for infections and transplant-related complications.

      You will be taken off study about 100 days after the transplant. You may be taken off study
      early if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to
      follow study directions.

      This is an investigational study. Azacitidine, vorinostat, gemcitabine, busulfan, melphalan,
      and rituximab are all FDA approved and commercially available. The use of these study drugs
      in combination is investigational.

      Up to 60 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  