
    
      The German computer based Treatment Program for Children with Aggressive Behaviour (Soziales
      computerunterstütztes Training für Kinder mit aggressivem Verhalten, ScouT) aims at the
      therapy of children aged 6 to 12 years with peer-related aggressive behaviour, which results
      in a persistent impairment of the relationships to other children. Contrary to other
      treatment approaches, this intervention aims at the individual treatment of problem
      maintaining and moderating factors of aggressive behaviour. Depending on the individual
      problem maintaining factors the treatment aims to modify social cognitive information
      processing, social problem solving and behavioral social skills.

      Methods: The efficacy will be tested in a randomized control group design with n=140
      children. N=70 children will be treated in the first treatment phase (pre- to
      post1-assessment) of 16 weekly child-focused sessions with the treatment modules of ScouT. In
      the second treatment phase (post1- to post2- assessment) those children with sustained severe
      peer related aggressive behavior receive the comprehensive Treatment Program for Children
      with Aggressive Behaviour (Therapieprogramm für Kinder mit aggressivem Verhalten, THAV) which
      is a social competence training which combines patient- and parent-/teacher and peer-focused
      interventions with 16 child sessions and 6 parent-/teacher sessions. Those children with no
      severe peer related aggressive behavior receive 2 booster sessions of ScouT within a 16 week
      period.

      The control group of n=70 children will receive in the first treatment phase (pre- to
      post1-assessment) an alternative child-focused intervention with a supportive Treatment
      Programm including techniques to activate resources of the child (Supportive Therapie zur
      Aktivierung von Ressourcen bei Kindern, STARK) with 16 weekly sessions. In the second
      treatment phase (post1- to post2- assessment) those children with sustained severe peer
      related aggressive behavior receive 16 weekly child-focused sessions with the treatment
      modules of ScouT . Those children with no severe peer related aggressive behavior receive 2
      booster sessions of STARK within a 16 week period.

      A follow-up assessment is conducted 12 months after post2-assessment. Outcome parameters are
      aggressive behaviour und comorbid symptoms as well as problem maintaining factors,
      psychosocial functioning, family burden, self-esteem and treatment satisfaction as rated by
      clinicians, parents, or teachers. Additionally problem solving is assessed by a newly
      developed problem-solving test. Moreover, variables of the treatment process are assessed.
      Additionally treatment process parameters are assessed.
    
  