
    
      The principal objective of this study is the metabolic characterization of pediatric solid
      tumors, with a particular focus on neuroblastoma (NBL) and fusion positive sarcoma (FPS),
      which will allow the detection of tumor specific metabolic alterations that can be exploited
      with the aim of developing novel therapeutic strategies and biomarkers. The rationale behind
      this study and the reasons for its clinical significance are described below:

      Neuroblastoma:

      Neuroblastoma, a malignancy of the sympathetic nervous system, is the most common
      extra-cranial solid tumor in children, accounting for 7% of childhood cancers and 15% of
      childhood cancer related deaths. Neuroblastoma has a wide range of clinical outcomes ranging
      from spontaneous maturation with regression, to death from widespread metastatic disease. The
      outcomes and prognoses for children with neuroblastoma depend on their specific risk group
      classification. Risk stratification is dependent on subject age, tumor histology and tumor
      genetic characteristics and leads to vastly different therapies and outcomes. Currently the
      therapy for low risk disease includes surgery and possibly chemotherapy with a 5 year EFS
      >85%. However, despite intensive cytotoxic chemotherapy, double autologous stem cell
      transplantation, and targeted radiopharmaceutical delivery of methyl-iodo-benzyl-guanidine
      (MIBG), children with high risk disease have a 5 year EFS <50%.

      The relevance of neuroblastoma genotype to clinical outcome is well established, as evidenced
      by the poor prognosis in children with MYCN amplification. An important mechanism by which
      oncogenes promote tumorigenesis, including increased proliferation and decreased
      differentiation, is by regulating cellular metabolism. While non-malignant cells typically
      generate cellular energy through use of oxidative phosphorylation, malignant cells emphasize
      aerobic glycolysis (Warburg Effect) as a source of cellular energy since this process also
      provide substrates for macromolecule synthesis and redox pathways. More specifically, in the
      presence of oxygen, differentiated, non-malignant, cells metabolize glucose through oxidative
      phosphorylation, creating an increased amount of energy, specifically 36 molecules of ATP.
      However, in malignant cells, the majority of glucose is converted to lactate despite the
      presence of oxygen, resulting in less energy and ATP production (2 molecules). More recent
      research suggests that in fact both processes are increased in malignant cells. This finding
      has been identified in cell-based neuroblastoma systems with MYCN amplification. MYNC
      amplified tumors have alterations in mitochondrial metabolism that cause cells to be
      dependent on glutamine for survival. If glutamine is depleted, these cells undergo apoptosis
      leading to cell death. Studies are currently underway looking at the use of Fenretinide, a
      synthetic retinoid, and its ability to cause a glutamine deplete environment leading to
      apoptosis of these cells. Altered metabolism, in cell-based neuroblastoma systems, is also
      evidenced by reduced activity of the metabolic enzyme succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) in
      correlation to loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of 1p36 and increased expression of multiple
      genes involved in glycolysis, glutamine, fatty acid and mitochondrial metabolism in
      correlation to MYCN expression. However, MYCN amplification is only present in about 20% of
      neuroblastoma tumors and there are multiple other genetic mutations whose metabolic
      consequences at yet to be determined. When NBL occurs in a hereditary fashion, there is
      classically a mutation in the ALK oncogene or more rarely a mutation in PHOX2B. When
      neuroblastoma occurs sporadically, it is associated with amplification of MYCN (50% of
      high-risk patients), LOH of 1p36 (35% of primary NBL), LOH of 11q (35-40% of newly diagnosed
      patients), and gains at 17q. Therefore, the investigators feel it is imperative to continue
      to explore the metabolism of neuroblastoma to discover further alterations in their
      metabolism and possible links to these genetic alterations.

      Fusion Positive Sarcoma:

      Fusion positive sarcoma, including Ewing sarcoma (EWS), Ewing-like sarcoma, alveolar
      rhabdomyosarcoma (aRMS) and many childhood non-rhabdomyosarcoma soft tissue sarcoma (NRSTS),
      occurs in approximately 1,100 children in the United States annually. Eighty percent of those
      with metastatic or recurrent FPS will die of disease, and only 55-75% of those with more
      favorable risk can expect long-term survival. Juxtaposition of the EWS gene to ETS-family
      FLI-1 gene occurs in 85% of patients with EWS, while alternate ETS family fusion-partners
      including ERG, ETV1, E1AF and FEV occur less commonly. More recently a new class of fusion
      positive Ewing-like sarcoma has been described, with translocations such as CIC:DUX4.
      Alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma is now characterized as either PAX-FOXO1 fusion positive or fusion
      negative. The group of malignancies categorized as NRSTS in children, includes many
      histological subsets driven by oncogenic fusion proteins, such as the SS18-SSX in synovial
      sarcoma. Genomic studies have revealed critical understanding of FPS disease biology but to
      date have not laid the foundation for new therapies. In contrast, metabolism studies have the
      potential to provide new insights. EWS cell lines demonstrate aerobic glycolysis as evidenced
      by measures of glucose uptake, lactate dehydrogenase activity, ATP, and mitochondrial
      membrane potential. Alveolar RMS cell lines also display aerobic glycolysis as demonstrated
      by indirect measures of oxygen consumption and extracellular acidification and by metabolic
      flux analysis. Cell line verification of aerobic glycolysis in FPS and emerging data
      demonstrating that metabolic alterations are different in culture and in-vivo renders in-vivo
      study an essential complement to metabolic studies in cultured cells. Molecular studies in
      EWS and aRMS have focused on nucleic acid sequencing and identified only rare examples that
      point toward new therapeutics. In contrast, metabolic studies can identify potential
      vulnerabilities. A profound example of such a vulnerability relates to 2-hydroxyglutarate
      (2HG), a putative "onco-metabolite". In 2009, Dang et al. demonstrated the strong correlation
      between increased 2HG in glioma with mutations in isocitrate dehydrogenase-1 (IDH1). More
      than 20 studies have confirmed this finding, and investigators in the UTSW Advanced Imaging
      Research Center developed this finding into a clinical test in which 2HG can be imaged as a
      non-invasive marker for IDH1/2 mutation and as a response marker for IDH1/2 inhibitors in
      glioma. There are very few other examples in cancer, similar to IDH-1 in glioma, in which
      genetic mutations occur in a metabolic enzyme resulting in an onco-metabolite that influences
      cell activity. However, an early response biomarker, as exemplified by IDH1/2, is essential
      for modification of therapy in FPS, and may be similarly useful in NBL.

      Cellular metabolism studies provide insight, in a complementary way to genomics, into
      processes acting downstream from oncogenes and oncogenic fusion proteins, and such insight
      may point toward previously unrecognized therapeutic targets or onco-metabolites that are
      traceable as robust biomarkers for response. The investigator's new approach to use an
      in-vivo comprehensive analysis of metabolic reprograming in FPS/NBL has never been performed
      in childhood FPS/NBL and will complement genomics studies for these cancers. For this study
      the investigators plan to obtain tumor samples at time of surgical biopsy/resection and study
      their metabolic signatures.

      They will specifically evaluate the metabolomic profiles and perform metabolic flux analyses
      of these tumors. Metabolomic profiles provide snapshots of up to 50 metabolites from pathways
      including glycolysis, the pentose phosphate pathway, the tricarboxylic acid cycle, and both
      amino acid and nucleotide metabolism, all of which are known to be under oncogenic control in
      cancer as noted above. Metabolic flux analyses provide dynamic evaluations of glucose entry
      into major energetic and biosynthetic pathways. Pathway analysis depends on the ability to
      detect metabolic alterations in these cells. To do this, they will infuse the patient with
      13C-glucose pre-operatively. They will then trace the utilization of 13C-glucose of the tumor
      cells by evaluating the samples with mass spectrometry after obtained at time of biopsy.
      Biopsies will be performed by either surgeons in the operating room or interventional
      radiologists in the interventional radiology suites.

      13C, a stable, naturally occurring isotope of carbon is uniquely suited for this examination
      since it does not undergo radioactive decay and has been given to humans safely in prior
      studies. Some of these analyses may be performed without the concomitant perioperative
      delivery of 13C-glucose as well. The investigators are ideally positioned to accomplish this
      here at UT Southwestern, which is one of a very few centers worldwide to have developed
      intra-operative delivery of stable isotope tracers to characterize metabolic flux in human
      tumors in children. Furthermore, whenever feasible, patients will undergo preoperative
      imaging studies, such as PET scan, MIBG, or MRI studies. The results of these imaging studies
      if obtained will be correlated with the metabolic phenotype to generate a comprehensive
      non-invasive view of the tumor with the goal of identifying infiltrative, metabolically
      active solid tumor cells. In addition, a comprehensive molecular profile of the tumor will be
      reviewed to enable a genotype-metabolic phenotype comparative analysis.
    
  