
    
      Early recognition and immediate resuscitation are fundamentals of successful management of
      all critically ill patients if they are suffering from infection and sepsis, malnutrition,
      AIDS, trauma, diabetes mellitus, drug overdose, and poisoning. In most, seriously ill
      patients, initial diagnosis may not be clear and immediate objective is to save the life and
      reverse or prevent vital organ damage e.g. brain, lungs, liver and kidneys. A rapid
      identifying, low cost method called as Modified Early Warning Score (MEWS) that utilize easy
      to measure physiological parameters such as vital signs and level of consciousness can be
      used to identify critical illness, facilitate early intervention and predict mortality. MEWS
      values range from 0 to maximum 14, higher scores mean greater hemodynamic instability. A
      score of 5 or more identifies a patient to be critically ill and is associated with increased
      risk of ICU admission and death. The negative predictive value of early warning MEWS < 3 was
      98.1%, indicating the reliability of this score as a screening tool MEWS (modified early
      warning score) is a reliable screening tool to identify critically ill patients early and to
      act timely to improve outcomes in health care and prevent adverse events like cardiac arrest,
      renal failure. A study performed in Uganda on sepsis patients demonstrated that early IV
      fluid and antibiotic therapy together with vital sign monitoring was associated with lowered
      30-day mortality.

      Rationale: Early categorization of critically ill patients by calculating MEWS score in
      hospitals may give a time window for appropriate steps. If a patient is suffering from
      sepsis, timely intravenous fluids, early antibiotics and monitoring in a low resource country
      like Pakistan, may have a great impact. Therefore, the current research is planned to early
      identify critically ill patients by applying MEWS and reducing the mortality by providing
      early management and taking appropriate life saving measures.
    
  