
    
      Participants will be referred from the Department of Bariatric Surgery at NYU. The
      investigators plan to enroll 50 patients in this pilot study.

      A baseline eye exam will be conducted prior to surgery. Data, such as preoperative HbA1c
      level, weight, BMI, duration and control of diabetes, current medication regimen, and the
      grade of retinopathy will be noted. Study participants will have a baseline eye exam within
      three months of the scheduled surgery, followed by regular follow-up visits at 3 months, 6
      months, 9 months, and 1 year. At each visit the following measures will be assessed: (1)
      weight, (2) blood pressure, (3) glycemic control as assessed by HbA1C, (4)level of
      retinopathy, and (5) visual acuity using the EDTRS acuity chart.

      The eye examinations will consist of a measure of best-corrected visual acuity, slit lamp
      examination to assess pressure, and a dilated funduscopic examination to determine the
      presence and/or level of retinopathy. The level of retinopathy will be characterized as:

      (0)None, (1) Mild, (2) Moderate, (3) Severe, and (4) Proliferative. In addition, the presence
      or absence of cystoid macular edema (CME) will be noted as (a) no CME or (b) CME present.

      At the initial visit, a baseline questionnaire will be given to participants to gather
      background information on demographics and pertinent medical history. During each follow up
      visit, an additional questionnaire will be given to monitor changes in factors such as
      medications, blood pressure, and weight that may occur after bariatric surgery.

      HbA1c measurements will be checked every 3 months in accordance with current standard of care
      recommendations. Due to established evidence of rapid improvement in glycemic control shortly
      after bariatric surgery, it is essential that the investigators have this lab data and
      perform funduscopic examinations at these intervals, to monitor improvement in glycemic
      control ascertain associations between changes in HbA1c levels and progression of
      retinopathy.
    
  