
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine differences between measures of cell proliferation (Ki-67) in women with
           ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) or stage I breast cancer receiving neoadjuvant
           fluvastatin sodium.

      Secondary

        -  Determine whether statin use differentially affects specific types of DCIS/early-stage
           breast cancer (comedo, estrogen receptor [ER]-positive, ER-negative).

        -  Compare differences between tissue staining of CD68, circulating macrophages, and
           regulatory T cells in these patients.

        -  Assess the feasibility of using inherent susceptibility (mRNA polymerase chain reaction
           testing) to predict response to statins in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, controlled, single-blind, multicenter, pilot study. Patients
      are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms (arms I or II). Patients accrued as control
      participants are assigned to arm III.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral fluvastatin sodium once daily for 3-6 weeks in the absence
           of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral fluvastatin sodium as in arm I at a higher dose.

        -  Arm III (control): Patients do not receive fluvastatin sodium. All patients then undergo
           definitive surgery.

      Patients in arms I and II undergo blood collection at baseline and at the time of surgery for
      biomarker analysis. Patients in arm III undergo blood collection at baseline and then
      approximately 1 month later. Tissue is collected from patients in all arms at the time of
      surgery. Blood and tissue samples are examined for biological markers, including Ki-67,
      C-reactive protein, cleaved caspase 3, HER2, CD68 gene, and estrogen and progesterone
      receptors by immunohistochemistry. Markers of inflammation (e.g., comedo necrosis macrophages
      and CD25-positive T cells), low-density lipoprotein, and cholesterol are also analyzed. Serum
      mRNA is measured by polymerase chain reaction.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 60 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  