
    
      By 2030, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) will become the second leading cause of
      cancer-related death, accounting for more than one million deaths per year according to the
      World Health Organization.

      To this date, screening for hepatocellular carcinoma in France remains uniform for all
      patients, based solely on a liver ultrasound every 6 months. This scheme has the advantage of
      associating an acceptable cost-effectiveness ratio and, above all, of obtaining an increased
      overall survival. However, this strategy has three main limitations: lack of personalisation,
      low compliance, relatively poor performance of the ultrasound.

      Risk stratification models have been developed for chronic hepatitis C, alcoholic cirrhosis
      and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) including clinical (age, sex, body mass index and
      diabetes) and biological (ASAT/ALAT, platelets, albumin) parameters. However, they didn't
      include analysis of the liver parenchyma which is the physiopathological substrate of
      hepatocarcinogenesis. In the 1990s, several authors studied the incidence of hepatocellular
      carcinoma according to the liver echostructure. They agreed on the over-risk represented by a
      nodular heterogeneous echostructure with an estimated rate ratio of up to 20.

      However, all these results have not yet led to a personalised radiological screening
      strategy. The advent of new artificial intelligence techniques could revolutionize the
      approach.

      Deep learning, a subclass of machine learning, is a popular area of research that can help
      humans performing certain tasks. Unlike radiomics, deep learning can automatically identify
      new image features not defined by humans.

      The hypothesis of this study is that the non-tumor cirrhotic liver parenchyma is rich in
      structural information reflecting the severity of the hepatopathy, its carcinological risk
      and the process of hepatocarcinogenesis. Its analysis combined with clinical and biological
      data, which have already been studied to stratify the risk of hepatocarcinogenesis, will
      allow to define a very high-risk population, particularly in the context of Hepatitis C Virus
      (HCV) eradication and Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) control.

      Consequently, this study proposes to design prospectively a deep learning model for
      stratification of the risk of hepatocarcinogenesis by including clinical, biological and
      radiological ultrasound parameters. The primary objective of the study is to identify a
      population at very high risk of developing hepatocarcinoma in order to propose different
      screening modalities to the patients most at risk.

      This clinical study will include patients aged over 18 years referred by their hepatologist
      in the framework of ultrasound screening according to the European Association for the Study
      of the Liver (EASL) recommendations for hepatocellular carcinoma screening, except for
      non-cirrhotic HBV liver disease: non-cirrhotic F3-stage liver disease from any cause based on
      individual risk assessment for hepatocarcinoma; cirrhosis from any cause, non-viral or
      virologically cured (HCV) or controlled (HBV). Patients with a history of treated
      hepatocellular carcinoma will be excluded.

      Two groups of patients will be constituted prospectively: group 1 will include patients with
      a diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma greater than 1 cm (reference diagnostic standards:
      radiological or histological). These patients will therefore correspond to a very high-risk;
      Group 2 will include patients without hepatocellular carcinoma, thus corresponding to a lower
      risk. A 1 year-interval ultrasound will be performed in patients of group 2 to confirm the
      absence of new nodule in the year following inclusion. The proportion of new hepatocellular
      carcinoma should not exceed 3%.

      The data collected will be clinical, biological, elastographic and ultrasonic parameters.

      A Deep Learning model using a deep convolutional neural network architecture will be
      developed on Python using these data.

      On a total of 7 investigation sites, 300 patients (equitably distributed between the two
      groups) will be included in the training/validation cohort and 100 patients (equitably
      distributed between the two groups) in the test cohort. These numbers are calculated from
      ultrasound studies reporting a rate ratio of HCC risk of up to 20 in case of macronodular
      ultrasound pattern and Deep Learning requirements (large numbers needed).

      The training/validation and test cohorts will be from external and independent centres.

      The diagnostic performance of the model will be estimated by Area Under the Curve (AUC),
      sensitivity, specificity and F1-score (95% confidence intervals) on the test cohort.
    
  