
    
      Subject and methods: Patients with clinical diagnosis of hemiparesis on the criteria of the
      World Health Organization (WHO, 2001) will be recruited from Benha university hospitals'
      outpatients and inpatients units of Rheumatology ,Rehabilitation and Physical medicine
      department The diagnosis of stroke was confirmed by the findings of either brain CT or MRI.

      All patients should have localized severe shoulder pain of the paretic upper limb with or
      without limitation of shoulder range of motion (ROM) with the following inclusion criteria:

      Hemiplegic shoulder pain (HSP) duration at least 3 months, pain score >3 on a pain visual
      analog scale (VAS) of 0 to 10 cm (0 no pain, 10 worst possible pain) at rest, and/or pain at
      movement score >5 on VAS during passive shoulder abduction, pain was not relieved by
      conventional treatment (common analgesics, such as paracetamol and non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs; slings; physical modalities such as transcutaneous electrical nerve
      stimulation of shoulder muscles or manual therapy). No significant spasticity in the upper
      shoulder joint, defined as Modified Ashworth Scale (MAS) score ≤2 , ultrasonographically
      diagnosed subacromial subdeltoid (SASD ) bursitis. previous shoulder steroid or botulinum
      toxin A injection in the affected side or known allergy for botulinum toxin.

      Complete history will be addressed from all subjects emphasizing the age, sex, type of stroke
      (hemorrhagic, thrombotic) ,duration of the stroke, side of hemiplegia , duration of shoulder
      pain .Complete neurological and musculoskeletal examination .All patients will be examined by
      a single independent physiatrist.

      Patients will be classified based on the type of the injected material into 2 categories: 18
      patients will be injected by 20 IU botulinum Toxin A, ( BoNT/A) group and 18 patients will be
      injected by 40 mg methyl prednisolone (steroid group) The assessment of therapeutic effects
      will be performed at the start of the study, and in the 3rd and 10th weeks. Shoulder pain
      will quantified by VAS score at rest (night pain ) and during the day ( movement pain ) .

      The physiatrist who will carry out the initial assessment and will perform the
      intra-articular injection will not participate in follow-up assessments.

      Upper limb motor function was assessed sensorimotor function assessment for the upper
      extremity domain of the Fugl-Meyer Assessment (FMA-UE) .

      Spasticity around the shoulder will be assessed by MAS. Physical disability and behavior
      related to activities of daily living will be assessed by Modified Barthel ADL index for
      stroke patients .

      Subacromial subdeltoid bursitis(SASD) will be assessed in the paretic shoulder by high
      frequency probe SASD bursitis if there is thickness ≥ 2mm and / or effusion or both
    
  