
    
      Problems with self-control are of major public health relevance as they are associated with
      substance abuse, suicide attempts, lower academic functioning, poor financial planning, and
      physical and mental health issues that impact both individuals and society. The ability to
      obtain immediate rewards in our daily lives is increasing due to technological advances from
      on-line games to Amazon deliveries within 1 hour after placing an order. There are fewer
      opportunities for children to learn how to wait. For children, developing self-control is a
      critically important step toward success in academic settings and social relationships, yet
      there are few non-pharmacological approaches that have been successful in increasing
      self-control.

      Our objective in this current proof-of-concept study is to replicate and extend our earlier
      finding (Schweitzer & Sulzer-Azaroff, 1988) in which we demonstrated that self-control could
      be increased in preschool-aged children with high rates of impulsivity by using a "shaping"
      procedure whereby delays to larger, more delayed rewards were gradually increased. In this
      study we will aim to show that shaping self-control can be implemented using more
      sophisticated experimental design and mobile app technology.

      A principal goal of this R03 pilot project is to refine the procedural methods to ensure that
      they are developmentally-appropriate using a well-controlled design and procedures. Our plan
      is to develop and implement a mobile application ("app"), "Delay Tolerance Application"
      (DelTA) that administers real-time rewards in a delay discounting procedure, in which the
      child will choose between an immediate, shorter game playing and a delayed, longer version of
      playing the same game.

      This project will assess the feasibility of delivering the procedure via a mobile app and
      test if computerized games are effective rewards in a delay discounting context for young
      children (3-6 years) given that previous methods used immediately consumable rewards (e.g.,
      candy). Positive findings from this proof-of-concept project will support future clinical
      trial projects to improve self-control and the use of the procedure for other interventions.
      The app may eventually serve as a targeted, precision intervention for children who exhibit
      elevated impulsivity.
    
  