
    
      This is a 42-day, randomized, observer-blind, parallel group, single-center clinical trial.
      Generally healthy adults will be recruited from a database of known plaque formers. A
      sufficient number of subjects meeting the necessary inclusion/exclusion criteria will be
      enrolled into two groups, so that 140 subjects (70 per treatment group) would reasonably be
      expected to complete the study.

      The study will have a pre-experimental phase, which will last 2 weeks followed by an
      experimental phase that is 4 weeks in duration. At the start of the pre-experimental phase
      (Day 0), subjects will undergo an initial oral exam, during which gingivitis and pre-brushing
      plaque evaluations will be performed. Supragingival plaque levels will be assessed on all
      scorable teeth according to the Rustogi Modified Navy Plaque Index (RMNPI) and gingivitis
      will be scored according to the Modified Gingival Index (MGI). Subjects with a whole mouth
      mean plaque level > 0.60 and a whole mouth mean MGI ≥ 1.75 will then brush their teeth with
      their assigned toothbrush using American Dental Association (ADA) Accepted fluoride
      toothpaste. They will be provided with written and verbal instructions to use their
      toothbrush twice a day, for the next 7 days (Normalization period), allowing the participants
      to get familiar with the assigned test product. During the second visit (Day 7), the subjects
      will return the products to the clinical site, and start the experimental gingivitis phase,
      during which they will only be allowed to use a placebo rinse (W002194-0221P) as means of
      oral hygiene. The objective of the experimental gingivitis phase is to standardize the levels
      of plaque and gingivitis in both groups.

      At visit 3 (Day 14), subjects will undergo a second gingivitis and pre-brushing plaque
      evaluation and receive their assigned brush, instructions and diary. They will brush with
      their assigned toothbrush for two weeks (14 days), using an ADA accepted fluoride toothpaste.
      During the fourth visit (Day 28), the subjects will return to the site and undergo a third
      gingivitis and post-brushing plaque evaluation. At the last visit (Day 42), the study
      participants will undergo final gingivitis and post-brushing plaque evaluations and return
      all used products.
    
  