
    
      Every year, about 1.65 million people die of excessive salt intake in the world as excessive
      sodium will raise blood pressure, which further increase prevalence risks of cardiovascular
      and kidney diseases. Therefore, reducing salt intake has been recognized as one of the most
      cost-effective measures for health improvement. Adopting critical salt-reduction measures can
      substantially reduce prevalence risks of cardiovascular and other chronic diseases. In this
      sense, exploring salt-reduction strategies that are widely effective among populations is
      critical for prevention and management of cardiovascular diseases.

      The daily salt intake currently recommended by WHO is 5g (6g is recommended by Chinese
      government). It is estimated that 2.50 million people will not die each year if the global
      salt consumption is lowered to the recommended level. WHO member countries have reached an
      agreement to reduce 30% of the salt intake of people across the world by 2025. However, there
      are not enough study evidence and practical foundation for achieving the salt-reduction goal
      among all human beings.

      Shandong is a large Chinese province with 96.85 million permanent population in its 138
      counties (districts) and 62,719 communities (villages or municipal neighborhood communities).
      Shandong has high prevalences of cardiovascular diseases with an adult hypertensive
      prevalence above the national average. According to the national nutrition survey in 2002,
      Shandong consumed 12.6g salt per capita for daily cooking, much higher than the recommended
      amount (6g) in Chinese dietary guidelines. Shandong and the Ministry of Health signed a
      five-year cooperative agreement in 2011, Shandong-MOH Action on Salt and Hypertension
      ("SMASH"). The program has adopted multi-angle and multi-level intervention strategies to
      reduce salt intake by people for the purpose of preventing hypertension and other diseases
      related to salt.

      SMASH baseline survey in 2011 studied 15,350 people aged 18-69 by regions and towns with
      multi-stage cluster random sampling to investigate their blood pressures and conditions. The
      survey showed that hypertensive prevalence, awareness, treatment and control rates were
      23.4%, 34.5%, 27.5%, 14.9% respectively. In the baseline survey, 24-hour urine of 2,112
      people was collected, and a salt intake of 13.8g per person per day was obtained in
      accordance with the urinary sodium data.

      Since the commencement of the program, Shandong provincial government has cooperated with
      relevant departments to establish a work mechanism that is led by MOH, implemented by
      professional institutes and extensively engaged by the whole society. The program team has
      developed food standards and regulations and promoted salt-reduction actions in catering
      entities, supermarkets and food processing enterprises for a favorable environment of the
      program. The program team has prepared various publicity materials, and trained key groups
      (catering workers, food manufacturers, housewives and elementary school students). Salt
      consumption monitoring points and cardiovascular prevalence monitoring system have been
      established.

      SMASH will conclude in May 2016. In order to assess the intervention course, implementation
      outcomes and intervention effects, the SMASH program office decided to organize a final
      evaluation of the program in the whole province in 2016, and quantitative data collection in
      June and July 2016.
    
  