
    
      BACKGROUND:

      While there is widespread consensus that the optimal diet to reduce cardiovascular risk
      should be low in saturated fat, the type of macronutrient that should replace saturated fat
      (carbohydrate, protein or unsaturated fat) is a major, unresolved research question with
      substantial public health implications. The study will evaluate these three dietary
      approaches by studying their effects on established coronary risk factors and a selected
      group of emerging risk factors.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study design was a randomized, three period cross-over feeding study that compared the
      effects on blood pressure and plasma lipids of a carbohydrate-rich diet patterned after the
      DASH diet (CARB) to two other diets, one rich in protein (PROTEIN) and another rich in
      unsaturated (UNSAT) fat, predominantly monounsaturated fat. The DASH diet has been shown to
      reduce blood pressure and LDL-cholesterol substantially, and is currently recommended by
      policy makers. During a one week run-in, all participants were fed samples of the three study
      diets (CARB, PROTEIN and UNSAT). Using a three period cross-over design, participants were
      then randomly assigned to the CARB, PROTEIN or UNSAT diet. Each feeding period lasted six
      weeks; a washout period of at least two weeks separated each feeding period. Throughout
      feeding (run-in and the three intervention periods), participants were fed sufficient
      calories to maintain their weight. Trial participants were 30 years of age or older, with
      systolic blood pressure of 120-159 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure of 90-99 mmHg. Primary
      outcomes variables were blood pressure and the established plasma lipid risk factors (LDL-C,
      HDL-C and triglycerides). Secondary outcomes include total cholesterol, apolipoproteins
      VLDL-apoB, VLDL-apoCIII, apolipoprotein B, non-HDL cholesterol, and lipoprotein(a).
    
  