
    
      Computed Tomography Angiography (CTA) is a non-invasive imaging tool widely used for various
      indications. Contrast media (CM) is used to enhance the intravascular lumen and organ
      parenchyma, depending on the indication. Recent technical advances in CT scan techniques
      allow for a very fast scan acquisition with substantially increased image quality in terms of
      temporal and spatial resolution. These faster scan times account for a significant reduction
      in radiation dose, which is desirable in light of the "As Low As Reasonably Achievable"
      (ALARA) principle. Another advantage of the newer 'high-end' scanners is the use of lower
      tube voltages and lower CM volumes, since many studies have shown that CM volumes can be
      reduced with usage of lower tube voltages.

      However, with faster scan acquisition, challenges arise with regard to CM bolus timing. The
      risk of outrunning the CM bolus in these fast acquisitions is higher, subsequently leading to
      a decreased or even non-diagnostic enhancement (in Hounsfield Units (HU)). In addition,
      decreased CM volumes due to usage of lower tube voltages also add to the risk of outrunning
      the bolus. When reducing the CM bolus, the injection time decreases and the window of peak
      enhancement is shorter and more narrow. Also, when injecting these smaller CM volumes at
      higher flow rates, although the peak enhancement is increased, the window of peak enhancement
      decreases more rapidly. Thus, when administered with the same flow rate, the peak of the
      enhancement curve will be lower, narrower and faster compared to larger CM volumes. This, in
      combination with the faster scan acquisition makes the timing of the start of the scan (scan
      start delay) highly important, since scanning at the peak enhancement is necessary to achieve
      a diagnostic image quality.

      To determine scan delay, two techniques frequently used in daily clinical routine are the
      'test bolus' and 'bolus tracking' technique. With the first, a smaller CM bolus is
      administered before the actual scan, and the time to peak of the intravascular enhancement is
      determined with help of dedicated software (DynEva, Siemens Healthineers, Forchheim,
      Germany). When using the 'bolus tracking' technique, no additional CM volume is administered.
      A region of interest (ROI) is placed in a large artery of interest (e.g. ascending or
      descending aorta), and a threshold enhancement is set prior to the scan (e.g. 100 HU).
      Repetitive low dose scans are acquired at the same level and the arrival of the CM bolus is
      followed. Once the threshold is reached, the scanner automatically starts the scan. Between
      reaching the threshold and the actual start of the scan, a manual post-tracking delay is set
      prior to scanning. This delay is necessary for both the table movement of the scanner to the
      start of the scan and the breath hold command. The problem is that this manual post-tracking
      delay is set prior to the scan, without information of the patient's cardiovascular dynamics
      (e.g. cardiac output). Since cardiac output can vary greatly inter- and intra-patient, this
      fixed post-tracking delay may not be appropriate for all patients. Scanning with a
      sub-optimal post tracking delay could potentially result in suboptimal arterial enhancement
      and insufficient diagnostic quality.

      With new bolus tracking auto-delay software (Fully Automated Scan Technique, FAST, Siemens
      Healthineers) the incidence of scans made at a suboptimal attenuation could be reduced. This
      software is similar to the 'bolus tracking' technique, the difference is that the manual
      post-tracking delay is calculated automatically by the software. During the low-dose
      repetitive scans at the level of the ROI, the attenuation in the ROI is used to predict the
      optimal enhancement curve. The software takes the injection protocol, tube voltage and
      patient parameters into account. A previously acquired database of numerous enhancement
      curves is consulted to predict a best fitted enhancement curve of the individual patient. The
      software then calculates the optimal post-tracking scan delay to scan at the peak
      enhancement. Thus, the optimal individual scan delay and enhancement based on the patients
      physiology can be achieved, and the risk of non-diagnostic scans should decrease. Therefore,
      this study aims to evaluate the performance of the FAST software in patients receiving
      standard chest CT with regard to the number of non-diagnostic scans (< 300 HU) and compare
      this with standard care (manual set pre-scan delay).
    
  