
    
      Children raised in environments with limited stimulation and lack of exposure to positive
      interactions are likely to have developmental delays in expressive and receptive language,
      vocabulary, social skills, behavior-all factors critical for school readiness. Children who
      enter kindergarten underprepared are more likely to struggle academically and experience
      lower school achievement, and ultimately impaired opportunities for economic and social
      mobility as adults.

      The CenteringParenting intervention is designed to reduce negative health and developmental
      outcomes within a model of group routine child health care. This bundled intervention
      supports healthy parent-child interactions and early learning through education and
      experiential learning within a group well-child visit model. The intervention reduces social
      isolation and creates a community of support for caregivers, as well as utilizes a positive
      parenting approach to empowering parents with knowledge and skills to support optimal child
      development. The CenteringParenting intervention includes written materials provided at an
      annual clinical visit, as well as specific training for the facilitators/providers. To date,
      there is no research evidence of the benefits of the CenteringParenting intervention on
      school readiness, or improvements in parental behaviors that support optimal developmental
      milestones and achievement.

      Study Design: A multi-site, cluster randomized controlled trial evaluating the impact of the
      CenteringParenting clinical intervention on kindergarten readiness, as measured by expressive
      and receptive language and vocabulary at 24 months of age.

      Objective Hypothesis: Compared to those receiving standard routine health care, the
      CenteringParenting intervention will result in improved language development at age 2 years
      and increased parental behaviors to encourage reading, talking and playing.

      Specific Aim 1: In a cluster randomized controlled trial, assess the effectiveness and
      implementation of the CenteringParenting intervention. Specific Aim 2: Evaluate the fidelity
      of the implementation of the CenteringParenting intervention. Specific Aim 3: Evaluate
      caregivers' experience and engagement with the CenteringParenting intervention model and
      explore the relation between degree of engagement and development stimulating behaviors.

      Primary outcomes are: expressive and receptive language and vocabulary based on the
      MacArthur-Bates Communicative Development Inventory (CDI) and Preschool Language Scale-5
      (PLS-5) 5th Edition Parent Questionnaire. The secondary outcome is: parental behavior based
      on the Stim-Q (a reliable and valid measure of cognitive stimulation provided in the home).
    
  