
    
      This study will examine the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of the humanized monoclonal
      antibody Rituximab to induce a clinical and serological remission in patients with Stiff
      Person Syndrome (SPS) associated with high anti-GAD antibodies. Rituximab is a monoclonal
      antibody specific for the common B cell antigen CD20. Its administration depletes pre-B and
      mature B lymphocytes without altering neutrophils or hematopoietic stem cells. In humans with
      indolent B cell lymphomas, Rituximab can be safely administered, is well tolerated, promotes
      selective B cell depletion and lowers the serum IgG and IgM levels. Preliminary experience in
      some non-malignant antibody-mediated disorders has shown that Rituximab was beneficial in
      improving the patients' symptoms and reducing antibody level.

      SPS is an antibody-mediated autoimmune disease affecting GABA-ergic transmission resulting in
      incapacitating stiffness and spasms. The anti-GAD antibodies are also produced intrathecally
      and it is believed to be responsible for the reduction of GABA level in serum and CSF.
      Although removal or modulation of serum antibodies by plasmapheresis or IVIg results in
      clinical improvement, a number of patients do not respond or their response is modest and
      short-lived, and remain with significant disability. The need for more effective therapy
      prompted us to conduct the present study to examine in a randomized trial if Rituximab is
      effective in patients with GAD-antibody-positive SPS.

      Twenty-four patients will be randomized, in a double blind fashion, to receive placebo or
      Rituximab given at a fixed dose of 1 GM on Day 1and 1 GM on day 15 (plus or minus 2 days).
      The primary outcome will be based on measurements of stiffness using the Distribution of
      Stiffness Index. Secondary outcomes will be measured by the Heightened-Sensitivity Scales.
      The serum and CSF anti-GAD antibody titers, including intrathecal GAD-specific IgG synthesis,
      will be monitored before and after treatment. Clearance of GAD-reactive T cells will be also
      examined in the serum and CSF using T cell clones established from PBL and CSF. It is
      anticipated that the study will: a) provide a new, immune-based and target-oriented therapy
      for patients with Stiff Person Syndrome and b) examine the pathogenetic role of anti-GAD
      antibodies in the cause of the disease.
    
  