
    
      Previous researchers have attempted to establish a "target dose" for antipsychotic
      medications (such as risperidone, quetiapine, or olanzapine) in treating symptoms of
      agitation in dementia. They have tried to identify the dose with the best risk-benefit ratio
      for patients considering the significant side effects the medications can cause. Patients
      taking the doses identified respond only partially and continue to experience some symptoms
      of agitation, however. One study showed that in patients whose agitation symptoms were not
      adequately controlled by the target dose of an antipsychotic medication alone, the addition
      of divalproex further improved behavior in 72% of patients.

      The goal of this study is to compare two standard therapies for the management of agitation
      symptoms in dementia patients. Subjects in this study will include patients who are admitted
      to the Wesley Woods Inpatient service for the treatment for dementia complicated by
      behavioral symptoms. After a patient reaches the target dose of risperidone (up to 1.5
      mg/day), quetiapine (up to 175 mg/day), or olanzapine (up to 7.5 mg/day) and agitation
      symptoms are still not adequately managed, he or she will be randomized to one of two groups.
      Group 1 participants will continue to receive increasing doses of antipsychotic medication
      until symptoms are controlled or he or she is unable to tolerate the dose. Group 2
      participants will continue to receive the target dose of antipsychotic medication and also
      receive increasing doses of divalproex until symptoms are controlled or he or she is unable
      to tolerate the dose. Patients will be evaluated at 4 time points during hospitalization.
      Patients will be evaluated using scales that measure changes in cognition, function, and
      behavior. Laboratory and ECG results, and scales testing for movement disorders will be done
      to monitor safety. The family will then be contacted about 3 months the patient's
      hospitalization to assess current treatment status, residential status, and health status.
    
  