
    
      Prior investigations have shown that use of intraoperative PECS blocks in patients undergoing
      a Modified Radical Mastectomy improves postoperative pain control and decreases postoperative
      narcotic use which will eventually mitigate the issue of dependence on narcotics
      postoperatively (Kulhari et al, Blanco et al). The aim of this study is to do a prospective
      randomized control of patients undergoing a Partial Mastectomy at Lankenau Medical Center to
      see if pectoral nerve block (PECS) provides a meaningful improvement in postoperative pain
      control over standard pain medication as well as a decrease in postoperative narcotic use.

      PECS block as described by Blanco et al has been used safely and effectively used for
      modified radical mastectomy in multiple studies as reviewed above (Blanco et al, Kumar et al,
      Kulhari et al). The breast surgeons at Lankenau Medical Center within Main Line Health are
      currently using the PECS block as part of their partial mastectomy procedure and have been
      since 5/1/19. The PECS block is currently being used at random when time and resources allow
      There are not certain subsets or patients who are selected for this procedure. This procedure
      has been well tolerated by patients and has proved feasible for the surgeons and surgical
      team to facilitate. Therefore since PECS block for partial mastectomy are within the standard
      of care at Lankenau Medical Center this study only introduces a risk of randomization rather
      than the increased risk of the procedure itself.

      This is a randomized prospective control study looking at patients at Lankenau Hospital
      undergoing partial mastectomy from 8/30/19- 8/30/20 after obtaining Institutional Review
      Board (IRB) approval. The plan is to recruit 130 patients with 65 patients randomized into
      each cohort. One cohort will receive the PECS II block intraoperatively and one cohort will
      not. This will be a single blinded randomized control trial in that the surgeon knows who
      will be receiving the block however the patient will be blinded. Patient must be able to
      provide their own consent to be included in this study. There will be no advertisement or
      compensation for this study. The study will be explained to the eligible candidates at time
      of discussion of their surgery. Patients will be informed that involvement in the study does
      not affect their ability to seek or receive care at this facility.

      A written informed consent will be obtained from all patients. The patients once scheduled
      for surgery unit will be enrolled in research study by an independent research assistant. The
      participants will be allocated randomly into two groups according to block randomization
      schedule shown below. Group one will receive anesthesia only and Group two will receive
      anesthesia and PECS block. The surgeon who will be performing the intraoperative block will
      be informed of the random and independent assignment prior to surgery. The patients will be
      instructed on usage of a 10-mm Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) for pain graded from 0 (no pain)
      to 10 (most severe pain) before surgery. Patients will be blinded as to whether or not they
      will be receiving intraoperative PECS block. In both the control and test groups, patients
      will receive general anesthesia with laryngeal mask airway or endotracheal tube per
      anesthesiologist discretion. Induction of anesthesia will use fentanyl 1 μg/kg and propofol
      1.5-2 mg/kg until loss of verbal response with or without muscle relaxant as needed.
      Maintenance of anesthesia will be assessed for any intraoperative rise in heart rate and
      systolic blood pressure more than 20% from pre-induction value. If this occurs fentanyl 0.25
      μg/kg can be administered IV. Toradol should be given unless contraindication at the end of
      the case. No ketamine or dilaudid will be used. Long acting opioids will be avoided. Once
      anesthesia is instituted prior to prepping and draping a timeout will be called during which
      patient will be identified and procedures to be performed will be identified.

      Procedures The patient will be kept in supine position with ipsilateral arm in abducted
      position. The skin overlying the ipsilateral breast and adjoining infraclavicular and
      axillary regions will be disinfected with chloraprep and sterile draping of the area is
      performed. A linear ultrasound probe of high frequency (6-13 MHz) of a portable ultrasound
      system (Sonosite, Micromaxx Bothell, Washington USA) is taken. The probe will be covered with
      a sterile transparent dressing and a sterile conductivity gel will be applied. The imaging
      depth on the ultrasound screen is set to 4-6 cm. The ultrasound probe will first be placed
      cephalocaudally in the infraclavicular region and moved laterally to locate vessels directly
      above the 1st rib. With further lateral and downward movements the 3rd and 4th ribs will be
      identified. The probe is maneuvered and appropriate anatomical structures including
      pectoralis major and minor muscles and serratus anterior muscle are identified.

      The interface between pectoralis major, pectoralis minor and serratus anterior are
      identified. A spinal needle 20 gauge and 4 inches in length will be used to instill 10 cc of
      0.2% Marcaine between serratus anterior and pectoralis minor. Aspiration is continuously used
      to confirm that there is no intravenous or intra-arterial injection of local anesthesia. The
      needle will then be withdrawn slightly, and 10 cc of 0.25% Marcaine is injected between
      pectoralis major and pectoralis minor under direct ultrasound visualization. Attention is
      then turned to the axilla of the operative side. A spinal needle under direct visualization
      is used to deliver 10 cc of 0.25% Marcaine between latissimus dorsi and serratus anterior.
      The PECS block is finished, and the rest of the procedure is performed according to surgeon
      discretion. All patients whether or not they receive the PECS block will receive 10 cc of
      0.25% Marcaine subcutaneously at incision site.
    
  