
    
      In addition to their core affective components, MDD and PTSD are associated with poor
      cognitive functioning across a host of highly similar domains, including declarative memory,
      short-term memory, attention, and executive functioning. These deficits have been associated
      with reduced response to pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions and poor
      functional outcomes. Given the potentially devastating impact of poor cognitive functioning
      on the ability of patients with affective disorders to benefit from treatment interventions,
      and its association with poor functional outcomes, there is an urgent need to identify novel
      treatment interventions aimed at reducing cognitive dysfunction in these disorders.
      Accordingly, the aim of the present proposal is to a randomized controlled trial examining
      the efficacy of a well-established cognitive intervention aimed at reducing attentional and
      executive dysfunction, Goal Management Training® (GMT), in the treatment of cognitive
      deficits among patients with MDD and with PTSD. A secondary aim is to determine the
      longer-term impact of this approach on functional outcomes.

      Importantly, limited investigation of cognitive remediation therapy has been performed in
      these populations. Only one study has been conducted to examine the impact of a
      non-standardized intervention protocol aimed at improving cognitive functioning in PTSD.
      Here, clinically (but not statistically) significant improvements were noted in a small pilot
      study on measures of cognitive functioning after employing bottom-up executive training
      approach in conjunction with transcranial direct current sample of four patients. Previously,
      the investigators have applied computer-assisted cognitive remediation, a bottom-up
      restitution based approach, in patients with MDD, resulting in improvements in performance on
      working memory tasks in conjunction with increased functional activity in lateral prefrontal
      and parietal areas, however, the broad benefits of this training observed in a small sample
      (n=12) did not generalize to a larger group.

      GMT has demonstrated efficacy in several clinical and non-clinical populations that
      experience deficits in executive functioning, attention, and memory (similar to those seen in
      MDD and PTSD), including older adults, individuals who have suffered a traumatic brain
      injury, have attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), poly-substance abuse disorder,
      or spina bifida. In these studies, participants showed improvements in completing every-day
      tasks (as measured by self-report), as well as improvements in executive functions such as
      decision-making, working memory and selective attention. Critically, these results were
      maintained at follow-up (when assessed). Given the previous success of this intervention in
      remediating frontal-temporally mediated brain dysfunction across clinical populations, the
      investigators hypothesize that GMT has the ability to target similar cognitive difficulties
      experienced by those suffering from MDD and from PTSD. The investigators will further examine
      whether putative improvements in cognitive performance will translate to functional
      improvements analogous to those seen in other psychiatric populations undergoing cognitive
      remediation.

      In the current study, the investigators will conduct the first study to investigate the
      utility of GMT in patients with MDD or with PTSD. Specifically, the primary aim of this
      proposed study is to examine whether a standardized 9-week program of GMT results in durable
      improvements in cognitive functioning relative to a wait-list control (WLC). A secondary aim
      will be to determine whether participation in the GMT group is associated with long-term
      functional improvements. The investigators hypothesize that at post-treatment, participants
      with MDD and with PTSD assigned to the GMT groups will show significantly greater improvement
      in neuropsychological test performance and greater functional improvement compared to
      participants in the WLC group; these gains are expected to be maintained at 3 month
      follow-up.
    
  