
    
      This study is a Phase 4, open-label, single group study in which at least 55 evaluable adult
      male patients undergoing miltefosine treatment for mucocutaneous leishmaniasis will provide
      semen samples for spermiogram analysis of sperm parameters. Potential subjects diagnosed with
      mucocutaneous leishmaniasis who are planning to undergo miltefosine treatment will be
      informed about the study and undergo the informed consent process. After obtaining informed
      consent, subjects will be screened over a 28-day period for eligibility by medical history
      including leishmaniasis diagnostics, physical examination, clinical laboratory measurements
      [chemistries: (ALT, total bilirubin, creatinine; hematology: WBC count, hemoglobin, platelet
      count; spermiogram: sperm concentration, total sperm count, semen volume, sperm motility, and
      sperm morphology; hormones: testosterone and FSH]; and medication use in the 28-day period
      before starting treatment. If eligible for the study, the subject will receive miltefosine
      for 28 days at a target dose of approximately 2.5 mg/kg/day. Screening and enrollment into
      the study will continue until at least 55 subjects complete the study and are considered
      evaluable (provide sperm samples per protocol and complete at least 25 of 28 days of
      miltefosine treatment). Chemistries and hematology will be repeated at study Days 14
      (mid-treatment) and 28 (end of treatment). Two semen samples will be collected during
      screening (at least 48 hours apart), at the end of treatment (Days 25-and-28), at 3-months
      after completing treatment. If clinically significant changes spermiogram findings are
      observed at 3 months, one sample will be collected at 6 months. Adverse events (AEs) and
      concomitant medication use will be collected during treatment. Concomitant medication use
      will also be collected at the 3-month visit and in any subject coming back for the 6-month
      visit. A medical history will be taken at the 3-month and 6-month (if conducted) focusing on
      any changes to the urogenital system.
    
  