
    
      Patients with acute schizophrenia are often anxious and uncertain because of the psychotic
      symptoms they are experiencing. These patients are in need of rapid help and symptom relief.
      Risperidone, a widely used antipsychotic medication, is effective against positive and
      negative symptoms of schizophrenia, has a rapid onset of action, a low incidence of
      extrapyramidal symptoms, and, in general, mild adverse events. This is an open-label trial of
      2 mg dose of an oral formulation of risperidone in combination with 2 to 2.5 mg of oral
      lorazepam compared with standard care, which consists of a conventional neuroleptic drug
      administered via an intramuscular injection, with or without lorazepam. Patients requiring
      emergency care are offered a choice of these two therapies and are monitored for 24 hours
      after initial treatment. Optional follow up may be performed after 2, 3, and 7 days. The
      primary measure of effectiveness is the success of the treatment 2 hours after the drug is
      administered, as indicated by the patient being asleep or by showing improvement on the
      Clinical Global Impression (CGI) Improvement subscale. Additional effectiveness assessments
      include an evaluation of hostility and agitation, as assessed by Brief Psychiatric Rating
      Scale (BPRS), the degree of sedation, and the ability of the patient to interact with the
      physician at 1, 2, and 24 hours after the start of treatment. Safety assessments include the
      incidence of adverse events throughout the treatment and follow up periods. The study
      hypothesis is that oral risperidone combined with lorazepam is more effective than therapy
      with conventional neuroleptic intramuscular agents, with or without lorazepam, for emergency
      treatment of patients with schizophrenia. Single, oral 2 mg dose of risperidone and a single,
      oral 2 to 2.5 mg dose of lorazepam; further dosing during the 24 hour period at
      investigator's discretion. Comparator drug of choice (with or without lorazepam) administered
      intramuscularly according to product labeling.
    
  