
    
      Huntingdon's disease (HD) is a genetic neurodegenerative condition which causes problems with
      movement, coordination and cognitive functioning, and emotional difficulties are also
      commonly experienced. It is believed to affect around five to ten in 100,000 people of
      European descent, with recent UK estimates as high as 11.2-13.5. Each child of an affected
      person has a 50% chance of inheriting the condition. As age of diagnosis is typically around
      35-55, with time from diagnosis to death around 20 years, those who are diagnosed have often
      seen their parents affected by the condition.

      Many people at various stages of HD (including those who carry the gene but are
      pre-symptomatic) experience low mood, anxiety and other psychological difficulties. Indeed,
      alongside functional capacity, mood may be one of the main factors which contributes to
      health related quality of life, more so than discrete motor problems, or cognitive
      impairment. In addition, reports from patients suggest emotional and social concerns are
      important for individuals with the condition at the pre-symptomatic stage, and these concerns
      remain throughout the disease course. Medication may be effective to alleviate psychological
      difficulties for some people, but its efficacy has not been conclusively proven and it is not
      suitable for all. Psychological interventions may provide an alternative or additional way of
      alleviating distress.

      Although it is commonly presumed that biological factors are the main determinants of
      psychological distress in people with HD, several studies have indicated that, while these
      may indeed be important, psychological factors are also significant. For example beliefs
      about the disease and coping mechanisms are associated with poorer mental health and higher
      levels of depression. Such psychological beliefs and coping patterns can be adaptively
      changed using psychological interventions, for example cognitive-based psychological
      therapies.

      Little progress has been reported on the development of psychological interventions in HD
      despite the fact that people with HD have expressed an interest in psychological approaches
      and these are currently being successfully developed for people with other neurological
      conditions (e.g., in people with Parkinson's disease). It is therefore proposed to pilot
      mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT) which, although originally developed to help
      people with remitted depression from relapse, has been increasingly used to help people with
      current difficulties. It has also been piloted with people with Parkinson's disease who found
      it an acceptable intervention and reported improvements in self-management and psychological
      wellbeing. In general, MBCT has also recorded other gains including improved sleep quality
      and social functioning. It has also received sufficient evidence for it to be a recommended
      approach in the UK NICE guidelines for people with a history of depression. MBCT can also
      reduce anxiety and provides group support. There are also indications that mindfulness
      training can improve neurocognitive functioning, even in people with neurodegenerative
      disease. Finally, a psychological therapy subgroup within the European Huntington's Disease
      Network has recently been formed, thus indicating the rise of interest in psychological
      approaches and the timely nature of this work.

      Hence this study will provide the first indication of whether MBCT, a therapeutic approach
      with an established evidence base, would be acceptable and useful for people with HD. In
      order to meet this aim, MBCT will be delivered to two groups, one to individuals who carry
      the gene but are pre-symptomatic and one to individuals who have begun to experience symptoms
      but are at an early stage of the disease course.

      Approaches to outcome evaluation should be incremental, with lower cost studies, e.g.,
      qualitative investigations and case studies, being conducted before investment in randomised
      controlled trials is considered. Thus this study will follow this guidance by collecting both
      qualitative and quantitative data. The qualitative data will be analysed using interpretative
      phenomenological analysis, a methodology previously used in other qualitative studies on
      MBCT. Semi-structured interviews will provide data on the acceptability of the intervention
      and detailed accounts of participants' experience after the intervention has been provided.
      This will inform whether the MBCT intervention needs to be changed or adapted in further
      trials. The quantitative data will be used to provide basic pre and post intervention
      comparisons on a number of outcome variables relevant to MBCT, with the hypothesis that
      performance on these measures will improve post training. These data will also be used to
      estimate effect sizes for further trials so that these are suitably powered.

      Given the considerable physical, cognitive and emotional consequences of the disease, HD not
      only affects the person with HD, but also those with whom they live, even in the pre-clinical
      phase. Family members often become caregivers and can have a reduced quality of life as a
      result, including experiencing low mood themselves. In fact, caregiver burden and caregiver
      depression is associated with depression of the person with HD and, alongside motor
      disturbances, depression of the person with HD is one of the main predictors of caregiver
      burden. Partners of people with HD can also experience reduced satisfaction with their
      relationship, sometimes more so than the person with HD themselves.

      Thus this study will also investigate the views of a family member (e.g. partner, parent,
      child) of the person participating in the intervention. As the intervention is aimed at
      alleviating psychological distress in the person with HD, it is hypothesised that this in
      turn will also have an effect on the family member's wellbeing. Also, higher levels of
      mindfulness are associated with higher levels of satisfaction in partner relationships,
      perhaps due to more adaptive conflict resolution and better emotional recognition and
      management. Participants in MBCT have reported increased empathy and perspective taking,
      being more able to respond mindfully in relationships. Thus increased mindfulness of the
      person with HD may benefit family and social relationships.

      In addition, caregivers' views about the symptoms or quality of life of the person with HD
      may not always match the person with HD themselves. Furthermore, certain symptom changes
      which are beneficial to the person with HD may not be so to the caregiver, and thus the
      caregiver can offer an alternative perspective of the wellbeing (including behavioural and
      psychological changes) of the person with HD.

      Both qualitative and quantitative data will be collected from a family member or close friend
      of the person with HD, where such a person is available and willing to take part.
      Semi-structured interviews with the family member will explore their perceptions on the
      acceptability of the intervention and experiences of the person with HD, as well as the
      impact on the family member personally and the wider family system. Data collected pre and
      post the intervention will assess any changes in their psychological wellbeing, caregiver
      burden and family relationships, with the hypothesis that wellbeing and relationships will
      improve post training and caregiver burden will decrease.
    
  