
    
      Protein and/or energy deficits are associated with increased rates of hospital infection,
      skeletal muscle weakness, impaired wound healing, and prolonged convalescence in ICU
      patients. To prevent or treat malnutrition, enteral nutrition (EN) and/or parenteral
      nutrition (PN) are routinely given worldwide to a significant proportion of ICU patients.
      Optimal caloric requirements in critically ill patients are unknown due to a lack of rigorous
      randomized clinical trials. The comparative efficacy of energy doses in critically ill
      patients is unknown and clinical recommendations are conflicting and controversial; this
      issue is the focus of this study.

      The investigators have designed this pilot, single-center Randomized Clinical Trial (RCT) to
      prospectively compare, for the first time, the clinical efficacy of different energy doses in
      ICU patients requiring PN due to intestinal failure/dysfunction. A total of 60 patients will
      be studied (20 per energy dose group) to generate critical preliminary data needed to inform
      subsequent appropriately powered Phase III multicenter trials.

      The primary aim of this study is to perform a controlled, double-blind, prospective,
      randomized, intent-to-treat Phase II clinical trial to test the efficacy of three specific
      energy doses [0.6, 1.0 and 1.3 x measured REE (resting energy expenditure), respectively],
      given for 28 consecutive days during the ICU and post-ICU course, on 28-day total
      hospital-acquired infections (primary endpoint), Blood Stream Infections ( BSI), and other
      important clinical outcomes in medical/surgical ICU patients requiring specialized parenteral
      ± enteral feeding. The investigators would also determine, in these subjects A) the impact of
      cumulative and mean daily 28-day energy deficits [energy intake-measured REE] on clinical
      outcome endpoints; and B) the practical utility of estimated REE determined by
      Harris-Benedict equation versus measured REE across different energy doses. The investigators
      would also like to determine the impact of administered energy dose and energy deficits on
      global metabolomic patterns over time and their association with key clinical outcomes.

      This study will allow the researchers to generate needed data on the effect of energy dose
      and energy deficits on global metabolomic patterns over time that may be associated with key
      clinical outcomes in ICU patients. This exploratory research is also needed to develop new
      methods that evaluate the metabolic responses to nutrition support and their potential
      relationships to clinical outcomes.
    
  