
    
      TMC435 is being investigated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C infection. The current
      study is a Phase I, open-label (both participant and investigator know the name of the
      medication given at certain moment), randomized (study medication is assigned by chance)
      study designed to assess the relative bioavailability and food effect of 2 liquid
      formulations of TMC435, currently being developed for potential pediatric use, compared to
      the Phase III 150 mg capsule. Also new capsule concept formulations will be investigated in
      comparison with the Phase III 150 mg capsule. The study will be performed in healthy adult
      participants and is divided over 3 panels. Participants will be randomized within a panel.
      Each participant will receive 3 different treatments according to a classical 6-sequence,
      3-period Williams design. In Panel 1 and Panel 2, a single oral dose of 150 mg TMC435 oral
      suspension respectively with other strength will be compared with the capsule used in Phase
      III. In Panel 3, two different capsule concept formulations will be compared with the capsule
      used in Phase III. In panels containing the liquids, formulations will be compared under
      fasted and fed conditions to investigate the food effect. In all treatments, the participants
      will receive medication on Day 1 of each treatment. There will be a washout period of at
      least 7 days between subsequent treatments. The main focus of the trial is the
      pharmacokinetic characteristics of all formulations (level-profile of TMC435 over time in the
      blood stream). This evaluation requires multiple blood samples from Day 1 till Day 4 in each
      treatment. Safety assessments (blood and urine tests, blood pressure, pulse,
      electrocardiogram, and physical examination) will follow a different schedule and will be
      evaluated from signing of the Informed Consent Form onwards until the last trial-related
      visit throughout the study.
    
  