
    
      Rationale. Frequent PVCs have shown to induce a reversible cardiomyopathy (PVC-CM). Yet, it
      is unclear why some patients develop PVC-CM, while others do not. Appropriate diagnosis and
      treatment of patients with PVC-CM is believed to carry significant benefits, improving
      quality of life (QOL), HF symptoms / admissions and life expectancy. Currently, these
      patients are offered radiofrequency ablation (RFA), antiarrhythmic drugs (AADs) or no
      treatment depending on physician's experience and resources. Nevertheless, no
      randomized-prospective study exists to support the benefit of RFA. Thus, a large-scale
      multicenter randomized clinical trial entitled "Prospective Assessment of PVC Suppression in
      Cardiomyopathy (PAPS)"' study has been planned to compare these treatment strategies.
      However, a PAPS pilot study is proposed to better estimate the potential affected patient
      population, limitations of enrollment, rate of clinical outcomes, potential crossover and
      drop out. This pilot study is key to better design and power the large-scale multicenter PAPS
      trial.

      Objective. PAPS pilot study is a randomized clinical trial to assess the feasibility of
      enrolling, randomizing treatment strategies and retaining participants with frequent PVCs and
      associated CM.

      Hypotheses. Our main hypotheses of the PAPS pilot study are:

        1. A large-scale randomized PAPS clinical study is feasible with minimal barriers of
           enrollment, treatment crossover and drop out due to a unique design including a short
           observation period and PVC suppression strategy in all participants.

        2. The rate of responders (defined as improvement of LVEF ≥ 10% points) with HF medical
           therapy alone during observation period will be less than 15%. In contrast, RFA and AADs
           will have a responder rate of at least 35% in the same population. Furthermore, RFA will
           have a greater 1-year response rate when compared to AAD therapy.

        3. RFA will have a lower rate of composite adverse events (worsening NYHA class, HF
           admission, treatment side effects & complications, and death), arrhythmia burden and a
           better long-term tolerance than AADs.

      Methods. A prospective clinical pilot study is planned to prove the feasibility of a
      large-scale multicenter clinical trial (PAPS study) of patients with probable PVC-CM. This
      pilot study will enroll 36 patients with frequent PVCs (burden ≥10%) and CM (LVEF ≤45%) and
      randomize them to either: 1) RFA or 2) AADs. Prior to treatment, all patients will undergo a
      baseline cardiac MR if clinically indicated and be allowed a 3-month observation period
      (optimal HF medical therapy). To assess the effects of PVC suppression, changes in LV
      function, rate of responders (defined above), PVC burden/arrhythmias and clinical/functional
      status (QOL, HF symptoms and admissions, NYHA class) and adverse events will be compared
      between observation period and both PVC suppression strategies (RFA or AAD). To identify the
      best PVC suppression strategy, similar comparisons between RFA and AAD treatment groups will
      be performed at 12-month follow up using a Prospective Randomized Open, Blinded End-point
      (PROBE) study design. The treatment regimens will be compared in an intention-to-treat
      analysis.

      In summary, the multicenter PAPS pilot study is intended to better estimate the prevalence of
      PVC-CM, prove feasibility and rates of clinical outcomes. This pilot study with a
      multidisciplinary approach will pave the way for a large-scale randomized PAPS trial to
      identify the best treatment strategy for patients with PVC-CM. Treating and reversing PVC-CM
      with its associated HF morbidity and mortality will impact not only healthcare spending, but
      most importantly it will improve patient's health, quality of life and long-term prognosis.
    
  