
    
      A survey was conducted between October 31 and November 4, 2020. The questionnaire was made
      through google forms, and a consent was taken from the Jordan medical association to send the
      link to surgeons in Jordan through the social media and the official WhatsApp groups. The
      survey was introduced with the invitation to participate of surgeons of all general and
      special surgical specialties and subspecialties. The aim of the survey was mentioned in the
      introduction which was to evaluate the impact of COVID-19 on surgical practice in Jordan
      during the second outbreak of COVID-19, and it was explained that the aim of the survey was
      for research purposes only and that it was totally anonymous with privacy preserved, and no
      identifying information required. Also, it was noted that we have added spaces for written
      views and recommendations.

      The questionnaire involved 16 questions of the multiple-choice, the dropdown, the multiple
      check, and the short answer questions. The first 2 questions were about the specialty and the
      place of work whether it was the ministry of health, the royal medical services, the
      university hospitals, or the non-governmental organizations. The 3rd and 4th questions were
      about the hospital where the participant works whether it admits COVID-19 patients and/or
      ordinary patients. The Questions from the 5th to the 8th were about the volume of work in
      terms of the number of elective and emergency surgeries during the month of October 2020 in
      comparison to the average monthly rate during the year 2019. The questions from the 9th to
      the 15th were about the problems that might have been faced in managing elective and
      emergency cases during the month of October 2020 in relation to COVID-19. The last question
      was a multiple checkbox question with an added space for giving the possible recommendations
      to manage the situation.
    
  