
    
      Background: The major problem in the treatment of morbidly obese children and adolescents is
      not weight reduction itself, but the long term maintenance of the reduced weight. Treatment
      of morbid obesity has a dual goal: Immediate relief for the obesity-related physical symptoms
      (by moderate weight reduction), and prevention of relapse by encouraging weight maintenance.
      Without maintenance-focused interventions, morbidly obese children are prone for repeated
      weight gains that can induce further complications and undermine therapeutic efforts.
      Maintenance-focused interventions have not been studied enough in adolescents with morbid
      obesity. An alternative solution for the conservative approach described above is based on
      bariatric surgeries. These are currently limited in adolescents due to insufficient evidence
      regarding pre- and post-operational interventions for long term weight maintenance.

      Goals: The study is designed to investigate the effect of an integrative, multi-disciplinary
      program for children and adolescents with morbid obesity. The program includes interventions
      for moderate weight reduction and for long term weight maintenance. The program is based on a
      year-long treatment continuum. The different phases of this continuum include a short
      hospitalization, intensive day treatment program, and weekly follow up. The program is also
      based on intensive work with parents, with emphasis on familial change of life habits. The
      program will be studied in two perspectives: as a conservative treatment, as well as an
      'envelope' for bariatric surgeries including a pre-operational preparation phase and a
      post-operational follow-up.

      Hypothesis: The proportion of program participants who will decrease their weight and
      maintain it for at least one year will be significantly higher than the proportion known in
      the literature. This finding is expected among participants in the 'conservative' program as
      well as among participants who will undergo bariatric surgeries.

      Method: the study will take place in a child and adolescent psychiatric unit located in a
      general children hospital, in cooperation with pediatric and endocrinology units.
      Participants will undergo short hospitalization focused on acute relief of obesity related
      complications and as a pre-operational preparation for those participants who are designated
      for surgery. All participants, whether designed for operation or not, will continue
      participation in a year long day program focused on weight maintenance and acquisition of
      healthy life habits. Study design will include 4 assessments of psychical and psychological
      measures: pre-hospitalization screening, admission, 4-month follow up, 1-year follow up. At
      those assessment points, both children and parents will be assessed.
    
  