
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine if 8 weeks of pulmonary rehabilitation can reduce
      neuromechanical uncoupling (a disparity between the effort/drive to breathe and the breathing
      response) in patients with COPD and to determine if this reduction is associated with
      improvements in both the intensity and qualitative dimensions of dyspnea during exercise.

      Pulmonary rehabilitation is an exercise and education intervention designed to help patients
      cope with their dyspnea, and exercise effectively. Pulmonary rehabilitation programs that
      incorporate exercise training are the most effective non-pharmacological method of reducing
      dyspnea in COPD. However, the precise mechanisms of dyspnea relief following exercise
      training are still unknown. Understanding the pathophysiologcal underpinnings of this
      debilitating symptom is critical in order to develop effective symptom-based strategies for
      dyspnea management.

      Participants with COPD will report to the exercise laboratory on 3 separate visits. Visit 1
      will serve as an initial screening visit whereby participants will provide written informed
      consent prior to familiarization of all testing procedures and symptom scales followed by
      completion of an incremental cycle exercise test. The remaining 2 experimental visits will be
      conducted immediately before and after 8 weeks of pulmonary rehabilitation. Visits 2 and 3
      will include: symptom-related questionnaires, pulmonary function tests, functional ability
      test and a constant-work rate (CWR) cycle exercise test at 75% of the maximal work rate
      achieved during visit 1. The CWR cycle exercise tests will be performed with the
      instrumentation of an esophageal catheter and detailed physiological and sensory measurements
      will be obtained on both visits. The comparison of data from visits 2 and 3 will address the
      investigators' hypotheses.

      Study Participants: The study will include 12 COPD participants in total. Pulmonary
      Rehabilitation: The pulmonary rehabilitation program provides education and exercise training
      for patients with chronic lung disease to assist them with symptom management and improve
      their daily ability to function. The 8 week program involves 3 visits per week for 2 hours
      each visit (1 hour education and 1 hour exercise training). The pulmonary rehabilitation
      program is usual care for all participants in this study.

      Exercise Protocol: A symptom-limited incremental exercise test will be performed on visit 1
      using an electronically braked cycle ergometer according to recommended guidelines. The test
      will consist of steady-state rest for 10 minutes, a 1 minute warm-up at 0 watts, and 10 watt
      stepwise increases in work rate every minute until symptom-limitation. The CWR test performed
      on visits 2 and 3 will consist of a 1 minute warm-up followed by an increase in work rate to
      75% of the maximum incremental work rate.

      Measurements Pulmonary Function: Spirometry, plethysmography, diffusing capacity, and maximum
      respiratory pressures will be performed on visit 1 according to standard recommendation.
      Visits 2 and 3 will include spirometry, plethysmography, and maximum respiratory pressures. A
      commercially available cardiopulmonary testing system (Vmax 229d with Autobox 6,200 DL;
      SensorMedics, Yorba Linda, CA) will be used, and all measurements will be expressed as
      percent of predicted normal values.

      Dyspnea Evaluation: Dyspnea intensity (defined as "the sensation of laboured or difficult
      breathing") and perceived leg discomfort will be evaluated at rest, every minute during
      exercise, and at peak exercise using the modified 10-point Borg scale on all testing visits.
      Participants will be asked to describe their dyspnea during exercise prior to the intensity
      ratings and at end-exercise using the following 3 descriptors: (1) "my breathing requires
      more work and effort" (work and effort); (2) "I cannot get enough air in" (unsatisfied
      inspiration); (3) "I cannot get enough air out" (unsatisfied expiration). None to all 3 of
      the descriptors can be chosen at any one time. Upon exercise cessation, participants will be
      asked to verbalize their main reason(s) for stopping exercise (i.e., breathing discomfort,
      leg discomfort, combination of breathing and legs, or some other reason) and to select
      qualitative descriptors of breathlessness using an established questionnaire. Pre- to
      post-intervention changes in dyspnea will also be assessed with the Transition Dyspnea Index.

      Cardio-respiratory Responses to Exercise: Standard cardio-respiratory measures will be
      recorded on a breath-by-breath basis and averaged over 30-second epochs, including minute
      ventilation (V'E), oxygen consumption (VO2), carbon dioxide production (CO2), partial
      pressure of end-tidal CO2, (tidal volume) VT, and breathing frequency (Vmax 229d with Autobox
      6,200 DL; SensorMedics, Yorba Linda, CA). Operating volumes (i.e., end-expiratory and
      end-inspiratory lung volumes) will be derived from dynamic inspiratory capacity (IC)
      manoeuvres as previously described 26. For safety purposes, electrocardiography will be
      monitored using a 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG), blood pressure will be measured using a
      manual sphygmomanometer, and arterial oxygen saturation will be monitored using pulse
      oximetry. Exercise tests will be terminated based on established criteria as per American
      College of Sports Medicine guidelines.

      Respiratory Mechanics: Diaphragmatic electromyography (EMGdi) will be measured using a
      multi-pair electrode catheter that combines two balloons for measuring esophageal and gastric
      pressures. Lidocaine spray or gel (a local anaesthetic) will be used to freeze the
      participant's nose and back of their throat. After which, while the participant sips water
      through a straw, an experienced technician will insert the catheter through the participants
      nose and into their stomach via their esophagus. The catheter will be positioned based on the
      strength of EMGdi signal during spontaneous breathing. The raw EMGdi signal will be converted
      to a root mean square (RMS). The maximum RMS for each inspiration will be determined between
      QRS complexes to avoid the influence of ECG artefact 30. Maximal EMGdi (EMGdimax) will be
      obtained during IC, sniff and maximal inspiratory pressure manoeuvres. The ratio of EMGdi to
      EMGdimax will be used as an index of neural respiratory drive. The ratio between VT and vital
      capacity (VC) will be used to represent the mechanical response of the respiratory system.
      Normalizing for EMGdimax and VC allows the stimulus intensity to be standardized and compared
      across individuals. Thus neuromechanical uncoupling of the respiratory system will be
      determined as the ratio (or interaction) between neural drive and the mechanical response of
      the respiratory system (EMGdi/EMGdimax : VT/VC).

      The mechanical work of breathing (WOB) will be determined using modified Campbell diagrams as
      used previously. Chest wall compliance will be obtained from the literature and positioned as
      previously described. The WOB will be partitioned into its resistive and elastic components.
      This data will be compared to the WOB data in previous COPD studies.

      Muscle oxygenation and hemodynamics: Muscle oxygenation will be noninvasively monitored using
      near infrared spectroscopy. A four-channel continuous-wave near-infrared spectroscope (Oxymon
      M III, Artinis Medical Systems, BV, The Netherlands) will be used to determine oxyhemoglobin,
      deoxyhemoglobin, and total hemoglobin by measuring light attenuation at 760 and 864 nm
      wavelengths, and analyzed using algorithms based on the modified Beer-Lambert law. This data
      will be used for descriptive exploratory purposes as limited data exists on the muscle
      oxygenation of the legs (vastus lateralis) and respiratory muscles (sternocleidomastoid,
      parasternal, and intercostals) in COPD patients.

      Inflection Point of the VT and V'E Relationship: VT data will be averaged over 30-second
      epochs and will be plotted against V'E at rest and throughout all exercise intensities for
      each individual participant. The point at which VT deviates from linearity and begins to
      plateau will be defined as the inflection point of the VT and V'E relationship. Two different
      observers will determine the inflection point for each participant during the incremental
      exercise test by examining individual Hey plots.

      Statistical Analysis: Data will be presented as means ± SD unless otherwise specified. Pre
      and post-pulmonary rehabilitation descriptive characteristics, exercise responses, and Borg
      ratings at standardized evaluation points (10 watt increments, VT/V'E inflection, and peak)
      will be compared using paired t-tests with Bonferroni corrections where appropriate. Pearson
      correlation coefficients will be used to examine the association between measured variables:
      neuromechanical uncoupling, breathing pattern, operational lung volumes, Borg ratings, and
      exercise variables. Reasons for stopping exercise and qualitative descriptors of dyspnea will
      be analyzed as frequency statistics and compared between pre and post pulmonary
      rehabilitation using the McNemar's exact test at standardized 10 watt increments in
      work-rate, VT/V'E inflection, and peak exercise. A P-value less than 0.05 will be regarded as
      statistically significant. Statistical analysis of the data will be performed using Stata
      v11.2 (StataCorp, Texas, USA).
    
  