
    
      Postoperative agitation (POA) although short-lived is potentially harmful to the patient and
      the recovery staff. In the postoperative care unit, an agitated patient requires more nurses
      to control his abnormal movement and apply restrains that could result in bruises of his
      extremities. In the postoperative care unit, we noticed that agitated patients remove venous
      and arterial catheters, nasal packs, oxygen masks and endotracheal tubes leading to bleeding
      and hypoxia.

      Post-operative agitation is a well-documented phenomenon in children recovering from
      sevoflurane anesthesia. However, in adults, few reports have highlighted the occurrence of
      this phenomenon. The exact trigger for this complication remains to be determined, however,
      many factors play a crucial role in revealing POA. While an alert, calm patient is the ideal
      recovery outcome, the occurrence of excitation, excessive motor movements and unexplained
      sounds is not an uncommon scenario following nasal surgery in adults. Several factors have
      been incriminated to provoke agitations in adults; pain, hypoxia, type of operation, too
      rapid emergence from anesthesia, sedatives like benzodiazepines.

      Post-operative agitation following nasal surgery The incidence of postoperative agitation
      following nasal surgery is relatively high. The exact mechanism is Unknown. However, some
      studies reported that the occurrence of POA could be as high as 55.4% and the presence of
      nasal pack is likely to be the main trigger of agitation. Other experiments reported an
      incidence of 68% following nasal surgery. We highlighted several factors that may increase
      the prevalence of POA; Male gender, young age, smoking, postoperative pain and premedication
      with atropine and Phenergan. Yu et al., 2005 reported a 55% incidence of POA after nasal
      surgery. They demonstrated that Doxapram administration, pain, and presence of a tracheal
      tube and or a urinary catheter appear to be the most important causes of postoperative
      agitation. Similarly, pain, urinary catheters, and tracheal tubes were also reported by Kim
      et al., 2004as risk factors for POA following nasal surgery. The presence of nasal pack as a
      trigger to POA remains debatable.
    
  