
    
      DESIGN / PHASE:

      Prospective, single-center, randomized, parallel group, controlled, phase II study.

      STUDY PLANNED DURATION:

      First patient First visit 1Q 2009 Last patient First visit 4Q 2009 Last patient Last visit 4Q
      2010

      CENTERS:

      Department of Internal Medicine III, Division of Nephrology and Dialysis, Medical University
      of Vienna, Austria, Department of Surgery, Division of Transplantation, Medical University of
      Vienna, Austria

      PATIENTS / GROUPS:

      50 patients in 2 groups 25 patients per group Randomization ratio 1:1, no stratification

      Capillary blood glucose will be measured four times daily: before breakfast (7:30 am), before
      lunch (12 pm), before supper (5:30 pm) and after supper (9 pm) in both groups by the nursing
      personnel/academic investigators. In group No.1 (study arm A), patients will be treated with
      long-acting insulin (Insulatard) as soon as the glucose-level before supper surpasses 140
      mg/dl. The normoglycemic goal in this group will be from 110 to 120 mg/dl.

      In group No.2 (study arm B), the glucose levels will be recorded, but the treatment will be
      left up to the ward, which is relying on conventional morning glucose measurements. For
      safety, any glucose levels >180 mg/dl will be reported, and all measures taken by the ward
      will be recorded. As there are no available guidelines however concerning the so called
      "conventional" blood glucose-lowering therapy in renal transplant patients, especially during
      this very early post-transplant phase, the following suggestions will be brought to the
      attention of the ward in order to standardize the treatment of the patients in study arm B:
      1. Treatment in this group should be initiated if the fasting glucose level surpasses the
      renal glucose threshold, i.e. 180 mg/dl. 2. As the proposed life-style modifications for the
      treatment of NODAT1 are not feasible during this very early post-transplant phase, the basis
      of the conventional therapy will be proposed to be sulfonyl urea drugs (i.e. Gliclazide -
      Diamicron®, 30 mg, not more than three times daily). 3. Short-acting insulin will be strongly
      recommended to be used for corrections of capillary blood glucose levels above 250 mg/dl.

      EFFICACY ENDPOINTS:

      Primary:

      - HbA1c levels

      Secondary:

        -  capillary blood glucose profile in patients treated with long-acting insulin and in the
           control group, as evaluated by the daily measurements

        -  number of patients and overall number of days with hyperglycemia > 140 mg/dl (in each
           group)

        -  number of patients and overall number of days with hyperglycemia > 200 mg/dl (in each
           group)

        -  number of patients and overall number of days with hypoglycemia < 60 mg/dl in each group

        -  number of patients with abnormal glucose tolerance on days 90, 180 and 360 after
           transplantation

      TOLERABILITY / SAFETY ENDPOINTS:

      - Number of incidences of symptomatic hypoglycemia, confirmed by capillary blood glucose
      levels < 60 mg/dl

      PHARMACOKINETIC / PHARMACODYNAMIC ENDPOINTS:

      Doses of (long-acting) insulin

      STATISTICAL METHODOLOGY:

      Primary Endpoint:

      HbA1c (rel %)

      Null and alternative hypotheses:

      H0 Treatment of hyperglycemia > 140 mg/dl before supper with long-acting insulin in renal
      transplant recipients for a period of at least 14 days after transplantation is equal to
      conventional treatment in reducing the HbA1c (measured on day 90 after transplantation).

      H1: Treatment of hyperglycemia > 140 mg/dl before supper with long-acting insulin in renal
      transplant recipients for a period of at least 14 days after transplantation is superior to
      conventional treatment in reducing the HbA1c (measured on day 90 after transplantation).

      Type-I and -II errors - power:

      α=0.05 ß=0.2

      Statistical methodology:

      One-sided t-test of HbA1c on day 90 after transplantation, one-sided t-test of number of days
      with hyperglycemia > 140 mg/dl before supper, comparison of capillary blood glucose levels by
      ANOVA

      Sample size calculation:

      Based on a two-sided testing and an expected standard deviation of HbA1c of 10%, an α=0.05
      and a ß=0.2, a sample size of 25 patients per group was determined.

      Main analysis set:

      Per-protocol (efficacy) and intention to treat (ITT) for safety

      Other endpoints:

      descriptive statistics
    
  