
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare progression free survival (PFS) for patients with limited stage small cell lung
      cancer (LS-SCLC) treated with chemoradiation +/- atezolizumab. (Phase II) II. To compare
      overall survival (OS) for patients with LS-SCLC treated with chemoradiation +/- atezolizumab.
      (Phase III)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare progression free survival (PFS) for patients with limited stage small cell lung
      cancer (LS-SCLC) treated with chemoradiation +/- atezolizumab. (Phase III) II. To determine
      overall response rate (ORR), rates of local control, and distant metastases free survival
      with chemoradiation +/- atezolizumab.

      III. To characterize immune mediated and non-immune mediated toxicity from chemoradiotherapy
      plus atezolizumab.

      IV. To compare quality of life, as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer
      Therapy-Trial Outcome Index (FACT-TOI), for patients undergoing chemoradiation +/-
      atezolizumab.

      V. To evaluate the quality-adjusted survival, using scores from the 5-level EuroQol
      5-dimensional questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L), of chemoradiation +/- atezolizumab for patients with
      LS-SCLC.

      VI. To characterize fatigue, as measured by the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement
      Information System (PROMIS), following chemoradiation +/- atezolizumab.

      VII. To determine the association of blood based tumor mutational burden (bTMB) and
      tissue-based tumor mutational burden (tTMB) with clinical outcome.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To collect biospecimens at baseline, day 1 and 3 months after the end of
      chemoradiotherapy, to allow for future analyses.

      II. To characterize patient-reported symptomatic toxicities measured by the Patient-Reported
      Outcomes - Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Evens (PRO-CTCAE).

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive etoposide intravenously (IV) on days 1-3 and cisplatin IV or
      carboplatin IV on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days for 3 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo three-dimensional conformal
      radiation therapy (3D-CRT) or intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) twice daily (BID)
      for approximately 3 weeks or once daily (QD) for approximately 6-7 weeks in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive treatment as in Arm I. Patients also receive atezolizumab IV over
      30-60 minutes on day 1 or 2 of each chemotherapy cycle. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks for 17
      cycles (1 year) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      then every 6 months for 3 years, then annually thereafter.
    
  