
    
      Sentinella is an FDA-approved, high-resolution, portable gamma camera that gives valuable
      visual guidance to surgeons in certain types of cancer surgeries where no, or only limited,
      visual guidance was possible previously. The significance of this new aid is the improved
      possibility of locating and removing all lymph nodes that drain directly from
      tumors-so-called "SLNs"-in order to accurately assess both the staging of the cancer as well
      as the best possible operative and post-operative treatment. Sentinella can confirm that no
      significant lymph nodes are missed and document this "clean field" on the patient's permanent
      record.

      Usually, there is more than one SLN. False-negative SLN biopsy results may impair patient
      outcome for several reasons: missed nodes might lead to recurrence that can be potentially
      difficult to treat on occasions, involved nodes may be a potential secondary source of
      distant metastases, and understaging affects decisions about systemic therapy and specific
      radiation therapy. Missing SLNs is one of the main factors which increase the false-negative
      rates.

      Sentinel node biopsy is undoubtedly the standard of care for breast cancer and melanoma
      because of the vital information the histological status of these nodes gives. Correct
      identification of these SLNs is challenging because of limitations of current preoperative
      imaging and the lack of visualization in the OR:

        -  What appears to be a single node in a preoperative lymphoscintigraphy or SPECT can turn
           out to be 2 or more different nodes that are close together. This is due to relatively
           low spatial resolution of these technologies.

        -  Structures can be "hidden" by other structures such as the principle tumor/injection
           site, making identification difficult or impossible. In these cases, Sentinella will
           discover the structure upon removal of the principle tumor and aid the surgeon in its
           removal.

        -  Currently used gamma probes give only audible and non-recorded aid to surgeons and can
           easily miss structures when they are more than 2 cm deep in tissue.

      Sentinella gives additional visual information to surgical teams that can improve patient
      outcomes. It does not replace, but rather compliments current standard procedures, and it
      offers precise documentation of each step of the procedure to be kept permanently on the
      patient's record.

        1. After standard injection of radiotracer and imaging are performed preoperatively,
           Sentinella can be used in the OR to identify the position of the structures and mark the
           skin for surgeon's reference.

        2. Before removal, Sentinella can be used to visualize and quantify the radioactivity of
           each structure. This information is stored for future reference.

        3. Upon removal of each structure, Sentinella can be used to verify ex-vivo the activity of
           the structure removed.

        4. After removal and verification of all the structures planned, Sentinella is used to
           confirm that no active structure is left in and to document the resulting "clean field"

      The current standard of care for surgical SLN biopsy involves use of a gamma probe. In this
      study, the investigators will prospectively collect Sentinella images obtained during this
      standard of care procedure and compare and correlate the findings with other standard of care
      imaging studies, and treatment and outcome information.
    
  