
    
      Objective:

      The selective GABAB receptor agonist baclofen has been identified as a possible medication
      able to reduce alcohol craving and intake in alcohol dependent individuals. In keeping with
      several preclinical studies, most of the clinical studies have demonstrated baclofen s
      effects in reducing alcohol craving and intake and promoting alcohol abstinence. However, one
      trial with alcoholics with a low severity of dependence found a robust treatment effect, but
      no differences between baclofen and placebo. The inconsistency of baclofen s effects on
      alcohol drinking among previous treatment trials suggests that different AD individuals may
      respond differently to baclofen. Baclofen has been demonstrated to consistently reduce
      anxiety in alcoholic patients, and analyses of positive vs. null findings with baclofen
      suggest that alcoholic patients with higher levels of anxiety at baseline may represent a
      sub-population particularly responsive to baclofen treatment. Therefore, this study will
      systematically test, for the first time, the specific role of baclofen on alcohol-related
      outcomes in alcoholic individuals with high anxiety levels. Furthermore, the biobehavioral
      mechanisms by which baclofen reduces drinking are not well characterized. A human laboratory
      pilot study conducted at Brown University with non-treatment seeking alcohol-dependent
      individuals suggests that baclofen reduces alcohol consumption both in the naturalistic
      environment as well as in a well-controlled lab setting (using an alcohol self-administration
      [ASA] paradigm) and that this could be mediated by baclofen s ability to alter
      alcohol-related biphasic effects. An exploratory analysis also revealed that specific genetic
      polymorphisms might moderate baclofen s effects, i.e. DRD4 and 5HTTLPR polymorphisms,
      although the sample of that pilot study was very small to allow one to draft definitive
      conclusions. The present project proposes investigating baclofen using a design similar to
      that used in the previous pilot study (thus, an already validated paradigm), thus
      representing not only the first study testing baclofen in alcoholic individuals with high
      anxiety levels, but also the first study investigating baclofen s biobehavioral mechanisms in
      such a population for which baclofen may hypothetically show a very robust effect.

      Study population:

      Non-treatment seeking alcohol-dependent males and females with high anxiety levels.

      Design:

      The experimental design is a between-subject randomized double-blind controlled study. The
      medication conditions baclofen t.i.d. or placebo represent the between subjects factor. Each
      participant will be randomly assigned to one of the two medication conditions and will
      receive eight days of the medication, followed by an alcohol laboratory session on Day 8. The
      alcohol laboratory session will be conducted in a bar-like room in the NIAAA Outpatient
      Clinic of the NIH CRC. The study will be conducted in consecutive phases which will appear
      contiguous to volunteers: (1) a one-week screening period; (2) an 8-day period (+ 1-5 days if
      needed to permit some participants flexibility in scheduling the laboratory session) during
      which participants will take the study medication; (3) an alcohol laboratory session,
      including a cue reactivity (CR) test and an alcohol self-administration (ASA) procedure on
      Day 8 (last day at the target dose); (4) a 3-day period during which participants will
      undergo a dose reduction of the study medication; (5) a 1-week follow-up (including the
      tapering phase).

      Outcome measures:

      Alcohol drinking during the ASA will be measured as the primary outcome. Secondary objectives
      include baclofen s effects on alcohol cue-induced responses (urge to drink, attention to
      cues, blood pressure, heart rate, saliva), on the subjective effects of alcohol and on
      anxiety levels. We will also explore the role of possible moderators of baclofen s effects,
      namely family history of alcoholism, early vs. later onset of alcoholism, pre-treatment
      anxiety levels and genetic moderators (DRD4, 5-HTTPRL). This study does not offer direct
      benefit to participants but is likely to yield generalizable knowledge about the possible
      role of baclofen in treating alcoholic individuals with high anxiety levels. This will
      markedly facilitate the identification of a novel pharmacotherapy, thus facilitating the
      development of novel alcoholism treatments.
    
  