
    
      Rationale: Recent studies showed that ascorbic acid (AA) stimulates proliferation and
      maturation of T lymphocytes and natural killer (NK) cells. Chemotherapy results in depletion
      of those cells and thereby an increased infection rate. A pilot study showed low levels of AA
      in the plasma of several patients after chemotherapy followed by autologous stem cell
      transplantation for hematological malignancies. AA supplementation could be beneficial to the
      recovery of the immune system in these patients.

      Objective: The aim of this study is to examine the effect of vitamin C supplementation on
      immune recovery in patients with autologous stem cell transplantation. The aim of the run-in
      phase of the study is to examine the effect of intravenous vitamin C supplementation on
      plasma concentrations of vitamin C in patients with autologous stem cell transplantation at
      day 14 in order to be sure that in the intervention study accurate AA plasma levels will be
      present.

      Study design: run-in phase, followed by randomized controlled trial Study population: All
      participants will be adults (minimally 18 years old) that are planed to receive an autologous
      stem cell transplantation for multiple myeloma or lymphoma and are recruited at the MUMC+. In
      total there will be 3 expected (run-in phase) + 44 (randomized controlled trial)
      participants.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Primary endpoints will be AA plasma level on day 14 (run-in
      phase) and the day of neutrophil recovery after stem cell transplantation
      (randomized-controlled phase). Secondary endpoints will be AA leukocyte levels, infection
      rate, duration of hospital stay, side effects of chemotherapy, overall survival, coagulation
      parameters, platelet reactivity, fibrinolysis and quality of life.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      AA supplementation could be beneficial for the immune recovery in the participants of this
      study. The risks associated with participation in this study are low. Vitamin C
      supplementation is safe and hardly has any documented side effects.
    
  