
    
      Aim The scientific aim of this study is to explore mechanisms of resistance to chemotherapy
      in breast cancer. To do so, we explore molecular parameters predicting response to
      chemotherapy administered prior to local therapy in large, primary breast cancers.

      Background Neoadjuvant (primary medical) therapy has got wide acceptance as primary therapy
      in breast cancer. In addition, this treatment provides an optimal setting studying the
      mechanisms of drug resistance in human cancers.

      Considering chemotherapy for primary breast cancer treatment, contemporary trend has been to
      treat these tumors more aggressively. High-dose therapy involving stem cell support is not
      advocated, as this has not been shown to improve long-term survival in early breast cancer.
      However, the attitude in general has been toward a more aggressive approach within the frame
      of "conventional" therapy.

      Based on theoretical modeling, an alternative approach, "dose-dense" therapy, has been
      advocated. Recently, that concept was brought to the test in two adjuvant trials. Thus,
      Citron et al applying doxorubicin, paclitaxel and cyclofosfamide revealed an improved outcome
      for dose-dense (2-weekly) administration compared to regular 3-weekly scheduling. In
      contrast, the German GEPARDUO study reported doxorubicin plus cyclophosphamide and docetaxel,
      given in sequence on a 3-weekly basis (8 cycles), to be superior to doxorubicin and docetaxel
      given in concert on a 2-weekly basis for 4 cycles. However, the doses administered
      (doxorubicin 50 versus 60 mg/m2; docetaxel 75 versus 100 mg/m2) was unequal, meaning total
      drug dose exposure differed between the two treatment arms. While more data are warranted, a
      reasonable interpretation of available data suggest sequential administration of different
      compounds in a dose-density approach to be a suitable regimen provided adequate total doses
      are given.

      Rationale for regimen Considering anthracyclines, most regimens today combine either
      epirubicin or doxorubicin in concert with 5-fluorouracil and cyclophosphamide. However, based
      on the evidence in the literature, it is not clear what the contribution of 5-FU or
      cyclophosphamide is to the effectiveness of such regimens, in particular not when a taxane is
      administered in sequence or concert. Thus, the NSABP-group has abandoned use of 5-FU from
      their adjuvant regimen. Considering cyclophosphamide, this compound seems to add to the
      carcinogenetic effect of anthracyclines enhancing the risk of secondary leukemia, while the
      contribution to the antitumor efficacy of the regimen remains uncertain. The taxanes are
      known to have significant antitumor effects in breast cancer when administered as
      monotherapy. Considering docetaxel, the dose generally advocated for monotherapy is 100
      mg/m2, while a dose of 75mg/m2 is recommended for combined use. Thus, the potential exists
      that the dose for combined use may be sub-optimal in some patients.

      Justification for a sequential approach is further supported by studies in metastatic breast
      cancer.

      Scientific aims While many mechanisms of resistance have been identified in experimental
      systems, we have little knowledge what may be the cause of drug resistance in human cancers.
      The factors so far identified that have been found associated with resistance to chemotherapy
      in breast cancer are amplification of HER-2 / Topo-II and mutations affecting TP53.

      Recently, several groups have explored responsiveness to chemotherapy using mRNA microarrays.
      While these studies consistently identified different gene profiles correlating to
      responsiveness to different regimens, the predictive value was too low for clinical
      application. Moreover, the results did not add to our understanding of the biological
      mechanisms causing drug resistance. In contrast, studies exploring different forms of cancer
      have started to reveal specific gene alterations, in particular affecting pathways of DNA
      damage repair or apoptosis in relation to drug resistance. Thus, our primary aim is to
      explore potential gene disturbances based on functional hypotheses.

      A major issue identifying mechanisms of drug resistance is to explore different compounds on
      a monodrug basis. Clinically, the major reason for combining or administering sequentially an
      anthracycline and a taxane is the efficacy of each compound combined with a significant lack
      of cross-resistance. Administered as a combined schedule, this limits the possibility of
      identifying the mechanisms of resistance / sensitivity to each compound individually.
      Provided that a sequential regimen provides the same efficacy as a combined schedule, such an
      approach is justified ethically. Thus, for a patient given 2 and 3 drugs in concert, the
      potential may be they respond to one drug only, while having the toxicity of the other
      compounds. In case of non-responsiveness to a single compound, this may be exchanged for an
      alternative treatment option. This contrasts the possibilities provided in the adjuvant
      setting. In adjuvant therapy, there is no way by which we may assess the response to
      individual drugs; thus the different compounds have to administer in concert.

      Based on what is said above, we consider sequential dose-dense treatment using epirubicin and
      docetaxel sequentially to be a feasible treatment option.

      Treatment regimen Each patient will receive 4 cycles of epirubicin 60 mg/m2 given at 2 weekly
      intervals together with G-CSF. Thereafter, docetaxel 100 mg/ m2 will be given at 2 weekly
      intervals for 4 cycles. Patients revealing positivity for HER2 status will have trastuzumab
      (Herceptin) implemented together with docetaxel but not during anthracycline treatment.

      Staging at baseline

      After given informed consent, patients will be staged as follows:

        -  MRI of both breasts

        -  Chest X-ray

        -  Liver ultrasound (in case metastases are suspected or verified; to be followed by CT and
           / or MRI confirmation)

        -  Skeletal scintigram. Any positive findings to be confirmed by subsequent X-ray / CT and
           / or MRI

        -  ECG

        -  LVEF (Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction)

      Response evaluation Response will be evaluated based on clinical examination and MRI, each
      assessment to be done separately.

      Clinical examination will be performed prior to commencing therapy (before surgical biopsy)
      and subsequently at 4, 6 and 8 weeks on therapy. Response will be classified according to the
      common "RECIST" criteria. An important exception is to be made. As argued in a previous
      protocol, we consider the RECIST definition of "progressive disease" as a 20% increase in the
      sum of the largest tumor diameters to be too liberal with respect to large primary tumors.
      Based on experience in our clinic, we believe the definition of progressive disease as an
      increase of > 25% in the product of the largest tumor diameter and its perpendicular (the
      previous common UICC criteria) to be a more suitable definition, protecting patients from
      undergoing deterioration of their clinical condition. This is in accordance to our previous
      experience.

      In case of "progressive disease" at any stage during epirubicin treatment, the patient will
      terminate epirubicin immediately and go ahead with docetaxel treatment. In case of
      progressive disease on docetaxel treatment, further therapy is left to the physician's
      discretion.

      Considering MRI assessment, this should be performed prior to commencing therapy, in the
      interval following the 4th cycle of epirubicin (prior to commencing docetaxel) and after the
      4th cycle of docetaxel, prior to surgery.

      Tissue sampling

        1. Each patient will undergo a surgical biopsy prior to commencing treatment.

        2. A Tru-cut biopsy should be obtained 24 hours after administration of the first
           epirubicin cycle to assess "immediate" alterations in response to cytotoxic damage.

        3. Immediately prior to commencing treatment with docetaxel, a third sample (this time a
           Tru-Cut biopsy) is obtained for snap-freezing.

        4. A Tru-cut biopsy should be obtained 24 hours after administration of the first docetaxel
           cycle to assess "immediate" alterations in response to cytotoxic damage.

        5. Finally, tumor tissue is collected and snap-frozen at surgery following docetaxel
           therapy.

      Bone marrow aspiration A single unilateral bone marrow aspiration is performed prior to
      commencing chemotherapy treatment.

      Study Endpoint

        -  Primary endpoint is to correlate molecular parameters to objective response to each of
           the 2 regimens applied.

        -  Secondary endpoint are

           : - to correlate molecular parameters to relapse-free and overall survival

        -  to identify and explore characteristics of epithelial and mesenchymal stem cells
           isolated in tumor tissue and bone marrow

      Surgery While many centers practice breast conservative surgery for tumors successfully
      downstaged by primary medical treatment, in general we have applied a conservative approach,
      advocating mastectomy. However, downstaging for limited surgery is not a primary or secondary
      endpoint of this study. In general, we will advocate mastectomy also for patients with a
      clinical complete response. However, this practice may change based on contemporary results
      from other centers, and the protocol allow limited surgery at the physicians discretion in
      individual patients.

      Laboratory Investigations The area of molecular biology is rapidly developing with respect to
      biological knowledge as well as technical analytical methods. Thus, it is not possible to
      predict upfront which genes may be of particular interest in 5 years from know; neither is it
      possible to foresee completely which laboratory methods will be available. Our aim is to
      explore potential genetic alterations explaining the mechanisms of drug resistance. While it
      is not possible to predict in detail, the aim of the study and all analysis to be conducted
      should aim at this major goal.

      Number of patients to be enrolled The study is an exploratory translational study. Thus, we
      do not know the number of patients expected to achieve a clinical or pathological complete
      response. Currently, on average 20 patients are referred to our Department for a diagnosis of
      locally advanced breast cancer on an annual basis; including patients with tumors measuring
      between 4 and 5 cm in diameter, we estimate the total number may be somewhere between 30 and
      40 patients per year. From this cohort, we estimate an average number of 20 patients to be
      enrolled in the study on an annual basis. Our aim is to recruit 100 patients with a minimum
      of 60.

      Publication Our aim is to publish the results from this study in peer-reviewed international
      journals with contributors from the clinic and laboratory as authors.

      References; from the Trial Administrator upon request.
    
  