
    
      Anxiety disorders are among the most common childhood disorders. Although anxiety is a normal
      part of life and growing up, for some children this anxiety becomes chronic, relentless, and
      progressively worse if left untreated. Physical symptoms typically accompany the intense
      anxiety caused by the disorder, and may include blushing, profuse sweating, trembling,
      nausea, and difficulty talking. Effective treatments for anxiety disorders are available, and
      research continues to yield new, improved therapies that can help most people with anxiety
      disorders to lead productive, fulfilling lives. This study will look at similarities and
      differences in family processes and child temperament among children with and without
      symptoms of anxiety disorders. Results from this study may improve future treatment of
      children with anxiety disorders.

      Families participating in this observational study will be mailed parent and child
      questionnaires that should be completed prior to the first study session. The child
      questionnaires will ask for information regarding the child's feelings and family
      interactions. Parent questionnaires will ask for information about their own personal
      feelings as well as the child's feelings, symptoms, and behaviors. Study participation will
      last 2 days. On the first day of the study, families will undergo a 3-hour diagnostic
      interview in which questions similar to those found on the questionnaires will be revisited.
      On the second day, mothers and their children will participate in three different observation
      tasks that explore how families interact and respond to certain situations. These tasks may
      include discussing certain anxiety-provoking situations, putting puzzles together, and
      creating an ending to a story. Before each task, the child will be placed alone in a separate
      room where the child will be asked to relax. Throughout the tasks, the child's heart rate and
      breathing will be recorded by a machine. The tasks will be videotaped but will be viewed only
      by research staff for data analysis purposes and to ensure that all safety procedures were
      followed. Upon study completion, if it appears that a child has an anxiety disorder, parents
      of the child will be notified and will receive treatment referrals as needed.
    
  