
    
      Using a single-group, prospective design, potential participants will be identified and
      screened for eligibility by the PI (LWJ) via medical record review of patients scheduled for
      their primary adjuvant chemotherapy consultation at DUMC and Durham VA. As a routine part of
      clinical care, during the treatment consultation the attending oncologist will perform a
      physical examination to screen for cardiovascular risk factors, the results of which will be
      recorded in the patients' medical records. Immediately following their consultation and
      oncologist approval, potential participants will be provided with a thorough review of the
      study by the principal investigator (LJ) and asked if they are willing to participate.
      Interested participants will be given an information package that provides further
      information on study participation. Two to five days following their treatment consultation
      and prior to the initiation of chemotherapy, interested participants will be contacted by
      telephone by the PI to answer any questions and to schedule the baseline assessment visit. At
      the baseline visit, participants will be asked to sign the informed consent and will be given
      a copy for their records. After consent, they will be given a baseline ECG and physician
      monitored cardiopulmonary exercise test (stress test) to screen for undiagnosed
      cardiovascular disease. Following the successful completion of baseline assessments, all
      participants will be scheduled for their initial exercise training session. Finally, on a
      different group of patients we will perform a random retrospective medical chart review of 50
      completely-resected NSCLC patients who received usual care (i.e., no exercise training)
      during the study period to obtain comparative information on the treatment
      toxicity/compliance rate. The chart review will be performed by Drs. Jones, Garst and
      Crawford and will assess treatment toxicity and compliance over the entire course of adjuvant
      chemotherapy.
    
  