
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the objective response rate in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma
      treated with bevacizumab and erlotinib.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the time to progression in patients treated with this regimen. II. Evaluate the
      overall and progression-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

      III. Evaluate the adverse events in patients treated with this regimen.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the presence of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations in tumor
      tissue and correlate this with response rate, progression, and survival in patients treated
      with this regimen.

      II. Evaluate the expression of molecules involved in EGFR signal transduction, including
      EGFR, phosphorylated-EGFR, Akt, phosphorylated-Akt, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK),
      phosphorylated-MAPK, and HER2/neu by immunohistochemistry (from tumor tissue) and correlate
      these with patient outcome measures.

      III. Determine the levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and VEGF receptors in
      tumor tissue as well as baseline plasma VEGF levels and correlate these with patient outcome
      measures.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15 and oral erlotinib
      hydrochloride once daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo laboratory studies to
      determine epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and phosphorylated-EGFR protein levels
      using initial diagnostic biopsy specimens by immunohistochemistry (IHC) for correlation with
      clinical outcome. Levels of proteins through which EGFR signals, including Akt,
      phosphorylated-Akt, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and phosphorylated-MAPK, are
      also determined using initial diagnostic biopsy specimens by IHC and correlated with clinical
      outcome. Total and free serum vascular endothelial growth factor levels are determined at the
      start of study and prior to course 3 by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 3 years.
    
  