
    
      HF is a complicated disease that often requires individuals to carefully monitor their
      condition. Individuals with HF must follow strict medication regimens, adhere to diet and
      exercise recommendations, and closely monitor symptoms and changes in weight. Individuals
      with low health literacy skills may have a harder time comprehending medication dosing
      instructions, educational materials, and the overall complexity of managing HF than
      individuals with higher health literacy skills. Programs that focus on building self-care
      skills have been proven to reduce the rate of hospitalizations among individuals with HF;
      only one study, however, has specifically examined the importance of health literacy in the
      effectiveness of these programs. Teach to Goal (TTG), a program that focuses on developing
      self-care skills while incorporating medical information for various health literacy levels,
      may improve medical outcomes in individuals with HF. The purpose of this study is to evaluate
      the effectiveness of TTG at improving hospitalization and death rates, quality of life, and
      self-care behaviors among individuals with HF.

      This 1-year study will enroll individuals with HF. Eligible participants will attend a
      baseline study visit and complete survey questionnaires. Participants will then be randomly
      assigned to either TTG or a control group. The TTG group will partake in a 30- to 60-minute
      educational session, which will focus on improving self-care skills. They will also receive
      literacy-sensitive printed materials about monitoring body weight and swelling in the legs,
      medication administration, and a sodium reduction and exercise plan. Control group
      participants will partake in a shorter educational session and will receive fewer printed
      materials. All participants will be provided with a digital scale to self-monitor their
      weight at home. The TTG group will receive follow-up phone calls on Days 3, 7, 14, 21, and
      28, during which study staff will assess participants' progress and will provide additional
      support and training as necessary. Both groups will receive phone calls at Months 1, 6, and
      12. During these calls, number of hospitalizations, quality of life, and changes in self-care
      behavior and knowledge will be evaluated, but participants will not receive any additional
      training.
    
  