
    
      This is a prospective, single-arm study is to evaluate the safety, effectiveness and
      usability of the XACT device. The study will be approved by the Institutional Review Board
      (IRB) at each of the participating centers prior to patient enrollment.

      Subjects undergoing CT-guided, minimally invasive percutaneous lung procedures in the
      interventional radiology suite, e.g., core biopsy, fine needle aspiration (FNA), tumor
      ablation, etc., and willing to sign an informed consent document will be screened for
      compliance with the study inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      A total of thirty (41) subjects will be enrolled in the study at 5 medical centers. The
      intention is to recruit subjects, which will cover a variety of CT-guided interventional lung
      procedures and a variety of different procedural tools that may be used with the device.
      Investigators will screen patients based on the inclusion/exclusion criteria described below
      and the subjects' demographic, general medical history, medical condition/indication,
      coagulation factors, concomitant medications and vital signs will be obtained.

      The system accuracy will be the primary efficacy endpoint and is defined as the measured
      distance from the tip of the needle/tool to the target, once the XACT robot reaches the
      pre-defined target .

      Clinical accuracy will be the secondary efficacy endpoint and is defined as the ability to
      place the instrument or procedural tool at a location suitable for the planned intervention.
      The investigator will review the final instrument position on the post-placement CT images to
      determine if the pre-operative planned target was reached. This information will be used to
      calculate success rate.

      Additionally, the usability of the XACT device will be evaluated using a rating scale by
      assessing the ease of device setup, device operation, pre-operative planning, robot
      positioning, guiding and needle advancement. The total time of the procedure will be
      recorded, as will the number of CT scans performed and the radiation dose (DLP and CTDI).
    
  