
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      The objective of this study is to investigate the clinical and electrophysiological
      correlates of the ethanol response in suppressing the tremor amplitude in patients with
      essential tremor (ET).

      STUDY POPULATION:

      85 patients with clinically diagnosed ET according to published diagnostic criteria will be
      entered into study phase 1. From the groups of participants in study phase 1, 12 responders
      and 12 non-responders will be invited back to participate in study phase 2.

      DESIGN:

      In study phase 1, the response to ethanol will be measured by a quantitative and qualitative
      approach using Essential Tremor (ET) spiral analysis during a standardized oral ethanol
      challenge. The clinical response will be correlated to breath-alcohol levels. Participants of
      study phase 1 will be selected based on their rate of response - dichotomized into a group of
      responders vs. non-responders - for study phase 2, during an IV ethanol challenge, brain
      excitability will be tested using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS).

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      As the primary outcome parameter of study phase 1, we will determine the patients who respond
      to ethanol by tremor reduction versus patients without reduction of tremor intensities, as
      measured using spiral analysis of the dominant hand. Criterion for response will be
      operationally defined in a dichotomized fashion as reduction of tremor intensities, larger
      than the known diurnal variation of ET. Therefore, a patient will be considered a responder,
      if spirographic tremor amplitudes decrease by 35% or more at the time-point 60 minutes after
      an oral ethanol administration, as compared to baseline. As secondary outcome parameters,
      spiral data from the non-dominant hand, as well as clinical rating scales and breath alcohol
      levels will be measured to correlate objective with subjective ratings of ethanol effect in
      ET.

      In study phase two, changes of short intracortical inhibition (SICI), known to be mediated by
      GABAA, will be analyzed using TMS and compared between responders and non-responders before
      and during a constant iv administration of ethanol. Secondary outcome parameters include the
      measurement of changes of GABAB-mediated paradigms such as long intracortical inhibition
      (LICI), cortical silent period (CSP), intracortical facilitation (ICF), motor evoked
      potential recruitment curve as well as TMS-measures of cerebellar inhibition.
    
  