
    
      A common way to get rid of PVCs is an ablation procedure during which a small area of heart
      muscle that creates the PVCs is cauterized, so that it can no longer cause PVCs. This has
      been performed for many years and is an overall safe and effective procedure to eliminate
      PVCs. In the ablation, a catheter with an electrode at its tip is guided with moving X-rays
      (fluoroscopy) displayed on a video screen to the exact site inside the heart where cells give
      off the electrical signals that stimulate the abnormal heart rhythm. Radiofrequency energy
      (similar to microwave heat) is transmitted from the catheter tip to the area. This destroys
      carefully selected heart muscle cells in a very small area (about 1/5 of an inch) and can
      stop the area from creating the extra impulses that cause the extra heartbeats. Additionally,
      some medications have the ability to suppress PVCs (antiarrhythmic medications). PVC ablation
      and antiarrhythmic medications have both been used to treat patients with PVC's and a reduced
      heart function. The heart function is referred to as ejection fraction (measured by cardiac
      ultrasound (echocardiogram). In this study it will be required the ejection fraction will be
      less than less than or equal to 45% (with 55% or more being normal).

      If enrolled in the study there is a 50/50 chance (like a coin toss and referred to as
      randomization) that the patient will either continue on the best currently available medical
      treatment for a weak heart muscle (as determined by the doctor) or will undergo a PVC
      catheter ablation (with a possible second ablation or antiarrhythmic medication, if the first
      ablation was not a success).

      All patients in the study will continue to take the best possible medications for the heart
      muscle weakness. If the patient is randomized to not undergo the ablation they will be
      monitored and at the end of 6 months of participation may choose to have the PVC ablation. If
      a deterioration may occur patients in the control group can have an ablation earlier.
    
  