
    
      Background. Pulmonary hypertension Group 2 (PH 2) associated with left-sided heart disease is
      relatively common, is associated with a poor prognosis, and unfortunately there are no proven
      medical treatments beyond attempts at correcting the left sided heart disease. Many PH 2
      patients have evidence of vasoconstriction and increased sympathetic nervous system activity.
      Use of agents or procedures which produce a reversible chemical sympathectomy have not been
      systematically tested in PH 2.

      Methods. Two groups will be eligible for participation: Group 1 (n=10): Patients with PH 2
      previously documented by echocardiography (echo), 6 minute walk test, biomarkers, and right
      heart catheterization (RHC) will receive reserpine, 0.05 mg per day for two weeks, then, 0.1
      mg per day for an additional two weeks. After one month, patients will be reassessed for New
      York Heart Association (NYHA) class and drug side effects, echocardiography, 6 minute walk
      assessment, and brain natriuretic peptide (BNP). Group 2 patients (n=10) will have clinically
      suspected PH 2 and be scheduled to undergo clinically indicated RHC. If during RHC PH 2 is
      confirmed, after assessment of nitric oxide responsiveness, their baseline hemodynamics will
      be re-established over 10 minutes, and a left stellate ganglion block with lidocaine will be
      performed, and immediate hemodynamic responsiveness assessed. Four hours post-procedure, a
      side effect questionnaire will be obtained. Group 2 patients who complete RHC will then begin
      reserpine treatment in the same manner as Group I patients.

      Hypothesis and Impact. PH 2 is the most common type of pulmonary hypertension. The current
      diagnostic and therapeutic strategy aims to treat the left sided heart disease in attempt to
      normalize pulmonary artery pressure. The place of selective pulmonary vasodilators is
      undefined. The investigator's approach addresses inhibition of adverse pulmonary
      vasoconstriction mediated by the sympathetic nervous system in PH 2.
    
  