
    
      Caused by a new type of coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) that emerged in China in late 2019 and then
      were imported throughout the world, Covid-19 infection was declared a global pandemic by WHO
      on March 11, 2020 (1). Covid-19 infection may manifest itself in severe clinical conditions,
      ranging from viral upper respiratory tract infection to pneumonia, sepsis, septic shock, and
      even acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), in symptomatic patients .

      This study tries to provide some insight into the variation of GRP78 protein levels in
      patients with Covid-19 (-) pneumonia, Covid-19 (+) pneumonia, and CT negative Covid-19
      infection in comparison to the normal population through a larger number of cases.

      The present study is a prospective case-control study, and the required approval was obtained
      from the Ethics Committee of Pamukkale University prior to the study (60116787-020 / 26598
      numbered).

      The present study will be included the patients who were admitted between April 2020 and June
      2020 to Covid-19 pandemic outpatient clinic of the emergency department (ED) with symptoms of
      upper respiratory tract infection and pneumonia, were asymptomatic, were established to be
      Covid-19 PCR (+) during contact tracing, and presented to the ED for further examination and
      treatment. After the required information concerning the study will be provided both to the
      patient group and to the healthy control group, the written consent forms will be obtained
      from all the subjects who agreed to participate in the study. The healthy volunteers with no
      known chronic or acute disease or drug use as well as no recent history of infection will be
      included study as the control group. Once these subjects will be assessed in accordance with
      the inclusion and exclusion criteria, they will be divided into three groups as the
      Covid-19(-) pneumonia group, the Covid-19 infection group, and the healthy control group.

      Chest CT will performed at the time of admission of the patients to the ED was assessed under
      the criteria of the Radiological Society of North America Expert Consensus by an emergency
      physician who followed up the patient clinically. The pneumonia cases will be classified in
      line with these criteria and recorded in the clinical classification dataset.

      Complete blood count, C-reactive protein (CRP), creatinine, urea, d-dimer, and ferritin
      parameters, which are routinely checked during admission to the ED, will be recorded in the
      dataset. For GRP78 level measurement, after 3 cc blood sample will be taken into a dry tube
      and centrifuged at 4000 rpm for 10 minutes, its serum section was separated, and the GRP78
      level will be analyzed by the Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) method. In the
      control group, on the other hand, after 3 cc of blood was drawn into a dry tube, and another
      3 cc of blood will be placed into an EDTA tube, the GRP78 level was analyzed through the same
      methods in the same laboratory.

      Serum GRP78 levels of the subjects will be measured through a commercially available
      enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kit (Human Glucose Regulated Protein 78 (GRP78)
      ELISA Kit, Sun Long, SL2048Hu, China), as per the manufacturer's protocol.

      As a result of the power analysis made in line with the presumptions since a
      similarly-organized reference study did not exist, at least 84 people (min. 28 for each
      cohort) were needed to achieve 90% power at 95% confidence interval, assuming that the
      projected effect size would be medium-high (f = 0.4).

      42 patients were eventually will be included in the Covid-19 (-) pneumonia group.

      A total of 72 patients (30 Covid-19 pneumonia; 42 CT-negative Covid-19 infection) will be
      included in the Covid-19 infection group.
    
  