
    
      Alcohol use disorder is a common comorbidity among trauma patients. This pre-existing
      condition is associated with Alcohol Withdrawal Syndrome (AWS) and frequently complicates the
      management of this patient population. Current treatment and/or prevention of AWS includes
      the administration of sedatives (benzodiazepines [BZD]) in response to the manifestation AWS
      symptoms. This manifestation is indicated by monitoring patients using the Clinical Institute
      Withdrawal Assessment (CIWA) tool. Benzodiazepines elicit an effect on AWS via mediation of
      the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). Benzodiazepines, however,
      have the potential to promote multiple negative effects in the acute care setting, including
      increased incidence of delirium, hospital stay, mortality, and the potential for decreased
      long-term cognitive function. The antiepileptic medication valproate (VPA) also has GABA
      activity in the brain, but may be less likely to promote the negative effects associated with
      BZDs. Currently, previous experience with this agent for the prevention of AWS is limited to
      two small studies. In these studies VPA was shown to decrease symptoms of AWS as indicated by
      patients' CIWA scores. Therefore, VPA could serve as an efficacious adjuvant therapy for the
      prevention of AWS. The aim of this study is to determine whether VPA will decrease the use of
      BZD in patients who are receiving symptom-based preventative therapy via CIWA monitoring. The
      hypothesis is that VPA will decrease the utilization of symptom-based lorazepam
      administration in patients who are determined to be at risk of alcohol withdrawal due to
      routine consumption of alcohol.

      The purpose of this study is to determine if prophylactic VPA for the prevention of alcohol
      withdrawal syndrome can decrease symptom-triggered use of benzodiazepines in patients
      monitored for alcohol withdrawal syndrome with the CIWA.

      The Primary objective of this study is to determine if prophylactic VPA acid is associated
      with decreased lorazepam use in patients monitored for alcohol withdrawal syndrome with the
      CIWA.

      Secondary objectives are:

      To evaluate the difference between comparator arms with respect to:

        -  CIWA scores between patients with and without VPA prophylaxis

        -  Hospital and Intensive Care Unit (ICU) length of stay

        -  In-hospital mortality

        -  VPA acid associated side effects (e.g. thrombocytopenia, transaminitis, pancreatitis)

      This will be single-center prospective, randomized study, enrolling trauma patients with a
      history of alcohol consumption admitted to a Level 1 trauma center. Patients included in this
      study will receive standard therapies for AWS practiced at study institution which include
      monitoring of withdrawal symptoms and the administration of BZDs (lorazepam) based on CIWA
      monitoring.

      Following informed consent, patients will be randomized to receive CIWA protocol
      monitoring/BZD or CIWA protocol monitoring/BZD and VPA. Therefore, patients that meet the
      inclusion criteria will be separated into two study groups to compare outcomes:

        1. Treatment Group: Patients treated with CIWA protocol/BZD and VPA

        2. Control Group: Patients treated with CIWA protocol/BZD only.
    
  