
    
      Since population aging is accompanied by chronic diseases. Hypertension is a type of chronic
      disease, and poor to control the symptoms of hypertension may accelerate the progression of
      renal function into hypertensive nephropathy (HN) and ultimately lead to dialysis. 2017
      annual report on kidney disease in Taiwan published by The Taiwan Society of Nephrology
      showed that among the comorbidities experienced by new patients before the 1year dialysis,
      hypertension ranked the first (89.5%). In Taiwan, the prevalence and incidence of end-stage
      renal disease (ESRD) both are ranked high in the world, which has an impact on the aspects of
      individual, family, society, etc. and jeopardizes the financial situation of the government's
      national health insurance. Therefore, in order to effectively reduce the incidence of ESRD
      and delay the progression of HN, the implementation of a patient-centered self-management
      program may effectively reduce medical costs and improve patients' quality of life. This
      study is a 2-years project. The year 1 project to assess the effectiveness of implementation
      of the program in patients with HN. The experimental research design of 2×2 randomized
      controlled trial with pre and post-testing will be adopted. A total of 70 subjects will be
      enrolled, and 35 subjects will be randomized into the control group (conventional program)
      and experimental group (patient-centered self-management program), respectively, using the
      single-blind design. Firstly, this study will collect the pretest data of the control group
      and experimental group. The data to be collected include physiological indicators, physical
      and psychological health, self-efficacy, self-management, and satisfaction, etc. The
      experimental group will receive the 4-week intervention of program after the pre-test. This
      study will assess the effectiveness of intervention 1 month later. This study will use G
      power statistical analysis to calculate the sample size and use SPSS/Windows 20.0 for
      recording and statistical analysis. For the statistical analysis methods, this study will use
      repeated measure ANOVA to analyze the effectiveness of intervention. The year 2 project is to
      extend the year 1 research project. This study will use generalized estimating equation (GEE)
      to collect the longitudinal data and test the effectiveness of implementation of program in
      patients with HN at different time points (after 1, 3, and 6 months). It is expected that the
      completion of this research project may help improve the effective disease control in the
      care for patients with HN in Taiwan and improve self-management of disease. Hopefully, the
      incidence of patients with dialysis can be significantly reduced and the progression into
      ESRD in patients can be effectively delayed. Moreover, this study also intends propose
      specific suggestions about the care of patients with HN for industry, government, and
      academia.
    
  