
    
      Rationale:

      Schizophrenia is a chronic and disabling brain disease, with unknown aetiology. Recently, we
      have shown the presence of an inflammatory process in the hippocampus of schizophrenic
      patients during psychosis. In addition, we found evidence for the presence of herpes viruses
      in the temporal lobe of schizophrenic patients during psychosis. Taken together, we
      hypothesize that the hippocampal inflammation is caused by the presence of herpes viruses,
      and that this inflammation interferes with the normal involvement of the hippocampus in
      cognition. Anti-viral treatment, with valaciclovir, that reduces the activity herpes viruses
      in the hippocampus could reduce the neuroinflammation and thus improve cognition and symptoms
      in schizophrenia.

      Objective:

      The main objective is to find a pre- and post-valaciclovir treatment difference in
      hippocampal inflammation, as measured with positron emission tomography, in schizophrenic
      patients exposed to a psychotic episode. The secondary objective is to improve cognition by
      the supposed anti-inflammatory effect on the hippocampus of valaciclovir.

      Study design:

      The study is double-blind randomized placebo-controlled trial. Study population: For this
      study, 24 male patients compliant with schizophrenia disorder (DSM-IV codes 295.xx) are
      included that have a psychosis. The age should be above 18 and patients of all ethnic
      backgrounds can be included.

      Intervention (if applicable):

      Of the 24 included patients, 12 patients will receive 8 g (4x2 g per day) of valaciclovir
      daily for a period of 7 consecutive days and 12 patients will receive 8 g (4x2 g per day) of
      placebo daily for 7 consecutive days.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The main study parameters are the pre-and post-treatment
      [11C]-PK11195 binding potential (an inflammatory marker) in the hippocampus, the pre- and
      post-treatment performance on the PANSS, the attention, memory and IQ test.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      Patients will be admitted to a psychiatric hospital, if not already admitted as a part of
      their regular treatment, and treated with valaciclovir for seven consecutive 24-h periods.
      Patients have to fill in a questionnaire and have to undergo a part of the Schedules for
      Clinical Assessment in Neuropsychiatry (SCAN) interview and a MRI scan once, and have to
      undergo a PANSS interview, attention, memory and IQ tests, and PET scan twice. A total of 345
      ml of blood will be taken for the determination of kidney and liver function, herpes virus
      antibodies, acyclovir levels in blood and for the PET scan data-analysis. Treatment with
      valaciclovir may cause nausea and headache but the risk of serious side effects is low (<1
      out of 10.000). For the PET scan, the arterial catheterization can cause discomfort and the
      patients are exposed to radioactivity with minor to moderate risk. The patients treated with
      valaciclovir can have direct benefit form the treatment, because it may reduce symptoms. In
      general, when this study finds evidence for the involvement of herpes viruses in
      schizophrenia, this can lead to improved treatment of these patients in the near future.
    
  