
    
      1. Rationale: Diabetes mellitus is a prevalent disease and results in high health care
           expenditures, the majority of which are due to preventable complications of diabetes.
           Current evidence indicates that care of patients with diabetes mellitus falls short of
           the standards set by the American Diabetes Association and a large proportion of these
           patients do not achieve their treatment goals. Multiple ways to deliver care to patients
           with diabetes have been studies. The investigators propose a 3 year
           randomized-controlled study to assess impact of the combination of nurse case management
           (NCM) combined with enhanced behavior change counseling on glycemic control and
           co-morbidity outcomes in high-risk patients with Type 2 diabetes when compared to usual
           care

        2. Key Objectives:

           Specific Aim 1. Determine the efficacy of an enhanced nurse case management (NCM)
           intervention to promote patient adherence leading to positive clinical outcomes (HbA1C,
           LDL, blood pressure, and process measures) in high-risk patients in primary care over a
           period of three years. High-risk patients with Type 2 diabetes will be recruited from 9
           primary care clinics and randomized to NCM intervention vs. usual care. A major focus of
           this proposal is to test the efficacy of NCM in a minority population with high risk of
           poor outcomes (approximately 38 % of the study population will be Hispanic). The
           investigators anticipate a significant increase in percentage of patients reaching the
           goals for HbA1C (< 7.0%), BP (<130/80), LDL (<100 mg/dl) in patients in the NCM group
           compared to the control group of usual care. The investigators also hypothesize that
           there will be significant improvement in process measures (% patients having a yearly
           dilated eye exam, foot exam, urinary screen for microalbuminuria, aspirin use, lipid
           evaluation) and depression scores in patients in the NCM group compared to the control
           group of usual care.

           Specific Aim 2. Quantify the impact of enhanced nurse case management on health-related
           quality of life, patient satisfaction, self-management behaviors, and provider
           satisfaction. A unique feature of our study is to address the impact of our intervention
           on these critical outcomes, which have not been addressed in the existing NCM
           literature. The investigators anticipate improved adherence, lower levels of diabetes
           specific emotional distress, higher levels of diabetes specific quality of life,
           increased patient satisfaction with treatment, and improved provider satisfaction in the
           NCM group compared to the usual care group. The following surveys will be completed and
           analysed:the PAID survey looking at Emotional distress associated with diabetes, the
           ADDQOL (Diabetes specific quality of life) survey, the DTSQ (Patient satisfaction)
           survey and the SDSCA (Diabetes self care activities) survey.

           Specific Aim 3. Evaluate the cost-effectiveness of an enriched NCM intervention. The
           investigators expect that the NCM intervention will be effective in improving clinical
           outcomes for patients with type 2 diabetes; however, there may still be barriers to more
           widespread adoption unless the benefits of investing in or reimbursing for NCM can be
           justified by the costs. Toward that end, the investigators will evaluate the
           cost-effectiveness of the intervention from the perspective of the provider, payor, and
           society. These cost-effectiveness ratios will help decision makers generate informed
           decisions about appropriate and cost-effective treatment for high-risk patients with
           type 2 diabetes.

        3. Study Population: Patients with Type 2 diabetes, older than 18 years of age, will be
           identified based on billing data (two visits with ICD-9 code of 250.xx in the preceding
           year) and subsequent chart review from nine Hershey Medical Center (HMC) primary care
           clinics and three Reading Hospital-affiliated primary care sites.

        4. Major Inclusion Criteria: Inclusion criteria: Type 2 diabetes, age >18 who are at high
           risk based on any one of the following criteria: HbA1C >8.5, LDL >130, or BP >140/90.

        5. Allocation to Groups: a stratified group randomization scheme whereby all patients being
           seen by the same doctor will be randomized to the same treatment group. The
           randomization will also be stratified by clinic site and size of doctor's practice. One
           group will be seen by nurse care managers, the other will continue with standard care.

        6. Summary of Procedures: An initial pilot study will be performed with 60 patients from
           HMC and Reading Hospital clinics, for 2 months. This will consist of nurse case
           management intervention and feedback from the subjects to improve the study design.
           Subjects will be seen at 2, 4, 6 and 8 weeks. This study will end with focus groups of
           subjects to give their input as to what they did or did not like about the study, and
           how it might be improved. Pilot participants will have the option to enroll into the
           main study. No studies will be ordered for research purposes. Pregnancy screening will
           occur by verbally asking the subjects whether they believe they could be pregnant, since
           risk is very minimal.

           The main study will enroll 820 subjects at clinics from the Hershey Medical Center and
           Reading Hospital, with 2/3 of the subjects being enrolled at HMC, and 1/3 from the
           underserved Hispanic population. The study intervention will continue for 3 years.
           Patients will be enrolled into the nurse case management group or the control group
           dependent upon where they see their physician - randomization will occur in blocks based
           on clinics and physicians, not randomly per patient.

           In the main study, the intervention group patients will have an initial appointment with
           a nurse case manager (RN) (50 min) to review medical history, medications and control of
           diabetes and co-morbidities. A plan with patient specific treatment goals will be set up
           at this appointment. The patients will have follow up appointment set up for 2,4, and 6
           weeks to review their progress, obtain standard diabetes laboratories and make necessary
           medication adjustments. The patients then will be seen by a nurse case manager on
           average once every 2-3 months, and a minimum of every 6 months, depending on their
           diabetes control. They will also continue to see their PCP (as scheduled per their PCP,
           normally once every 3-4 months). The control group patients will continue to follow with
           their PCP as scheduled, there will be no change from their usual care. The patients in
           both groups will be asked to complete 4 questionnaires (5 if they are depressed)
           assessing their emotional stress with diabetes, quality of life and treatment
           satisfaction at baseline and yearly for the study duration (3 years). Subjects will be
           randomly audio taped to ensure nurse case managers are following recommended guidelines
           of the research.

           Study outcomes such as HbA1c, lipids, blood pressure will be evaluated at baseline and
           then yearly in all patients. No laboratories will be done specifically for research
           purposes. The data will be extracted from the Penn State Diabetes Center Registry and
           charts (if required).

           For cost analysis, the investigators will be tracking outpatient and inpatient costs at
           the Hershey Medical Center and the Reading hospitals. In addition, the investigators
           will be tracking hospitalization costs outside of the hospitals by obtaining records
           from an existing registry managed by the State of Pennsylvania (the Pennsylvania Health
           Cost Containment Council), identified by social security numbers. This information along
           with all other information in the study will be safeguarded with strict confidentiality.

        7. Major Risks & Discomforts: 1. Loss of confidentiality. 2. increased risk of low blood
           sugars with improved glycemic control, therefore the patients will be asked to test
           glucose on a regular basis - 2 -5 times daily, depending on their diabetes regimen. They
           will have a 24-hour contact phone number, specific to their primary care clinic, to call
           if problems arise.

        8. Confidentiality: All research records, including those of subjects from Reading clinics,
           will be coded and kept at HMC. All consent forms will be forwarded to HMC. Records,
           audio tapes and the code key will be kept in the Endocrinology office in a locked file
           accessible only by the investigators.

        9. Study Site Location(s): University Physician Health Groups (UPHG) is made up of 10
           practice sites. For the purpose of this project 6 of the 10 HMC practice sites will
           participate and 3 of the Reading Hospital-affiliated ambulatory sites. All 3 sites are
           owned by The Reading Hospital and Medical Center, a non-profit hospital and health care
           organization.
    
  