
    
      Severe acute malnutrition (SAM) is defined as a weight-for-height z-score (WHZ) below -3 of
      the World Health Organisation growth standards. It is a short-term acute condition with a
      high case-fatality rate that increases both the susceptibility of children to infection and
      the risk of mortality. The global prevalence of SAM in children is estimated to be over 17
      million with most of those affected living in sub-Saharan Africa and Asia.

      Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM) has significantly changed standard
      practice for the treatment of SAM. Uncomplicated SAM cases are now predominantly managed on
      an outpatient basis and Action Contre la Faim (ACF) supports outpatient treatment programs
      (OTP) across the globe, particularly in Africa and Asia. This innovation has increased
      coverage, and reduced the cost of treatment for both the health system and individuals.
      However, under CMAM, the treatment context has moved from a more controlled health facility
      setting to the generally less controlled household setting where the risk of infection due to
      environmental hazards, such as contaminated water, may be higher.

      The TISA trial described here will evaluate the effectiveness of combining a simple, scalable
      "WASH kit" with OTP on the recovery rate among uncomplicated SAM cases aged 6-59 compared to
      the national standard OTP. The WASH kit includes a plastic container, a supply of Aquatabs®
      (effervescent chlorine tablets), and training in their use and associated hygiene practices.
      The study is a cluster randomized controlled trial (cRCT), with health centres constituting
      the clusters. Clusters are randomly allocated to either a control group receiving the
      standard OTP or an intervention group receiving OTP plus the WASH kit. The primary outcome of
      the trial is the recovery rate and the secondary outcomes are weight gain, referral rate,
      longitudinal prevalence of diarrhoea, prevalence of enteric pathogen detection and all-cause
      mortality.
    
  