
    
      The rationale of the study is to investigate the results of a prolapse treatment in adult
      women with a vaginal prolapse. The investigators will investigate this by taking
      questionnaires in women undergoing a surgical prolapse repair and in women that are being
      treated by a vaginal pessary. The objective is to compare the results of the different
      methods with each other and to observe the evolution of the symptoms in patients undergoing
      surgery or pessary use. The investigators would also like to discover existing problems in
      pessary use and adverse effects.

      The questionnaires that will be used are the PFDI-20 (pelvic floor distress inventory),
      PFIQ-7 (pelvic floor impact questionnaire), PISQ-9 (Pelvic Organ Prolapse/Urinary
      Incontinence Sexual Questionnaire) and a custom-made questionnaire to further investigate the
      behavior towards pessary use of our patients and the adverse effects they are dealing with.
      The questionnaires will be taken before the treatment has started, 6 weeks post treatment
      start, one-year post treatment start, two years post treatment start and 5 years post
      treatment start. A POP-Q (Pelvic Organ Prolapse Quantification) investigation will be
      performed to estimate the degree of vaginal prolapse before the start of the treatment. Since
      clinical follow up is not necessarily needed after one year for the women who undergo
      surgery, their questionnaires will be taken via telephone or e-mail. For women that are being
      treated with pessaries the investigators will also take our custom-made questionnaire at 4
      and 8 months after starting the treatment.

      The investigators would like to recruit 100 women for this study, older than 18 years old who
      have not undergone a previous treatment with a pessary or surgery for vaginal prolapse.
      Another exclusion criterium are women who still have a child wish and women who have
      contraindications for surgery. The investigators will also exclude women who don't speak
      Dutch or women who cannot give a written consent.

      The investigators hypothesize that woman being treated with one year of pessary use are
      overall not having more symptoms than woman that underwent a surgery. The investigators
      hypothesize that woman being treated with five years of pessary use are overall having less
      symptoms than woman that underwent a surgery.
    
  