
    
      IMPACT is designed as a one-stage cell-based regenerative therapy for isolated articular
      cartilage lesions. The investigational product consists of two cell types. Firstly,
      allogeneic MSCs, which are an "off-the-shelf" ATMP and also being used in a clinical trial
      for the treatment of steroid-resistant Graft versus Host Disease. Secondly, defect derived
      autologous chondrons that are reinserted into the defect in combination with MSCs within one
      procedure. During surgery, the autologous defect derived chondrons will be combined with
      allogeneic cryopreserved and thawed MSCs to enhance cartilage formation. Cells will be
      combined at a ratio of 10% chondrons and 90% MSCs and mixed in Tisseel® which will act as a
      cell carrier scaffold. In the phase I-II trial we showed no significant differences in
      clinical outcome between these dosages. Tisseel® is a registered widely used two-component
      adhesive containing fibrinogen and thrombin concentrate. When mixed, these components mimic
      the final steps of blood coagulation and form a stable physiological fibrin clot. The ATMP
      will be applied to the cartilage defect in a concentration of approximately 2 million cells
      per ml of fibrin glue, 0,5 to 0,7 ml per cm^2 will be administered. The amount of MSCs and
      chondrons is thus dependant of the size of the lesion. The cells will be applied in a ratio
      of 10:90 autologous chondrons: allogeneic MSCs.

      To evaluate the clinical status/ improvement of the participants treated with the IMPACT
      therapy, the included participants will be asked to complete the Knee injury and
      Osteoarthritis Outcome Scoring (KOOS) and the EuroQoL 5-Dimension Health Questionnaire (EQ5D)
      at baseline (before IMPACT therapy) and at 3, 6, 9, 12 and 18 months follow-up.

      To evaluate work leave and medical consumption a modified version iMTA Productivity cost
      questionnaire and iMTA Medical Consumption Questionnaire will be used.

      A cost-effectiveness analysis will be performed to evaluate the extent to which IMPACT
      therapy affects costs compared to current treatment techniques. The costs of the procedures
      that are performed (i.e. IMPACT or current practice), as well as the costs of the product
      that is used (materials, operation theatre etc.), and the duration of the accompanying
      hospitalization episode, will be determined using the UMC Utrecht administrative data and
      study budget. In addition, the results of the iMTA Medical Consumption Questionnaire and the
      iMTA Productivity cost questionnaire will be used to collect data on respectively resource
      use and productivity loss during the rehabilitation period. All resource use will be
      multiplied with cost prizes, which will be obtained from the Dutch Healthcare Authority or
      from the Dutch manual for performing health economic evaluations, to calculate total societal
      costs. These costs will be combined with the QoL outcome measures (as described previously),
      to obtain an estimate of the cost-effectiveness of IMPACT as compared to current practice.
    
  