
    
      The Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) demonstrated that intensive lifestyle change and
      metformin both prevent or delay Type 2 diabetes (T2DM), but uptake of either approach has
      been minimal. The research team is implementing a shared decision-making (SDM) intervention
      for diabetes prevention funded by the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney
      Disease (NIDDK; R18 DK105464). In this clinic-based pragmatic trial, the Prediabetes Informed
      Decisions and Education (PRIDE) study, pharmacists engage patients with prediabetes in
      evidence-based diabetes prevention using an SDM framework. The research team reached the
      recruitment goal (n=350) more than 15 months ahead of schedule and enrolled 1.5 times the
      number of projected participants (n=515), including 56% from racial/ethnic minority groups.
      PRIDE has been highly successful in treatment engagement, as 85% of participants chose either
      lifestyle change or metformin. Furthermore, among patients who have reached 12-month
      follow-up, PRIDE participants as a group have lost more weight than matched controls (-5.2
      lbs. vs. -0.29 lbs., p<0.001).

      PRIDE targets both men and women with prediabetes. Only five PRIDE participants had a history
      of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) during a prior pregnancy. GDM is more common among
      minority women and a history of a GDM diagnosis is one of the most significant risk factors
      for incident type 2 diabetes, increasing the risk of developing T2DM upwards of sevenfold.
      The research team is planning to pilot an SDM intervention for women with a history of GDM.
      This project would advance a patient-centered approach to increase uptake of both
      evidence-based diabetes prevention strategies among the subgroup of minority women at the
      highest risk of progression to T2DM.

      In the proposed project, the research team plans to enroll women with a history of GDM in a
      pilot study, tracking their choice of diabetes prevention strategy and their weight change
      over time. Importantly, the pilot will enable the research team to estimate the sample size
      for a future, multi-center study to engage women with a history of GDM in SDM for diabetes
      prevention. The project's specific aim is as follows:

      In a pilot study, to deliver the tailored intervention to a diverse sample of 32 women with a
      history of GDM and hemoglobin A1c from 5.7-6.4% who have not yet developed Type 2 diabetes,
      with a sample divided equally between whites, African Americans, Latinas and Asian Americans
    
  