
    
      -  This study can be divided into four phases: 1) Screening; 2) Reduced intensity
           transplant phase; 3) Vaccinations (cycle 1 and cycle 2:each cycle lasts 7 weeks) and 4)
           Vaccine completion.

        -  Screening Phase: After signing the consent form, participants will be asked to undergo
           some screening tests and procedures to find out if they are eligible to participate in
           the study. These tests and procedures are likely to be part of regular cancer care and
           may be done even if the patient does not take part in the research study. It is
           important to note that if insufficient numbers of the participant's leukemia cells to
           generate vaccine were collected on the CLL collection and banking study (DF/HCC study
           06-200), then they will not be eligible to participate in this study.

        -  Allogeneic reduced intensity stem cell transplant phase: The transplant phase of the
           study will begin when the participant is admitted to the hospital to receive
           chemotherapy and stem cell transplant. The minimum duration of hospitalization for the
           procedure is approximately 8 days. Undergoing transplant involves the following
           procedures and treatments: Central intravenous catheter; chemotherapy; medications to
           prevent graft versus host disease (GVHD); medication to prevent infections; physical
           exams; blood tests and bone marrow biopsy and aspirate.

        -  Vaccination Phase: Vaccinations will be given in two cycles, of seven weeks each, that
           are identical with the exception of when they are administered. Cycle 1 vaccination will
           begin approximately one month after the stem cells have been infused, provided there is
           no significant evidence of GVHD. Cycle 2 vaccination will be being approximately one
           month after discontinuing tacrolimus, provided there is no evidence of severe acute or
           chronic GVHD. The vaccine will be given 6 times over a period of two months. The
           participant will receive vaccination shots once weekly for 3 vaccines and then every
           other week for 3 vaccines.

        -  Skin biopsies will be done after the first and after the fifth vaccinations. Current
           status of the participants CLL will be assessed to determine how the disease has
           responded to transplant and vaccination. These tests include analysis of bone marrow and
           blood tests.

        -  Vaccine completion phase: After one cycle of vaccination is completed, the participant
           will return to the outpatient clinic monthly for check-ups for 6 visits, to monitor the
           effects of the vaccine.

        -  Since this trial involves the use of genetically modified cells, it is recommended that
           participants on this trial undergo annual checkups for at least 20 years, in order to
           monitor for long term effects of the vaccination treatment.
    
  