
    
      Objectives:

      The purpose of this pilot study is to examine the impact of choral singing on psychosocial
      stress and major cardiovascular events in patients with IHD in comparison to usual medical
      care.

      Recruitment and Randomization:

      Participants will be recruited from community cardiac rehabilitation programs with
      recruitment presentations, phone calls and mailed invitations. Interested participants will
      complete baseline questionnaires and provide consent. They will be randomly allocated to
      either the intervention or control group. Stratification by past or present experience in
      organized singing (as a binary variable, yes or no) will be used.

      Baseline Assessment:

      All participants will undergo a baseline assessment, comprised of biophysical characteristics
      and medical history; level of physical activity self reported by International Physical
      Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) long form; assessment of music appreciation and current
      participation in group singing; and three questionnaires measuring psychosocial stress: the
      Perceived Stress Scale (PSS), Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) and the Standard
      Form - 36 (SF - 36).

      Intervention:

      Participants in the intervention group will participate in weekly 60-90 minute singing
      sessions led by professional musicians over a 12-week period. Sessions will begin with a
      5-minute physical warm-up of gentle stretching and a 5-minute vocal warm-up. Music will be
      selected from a variety of genres and eras. Attendance will be taken weekly.

      Control:

      The control group will receive usual medical care. If control group participants join a
      singing group during the study period they will not be excluded, but this data will be
      collected and considered.

      Analysis:

      Data analysis will be done blind with respect to participant allocation. Analysis will
      include and account for attendance or adherence to consider dose response. Only participants
      who have attended at least 50% of group singing sessions will be included. A sub-group
      comparison between those who have attended 50-74% of sessions and those who have attended
      ≥75% will be done to determine if there is a dose-response effect to the weekly singing
      sessions. Participants who join another singing group during or after the intervention period
      will not be excluded, but this will be taken into account. The concept of music "responders"
      and "non-responders" will be considered based on the initial screening question "How
      important is music in your day-to-day life?".
    
  