
    
      TB disease is the most common HIV-related opportunistic infection and is a leading cause of
      death among HIV-infected persons in low-income settings. When TB occurs during or soon after
      pregnancy, it can cause complications for the mother as well as infant TB or death. Infant TB
      is very difficult to diagnose, and up to half of infant TB cases are caused by maternal TB.
      It has been shown that treatment for active TB is safe and effective during pregnancy and
      that IPT is safe and effective in preventing TB infection in HIV-infected adults. However,
      the safety of IPT in HIV-infected pregnant women is not known, especially in regard to its
      combination with highly active retroviral therapy (HAART). This study evaluated the safety of
      immediate (antepartum, or before delivery) versus deferred (postpartum, or after delivery)
      IPT among HIV-infected pregnant women in high TB incidence settings.

      HIV-infected pregnant women were randomly assigned (1:1) to one of two arms: Arm A
      (immediate/antepartum INH) and Arm B (deferred/postpartum INH group). Women in both arms
      received oral prenatal multivitamins and pyridoxine (vitamin B6) once daily from study entry
      through Week 40 postpartum.

      Study visits for women occurred at screening, entry, every 4 weeks until labor and delivery,
      at labor and delivery, and every 4 weeks after delivery until 48 weeks postpartum. Visits
      consisted of giving a medical history and undergoing a physical exam and blood collection;
      all visits through the delivery visit also included an obstetrical exam. Presence of HIV
      infection was documented at screening and a tuberculin skin test (TST) was administered at
      the delivery visit and at the Week 44 postpartum visit. Study visits for infants occurred at
      birth and at several time points through Week 48. These visits included a medical history,
      physical exam, and blood collection. Intensive pharmacokinetic (PK) samples, that is, samples
      taken at many different time points within a 24-hour test period, were collected from a small
      subset of women, one test period at antepartum and one at postpartum. Sparse PK samples, that
      is, samples taken at fewer time points within the test period, were collected on all women,
      once each at antepartum and postpartum.
    
  