
    
      For the last two years, all physicians contributing data to the Electronic Medical Record
      Administrative data Linked Database (EMRALD) have received two feedback reports. The first
      focused on diabetes and the second on patients with heart disease. The reports provide
      aggregate information regarding the proportion of the family physician's patients meeting
      quality targets, but no patient-specific information. Currently the feedback is sent to
      physicians by courier from the EMRALD team every six months.

      The intervention arms in this trial are as follows:

        -  Arm 1 - Standard, aggregate-level feedback reports focusing on the proportion of
           patients with hypertension and/or diabetes and/or ischemic heart disease meeting targets
           sent via courier every six months and available on a password protected website. Family
           physicians in this arm will also have access through this website to patient-level data
           to identify patients not achieving optimal quality of care targets.

        -  Arm 2 - Aggregate-level feedback reports focusing on the proportion of patients with
           hypertension and/or diabetes and/or ischemic heart disease meeting criteria for
           high-risk sent via courier every six months and available on a password protected
           website. Family physicians in this arm will also have access through this website to a
           list of chart numbers identifying those patients at highest risk.

      Both arms will have the opportunity to receive continuing medical education credits by
      completing worksheets that prompt them to reflect upon the data. Family physicians in Arm 1
      are asked to complete a worksheet that follows continuous quality improvement principles,
      including setting an aim statement, engagement with team members in the clinic, testing
      change concepts at first on a small scale, and then scaling up in a effort to spread best
      practices. Family physicians in Arm 2 are asked to complete a worksheet that also includes
      goal setting and action planning, but focuses on reducing the number of patients with
      high-risk criteria and offers some suggested practice-based approaches.
    
  