
    
      Ethics statements The study was approved by the Regional Ethical Review Board in Umeå, Sweden
      (Dnr 2011-380-31M) and was conducted according to the principles expressed in the Declaration
      of Helsinki. Written informed consent was obtained from all participants.

      Subjects and study design Healthy adult volunteers, aged 20-66 years, among students and
      employees at the Faculty of Medicine, Umeå University, Sweden were recruited to a
      double-blind, randomized controlled trial (RCT) through advertisements. Inclusion criteria
      were a self-reported healthy status and no use of antibiotics or probiotic products during 3
      months prior to the study. Based on previous studies regarding the persistence of probiotic
      strains [31,32], the recruitment goal was at least 15 people per study group.

      Forty-four volunteers, none of whom used tobacco products, were recruited and randomly
      allocated to either a test (n = 22) or placebo group (n = 22; Figure S1). Participants were
      asked to allow 2 lozenges per day to slowly melt in the mouth and to circulate the dissolved
      tablet contents around their mouths. One lozenge was taken in the morning and 1 in the
      evening for 12 weeks. The test lozenges contained L. reuteri (DSM 17938 and PTA 5289; 108 CFU
      per strain; BioGaia AB, Stockholm, Sweden), isomalt, hydrogenated palm oil, peppermint and
      menthol flavoring, peppermint oil, and sucralose
      (http://www.biogaia.com/product/biogaia-prodentis-oral-lozenges). The placebo lozenges were
      identical to the test lozenges in appearance, taste, and composition except the lactobacilli.
      Compliance was monitored as the percentage of lozenges consumed of the total assigned number.
      The remaining lozenges were counted when the containers were returned for monthly refills to
      assess this factor. Compliance was considered acceptable if ≤15% of the lozenges remained.
      Participants were asked to abstain from oral hygiene for 48 h and to not consume any food for
      at least 4 h before sampling. Participants were also instructed to not eat probiotic products
      throughout the study period.

      Saliva and biofilm sampling Saliva and tooth biofilm samples were obtained immediately before
      (baseline) and after 4, 8, and 12 weeks of L. reuteri supplementation (Figure S1). Follow-up
      samples were collected 1 and 6 months after supplementation was terminated. Furthermore,
      whole stimulated saliva (~5 mL) was generated by chewing 1 g of paraffin and collected into
      ice-chilled sterile test tubes. One milliliter of saliva was used for cultural analysis, and
      the remaining saliva was centrifuged at 3,500 × g for 10 min at 4°C. The pellets were stored
      at -80°C until DNA extraction for strain-specific PCR reactions. For the pyrosequencing
      analysis, pooled supragingival plaque was collected with sterilized toothpicks and
      transferred to Eppendorf tubes (Sarstedt, Nümbrecht, Germany) containing 200 µL of TE-buffer
      (10 mM Tris, 1 mM EDTA, pH 7.6). The samples were stored at -80°C until DNA extraction.

      Identification of lactobacilli by culture and PCR Aliquots of saliva were plated onto Rogosa
      agar (Merck, Darmstadt, Germany) to obtain Lactobacillus counts and on selective agar for
      tentative identification of the L. reuteri (DSM 17938 and PTA 5289) strains [33]. All plates
      were anaerobically incubated at 37°C for 48-72 h, except L. reuteri PTA 5289, which was
      anaerobically incubated at 40°C for 72 h.

      DNA was extracted from saliva pellets as described [34]. L. reuteri DSM 17938 and PTA
      5289-specific PCR were identified using KAPA2G Robust HotStart PCR Ready Mix (2×) (Kapa
      Biosystems, Boston, MA, USA) and strain-specific primers [31]. Briefly, 2 µL of DNA extract
      was added to a total reaction volume of 25 µL (containing 12.5 µL of master mix and each
      primer pair at a concentration of 0.5 µM). PCR conditions were 95°C for 3 min; 40 cycles of
      95°C for 15 s, 60°C for 15 s, and 72°C for 30 s; and 72°C for 5 min. PCR products were then
      verified by electrophoresis on 2% agarose gels allowed to run for 80 min at 120 V in 0.5× TBE
      (Tris/Borate/EDTA) buffer, pH 8.3, followed by ethidium bromide (0.2 µg/µL) staining.

      Pyrosequencing analysis For the 454 pyrosequencing analysis, 16 subjects were randomly
      selected among the test (n = 8) and control (n = 8) subjects (Figure S1). DNA was extracted
      from the baseline, 12-week exposure, and 1-month follow-up tooth biofilm samples as
      previously described [34]. The V3-V4 hypervariable region of the 16S rRNA gene was amplified
      via PCR using the forward primer 347F and reverse primer 803R [35]. For sample
      identification, fusion primers were created from these primers and unique barcode sequences
      according to the Roche guidelines for experimental amplicon design (www.454.com). DNA was
      amplified under the following running conditions: initial denaturation at 94°C for 3 min; 30
      cycles of 94ºC for 15 s, 58ºC for 15 s, and 72ºC for 30 s; and a final extension at 72ºC for
      8 min.

      Amplicon processing and 454 sequencing were conducted at the Lund University Sequencing
      Facility (Faculty of Science, Lund, Sweden). After amplicon cleaning to remove short
      fragments (Agencourt AMPure XP; Beckman Coulter, Brea, CA, USA) and inspection (DNA 1000 kit
      on a 2100 Bioanalyzer; Agilent Technologies, Palo Alto, CA, USA), amplicons were quantified
      (Quant-iT ds DNA assay kit; Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA and Quantifluor fluorometer;
      Promega, Madison, WI, USA) and diluted to obtain a total of 107 copies/μL. Titration and
      library production (target: 10%-15% enrichment) were performed using emulsion PCR and the
      Lib-A kit (Roche Diagnostics, Branford, CT, USA). DNA-positive beads were enriched, counted
      (Innovatis CASY particle counter; Roche Innovatis, Bielefeld, Germany), processed (XLR70
      sequencing kit; Roche Diagnostics), and loaded onto a picotiter plate for pyrosequencing on a
      454 Life Sciences Genome Sequencer FLX+ machine (Roche Applied Sciences; Penzberg, Germany).

      Data processing Subject characteristic, compliance, and culture data were processed using
      SPSS (version 22.0; IBM Corporation, Armonk, NY, USA). Descriptive statistics, such as means
      [95% confidence intervals (CI)] and proportion distributions were calculated. Differences
      between groups were tested with parametric or non-parametric tests depending on the data
      measurement and distribution levels. P < 0.05 was considered statistically significant.

      Sequences with a minimum length of 300 base pairs after primer sequence removal, correct
      barcode sequences, a maximum of 1 incorrect base pair in the primer sequences, and compliance
      with the default quality criteria for homopolymers and quality scores in the Quantitative
      Insights into Microbial Ecology (QIIME) [36] software package (version 1.8.0) were retained
      for analysis. Any sequence beyond the reversed primer were removed. Sequences beginning with
      the reverse primer were reverse complemented. Sequences were then clustered into operational
      taxonomic units (OTUs) at a sequence similarity of 97% in the 16S rRNA chimera-checked
      Greengene database (dated May 2013) [37] using USEARCH [38]. OTUs with a single sequence were
      removed. One representative sequence per remaining OTU was taxonomically assigned as a named
      or unnamed cultivable species or uncultivable phylotype at ≥98.5% identity using HOMD 16S
      rRNA RefSeq, version 12.0 (http://www.homd.org) [28].

      Rarefaction curves were calculated to compare microbial richness [39]. Principal coordinate
      analysis (PCoA) was applied to evaluate the phylogenetic beta diversity [40] of the bacterial
      profiles at different time points. Multivariate partial least-square analysis (PLS) modeling
      (SIMCA P+, version 12.0; Umetrics AB, Umeå, Sweden) was performed to search if microbiota
      structures were related to L. reuteri consumption (y-variables) [41,42]. Tested models
      included those with pyrosequencing data only and those to which lactobacilli and streptococci
      culture and PCR data had been added. Variables were autoscaled to unit variance and
      cross-validated Y predictions were calculated. Subject clustering was displayed in score
      loading plots, and the importance of each x-variable was displayed in loading plots.
      Variables, where the 95% CI of the PLS correlation coefficient did not inlude zero were
      considered statistically significant [42]. The Q2 value yielded the capacities of the
      x-variables to predict the outcome (test or placebo group allocation). Univariate analyses of
      single taxa were not applied because of the combination of small groups and a high number of
      repeated tests.
    
  