
    
      The study population corresponds to patients with hepatic space occupying lesion that require
      extended hepatic resection and in which the residual liver volume is insufficient to ensure
      liver function as well as required safety margins after resection.

      The study population will consist of a total of 65 patients divided into two groups:

      Study group: patients with hepatic space occupying lesion requiring an extended hepatic
      resection to those who are undergoing preoperative embolization segments portal intraportal
      affections and application of bone marrow cells.

      Control group: patients with hepatic space occupying lesion that require an extended liver
      resection and who were performed preoperatively embolization portal of the affected segments.

      The distribution of cases / controls will be 1/1. Patients in study group before surgery as
      well as portal embolization of the affected by the injury, will receive the experimental
      treatment being tested. Autologous bone marrow will be extracted by aspiration of the iliac
      crest under local anesthesia, and then the mononuclear cells (mo-MNCs) will be separated by
      density gradient centrifugation on Ficoll by an automatic procedure in the Laboratory for
      Cell Therapy.

      In the control group patients will be held an embolization of liver segments in which are
      located the lesion.

      It is estimated that the inclusion period is approximately 24 months plus the follow-up of
      each patient twelve months. Thus the total duration of the study will be about thirty-six
      months from the entry of the first patient until the end of the monitoring period of the last
      patient included.

      The main objective is to evaluate the safety and feasibility of autologous bone marrow
      mononuclear cells as autologous liver regeneration enhancer, administered intraportal before
      surgery in patients with liver space occupying lesion that require extended hepatic resection
      and in which the residual liver volume is insufficient to ensure liver function and safety
      margins required after the resection.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Complications from regenerative therapy and / or study procedures.

        -  Increased volume obtained after applying the procedures of liver regeneration after
           surgery.

        -  The percentage of resections that has allowed liver regeneration.

        -  The liver functional status after surgery.

        -  The resection margins free of tumor.

      Evaluation Methods:

      Radiological assessment of liver volumes. Analytical evaluation of markers of regeneration.
    
  