
    
      The purpose of the FoRtitude trial is to develop and evaluate a targeted eHealth intervention
      designed to teach breast cancer survivors (BCS) coping strategies to manage fear about cancer
      recurrence (FoR). FoRtitude, a web-based program with interactive text messaging
      capabilities, was created to deliver a targeted intervention for BCS with moderate to severe
      FoR. FoRtitude consists of didactic content presented in written and video-based formats and
      interactive tools, designed to teach coping strategies. Commonly used cognitive behavior
      therapy (CBT) techniques were tailored to the management of FoR and included diaphragmatic
      breathing and relaxation, cognitive restructuring, and scheduled worry practice. Participants
      are encouraged to use the FoRtitude site several times per week over a period of 4 weeks. The
      investigators employed principles of user-centered design to create the FoRtitude website and
      incorporated feedback from 17 BCS to refine site content and improve FoRtitude usability.

      After refining the FoRtitude site, the investigators will conduct a randomized controlled
      trial using the Multiphase Optimization Strategy (MOST) to individually evaluate three coping
      strategies; each coping strategy will be compared to health management content. Inert content
      includes general health information and managing comorbid illnesses, information on general
      nutrition, and information on nutritional topics of interest to BCS. Half of the participants
      will be randomized to receive telecoaching, which included 3-4 telephone-based brief sessions
      with a motivational interviewer, aimed at improving adherence to use of the FoRtitude site.
      Participants will complete questionnaires at baseline, 4 weeks (immediately after completing
      the FoRtitude site) and at 8 weeks.

      Study hypotheses:

        1. BCS randomized to Relaxation training will report a greater reduction in fear of cancer
           recurrence from pre-post intervention than BCS randomized to inert (health management)
           content

        2. BCS randomized to Cognitive restructuring will report a greater reduction in fear of
           cancer recurrence from pre-post intervention than BCS randomized to inert (health
           management) content

        3. BCS randomized to Scheduled Worry practice will report a greater reduction in fear of
           cancer recurrence from pre-post intervention than BCS randomized to inert (health
           management) content

        4. BCS randomized to receive Telecoaching will demonstrate higher adherence to using the
           FoRtitude site and will report a greater reduction in fear of cancer recurrence from
           pre-post intervention compared to BCS randomized to no Telecoaching

        5. BCS randomized to a higher number of coping strategies will report a greater reduction
           in fear of cancer recurrence from pre-post intervention than BCS randomized to receive
           all inert content or fewer coping strategies (dose-response effect)
    
  