
    
      In this study, the investigators will validate the clinical relevance of instantaneous wave
      free ratio (iFR)-guided strategy in real world clinical practice in Korea. The 1,200 patients
      who underwent iFR measurement will be prospectively enrolled at 5 centers in Republic of
      Korea. In patients who were indicated revascularization after iFR measurement (iFR<0.90), iFR
      pullback system (iFR Scout) and post-revascularization iFR measurement will be routinely
      performed. The primary hypothesis will be tested for non-inferiority of iFR-guided strategy,
      compared with FFR-guided strategy in terms of 2-year clinical outcomes. For the clinical
      outcome data following FFR-guided strategy will be used from the pooled data of the DEFER-DES
      trial, the 3V FFR FRIENDS registry (NCT01621438), and Korean 4-center FFR registry. Using
      those data, 1200 patients will be selected from the pooled data. In addition, routine
      application of iFR Scout and post-revascularization iFR measurement will enable us to
      validate the clinical relevance of iFR-based prediction of acute procedural results and to
      compare FFR-pullback methods.

      Primary Hypothesis: The iFR-guided strategy will be non-inferior regarding patient-oriented
      composite outcomes (a composite of any death, any MI, any revascularization) at 2-year,
      compared with FFR-guided strategy.

      Primary Outcome:

      1] Patient-oriented composite outcome (POCO), defined as a composite of any death, any
      myocardial infarction (MI) or any revascularization at 2-year after index procedure according
      to the ARC consensus [2] Difference between Predicted post-PCI iFR value from iFR Scout and
      Actual post-PCI iFR measurement

      Sample Size 1,200 patients with suspected ischemic heart disease including stable angina, or
      acute coronary syndrome including unstable angina, non ST-segment elevation MI, or ST-segment
      elevation MI with non-culprit stenosis enrolled at 5 centers in Republic of Korea.

        1. Inclusion Criteria

           ① Subject must be ≥18 years

           ② Patients suspected with ischemic heart disease

           ③ Patients with coronary artery stenosis with intermediate degree of stenosis (40-70%
           stenosis by visual estimation) in major epicardial coronary artery amenable to stent
           implantation or vessel size≥2.5 mm without definitive previous evidence of myocardial
           ischemia.

           ④ Subject is able to verbally confirm understandings of risks, benefits and treatment
           alternatives of receiving invasive physiologic evaluation and he/she or his/her legally
           authorized representative provides

        2. Exclusion criteria

             -  Cardiogenic shock (systolic blood pressure < 90mmHg or requiring inotropics to
                maintain blood pressure > 90mmHg) ② Patients with a known hypersensitivity or
                contraindication to any of the following medications: statin, ezetimibe, heparin,
                aspirin, clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor

                  -  Non-cardiac co-morbid conditions are present with life expectancy <2 year (per
                     site investigator's medical judgment).

                       -  History of bleeding diathesis, known coagulopathy (including
                          heparin-induced thrombocytopenia) ⑤ Patients with active pathologic
                          bleeding ⑥ Gastrointestinal or genitourinary major bleeding within the
                          prior 3 months. ⑦ Target lesion located in coronary arterial bypass graft
    
  