
    
      We propose to conduct a randomised controlled trial of a food intervention to improve
      compliance in East Timor. Patients will be diagnosed in the usual way and given the
      opportunity to enrol in the study. Consenting individuals will be randomised to receive the
      intervention (meal at the clinic daily during the first two months of treatment and a food
      parcel fortnightly during the other six months of treatment) or standard care (nutritional
      advice only). The primary outcome will be TB cure rates and the secondary outcomes will
      include response to treatment (weight gain, decreased symptoms, sputum clearance) and
      percentage of days attended at the clinic. In conjunction with this study of TB treatment
      compliance we will collect blood samples to measure micro-nutrient changes in response to the
      food intervention. A cost-effectiveness analysis of the intervention will also be performed.

      We plan to do a pilot study in three urban clinics in Dili to establish feasibility and
      provide pilot data for other funding applications so that, if the intervention does improve
      compliance, and funding applications are successful, we can expand the project to include
      rural districts in conjunction with the National TB Control Program. Ultimately, the health
      outcome addressed by this project is improved control of tuberculosis in a high burden, low
      income setting. Better compliance with tuberculosis treatment at the community level will
      contribute to this process.

      TRIAL OBJECTIVES AND PURPOSES

      The specific objectives of the project are:

        1. Design a locally appropriate food intervention to improve adherence to TB treatment and
           TB treatment outcomes in East Timor; and

        2. Conduct a study of the intervention in three clinics in Dili. If this pilot study is
           successful, we will use our experience and pilot data to obtain funds to generalise the
           intervention to rural clinics as well.

        3. Food incentives are an achievable, effective method of encouraging full adherence to
           DOTS and thus improved cure rates in East Timor;

        4. Locally available, whole food supplements are a cost-effective intervention to improve
           cure rates in East Timor; and

        5. Lessons learned in East Timor are adaptable to other settings in other parts of the
           world.

      TRIAL DESIGN

      Expected Outcomes and its measurements :

        1. To show statistically significant differences in treatment success (cure rate) between
           the intervention and the control arm. We will assess the sputum clearance, treatment
           compliance and treatment completion rates and compare the two groups.

        2. To show the effectiveness of food supplementation in improving compliance with
           treatment. In the intensive phase of treatment (usually the first two months), we will
           compare the observed versus expected daily visits to the clinic, compliance with daily
           medications and the default rate between the intervention and control arms. In the
           continuation phase of treatment (usually 6 months), we will compare the observed versus
           expected fortnightly visits to the clinic, daily medication diaries and default rates
           between the two groups.

        3. To show a statistically significant difference in nutritional status between the
           intervention arm and the control arm. We will measure clinical improvement, sputum
           clearance (in sputum smear positive patients), gain in BMI, changes in bio-impedence and
           improvement in levels of micronutrients in both groups.

        4. To demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of the intervention to improve TB control in East
           Timor.

      Randomisation Patients will be randomly assigned to receive one of two interventions: food
      supplements or nutritional advice (standard care). The random assignment to intervention
      group will be provided by the statistician at the Menzies School of Health Research. The
      random allocation sequence will be computer-generated (Stata Version 8.0) and concealed from
      all investigators throughout the study. Allocation will be stratified by community health
      clinic and by the TB diagnosis (sputum smear positive and other). Block randomisation will be
      used to maintain similar numbers of participants in both intervention groups and to minimise
      the potential influence of time of enrolment. The random allocation will be in sealed
      envelopes in two boxes (smear positive and other) in each clinic. Prior to opening the
      envelope, the research assistant will complete the randomisation form to check if the patient
      is eligible for enrolment, obtain informed consent and complete the enrolment questionnaire.
      The research assistant will then inform the local investigator of the name of the patient,
      the time of randomisation and the randomisation number.

      Outcome Assessment

        1. The primary outcome measure will be the proportion of patients who successfully complete
           the eight month course of TB treatment and achieve cure in each group (treatment
           success) and the proportion of patients who do not complete treatment (defaulters) or
           have persistent disease (treatment failure). The primary analysis will be by intention
           to treat. All participants in the study will contribute an outcome for analysis.

        2. Secondary analyses will be conducted to evaluate the proportion of clinic visits
           compared with expected and response to treatment measures: symptoms (cough, sputum,
           fever); changes in weight, BMI and bio-impedence; sputum clearance; and micronutrient
           measurements.

        3. The primary outcome (treatment success) will be determined by an independent observer
           (based in Darwin) who will be blinded to the intervention received by the patients.
    
  