
    
      BACKGROUND:

      While there has been great progress in reducing CVD morbidity and mortality in the U.S. over
      the past 40 years, some minority groups have not shared fully in this progress and continue
      to have lower life expectancy and higher CVD morbidity. On average, minorities have less
      access to medical care, receive less aggressive care and fewer diagnostic and therapeutic
      cardiac procedures, and adhere poorly to prescribed medical regimens. Thus, research to
      reduce health disparities by improving CVD outcomes in minorities offers potential for a
      substantial positive public heath impact. Academic medical centers and institutions capable
      of carrying out such research, however, often lack access to and the trust of minority
      patients. Minority patients often receive fragmented care because they lack access to regular
      medical care, present to emergency departments rather than primary care physicians for
      complications of an advanced chronic CVD condition, and are less likely to follow medical
      regimens. Minority communities often harbor distrust of clinical research. Minority patients
      report greater satisfaction when receiving care from minority providers and are reluctant to
      receive treatment outside their minority healthcare serving systems.

      In general, minorities have high rates of hypertension, elevated cholesterol, cigarette
      smoking, obesity, metabolic syndrome, and diabetes, as well as other behavioral,
      environmental, and occupational risk factors for cardiovascular diseases, such as sleep
      problems - all elements that contribute to excess CVD morbidity and mortality. The causes of
      minority health disparities are complex and incompletely understood. Although evidence of
      genetic, biologic, and environmental factors is well documented, poor outcomes are also
      attributed to under-treatment. Such under-treatment may be due to limited access to health
      care or, in some cases, break-down of the medical system, or failure of the physician and/or
      patient to allow for optimal health care, even when access is not impaired. The complex
      interactions of behavior, socio-economic status (SES), culture, and ethnicity are important
      predictors of health outcomes and sources of health disparities. Despite efforts to elucidate
      genetic and environmental risk factors and to promote cardiovascular health in high-risk
      populations, trends in CVD outcomes suggest that CVD health disparities continue to widen.

      The Partnerships Program to Reduce Cardiovascular Health Disparities involves collaboration
      between research-intensive medical centers (RIMCs) that have a track record of NIH-supported
      research and patient care and minority healthcare serving systems (MSSs) that lack a strong
      research program. Each Partnership Program will: a) design and carry out multiple
      interdisciplinary research projects that investigate complex biological, behavioral, and
      societal factors that contribute to CVD health disparities and facilitate clinical research
      within the MSS to improve CVD outcomes and reduce health disparities, and b) provide
      reciprocal educational and skills development programs so that investigators will be able to
      conduct research aimed at reducing cardiovascular disparities and thereby enhance research
      opportunities, enrich cultural sensitivity, and improve cardiovascular research capabilities
      at both institutions.

      The Request for Applications for Partnership Programs to Reduce Cardiovascular Disparities
      was released in September 2003. The awards were made in September 2004.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The University of Mississippi Medical Center (the Research Intensive Medical Center) and
      Jackson-Hinds Comprehensive Health Center (the Minority Healthcare Serving System) will
      address cardiovascular health disparities among African Americans through establishment of
      its HEAT Partnership. HEAT is an acronym for Hypertension Education and Treatment. The HEAT
      Partnership is organized into four cores. The administrative core includes the principal
      investigators from both the RIMC and the MSS as well as the core directors and co-directors.
      Specific aims of the Research Core are to: (1) provide a series of workshops for healthcare
      providers that focus on assessment and treatment of hypertensive patients according to
      current guidelines; (2) enroll a sufficient number of patients with uncontrolled hypertension
      to participate in the study and encourage each of them to continue treatment throughout the
      duration of the intervention as a means of promoting lifetime hypertension control; (3)
      provide a program of patient education that includes (a) a series of workshops for the
      intervention participants that focus on the impact of hypertension, and the efficacy of
      proper diet and exercise in managing hypertension; (b) a patient advocate, who will serve as
      a liaison between patient and provider; and (c) a "health partner" from the patient's social
      circle of acquaintances who will help reinforce the workshop lessons in a participatory
      manner; and (4) compare the results of the intervention group and the control group, and
      determine the effectiveness of the intervention. Specific aims of the Education Core are to:
      (1) enhance cultural competency among healthcare providers and address its impact on health
      disparities among the nation's racial and ethnic minority populations; (2) explore issues of
      race, racism, and health disparities in research and medical care, particularly as they
      affect African Americans in Mississippi; and (3) provide career development training for new
      investigators capable of conducting research to reduce cardiovascular health disparities.
      Specific aims of the Community Outreach Core are to: (1) conduct focus group sessions in
      selected vulnerable populations to assess the level of awareness about hypertension and
      identify realistic lifestyle hypertension-prevention goals for the intended audience; (2)
      pursue partnerships with community-based organizations to enhance the activities of the
      Outreach Core; and (3) develop and disseminate culturally and linguistically appropriate
      education materials to the lay public about hypertension, including detection, diagnosis, and
      strategies for its prevention.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Query View Report (QVR) record.
    
  