
    
      Subjects with peripheral arterial disease show an increased cardiovascular risk. It is
      thought that improving control of cardiovascular risk factors (hypercholesterolemia,
      hypertension, diabetes, smoking) could be beneficial in reducing their cardiovascular risk.
      However, usual care of these subjects (mainly at primary care) is not associated with an
      optimal control of such cardiovascular risk factors. We hypothesise that an intensive
      multifactorial treatment in a Cardiovascular Risk Unit could improve control of these
      cardiovascular risk factors. To test this hypothesis we perform a controlled, randomized,
      open, parallel trial. Subjects are recruited at the Vascular Surgery Unit and are randomised
      into two groups: 1. usual care (control group); 2. intensive care (intervention group).
      Randomization is stratified for the presence/absence of diabetes mellitus and with the use of
      sealed envelopes. Patients assigned to receive usual care (general practitioner with the
      possibility of being referred to specialists) are compared to those assigned to undergo
      intensive multifactorial intervention. This intervention involves strict treatment goals
      (LDL-cholesterol < 100 mg/dl, blood pressure < 130/80, HbA1c < 7 %, no smoking) to be
      achieved through behavior modification (diet, physical activity, smoking cessation) and a
      stepwise introduction of pharmacologic therapy for hypercholesterolemia, hypertension and
      diabetes. This multifactorial intervention is overseen by a multidisciplinary team
      (endocrinologist, nurse, and dietitian) at the Hospital of Sabadell (Corporación Parc Taulí).
      The treatment goals are the same for the usual care group and general practitioners caring
      patients included in this study are informed of these strict treatment goals. Patients in the
      intensive-therapy receive 6 scheduled individual consultations in one year (baseline and 2,4,
      6 and 9 months after their inclusion).Primary and secondary outcomes are evaluated at 12
      months after their inclusion.
    
  