
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, crossover trial. The study will be performed in 2 phases.
      Each phase will be divided in several sub-phases (see "4.1 Study phases"). Phase 1 will
      consist of 9 weeks of treatment (27 HD sessions) for each patient; phase 2 will consist of 11
      weeks of treatment (33 HD sessions) for each patient. Each subject will be used as his/her
      own control. Dry weight, anti-hypertensive medications and dialysis parameters will not be
      modified during the study phases, except for UF rate and dialysate sodium concentration.

      Study phases

      1 - First phase: validation of the new UF profile with a standard dialysate sodium
      concentration

        1. run-in: constant Na concentration, constant UF rate - 2 weeks (6 sessions)

        2. 2-step descending Na profile, linear descending UF profile - 3 weeks (9 sessions)

        3. washout: constant Na concentration, constant UF rate - 1 week (3 sessions)

        4. 2-step descending Na profile, ascending/descending UF profile - 3 weeks (9 sessions)

      2 - Second phase: combination of UF profiles and individualized dialysate sodium
      concentration

        1. run-in: standard constant Na concentration, constant UF rate - 2 weeks (6 sessions)

        2. individualized constant Na concentration, constant UF rate - 2 weeks (6 sessions)

        3. individualized 2-step Na profile, linear descending UF profile - 3 weeks (9 sessions)

        4. washout: individualized constant Na profile, constant UF rate - 1 week (3 sessions)

        5. individualized 2-step Na profile, ascending/descending UF profile - 3 weeks (9 sessions)

      In phase 1 patients will be randomly assigned to one of the following sequences:

        -  (1), (2), (3), (4)

        -  (1), (4), (3), (2)

      In phase 2 patients will be randomly assigned to one of the following sequences:

        -  (1), (2), (3), (4), (5)

        -  (1), (2), (5), (4), (3) Patients who will be included in phase 1 will undergo at least a
           2-week washout period before entering phase 2. During these 2 weeks dry weight and
           anti-hypertensive therapy may be re-evaluated and re-assessed.

      Dialysis prescription

      Every patient will undergo a standard HD with the following prescription:

        -  blood flow: individualized from 250 to 350 mL/min (this value will be established for
           each patient at the beginning of the run-in phase on the basis of previous evaluations
           and maintained unchanged for the whole duration of the study)

        -  dialysate flow: 500 mL/min

        -  dialysate composition: HCO3- 34 mmol/L, K+ 3 mmol/L, Ca2+ 1.25 mmol/L, Mg2+ 0.5 mmol/L,
           Cl- 111.5 mmol/L, acetate 3.0 mmol/L, glucose 1 g/L

        -  dialysate temperature: 36°C

        -  HD session duration: 4 hours

        -  during each dialysis session patients will be allowed to drink an amount of maximum 150
           mL of water, tea or coffee and they will be allowed to eat a snack

      UF profiles

        -  "linear descending" UF profile: this profile provides a constantly decreasing UF rate
           during dialysis, starting at a UF rate 1.33 fold the average UF rate (33,25% of total UF
           rate)

        -  "ascending/descending" UF profile: this profile can be divided in 2 different phases.
           The first one includes 3 ascending steps during the first hour of treatment, each step
           lasting 20 minutes (during the 1st step UF rate is set at 15% of total UF rate, during
           2nd step at 25% of total UF rate, during 3rd step at 35% of total UF rate). During the
           following 3 hours UF rate is shaped as a linear descending UF profile, with a constantly
           decreasing UF rate, starting at a UF rate 1.33 fold the average UF rate (33,25% of total
           UF rate)

      Dialysate sodium

        1. - First phase

             -  "standard" concentration: the investigators will consider as "standard" a dialysate
                sodium concentration of 140 mmol/L, which is the concentration usually prescribed
                in our dialysis facility

             -  dialysate sodium profile will be shaped as a descending 2-step ramping, each step
                consisting of half the total treatment duration (2 hours), with a 6 mmol/L
                difference between the concentrations defined for each of the two steps.
                Considering a monocompartimental model with variable dialysate sodium, the profile
                will be set on the basis of an "equivalent sodium". This value will correspond to
                the dialysate sodium concentration expected to produce the same diffusive balance
                that a fixed standard concentration (140 mmol/L) would provide: 144 mmol/L for the
                first 2 hours, 138 mmol/L for the last 2 hours

        2. - Second phase

             -  "individualized" concentration: for each patient dialysate sodium concentration
                will be established on the basis of the mean of the sodium plasma values measured
                through pre-HD sampling during the run-in phase (2 repeated measurements before
                each HD session, for a total of 12 values for each patient). Plasma values will be
                obtained through a direct potentiometry analysis. Dialysate sodium concentration
                will be set at the patient's average plasma sodium concentration

             -  dialysate sodium profile will be shaped as a descending 2-step ramping, each step
                consisting of half the total treatment duration (2 hours), with a 6 mmol/L
                difference between the concentrations set for each of the two steps. Considering a
                monocompartimental model with variable dialysate sodium, the profile will be set on
                the basis of an "equivalent sodium". This value will correspond to the dialysate
                sodium concentration expected to produce the same diffusive balance that a fixed
                individualized concentration (equal to the patient's average plasma sodium
                concentration) would provide: "average + 4" mmol/L for the first 2 hours, "average
                - 2" mmol/L for the last 2 hours

      Definition of "dry weight", "UF volume" and "interdialytic weight gain"

        -  dry weight will be estimated through standard clinical criteria

        -  total UF volume (net fluid to be removed) will be calculated before each session as the
           difference between patient's weight and his/her dry weight. A limit of 12.5 mL/kg/h will
           be considered as maximal total UF volume

        -  IDGW will be calculated as the difference between patient's weight at the beginning of
           dialysis and the weight registered at the end of the previous session UF and IDGW will
           be respectively corrected for pre-HD weight (UF %) and dry weight (IDWG %), thus
           obtaining measures that will be more relevant to each specific patient.

      Primary outcome and definition of "intradialytic hypotension"

      The primary outcome will be the incidence of intradialytic hypotensive episodes. Hypotensive
      events and symptoms (headache, cramps, nausea and vomiting) will be recorded and analyzed as
      both number of occurrences and time of occurrence from the beginning of the HD session. IDH
      will be defined as follows:

        -  "symptomatic IDH": decrease in SBP ≥ 20 mmHg or in MAP ≥ 10 mmHg associated with
           symptoms (KDIGO definition)

        -  "asymptomatic IDH": drop in BP (SBP ≥ 20 mmHg or MAP ≥ 10 mmHg) within a 20 minutes
           interval, regardless of symptoms

        -  for patients whose SBP is < 100 mmHg at the beginning of treatment, the investigators
           will consider as IDH any decrease of SBP ≥ 10%

      Interventions in case of hypotensive events

        -  Trendelenburg position

        -  temporary stop of UF (10 minutes), then restarted at a UF rate equal to "total UF - 100
           mL"

        -  online infusion of 150 mL of saline solution

        -  discontinuation of the session

      BV monitoring Relative blood volume will be evaluated through the BVM system integrated in
      the dialysis machine. RBV will be recorded every 10 minutes.

      Other outcome measurements

        -  pre-, intra- (after every hour of treatment) and post-HD plasma sodium levels will be
           determined by direct potentiometry

        -  blood pressure and heart rate will be recorded every 20 minutes, or more frequently if
           needed for clinical necessities, by machine-integrated BPM

        -  achievement of UF will be considered as:

             -  achievement of dry weight: % target UFDW = UF vol / (preHD weight - dry weight) x
                100

             -  IDWG removal: % target UFWG = UF vol / IDWG x 100

        -  "UF failure" will be defined as % target UFDW < 70%

        -  "session failure" will occur when treatment will have to be discontinued before 75% of
           the prescribed time (before 3 hours of treatment)

        -  Kt/V will be estimated through the system integrated in the machine (total body water
           calculated using Watson's equation)
    
  