
    
      Background: Melatonin is a neurohormone that regulates the circadian rhythm by translating
      photoperiodic information from the eyes to the brain. MTNR1B , is one of melatonin receptors
      which is expressed in the retina, in the brain and in pancreatic tissue. In Genome Wide
      Association studies a SNP in the intronic variant in MTNR1B was found to be to in association
      with elevated fasting plasma glucose and with increased risk of T2DM among lean and obese
      adults and children.

      Working hypothesis and aims: There is a possible link between circadian rhythm regulation and
      glucose homeostasis through melatonin pathways. We aim to examine the relation between
      melatonin levels and degree of obesity and the metabolic syndrome, in children and
      adolescents in different pubertal stages.

      Methods: The study group will include twenty-four children and adolescents in various stages
      of pubertal development. Participants will be categorized into three groups: 1)
      normal-weight, 2) obese subjects with metabolic syndrome, 3) obese without metabolic
      syndrome. Melatonin levels will be measured using saliva during the night. Each child will be
      measured for height, weight, waist circumference and blood pressure. Fasting insulin, glucose
      and lipid profile will be taken. Each child will fill out questionnaires about depression,
      sleep quality and television usage.

      Expected results: We expect to find a relation between melatonin levels to the metrics of
      metabolic syndrome, sleep duration, number of television viewing hours and sense of
      depression. We expect to find lower levels of melatonin in the group of obese children with
      metabolic syndrome during night time. We expect that children with lower levels of melatonin
      should report on fewer hours of sleep, more hours of watching television and feeling more
      depressed.

      Importance: Childhood obesity is recognized as a major medical and public health problem and
      is strongly associated with many serious medical complications including the metabolic
      syndrome and Type 2 diabetes (T2DM). It is important to understand mechanisms involved in the
      development of obesity and hyperinsulinemia.

      Probable implications to Medicine: Foreseeing a connection between melatonin levels and the
      degree of obesity and metabolic syndrome in children and adolescents, we would recommend
      addressing duration of sleep while treating obesity.
    
  