
    
      We have been interested in the study of plastic changes associated with recovery of motor
      function in humans after a variety of lesions in the central (spinal cord injury) and
      peripheral nervous system (amputation, reversible deafferentation) and motor learning. At
      present, mechanisms underlying recovery of motor function after stroke are poorly understood.
      Little and inconsistent information is available about the specific brain regions newly
      recruited in patients with chronic ischemic subcortical stroke after reacquisition of use of
      the affected limb.

      Recently, a new set of techniques proposed to be useful for reducing the chronic
      incapacitating motor impairment often associated with stroke has been developed. In essence,
      it consists of prolonged restraint of the unaffected upper extremity and practice in using
      the affected arm. These techniques increased significantly the use of the affected arm in
      daily activities in the two trials reported. The beneficial effect, once produced, appeared
      to last for years after the intervention.

      The best way to identify the brain regions associated with reacquisition of motor function
      after stroke is to test patients before, during and after reacquisition is accomplished. In
      this case, we propose that patients be tested before, during and after one of two specific
      interventions: one involving immobilization of healthy arm plus active training of affected
      arm (test procedure) and the other involving no immobilization, and passive manipulations of
      the affected arm. Results from this study will indicate which of the two therapies is better
      at improving recovery of motor function. Comparison of neurophysiological and imaging studies
      performed before, during and after the interventions will allow identification of plastic
      changes in brain function associated specifically with the recovery of use of the affected
      hand in patients with chronic ischemic subcortical stroke.

      Methodologically, a multimodality approach will be used. Magnetic stimulation will allow
      detailed analysis of maps of representation areas in the primary motor cortex and motor
      thresholds and evaluation of central motor conduction. EEG and movement-related cortical
      potentials will provide information about coherence and timing of activation of different
      brain regions. PET scan will identify regions activated in association with performance of
      motor tasks. Registration of this information onto MRI will allow precise identification of
      brain regions associated with reacquisition of motor skills on the affected side after
      stroke.

      We hypothesize that use of the affected arm associated with decreased use of the unaffected
      arm are useful triggers of plasticity and reacquisition of motor function after stroke. We
      expect to identify cortical and subcortical regions newly activated in each patient after
      reacquisition of use of the affected arm, understand the coherence and timing of activation
      of new brain regions recruited and quantify plastic changes in motor representation areas
      targeting arm muscles in the affected and unaffected arm.
    
  