
    
      Pregnancy related low back pain is a global problem. In most women low back pain induced in
      pregnancy disappears during the first six months after delivery. However, one of five women
      with pain during pregnancy from both sacroiliac regions and the symphysis still experienced
      disabling daily back pain two years after childbirth, which corresponded to 8% of the total
      study population. Hence, long-lasting low back pain with onset during pregnancy has to be
      considered a major public health problem, with high impact on the individual, family and
      society. Despite this, treatment and care is directed to general pain relief methods.

      Precise localization of the site of pain release is fundamental in the search for an
      effective treatment. To date, the source of such pregnancy related low back pain is
      uncertain. However, the pelvic ligaments or their insertions have been proposed a source of
      pain and in particular the sacrospinous/sacrotuberous ligament has been indicated in this
      respect in pregnant and non-pregnant women.

      Injection treatment with slow-release corticosteroid has shown a positive effect on pain
      conditions where the pain is thought to derive from collagen tissues.

      We hypothesize that the insertion of the sacrospinous ligament on the ischial spine could be
      a source of pain in women with long-lasting low back pain beginning in pregnancy and might
      therefore be a target for therapy.

      The women included will be randomized according to a computer generated random allocation
      sequence, with block size of four, concealed from the investigators until study closure.

      A physiotherapist will perform the assessments at baseline and follow up four weeks after
      treatment. The assessment will consist of a questionnaire and a clinical examination of the
      back and pelvis.

      Participants will be randomized to receive an injection treatment of either a compound of 1
      ml triamcinolone 20mg/ml (Lederspan), Meda AB, Solna, Sweden) and 1 ml lidocaine
      hydrochloride 10mg/ml (Xylocain), Astra Zeneca, Södertälje, Sweden) or 0.99 ml saline
      solution 9mg/ml, 1 ml lidocaine hydrochloride and 0.01 ml fat emulsion (Intralipid),
      Fresenius Kabi, Uppsala, Sweden), the latter to make the solution opalescent as Lederspan.

      Not the participant, the physician who will give the injection or the assessing
      physiotherapist will have information about what treatment that will be given.
    
  