
    
      Inguinal hernia is one of the most common surgical diseases in adult. Tension free
      hernioplasty is regarded as gold standard of treatment in adult inguinal hernia. The reported
      incidence of hernia recurrence after tension free repair is less than 5 percent. Over the
      past years, the safety and feasibility of laparoscopy was established and gaining popularity
      in recent few years. With the advancing technology, laparoscopic approach has become the
      standard treatment for cholecystectomy and adrenalectomy. Laparoscopic procedures improved
      surgical precision through enhanced visualization, magnification and limited exposure,
      dissection. Laparoscopic inguinal hernia repair was associated with less postoperative pain,
      a shorter recovery period, earlier return to normal daily activities and work, and better
      cosmetic results. The laparoscopic hernia repair usually require three working ports ranging
      from 5 to 10 mm. However, with each increasing laparoscopic ports usually associated with
      possible increasing morbidity and pain related to ports.

      Efforts are continuing to further reduce the port related morbidities and improve the
      cosmetic outcomes of laparoscopic surgery, including reduction of the size and number of
      ports. This has led to the evolution of a novel surgical approach now collectively known as
      laparoendoscopic single-site surgery. LESS has been performed for variable indications
      including extirpative and reconstructive urologic procedure via the transperitoneal approach.
      Early experience has demonstrated the feasibility as well as the safe and successful
      completion of these LESS procedures. Although these initial reports are promising, the
      clinical advantages of LESS procedures over conventional laparoscopic procedures have not
      been defined.

      To date, LESS hernia repair had been rarely reported in the literature except in some case
      reports and one small series. Although these initial reports revealed that LESS hernia repair
      is safe and feasible in adult inguinal hernia, the definite clinical benefits of LESS hernia
      repair could not be identified in these small and short term reports. Thus, a prospective
      randomized trial comparing LESS and conventional multiport laparoscopic hernia repair with
      long-term follow up was mandatory to define the clinical advantages of LESS hernia repair.
      Therefore, we conducted a randomized trial to compare LESS total extraperitoneal hernia
      repair and conventional multiport TEP repair in adult inguinal hernia with inflammatory,
      gonadal responses, complication rate and recurrence rate and pain score, functional status
      and activity level.

      Overall Goal

      -To compare the surgical outcomes, patient center outcomes and surgery induced inflammatory ,
      gonadal responses after LESS TEP and conventional multiport TEP hernia repair in adult.

      Specific Aims

        -  Compare the surgery induced inflammatory responses after LESS TEP and conventional
           multiport TEP hernia repair with inflammatory markers by blood sampling before and after
           operation.

        -  Compare the surgery induced testicle changes in male adults after LESS TEP and
           conventional multiport TEP hernia repair with color Doppler ultrasonography to determine
           testicular volume and resistive index before surgery and 3 months postoperatively.

        -  Compare the postoperative pain score after LESS TEP and conventional multiport TEP
           hernia repair with Visual analog pain score.

        -  Compare the postoperative activity level after LESS TEP and conventional multiport TEP
           hernia repair with modified Medical Outcome Study.

        -  Compare the clinical results and complication rates after LESS TEP and conventional
           multiport TEP hernia repair by clinic follow up.

        -  Compare the longterm functional outcomes 6 months after LESS TEP and conventional
           multiport TEP hernia repair with follow up questionnaire.
    
  