
    
      Depression is one of the most important health problems worldwide, which generates important
      costs, both from the economic point of view as from the social and personal one. If not
      properly treated, it may become chronic and therefore interferes significantly in all areas
      of operation. Hence, one of the most important challenges within this scope is the design of
      new ways to apply treatments in a way that maximizes its therapeutic efficiency. Information
      and Communication Technologies (ICTs) have proven their utility as they are very useful in
      order to provide help to all those in need. It is a field of study very novel which will
      become more important in the short term. Several internationally renowned research groups
      have launched self-applied treatment programs through the Internet in order to address this
      issue. Results obtained so far are consistent and promising, and show these treatments as
      effective. However, these treatments have different therapeutic components and it is
      important to identify the specific contribution of each of them. Therefore, the objective of
      the present project is to study the differential effectiveness of three brief self-applied
      via the Internet interventions for mild to moderate depression: a global protocol composed of
      several therapeutic components (psychoeducation, cognitive restructuring, behavioral
      activation, positive psychology, and relapse prevention), a protocol just based on behavioral
      activation (BA), and a protocol just based on positive psychology (PP). A minimum of 192
      participants diagnosed with mild to moderate depression symptoms will be randomly assigned to
      one of the three experimental conditions: an Internet-based global protocol composed of
      several therapeutic components (n=64); a Internet-based protocol based on BA (n=64), and an
      Internet-based program based on PP (n=64). Our hypothesis is that it is possible to progress
      and improve in the treatment of depression through intervention strategies applied through
      the Internet.
    
  