
    
      Introduction: Neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS) is a symptom complex experienced by 55 to
      94% of neonates who are exposed to intrauterine opioids. Recent studies have shown that
      combination therapies are superior to monotherapy with neonatal morphine sulfate (NMS).
      Phenobarbital has been shown to reduce the length of hospitalization, decrease severity of
      withdrawal, as well as decrease hospital costs and care giver demands. Similarly, clonidine,
      an α2-adrenergic receptor agonist, has also been shown to be safe, effective and reduces
      length of treatment.

      Phenobarbital as an antiepileptic acts on the GABA (A) receptors and has been shown in animal
      models to inhibit neuronal cell proliferation, survival and neurogenesis. In human infants
      long term treatment with phenobarbital may result in neuro-developmental compromise. Due to
      these potentially harmful effects of Phenobarbital (P) alternative therapies should be
      explored more thoroughly including clonidine (C).

      Our primary aim is to compare the length of NAS treatment with NMS in the two study groups -
      NMS/C versus NMS/P. Our secondary aims are to compare the total dosage of NMS, total length
      of hospital stay for NAS treatment, treatment failures and adverse effect profiles for the
      two study groups. We hypothesize that clonidine when compared to phenobarbital as an adjunct
      therapy, will have shorter length of stay, with fewer treatment failures and side effects.

      Study design/Methods: This study will be a prospective, randomized, non-blinded clinical
      trial of NMS/C versus NMS/P for treatment of infants with NAS. Infants will be recruited from
      the Baystate Children's Hospital Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) and Neonatal Continuing
      Care Nursery (NCCN), a level III unit, over a 2 year study period. After randomization,
      infants will adhere to strict treatment initiation and withdrawal protocols. Maternal and
      infant descriptive data will be collected along with specific data regarding vital signs,
      drug dosages, length of treatment, treatment failures and adverse effects.

      The primary outcome will be length of treatment with NMS in the two study arms. The secondary
      outcomes will be - a) total length of hospital stay for NAS treatment, b) mean total
      treatment dose and mean daily dose of NMS, c) total number of treatment failures,d) adverse
      effects such as bradycardia, hypotension, hypertension e) Total outpatient therapy days with
      Phenobarbital

      Significance: This comparison study is potentially of great significance. If clonidine is
      proven to be equally effective in treatment of NAS many of the detrimental effects of
      phenobarbital therapy may be avoided for infants on long term pharmacotherapy for treatment
      of withdrawal with shorter length of hospital stay.
    
  