
    
      Hypertension, if left untreated, is a major risk factor for stroke, heart attack, heart
      failure or kidney failure. Many people with hypertension don't know they have the disease
      and/or may be under treated. As such they are at higher risk for health complications than
      those who are managing their condition.

      People who see a regular healthcare provider are more likely to know they have hypertension,
      and they are more likely to receive appropriate treatment. However, many patients who call
      9-1-1 for emergency medical services (EMS) do not have regular health care providers and may
      be more at risk for undiagnosed or under treated disease.

      EMS personnel enter the homes of thousands of residents each year. Emergency medical
      technicians (EMTs) routinely take patients' blood pressure as part of their standard
      diagnostic procedures. EMTs and paramedics complete a medical incident report form (MIRF) for
      each patient, including this information. As recorded on the MIRFs, thousands of patients
      have high blood pressure (defined by a systolic measurement of 160 or higher and/or a
      diastolic measurement of 100 or higher) during those visits. Blood pressure may be elevated
      simply from the stress and anxiety of a 9-1-1 response. But even in light of this potential
      "white coat" phenomenon, blood pressure readings at these levels are very high and are a
      cause for concern, especially in cases where patients are not transported to the hospital for
      further examination.

      From February - April, 2007 we are collecting baseline data on patients who have high blood
      pressure readings (160/100 or higher) at a 9-1-1 response by an EMT (SPHERE Hypertension
      Baseline Data Study). We want to understand what these patients remember during the 9-1-1
      response around their high blood pressure measure, if the patients seek a second reading, and
      if the patients seek follow-up care as a result of the high blood pressure measure. We are
      also interested to learn if patients trust EMTs as a provider of preventive health care. This
      baseline data will also allow us to more accurately measure the success of this proposed
      intervention study. The baseline data collection is almost completed and we now will proceed
      with an intervention study.

      We propose to conduct an intervention study next, aimed at:

        -  Motivating subjects to receive a follow-up hypertension assessment from an EMT at a
           local fire station after receiving a high blood pressure reading from an EMT during a
           911 event.

        -  Motivating subjects to monitor their blood pressure as appropriate.
    
  