
    
      For patients undergoing TKA for osteoarthritis of the knee joint, pain control will be
      performed using the same pain control technique (pain control using NSAID) until discharge (1
      week after surgery) after surgery. By evaluating the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), which is
      known as the patient's pain criterion, the study will be conducted only on patients whose
      score is more severe than 4 points. Among these subjects, only patients who agreed to the
      study will be assigned to the group taking duloxetine and the group taking opioids with the
      same probability according to the randomization table for one week after surgery, that is,
      upon discharge. In our hospital, almost all patients with total knee arthroplasty are
      discharged one week after surgery, except for special cases such as morbidity of systemic
      diseases such as cardiopulmonary dysfunction or acute infection after surgery.

      Among the co-researchers, one researcher who is in charge of only patient assignment is
      selected, and the person in charge creates a randomization table through computer generated
      randomization. During the assignment process, the assignee will not know in advance the next
      assignment group, and the randomization table is kept in secret. The assignee does not
      intervene in any other process of this study, and participates only in the task of selecting
      the assigned group using random checks. The evaluation is evaluated by an evaluator who is
      not aware of the patient allocation according to the randomization table among researchers
      participating in the clinical study. Such a study plan will be fully explained to the patient
      in the process of seeking consent for the study before discharge, as it is recorded in detail
      in the subject description, and only patients who have obtained this consent will be the
      subject of the study.

      This criterion is established because both duloxetine and opioid are not used for all
      patients after surgery, but for additional pain control after surgery. Prior to discharge,
      the drug is prescribed for a total of 6 weeks by dividing the duloxetine-administered group
      and the opioid-administering group, respectively. In general, if duloxetine is not taken for
      more than 10 weeks, the frequency of discontinuation syndrome that can occur after
      discontinuation is remarkably low, so the administration period of 6 weeks was set as the
      administration period. The follow-up periods for out-patient clinic are 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3
      months, 6 months, and 1 year after the TKA surgery. During the follow-up period, NSAIDs will
      be prescribed the same in both groups.

      As an additional rescue medication, 650 mg of acetaminophen will be allowed to use up to 2g
      per day.

      Before surgery, 1 week after surgery, 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year The degree
      of pain will be measured using the VAS pain scale, WOMAC pain scale, Brief pain inventory
      (BPI), Intermittent and Constant Osteoarthritis The pain (ICOAP) score is used to measure
      additional pain scales in various ways. In addition, SF-36 will be measured before surgery,
      at 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, and 1 year after surgery.
    
  