
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To define the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) and toxicity of RO4929097 combined with
      erlotinib (erlotinib hydrochloride) in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer
      (NSCLC). (Dose escalation portion) II. To assess whether the probability of detectable tumor
      shrinkage or response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria
      correlates with pre-therapy immunohistochemistry (IHC) and reverse phase protein array (RPPA)
      expression of Notch 1, 2, 3, and 4. (Dose escalation portion) III. A preliminary, exploratory
      assessment will be performed with respect to percent tumor shrinkage and the probability of
      response over the first 2 cycles of therapy. (Expansion cohort) IV. A preliminary,
      exploratory assessment will be performed with respect to change in tumor immunohistochemistry
      (IHC) scores and reverse phase protein array (RPPA) expression for Notch 1, 2, 3, and 4 over
      the first 2 cycles of erlotinib. (Expansion cohort)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To perform a preliminary exploratory assessment of whether probability of detectable tumor
      shrinkage/response correlates with pre RO4929097 presence in tumor of an activating epidermal
      growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation, the T790M EGFR mutation, met proto-oncogene (c-MET)
      gene amplification or insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF-1R) expression or activation
      or various Notch pathway markers. (Dose escalation portion) II. To perform a preliminary
      exploratory assessment of whether addition of RO4929097 to erlotinib leads to tumor
      shrinkage/response in any tumor deposits that had previously exhibited growth on erlotinib
      alone. (Dose escalation portion) III. Conduct a preliminary exploratory assessment on the
      expansion cohort with respect to tumor shrinkage/response of the following over the first 2
      cycles of erlotinib and RO4929097 treatment with and without the presence of mutation,
      amplification, and activation of markers: tumor IHC scores and RPPA expression of the Notch
      ligand jagged 1 (Jag1), and the Notch targets hairy and enhancer of split 1 (HES1),
      hairy/enhancer-of-split related with YRPW motif protein 1 (HEY1); tumor IHC scores and RPPA
      expression of putative stem cell markers cluster of differentiation (CD)24 (decreased in stem
      cells), CD44, CD133, dehydrogenase and of the epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT)
      markers E-cadherin and vimentin; detectability in tumor of EGFR T790M mutations, MET
      amplification, and IGF-1R expression and activation; and soluble markers of angiogenesis,
      including stromal cell-derived factor 1 alpha (SDF-1alpha), basic fibroblastic growth factor
      (bFGF), cryptic epitope of collagen IV, interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, vascular endothelial growth
      factor (VEGF). (Expansion cohort) IV. Conduct a preliminary exploratory assessment of whether
      percent tumor shrinkage/response or time to progression correlates with pre-therapy IHC and
      RPPA expression of Notch 1, 2, 3 and 4, the above Notch pathway and stem cell markers, with
      baseline detectability of T790M mutations and MET amplification, and with baseline IGF-1R
      expression and activation, and with change in these markers from the initial biopsy to the
      subsequent biopsy. (Expansion cohort) V. In tumor samples collected both during the dose
      escalation phase and in the expansion cohort, assess if IHC and RPPA expression of Notch,
      Notch ligand and Notch targets correlates with expression of stem cell markers.

      VI. Assess if percent tumor shrinkage/response, time to progression and baseline and change
      in IHC and RPPA expression of Notch, Notch ligand, Notch targets and stem cell markers varies
      with: tumor Notch gene amplification as assessed by fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH);
      tumor IHC and RPPA expression of selected members of the Wnt and Hedgehog pathways (since
      these could lead to stem cell properties in cells that do not express Notch); host
      (peripheral blood mononuclear cell) polymorphisms for relevant genes in the Notch pathway;
      tumor micro ribonucleic acid (RNA) levels.

      VII. Trough levels of erlotinib and RO4929097 will be measured in plasma samples of all
      patients on the dose-escalation portion of the study approximately 24 hours after the cycle
      1, day 1 dose and again approximately 24 hours after the cycle 2, day 1 dose. These
      measurements are being done to permit a preliminary exploratory assessment of whether there
      is induction of metabolism of one or both drugs that will lead to decreased drug plasma
      concentrations.

      VIII. In the Expansion Cohort, plasma levels of erlotinib and RO4929097 will be measured
      approximately 24 hours after the cycle 2, day 21 erlotinib dose (just prior to initiation of
      cycle 3), and plasma levels of both agents will be measured in plasma approximately 24 hours
      after the cycle 3, day 1 doses of both agents. These measurements are done to permit a
      preliminary exploratory assessment of whether: plasma drug levels correlate with % tumor
      shrinkage/response or with change in tumor biomarkers over the first 6 weeks of therapy;
      erlotinib plasma concentrations are affected by RO4929097 administration.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 and
      gamma-secretase/Notch signalling pathway inhibitor RO4929097 PO QD on days 1-3, 8-10, and
      15-17. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 12 weeks.
    
  