
    
      Symptoms of Peyronie's disease include penile pain and curvature of the penis that prevents
      penetration and/or causes erectile dysfunction (ED). It is characterized by plaques that form
      along the top or bottom side of the penis inside the tunica albuginea; the plaque begins as a
      localized inflammation then develops into a hardened scar. Cases can range from mild to
      severe. In several cases, the hardened plaque reduces flexibility, causing the penis to curve
      during erection. The sexual problems as a result can lower a man's self-esteem and interfere
      with a couple's physical and emotional relationship.

      The cause is unknown; however, possibilities include trauma, inherited conditions, Vitamin E
      deficiency, diabetes, and vascular disease.

      Conservative treatments used in the acute phase (initial onset of symptoms) include oral
      therapies. Vitamin E and antioxidants can decrease the build-up of harmful chemicals that can
      cause injury to tissue. It is often used as the traditional treatment; it is inexpensive and
      with proper dosing, there are minimal side effects. Other oral agents include Potaba
      (aminobenzoates potassium); however, it is expensive ($1000 per year) and has associated
      gastrointestinal side effects.

      Other therapies involve injections directly in the plaques (intralesional) with chemicals
      such as collagenase or calcium-channel blockers.

      Surgical therapies are offered once the disease is stable (symptoms present for one year).
      Invasive surgical options consist of correction of the penile curvature or the placement of a
      penile prosthesis to straighten the penis to allow for erections.

      Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have been used for a variety of medical treatments to repair
      and regenerate acute and chronically damaged tissues. These cells have the potential to
      repair human tissue by forming cells of mesenchymal origin, such as cartilage, bone, fat,
      muscle, and blood vessels. Most research has focused on bone marrow derived stem cells (BMC)
      however the process for harvesting the cells is invasive, painful, and yields a low cell
      count. The human placenta offers an alternative source form MSCs. Placental Matrix-Derived
      Mesenchymal Stem Cells (PMD-MSCs) are compromised of a novel cellular repair matrix derived
      from placental mesenchyme. Mesenchyme is the meshwork of embryonic connective tissue in the
      mesoderm, from which are formed the muscular and connective tissues of the body and also the
      blood vessels. PMD-MSCs provide the extracellular matrix viable mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs)
      that coordinate the tissue repair process, regenerative growth factors, and anti-inflammatory
      cytokines required to regenerate the damaged vasculature of the penile corpora.

      The research proposed here will establish the safety and feasibility of utilizing
      intracavernosal, intralesional injections of PMD-MSCs to treat Peyronie's disease with the
      intent of avoiding surgery.
    
  