
    
      Brown fat (BAT) is an energy-consuming tissue. Long-term activation of BAT in adults
      increases clearance of blood glucose and non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA), insulin
      sensitivity and metabolic rate. Moreover, adipokines released from BAT, known as batokines,
      represent a promising but currently unexplored area in terms of metabolic regulation. Cooling
      activates BAT; however, current cooling protocols fail to activate BAT in a large part of the
      population. Whether this failure in activation is related to biology, inefficient detection
      or cooling protocols is unknown. With our initial acute cooling study (protocol number:
      H-16038581), these protocols have successfully been optimized whereupon novel batokines will
      be identified. Having established a methodology for assessing BAT activity and batokine
      profiles, a longer-term cooling intervention (winter swimming) will be performed to examine
      the effect of repetitive cold-water exposure on BAT activity. Obese pre-diabetic subjects
      will be included in a 4-month supervised winter swimming (WS) intervention.

      It is hypothesized, that repetitive cold-water exposure constituted by WS, alters increase
      BAT activation and volume, followed by improved glycemic control in obese pre-diabetic
      subjects.

      Method The study is a randomized controlled, parallel-group intervention study. The
      investigator will recruit 30 obese pre-diabetic non-winter-swimmers to participate in a WS
      intervention group (n=15) or control group (n=15) with no WS activities. Subjects will either
      be randomized to the WS group, who will winter-swim 4 months, 2-3 times/week including
      sauna-visits if desired, or control conditions with no WS during the 4 months (October to
      May).

      Main aims

        -  To assess whether WS will have an immediate effect on BAT recruitment or function.

        -  To assess whether WS will have an effect on glycemic control.
    
  