
    
      This is a single center study that will be conducted at the University of Michigan (Ann
      Arbor, Michigan). Fifty (50) subjects will be enrolled and treated with either the
      experimental Slit Stent II or the control stent BIKA for DCR. Patients who are currently
      scheduled to undergo a DCR (dacryocystorhinostomy) as per standard of care will be offered
      participation in the study. Patients who elect to participate in the study will be consented
      and then randomized to the treatment or control arm.

      A lacrimal stent is hollow silicone tubing with a non-traumatic tip. The tubing is securely
      attached into malleable stainless steel probes that are used to guide the silicone tubing
      through the lacrimal drainage apparatus. The device is used to maintain an open lacrimal path
      between the surface of the eye and the nasal passages, particularly during a healing process
      following injury or surgery.

      The BIKA for DCR lacrimal stent is a bicanalicular intubation device used for intubation of
      the lacrimal drainage apparatus, especially in cases of dacryocystorhinostomy (conventional
      or laser). The silicone tube acts as a conformer during the healing process while
      facilitating drainage of tears through capillary action around the stent. In cases of
      canalicular lacerations, the silicone tube guides wound healing and prevents the onset of
      synechia.

      The BIKA lacrimal stent consists of a single unit including a silicone tube (length: 280 mm,
      external diameter: 0.94 mm), and one steel probe at each end of the silicone tube (length: 53
      mm, external diameter: 0.8 mm) with round tips.

      The BIKA for DCR is a sterile, single-use device, and is an FDA cleared device.

      The Slit Stent II (investigational) device is created by modifying an existing FDA cleared
      lacrimal stent (Bika, manufactured by FCI Opthalmics) by adding additional 3 mm and 35 mm
      long slits of equal depth.

      The axial cutouts located on the stent allow drainage of tears from the ocular surface to the
      nasal/oropharynx cavities through the internal lumen of the stent.

      All modifications to the stent are inspected under an optical microscope at a magnification
      of at least 5x to ensure they are free from cutting defects, which could impact the
      structural integrity of the Slit Stent II. To ensure that the Slit Stent II can withstand the
      forces experienced during implantation and removal, additional mechanical integrity tests
      were performed. Comparing the implantation forces to the maximum insertion and removal force,
      it was determined that the modified Slit Stent II will have excellent tensile strength -
      essentially identical to unmodified stent - to prevent mechanical failure in patient use.
      Each section was tested to determine the maximum elongation and force it can withstand before
      failure.

      The study duration will be 6 months for all study patients.

      The following examination schedule will be followed from screening through the postoperative
      visits:

        -  Screening (Day -60 to Day 0 Preoperatively)

        -  Device implantation operation

        -  Phone call Assessment at 1 day post op

        -  Phone call Assessment at 45 days post op (+/- 15 days)

        -  Day 5-14 postoperatively

        -  Day 30-120 postoperatively (with stent removal)

        -  4-7 month final post-operative exam

      Subjects will be randomly assigned to the experimental vs. control stents using a randomized
      block design with 1:1 allocation to treatment and control. Stents will be provided to the
      surgical team on the day of surgery by the Study Coordinator. Surgical team, recruitment
      staff, and scheduling staff will be masked to treatment assignment until day of surgery. All
      tests and measurements should be obtained in accordance with the procedures specified in this
      protocol. If it is not possible to perform a measurement or examination due to the individual
      eye's specific ocular pathology, the reason for not performing the test or measurement should
      be documented on the source documents.

      The investigator may designate one or more surgeon sub-investigators at his/her investigative
      site. A surgeon sub-investigator may evaluate subjects for the study and perform the Slit
      Stent II lacrimal stent intubation. Surgeon sub-investigators will be listed on all
      applicable investigator regulatory documents (including the delegation of responsibilities
      log) and will complete all sponsor-required training for the study.

      For the two post-op study visits, the Quality of Life (QOL) questionnaire (Glasgow Benefit
      Inventory (GBI)- see Appendix A) and the Patient Tearing Questionnaire (Munk Scale and Lac-Q
      questionnaire, see Appendix B) will be administered by an interviewer, and the interviewer
      will record the subject's responses directly onto the corresponding questionnaire CRFs or
      source documents and calculate the GBI score, Munk Score, and Lac-Q score.
    
  