
    
      The research will be conducted at the following location(s):

      Baylor College of Medicine and Texas Children's Hospital- Women's Pavilion.

      About 15 subjects will be enrolled in this study. In order to be eligible for this study, the
      participant must meet the established criteria for open fetal MMC surgery but also have a BMI
      of 35.0-40.0.

      PREOPERATIVE AND INTRAOPERATIVE CONCOMITANT MEDICATIONS:

      The participant will receive two doses of 12 mg betamethasone, 24 hours apart, for fetal lung
      maturation if the gestational age is greater than 23 weeks. The participant will also receive
      the prophylactic tocolysis (medications to prevent preterm contractions) indomethacin 50 mg
      prior to surgery, then 25-50 mg every six to eight hours for 24-48 hours following the
      surgery, longer if clinically indicated. Magnesium sulfate may also be used intraoperatively
      - 6 gram IV loading dose followed by a 2 gram/hour continuous infusion for 24 - 72 hours. In
      addition, if medically indicated, nifedipine (10mg orally) or terbutaline (0.25mg
      subcuticularly) may be substituted for the indomethacin or magnesium sulfate based on
      condition and medical judgment. Prophylactic antibiotics will also be administered to the
      participant prior to the procedure using cefazolin, azithromycin, and/or metronidazole, or if
      medical history contraindicates the use of cefazolin, clindamycin,azithromycin, and
      gentamicin will be administered. A solution of nafcillin and lactated ringers will be
      injected into the amniotic cavity at the conclusion of the procedure. Additional medications,
      including therapeutic antibiotics, may be used as part of standard of care by the medical
      team.

      MATERNAL-FETAL ANESTHESIA:

      The participant will have a lumbar epidural catheter placed prior to surgery for
      postoperative analgesia. The procedure will be performed under general anesthesia following a
      rapid sequence intubation with propofol and succinylcholine. Anesthesia will be maintained
      with 2-3 times MAC (Minimal anesthetic concentration) of volatile anesthetic agent. This high
      concentration of anesthetic agent provides adequate uterine relaxation during surgery. After
      the defect has been repaired and once closure of the skin incisions begins, local anesthetic
      will be administered through the epidural catheter and the participant will be started on a
      continuous epidural infusion of local anesthetic and opioid combination. The participant will
      receive this medication via an epidural pump for approximately 3-4 days following surgery.
      The epidural pump has the capability of the patient self-administering intermittent boluses
      of medication on top of the continuous infusion rate if the participant becomes uncomfortable
      in the post-operative period.

      The fetus will receive an intramuscular injection of opioid (fentanyl 5-10 mcg/kg),
      anticholinergic (atropine 20 mcg/kg), and muscle relaxant (vecuronium 0.3 mg/kg) into the
      buttock or extremity using a 22G needle that is passed through the port in order to provide
      muscle relaxation, sedation, and analgesia. The drug dosages are adjusted to the estimated
      fetal weight. The fetus will receive the injection prior to starting the CO2 gas insufflation
      into the uterus and will continue to receive the combo injection approximately every 45 - 60
      minutes throughout the remainder of the procedure as deemed necessary by the medical team.

      Subsequent combo injections will be administered by passing the 22G needle through one of the
      uterine ports. General maternal anesthesia with anesthetic gases is known to provide fetal
      anesthesia. The combination injection will provide muscle relaxation and additional analgesia
      to the fetus. This combination of medications is routinely administered to fetuses during
      open fetal surgery and has been found to adequately sedate the fetus during fetal
      intervention procedures.

      SURGICAL REPAIR:

      The investigators will either make a lower transverse incision (also called the 'bikini cut')
      or a midline vertical incision to gain access to the uterus. The incision will be about the
      same size (about 8-10 inches) that is needed for a typical cesarean section procedure. Once
      the uterus is exposed an ultrasound will be performed to determine the position of the fetus
      for the surgery and cardiac function will be monitored. If necessary, the fetus will be
      gently repositioned from outside the uterus so that the fetal back is facing upwards.
      Ultrasound will be used to help the surgical team determine the position of the fetus at all
      times.

      The fetus will receive an anesthesia injection into the buttock or thigh prior to the start
      of the repair. The anesthesia injection is a combination of medications that block pain and
      help relax the muscles. In addition, maternal anesthesia is also known to provide anesthesia
      to the fetus.

      When the defect is clearly identified, the spinal cord will be released from its attachments
      to the skin. The skin edges will be sewn together using an absorbable suture and repair
      technique similar to the standard technique in women with BMI<35.0. Sometimes it might be
      better to use one type or style of suture (surgical thread) during the surgery. While this
      can be generally the same from one patient to the next, it may be in the participating
      mother's or fetus's best interest to change the suture or suture technique to adapt to the
      surgery being performed.

      All pre- and post-operative care and all follow-up visits are the same as with any open
      procedure and are considered standard of care; therefore, the participant will not be
      responsible for any costs related to this research study other than the normal co-pays or
      deductibles. Following the participant's discharge from the hospital, the participant will
      need to stay within a 30-minute drive of Texas Children's Hospital Pavilion for Women to
      allow for medical care after the operation. The participant will be responsible for any
      accommodation costs in Houston.

      POSTOPERATIVE FOLLOW-UP:

      The investigators will collect clinical information from the participant's medical chart
      during standard clinical care. In addition, the investigators will collect clinical
      information about the participating child until he/she turns 5 years old. The following
      information will be collected from clinical records of the participating mom and child : 1.
      Demographics (age, parity, height, weight, BMI, use of drugs and alcohol, smoking, clinical
      disease, medications, medical history); 2. Prenatal data (gestational age, ultrasound and MRI
      findings, results of amniocentesis, vital signs) 3. Fetal intervention (surgery information,
      gestational age, complications, post-procedure follow-up including ultrasound); 4.
      Intra-partum data (ultrasound and MRI findings, gestational age at delivery, type of labor,
      mode of delivery, indications and complications, status of port sites if cesarean delivery);
      5. Immediate neonatal period data (birth weight, Apgar scores, physical exam findings,
      hydrocephalus assessment, repair site condition, imaging, need for surgery or shunt
      placement, imaging results); 6. Long-term follow-up every 3-4 months in the first year, Year
      1, Year 2, Year 3, Year 4, and Year 5 (physical exam findings, imaging results, and
      hydrocephalus assessment).

      Like all children with spina bifida, the participating child will be taken care of by the
      pediatric neurosurgery service after birth. Follow-up visits occur in the Spina Bifida Clinic
      at Texas Children's Hospital. All follow up visits are considered standard of care and will
      occur as follows:

      After the baby is born, and before they leave the hospital, they will have a physical exam,
      an assessment of hydrocephalus, urinary and orthopedic evaluations, and imaging of their
      brain.

      In the first year, the child will have a visit every 3-4 months where a physical exam and
      urinary and orthopedic evaluations will be done. Year 1 and Year 2 visits will include: a
      physical exam, developmental assessment, urinary and orthopedic evaluations, and an
      assessment for hydrocephalus. The Year 1 visit will also include imaging of the child's brain
      and spine (this may be repeated if needed at any point).

      At Year 3 and Year 4, a physical exam and urinary and orthopedic evaluations will be done.

      Year 5 is the end of participation in this study. This visit will include: a physical exam,
      developmental assessment, assessment for hydrocephalus and imaging of the child's spine and
      head.

      After Year 5, there will be routine annual follow up visits. If the participant moves away
      from Texas, the investigators will attempt to follow up with a review of the mom and child
      medical records The participant will be asked to sign a medical record release, every year if
      needed, to allow this to occur. The participant may be contacted by study staff regarding any
      changes to the study and asked to sign a new informed consent form. The participant may be
      contacted by phone by study staff about the medical release form or changes to the study.
    
  