
    
      First Episode Psychosis (FEP) often represents a time of crisis for young people and their
      families. Since peak onset occurs during late adolescence and early adulthood, the onset of
      serious mental health challenges can disrupt plans for education, relationships, and other
      milestones of independence. Although some psychoses are brief and self-limiting, more often
      these symptoms portend a potentially chronic and disabling psychiatric disorder such as
      schizophrenia. FEP can also be acutely dangerous: youth with FEP are far more likely to die
      in the year following their diagnosis relative to the general population of 16-30-year old's
      in the United States. Approximately 100,000 youth in the United States experience FEP every
      year. Young people identified by providers as experiencing FEP often slip through the cracks
      before they reach appropriate treatment. A review of privately insured adolescents and young
      adults in the US showed that 62% of young people in the US with FEP filled no outpatient
      prescriptions, and 41% received no outpatient psychotherapy, in the year following their
      index diagnosis. Among those who do have an initial encounter with specialized FEP outpatient
      care, high attrition is a common problem, with 30% of individuals initially enrolled in first
      episode programs dropping out prior to completing treatment.

      Many individuals experiencing psychosis are reluctant to seek mental health treatment due to
      lack of insight and fear of psychiatric interventions. Young adults may be torn between
      distress and dissatisfaction relating to their symptoms and functioning, and mistrust of
      mental health providers and irritation with their parents' concern. Motivational Interviewing
      (MI) techniques are designed to elicit this ambivalence through nonjudgmental listening, so
      that discrepancies between current behaviors and ideal outcomes can be explored.
      Clinician-delivered MI has been identified as effective for enhancing adherence once
      individuals with psychosis are involved in care, and may also be useful for engaging those
      who are not yet interested in treatment. Several studies have found positive results in
      training and deploying non-professionals to use MI to influence others' health behaviors. MI
      training for parents and concerned significant others (PCSO) is a promising venue through
      which PCSO can specifically influence their loved one's decision to seek care and adhere to
      treatment plans.

      This study is entitled Motivational Interviewing for Loved Ones (MILO). The study population
      is parents and concerned significant others (PCSO) of individuals experiencing psychosis (IP)
      who are not currently engaged with treatment, ambivalently engaged, or at high risk for
      drop-out. MILO is a structured and goal oriented intervention that seeks to accomplish two
      aims. The primary aim is to facilitate the engagement of IP with evidence-based treatments.
      The secondary aim is to reduce the distress and increase the wellbeing of PCSO. The
      intervention will be trialed for feasibility (phase 1, n = 30) and then tested against a
      small "treatment as usual" (TAU) control arm (phase 2, n = 30). During phase 2, participants
      will be randomly assigned to either receive MILO (50%) or TAU (50%). The trial will involve a
      total of 60 participants. All study activities will take place at the primary site, Beth
      Israel Deaconess Medical Center.
    
  