
    
      The normal control subjects will be randomized to receive either amitriptyline or desipramine
      as the tricyclic antidepressant agent, with 30 subjects per group. Subjects will undergo two
      outpatient gastric emptying/volume tests and two satiety tests; one of each after 7 days of
      treatment with oral consumption of the study agent and the other one of each after 7 days of
      treatment with placebo. The order of the treatments (active drug or placebo) will be
      randomized with 7 days washout between the studies. During the study, the subjects will
      consume their regular diet. Subjects will also be randomized to receive either amitriptyline
      25 mg po qhs as the active drug or desipramine 25 mg po qhs as the active drug. Side effects
      of the agents will be monitored during the study.

      Each subject will undergo a brief history and physical exam prior to entering the study. The
      subject will have height and weight measured. A questionnaire will be administered to the
      subject inquiring about gastrointestinal symptoms and medical history. This is to screen for
      a history of underlying pulmonary, cardiovascular, or gastrointestinal disease. Females will
      be studied only during the follicular phase (days 1-10) of the menstrual cycle, to minimize
      the effect of the menstrual cycle on motility (Wald, at al). In addition, females will be
      given pregnancy screening with a urine beta-human chorionic gonadotropin pregnancy test
      (Sure-Vue; Fisher Scientific, Inc) prior to the start of the study.

      For the simultaneous gastric volume/emptying tests, subjects will be studied in the fasting
      condition. The study subject history and physical examination form will be filled out which
      captures information on symptoms for the last week. An intravenous line will be started. The
      subject will take study medication with a small sip of water. After 10 minutes, 10 mCi 99mTc
      pertechnetate will be infused intravenously over 30 seconds. Imaging of the stomach will be
      performed with a gamma camera 20 minutes after injection with both anterior and posterior
      imaging followed by SPECT imaging using the General Electric Dual Head MAXXUS (General
      Electric Medical Systems) connected to a General Electric Starcam 4000i computer. A total of
      360o rotation around the subject will be obtained using a circular orbit (32 stops at 15 sec
      per stop) with the heads for the camera close to the subject. After this, the patient will
      ingest an egg sandwich labeled with 300 µCi 111Indium-oxine cooked into the eggs to label the
      solid material. The subject will consume 300 ml of unlabelled water. Imaging will then
      commence immediately after meal ingestion (time 0) for 111In counts to assess solid-phase
      gastric emptying using both anterior and posterior imaging. This will be followed immediately
      by imaging for the 99mTc counts to assess gastric volumes. Imaging for 99mTc will be
      performed with SPECT 3-D imaging. These will be repeated at 20, 40, 60, 80, 100, 120, 150,
      180, 210, and 240 minutes after the meal ingestion. Our prior studies show that 4 hour
      gastric emptying best characterizes gastric emptying. Peak gastric accommodation occurs at
      0-40 minutes. At the time of each imaging, symptoms will be monitored. Symptoms of abdominal
      fullness, nausea, abdominal discomfort, and bloating will be graded by the study subject from
      0 (none) to 5 (severe). In addition, an inquiry into possible side effects to TCAs (sedation,
      confusion, disturbed concentration, dry mouth, constipation, nausea, and urinary retention)
      will be made.

      On the next day, the subject will return in a fasting condition for the satiety test. The
      methods are similar to those of Tack et al and Chial et al. The subject will take their study
      medication. After 30 minutes, the subject will drink the nutrient drink Ensure at a rate of
      100 ml every 5 minutes until the subject feels completely full. After each 100 ml, symptoms
      will be monitored, scoring the symptoms of satiety (fullness), nausea, abdominal discomfort,
      and bloating on a scale of (0-5). The volume of Ensure consumed by the subject will be
      recorded.
    
  