
    
      INTRODUCTION

      Absolute Uterine Factor Infertility (AUI) is due to congenital or surgical absence of a
      uterus or presence of a nonfunctional uterus. Until 2014 the only option for women affected
      by Absolute Uterine Factor Infertility (AUI) was adoption or surrogate motherhood.

      Primary Objective

        -  Successful living or deceased donor uterine transplants resulting in live birth.

        -  Pregnancy rate via in vitro fertilization.

      BACKGROUND

      In 1991 the National Transplantation Pregnancy Registry (NTPR) was established to study the
      outcomes of female transplant recipients. In 2010 the NTPR had collected data on 2000
      pregnancy outcomes. The NTRP database includes data not just on the pregnancy but on
      follow-up of both parents and their offspring. The first reported case of pregnancy after
      transplant was reported in 1958.

      In 2011 25,787 solid organ transplant recipients (kidney, liver, pancreas, small bowel, heart
      & lung) of which:

        -  9662 were women

        -  3505 were of childbearing age

        -  765 were less than 17 years old and could potentially become pregnant later in life.

      One of the benefits of receiving a kidney, liver, pancreas, small bowel, heart or lung
      transplant is the underlying disease that caused the subject to have a transplant is gone,
      therefore fertility returns. Pregnancy after transplant is increasingly common. This has led
      to an accumulation of data and knowledge on how to best manage this subject population. These
      pregnancies are still considered high-risk. Successful pregnancy outcomes are a result of
      transplant and obstetrics teams working closely together.

      The American Society of Transplantation (AST) recommends for solid organs that pregnancy is
      allowable if there has been: no rejection within the past year, there is adequate and stable
      graft function, no acute infections that may impact fetal growth and well-being and
      maintenance immunosuppression is at stable dosing. Both the NTPR and AST advise waiting one
      year until after transplant before conceiving. This one year wait time is associated with
      better maternal and neonatal outcomes and fewer obstetric complications.Based on the long
      term data from the NPTR on transplant recipient's pregnancy outcomes and the relative safety
      of immunosuppressive medications a new area of transplant is being developed. Uterine
      transplant may provide an additional option for women with absolute uterine infertility
      (AUI).

      Pre-clinical research into uterine transplant has been going on for more than a decade. There
      have been several studies demonstrating the feasibility of Uterine Transplantation in
      animals, both primates and non-primates. In the last year human trials have started in
      Europe.

      RATIONALE

      In Great Britain an estimated 12000 women of childbearing age are affected by AUI. In the US
      the number of women affected by AUI may be in the millions considering that 9 million women
      of reproductive age have had a hysterectomy.

      Congenital absence of the Uterus has been reported in 1/5000 women and in 2005 over 12000
      women in reproductive age,15 years to 44 years have been diagnosed with congenital absence of
      the Uterus.

      In the US, 1000 hysterectomies are performed immediately post-partum for every 1 million
      births.

      It is estimated that 62 million women in the United States are in the reproductive age and
      about 15.4% may have absolute AUI, and about 7 million women may have lost their uterus to
      benign causes or obstetric complications. Although the statistics may offer different
      interpretation it seems evident that thousands of women in the United States may be
      interested in considering Uterine Transplantation as their best option to have children.

      Previous Subject Experience

      There were two reported attempts at uterine transplantation at other institutions, one of
      which was able to carry two pregnancies but not at term. However, the University of
      Gothenburg reported the first clinical trial of Uterine Transplantation as nouvelle treatment
      for AUI.

      In this report 9 living donors and 9 recipients underwent donor hysterectomies and recipient
      uterine transplantation. Seven out of the 9 had viable uteri at the time of the report with 1
      recipient losing the transplanted uterus to an infection and the other one to a vascular
      complication. One donor suffered a surgical grade IIIb complication, an ureterovaginal
      fistula, and was successfully treated.

      This early report was followed by a subsequent one where the 7 recipients showed regular
      menses and 5 out of the seven recipient suffered mild rejection episodes that were all
      successfully treated.

      The feasibility of Uterine Transplantation as a cure to AUI was finally demonstrated by the
      first live birth after uterus transplantation.

      The surgeries have been described by the Gothenburg University Group consist of a total
      abdominal hysterectomy and upper vaginectomy with preservation of the major feeding arteries
      and veins to the uterus of the donor and the implantation of the uterus in the pelvis of the
      recipient. Vascular anastomosis is achieved between the two major arteries and veins of the
      uterus, extending to the external iliac vessels of the recipient using transplant
      microvascular techniques. Finally the vaginal rim of the transplanted uterus is anastomosed
      to the recipient's vaginal vault.

      The procedure can be performed also with a uterus obtained from a deceased donor. The
      hysterectomy in the deceased donor will proceed as described above. The advantage will be
      obtaining the vascular pedicle attached to segments of the iliac artery and vein which will
      make the implantation in the recipient technically easier. The preservation solution will not
      change and the ischemia time will be kept under 6 hours.

      2. STUDY DESIGN This is a prospective study to treat absolute uterine infertility (AUI)
      through uterine transplantation resulting in live birth.

      There will be five distinct clinical stages in the study after inclusion/exclusion met
      criteria & subject consented: Pre-transplant/Screening, Transplant/Recovery, embryo
      transfer/Pregnancy, Delivery/Explant, Follow up.

      Number of Clinical Sites and Subjects This trial will be conducted at the Annette C. and
      Harold C. Simmons Transplant Institute, Baylor University Medical Center in Dallas, TX. A
      total of 10 female (biologically) subjects will receive a uterine transplant. Subjects can
      either receive a uterus from a living donor or a cadaveric donor. Living donors will be
      consented per the living donor research protocol. Uterus recovery from cadaveric donors will
      follow UNOS guidelines.

      SUBJECT PARTICIPATION and STUDY DURATION

      All subjects will be followed for a 5 year period post-transplant. Continued follow up
      depends upon the subject status:

        -  Subjects who received a uterine transplant resulting in live birth then and have the
           uterus removed will be followed for 12 months post explant.

        -  Subjects who received a uterine transplant resulting in live birth and desire another
           pregnancy will be followed through the second pregnancy resulting in live birth for 12
           months post explant.

        -  Subjects who have the uterus explanted due to infection, rejection or unable to maintain
           pregnancy will be followed for 12 months post explant.
    
  