
    
      Screening - The study will be advertised through various public media sources (social media,
      posted flyers, Purdue Today) and a verbal conversation. Participants responding to the
      advertisements will be scheduled for a screening visit. This meeting will begin with a full
      description of the study, and investigators will secure informed written consent.
      Participants will complete questionnaires eliciting demographic (age, biological sex, BMI,
      fat%), dietary (eating traits), and health (acute and chronic disease history) information.
      Height and weight will be measured. For those choosing to enroll, investigators will obtain
      baseline measurements to confirm eligibility. Individuals qualified and volunteering to
      participate in the trial will complete multiple questionnaires about eating habits ( Meal
      pattern questionnaire, Power of food scale, 0 Study Materials - Appetite Training
      Material.pdf 0 Study Materials - ASA24 instruction .pdf 0 Eating Trait questionnaires.pdf 0
      Study Materials - Appetite Lexicon Quiz.docx 0 Hourly Appetite and Thirst Ratings.pdf 0 Study
      Timeline.pdf Emotional eating scale, Eating inventory, Food craving inventory, Adult eating
      behavior scales, Self-regulation of eating behavior questionnaire, Barrot Impulsiveness
      scale). Participants will also learn how to record their energy intake through the ASA-24
      system. Then, participants will get training on the lexicon of appetite sensations with a
      video tutorial, followed by an online quiz to confirm their understanding of the concepts. At
      least 90% of correct responses are required to pass the appetite lexicon training. Failure to
      satisfactorily convey an understanding of the concepts will result in an offer to repeat the
      training two more times or be rejected from the study. Study Procedure - Enrolled
      participants will have a virtual meeting with a researcher (E. Cheon) once a week through
      Zoom to remind participants about the necessity and method for recording of appetite/thirst
      ratings, dietary recalls, and physical activity to be completed during three days (2
      non-consecutive weekdays and

      1 weekend day). Participants will be asked to report to the laboratory for instruction on
      recording appetitive sensations (hunger, fullness, thirst), food intake, physical activity at
      baseline (week1), week 9, and 17 on 3 days (2 non-consecutive weekdays and 1 weekend day).
      Ratings of hunger, fullness, and thirst will be recorded on their cell phones/computers via a
      web-based Qualtrics survey every waking hour for 3 days. All entries are time and date
      stamped to ensure the ratings are made at the intended times. Participants will be provided
      hourly alarms to ensure regular recording.

      Concurrently, participants will keep a diet record with an ASA-24 system and free-living
      energy expenditure will be measured using a physical activity tracking application on the
      same days of appetite ratings.
    
  