
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the efficacy of rituximab, carboplatin, cyclophosphamide, etoposide or
           etoposide phosphate and cytarabine administered in conjunction with osmotic blood-brain
           barrier disruption and high-dose sodium thiosulfate, in terms of complete response rate,
           in patients with refractory or recurrent primary CNS lymphoma.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the overall survival and 2-year progression-free survival of patients treated
           with this regimen.

        -  Determine the quality of life and cognitive function of patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the neurotoxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the percentage of patients with ototoxicity over time after treatment with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine the effect of delayed administration of sodium thiosulfate on granulocyte and
           erythrocyte counts in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive rituximab IV on day 1. On days 2 and 3, patients receive carboplatin
      intra-arterially over 10 minutes, cyclophosphamide IV over 10 minutes, and etoposide or
      etoposide phosphate IV over 10 minutes in conjunction with blood-brain barrier disruption.
      Patients also receive high-dose sodium thiosulfate IV over 15 minutes administered 4 and 8
      hours after carboplatin on days 2 and 3 and intraventricular or intrathecal cytarabine on day
      14. Beginning 48 hours after the last dose of chemotherapy, patients receive filgrastim
      (G-CSF)* subcutaneously (SC) daily for 7-10 days or until blood counts recover. Treatment
      repeats every 4 weeks for up to 12 courses.

      NOTE: * Alternatively, patients may receive a single dose of pegfilgrastim SC, administered
      48 hours after the completion of chemotherapy

      Patients with intraocular lymphoma also receive methotrexate intravitreally twice weekly
      until the vitreous is clear of cells by slit lamp exam; once weekly for 1 month; and then
      monthly for 1 year.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, every 3 months during treatment, within 30 days of
      final treatment, then every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually thereafter.

      Patients are followed monthly for 3 months, every 2 months for 8 months, every 3 months for 1
      year, and then every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 11-25 patients will be accrued for this study within 7-10
      years.
    
  