
    
      The hand can be used as a very useful instrument that can perform very complex manipulations
      that require force and precision. In addition, it is specialized for touch and feeling, and
      it has a great role in perceiving the environment. The most important part that adds
      functionality to the hand is the thumb. It contributes more than other fingers during thumb
      grip activities. However, due to many factors such as inflammatory and neurological causes,
      orthopedic problems such as tendon and ligament injuries, the thumb joints may be loaded
      above normal. Mechanical stresses over time cause thumb pain and functional disabilities in
      daily life activities. Symptoms, muscle strength, normal joint movements, and functional
      conditions of the patients are objectively evaluated in the clinic by various methods.
      Patient-based questionnaires, such as The Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH)
      and Michigan Hand Outcome Questionnaire, can evaluate the independence levels and
      performances of the patients in daily living activities. However, these questionnaires are
      used in all upper extremity pathologies, and there is no Turkish scale that evaluates only
      the function of the thumb, pain and patient satisfaction. During the clinical evaluations of
      patients with thumb complaints, a scale with a higher sensitivity than the DASH
      questionnaire, with a validity and reliability study that informs us of their performance and
      pain from the patients' perspective, is needed. Therefore The Thumb Disability Examination
      (TDX) was created by selecting the items that are suitable for the thumb from the DASH and
      Michigan Hand Outcome (MHQ) questionnaires. In this study, cultural adaptation of TDX to
      Turkish cultural will be done. In this process, the questionnaires will be translated from
      English to Turkish by two different people. A single Turkish translation will be created from
      these translations. This Turkish survey will be translated into English by two native
      speakers of English but who speak Turkish very well, and the English questionnaire will be
      compared with the original survey. In our study, the Turkish version and reliability
      (internal consistency, test and retest reliability) of the TDX will be evaluated. Voluntary
      patients who have been diagnosed in the study and applied to Hacettepe University, Faculty of
      Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation, Hand Surgery Rehabilitation Unit within the last 6 months
      will be included. Detailed information about the study to be carried out will be given to the
      patients face to face and if they accept, the informed consent form will be signed. DASH,
      SF-36, TDX, Beck Depression and Beck Anxiety, Michigan Hand Outcome Questionnaires, pain,
      normal joint motion, grip strength assessments will be done to patients twice, 3 days
      apart.The data obtained as a result of the study will help to identify the problems in
      patients with thumb pain and to show the effectiveness of the treatments from the patient's
      perspective. We considered that adding the Turkish adaptation of this questionnaire to the
      literature by making validity and reliability studies will contribute to clinical
      evaluations. The data obtained as a result of the study will help to identify the problems in
      patients with thumb complaints and to show the effectiveness of the treatments from the
      patient's perspective.
    
  