
    
      Study Aims

        1. The primary outcome of the study is to determine if positional therapy, using the LEFT
           device, is effective in improving nighttime GERD-related symptoms.

        2. The secondary outcome of the study is to determine if positional therapy improves
           quality of sleep and health-related quality of life.

      Methods:

      Study Design This is a prospective, pilot study, that will be conducted at the Esophageal and
      Swallowing Center outpatient clinic at MetroHealth Medical Center. A total of 15 patients
      will be assessed for eligibility for the study. GERD patients will be recruited from the
      Esophageal and Swallowing Center outpatient clinic. Subjects with nighttime, GERD-related
      symptoms, at least three times a week will be recruited into the study. Nighttime symptoms
      are defined in this study as symptoms that awaken patients from sleep during the night.
      Subjects that meet inclusion and exclusion criteria will complete baseline pre-treatment
      validated questionnaires including, the Demographics Questionnaire, SF-36, GERD symptoms
      checklist, Berlin Questionnaire, Epworth Sleepiness Scale and Sleep quality questionnaire.
      Subsequently, patients will be trained on how to use the LEFT device. Prior to initiation of
      the study, the patients will undergo baseline symptoms assessment using the 7-day symptom
      record diary. Thereafter, patients will undergo positional therapy using the LEFT device for
      a period of one month. During the last week of the month, patients will undergo again the
      7-day symptom record diary. On the last day of the month, patients will be asked to complete
      the following questionnaires, GERD symptoms checklist, Sleep quality questionnaire, and
      SF-36. The device well be returned together with the questionnaires by the patient.

      Study population The study population will include patients with nocturnal GERD symptoms as
      previously defined, from our Esophageal and Swallowing Center outpatient clinic of
      MetroHealth Medical Center, main campus. Patients with at least three days of nighttime
      symptoms will be included in the study. Patients will be identified by clinical staff
      including attending physicians, GI fellows and Internal Medicine residents.

      Patients seen in the Esophageal and Swallowing Center outpatient clinic will be identified if
      they appear to meet the study's inclusion and exclusion criteria. Patients will be contacted,
      followed, scheduled for appointments by the assigned research coordinator with input and
      advice as needed by the principal investigator.

      Inclusion Criteria

        1. Patients over the age of 18 who have proven GERD (with nighttime heartburn at least 3
           days a week).

        2. Agree to undergo sleep positioning therapy.

        3. Able to read, understand, and complete study questionnaires.

        4. Have mobile phones with an operating system (Android or iOS) that supports the LEFT
           device.

      Exclusion Criteria

        1. Patients who are under the age of 18.

        2. Patients working night shifts.

        3. Patients with significant comorbidity (cardiovascular, respiratory, renal, hematologic,
           endocrine, hepatic, gastrointestinal, neurological, or psychiatric).

        4. Patients with history of major upper gastrointestinal surgery, active ulcer disease,
           existing diagnosis of esophageal motility disorder, systemic sclerosis, concomitant
           opiate use or diabetes mellitus.

        5. Patients with obstructive sleep apnea

      Study flow 15 Patients who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be recruited into
      the study.

      First visit - patients will receive baseline questionnaires including, Demographics
      Questionnaire, GERD symptoms checklist, Berlin Questionnaire, Epworth Sleepiness Scale, Sleep
      quality questionnaire and short form 36 (SF-36). In addition, patients will undergo 7- Day
      Symptom Record Diary.

      Second visit - patients will be trained on how to use the LEFT device. Subsequently, patients
      will go through 10 days accommodation to the LEFT device. Thereafter, patients will use the
      LEFT device for one month. During the last week of the month, patients will undergo again the
      7-day symptom record diary.

      Third visit - On the last day of the month patients will fill again the GERD symptoms
      checklist, sleep quality questionnaire, SF-36, and return the LEFT device.

      Demographics Questionnaire All subjects will complete a demographic questionnaire that
      evaluates age, education, employment, and annual household income. Data regarding alcohol and
      tobacco consumption will also be collected. Body Mass Index (BMI) will be calculated using an
      individual's height and weight.

      GERD Symptoms checklist All subjects enrolled in the study will complete a validated GERD
      symptom questionnaire. This assesses the occurrence of heartburn, acid regurgitation, chest
      pain, trouble swallowing, and respiratory complaints. It will also assess esophageal
      abnormalities, surgical history, medication use and health-care utilization.

      Berlin Questionnaire Berlin Questionnaire is used to assess risk factors for sleep apnea
      including the presence and frequency of snoring, wake-time sleepiness or fatigue, and obesity
      or hypertension. The questionnaire is composed of 15 questions divided among 3 different
      domains. Determination of the risk for obstructive sleep apnea is based on the responses to 3
      different categories. In category 1, high risk is defined as persistent symptoms (more than 3
      to 4 times per week) in 2 or more questions about snoring. In category 2, high risk is
      defined as persistent (more than 3 to 4 times a week) wake time sleepiness, drowsy driving,
      or both. In category 3, high risk is defined as history of high blood pressure or a BMI more
      than 30 kg/m2. To be considered a high risk for sleep apnea, a patient has to quality for at
      least 2 symptoms categories.

      Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) This is used for measure patient's subjective measure of a
      patient's sleepiness. The test is a list of eight situations in which patients rate their
      tendency to become sleepy on a scale of 0, no chance of dozing, to 3, high chance of dozing.
      The total score is based on a scale of 0 to 24. The scale estimates whether patients are
      experiencing excessive sleepiness that possibly requires medical attention.

      Sleep Quality Questionnaire (Sleep heart health study morning survey) This is validated
      questionnaire that was developed to determine sleep quality. The questionnaire assesses the
      previous night sleep. The questionnaire determines sleep quality by using 9 questions to
      assess and individual's perception of sleep quality and behaviors as they are related to
      quality of sleep. The questionnaire includes items such as "how many times did you awaken
      during night?" and "was your sleep restless or restful?" (rated on Linkert scales from 1 =
      restless to 5 = restful).

      A subjective measure of overall sleep quality is calculated by using the responses from 5
      items that are measured on a 5-point Linkert scale, summing them, and obtaining the average.
      In the following analysis, overall sleep quality is investigated in relation to other
      variables, and each item is also included separately in the analysis. Other variables assess
      the number of hours spent in bed, the number of hours slept, the number of awakenings, and
      the number of minutes that it took to fall asleep.

      7- Day Symptom Record Diary

      Patients will keep a daily record of the frequency and severity of each symptom they
      experienced for seven days. Symptoms such as daytime heartburn, nighttime heartburn, and acid
      regurgitation will be evaluated. The following scale will be used to determine severity of
      each symptom:

        -  Mild: Symptom easily tolerated and did not last long.

        -  Moderate: Symptom caused some discomfort but did not interfere with usual activities.

        -  Severe: Symptom caused much discomfort and interfered with usual activities. Disabling:
           Symptom unbearable and interfered considerably with usual activities.

      SF-36 This is validated questionnaire that was developed to determine the overall health
      status. The SF-36 has eight scaled scores; the scores are weighted sums of the questions in
      each section. Scores range from 0 to 100. Lower score = more disability, higher scores = less
      disability.

      Sections include, Vitality, Physical functioning, Bodily pain, General health perceptions,
      Physical role functioning, Emotional role functioning, Social role functioning and Mental
      health.

      The LEFT device: LEFT is a novel reflux wearable device that is noninvasive and low-cost
      technology. The device was developed by Side Sleep Technologies B.V. Singel, Amesterdam, The
      Netherlands, as a sleep position therapy for patients who suffers from nighttime heartburn
      and other acid related symptoms. The technology is designed to train patients to sleep on
      their left side only during the night. The device tracks body position during sleep, then
      provides a gentle vibration signal once it detects that subjects are sleeping on their back
      or right side. This gentle vibration triggers the body to switch to the left side while
      asleep. During the adjustable period, the body may awaken from the gentle vibrations during
      the first 10 nights. While this may cause a minor sleep disruption as subjects adjust, it is
      important to continue to use the LEFT device in order to achieve the desired position
      effect.To ease the adjustment period, the LEFT device uses a specifically-designed pattern
      during the first 10 nights to progressively train the body to sleep on the left side.The
      device should be attached to the breastbone area by a disposable sticker that is replaced
      after each use. The LEFT device confirms its activation by vibrating 1 minute after being
      turned on and auto-start 20 minutes after being turned on, giving the patient time to fall
      asleep. The device also turns itself off automatically after 8 hours.

      Data Collection:

      Subjective symptom data will be collected from the questionnaires that patients will
      complete. The LEFT data will be downloaded from the device, collected and analyzed at
      MetroHealth Medical Center. Data will be stored in accordance with internal patient privacy
      rules as well as those of the IRB at our institution.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Unadjusted comparisons of continuous variables will be performed by appropriate parametric
      (t-test) and nonparametric (Mann-Whitney U test). Significant covariates such as age and
      gender will be adjusted for by employing multivariate regression models (SPSSv22). Data will
      be analyzed using prism and SPSS.
    
  