
    
      Grasping behaviors, which are essential for daily-life functions, are largely impaired in
      individuals with cervical spinal cord injury (SCI). Although rehabilitative interventions
      have shown success in improving the ability to grasp following injury their overall effects
      remain limited. The goals of this proposal are to examine the contribution of physiological
      pathways to the control of grasping behaviors after cervical SCI, and to maximize the
      recovery of grasping by using tailored non-invasive stimulation protocols with motor
      training. The investigators propose to study two basic grasping behaviors: a precision grip
      and a power grip. These behaviors are crucial because they provide the basis for a number
      human prehensile manipulations and are also necessary skills for eating, writing, dressing,
      and many other functions. Thus, the study results may have a direct impact on the quality of
      life for Veterans and their caregivers by enhancing their independence and level of care.

      In Aim 1, the investigators will investigate the contribution of corticospinal and brainstem
      pathways to the control of hand muscles involved in precision and power grip after cervical
      SCI. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) will be used to examine transmission in
      corticospinal and intracortical pathways targeting finger muscles and an acoustic startle
      stimulus with and without TMS will be used to examine the contribution from brainstem
      pathways.

      In Aim 2, the investigators propose to enhance the recovery of grasping by using novel
      tailored protocols of non-invasive repetitive TMS targeting late indirect (I) descending
      volleys (iTMS) and an acoustic startle stimuli. iTMS and startle will be used during
      precision and power grip movements in a task-dependent manner to induce cortical and
      subcortical plasticity and enhance voluntary output of hand muscles. Later, iTMS and startle
      will be applied in a task-dependent manner during a motor training task that involves
      precision and power grip. These unique approaches aim at promoting neuroplasticity during
      functionally relevant grasping movements has not been used before.
    
  