
    
      Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) affects 8-12 million Americans and its cardinal symptom is
      leg pain during exercise, termed "intermittent claudication". The diagnosis of PAD involves
      measuring the ankle-brachial index (ABI, i.e. the systolic pressure in the ankle divided by
      the systolic pressure in the arm); values below 0.9 are indicative of large vessel
      obstruction. Intermittent claudication is the most common symptom of this disease and it
      regularly occurs during exercise/physical activity but is relieved promptly by rest. Previous
      studies suggest that as the exercise pressor reflex is activated in patients with PAD, BP and
      heart rate (HR) are exaggerated. The BP rises during walking in the PAD patients were
      significantly greater than that seen in healthy control subjects. A recent human study from
      our group further indicates that an early BP response occurred during plantar flexion
      exercise before claudication was noted by the subjects, which may suggest that the
      accentuated BP response was due to an augmented muscle mechanoreflex in PAD. Moreover,
      another recent study from our group also showed that PAD patients have augmented renal
      vasoconstriction during plantar flexion exercise.

      It has been shown that exercise has benefits for patients with PAD. However, exercise becomes
      limited due to the pain and fatigue associated with the disease. Moreover, the augmented
      pressor response to exercise in PAD may increase the risk for the end organ damage (e.g.
      brain and/or heart). Thus, finding alternate/complimentary interventions that modulate the
      cardiovascular system and autonomic nervous system, and can be tolerated by the patients,
      would be beneficial.

      One possible intervention is heat exposure, since acute bouts of exercise and acute heat
      exposure have similar acute effects on both the autonomic and cardiovascular systems. For
      example, both exercise and heat exposure increase body temperature, increase HR, increase
      cardiac output (CO), increase left ventricular ejection fraction (EF), and enhance myocardial
      function. In the peripheral circulation, both exercise and heat exposure increase limb blood
      flow , muscle blood flow, and skin blood flow. Moreover, recent studies suggest that whole
      body exposure improves the endothelium function in PAD patients (e.g. activates endothelial
      progenitor cells CD34+).

      However, the effect of heat treatment on the ability of walking of PAD patients has not been
      examined. Moreover, it is unknown if heating can normalize/decrease the accentuated the
      pressor responses to exercise in PAD patients.
    
  