
    
      Purpose of the study:

      To date, no case control study evaluating insulin resistance (IR) in nonalcoholic fatty liver
      disease (NALFD) has been published. We hypothesize that IR is characteristic of NAFLD as
      compared to age, gender, non-diabetic BMI-matched control subjects, both healthy and those
      with non-cirrhotic, non-steatotic liver disease. The following aims test this central
      hypothesis:

      Specific Aim 1: Measure IR and insulin clearance using intravenous glucose tolerance testing
      and Bergman's Minimal Modeling in patients with NAFLD as compared to matched controls
      (healthy and those with non-steatotic hepatitis). This aim tests the postulate that IR is
      necessary for the development of hepatic steatosis as compared to healthy (non-steatotic
      livers). It will also test the postulate that IR is not present as a confounding factor
      (impaired hepatic clearance) in NAFLD as compared to those with non-steatotic forms of
      hepatitis.

      Specific Aim 2: Determine if IR is associated with altered parameters of lipid metabolism as
      compared to matched controls. This aim addresses whether IR (if present) is associated with
      abnormal lipid parameters in NAFLD or can be observed irrespective of the presence of hepatic
      steatosis.

      Specific Aim 3: Measure the differential effects of IR and lipid metabolism on peripheral
      mononuclear cell (PBMC) inflammatory response and the associated hepatocyte mitochondrial
      ultrastructure and measures of oxidative stress. Since increased oxidative stress and
      bioenergetic failure have been associated with hepatic steatosis, this aim will address
      whether IR and/or steatosis results in impaired inflammatory response and increased oxidative
      stress as compared to controls. Changes in innate immune response will be determined by
      measuring inflammatory indices thought to correlate with obesity, IR, and/or chronic
      hepatitis: 1) interleukins (IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-10, IL-12, IL-18) 2) C-reactive protein, 3)
      TNF-a and TGF-B 4) IFN-A & IFN-g, and 5) adiponectin. Changes in oxidative stress will be
      determined by measuring key indices of oxidative stress and damage. These include, a) reduced
      and oxidized glutathione (GSH and GSSG); oxidation/reduction status), b) malondialdehyde
      (MDA;lipid peroxidation), c) nitrotyrosine (NO damage), and d) 8OHdG and 8OHG (DNA damage).

      Background and significance:

      Obesity, diabetes, hypertriglyceridemia, hypertension, and coronary heart disease constitute
      a phenotype common to individuals with either the IR syndrome or NAFLD1-12. Furthermore, the
      hepatic steatosis, fibrosis, and cirrhosis characteristic of NAFLD are also frequent
      histologic findings in patients with IR 3-7. Together, these data beg the question whether
      NAFLD and IR are causally associated. Support for this notion derives from recent
      observations that IR may be a strong, independent predictor of NAFLD, even in the absence of
      glucose intolerance 13. Moreover, since NAFLD has been reported to occur in lean subjects
      (BMI greater than 25) with normoglycemia 14, 15, it is reasonable to postulate that NAFLD may
      be an early manifestation and a consequence of IR. Increased oxidative stress is an important
      pathogenic mechanism of obesity-associated metabolic syndrome 16. Fat accumulation correlated
      with systemic oxidative stress in humans and mice. However, increase oxidative stress as an
      instigator of the metabolic syndrome in patients with NAFLD as compared to controls has not
      yet been investigated. Furthermore, impaired cytokine medicated inflammatory response has
      been shown to correlate with body mass index across the broad range of obesity and may
      mediate hepatic steatosis and/or lead to mitochondrial dysfunction in hepatocytes 17, 18.
      Discerning whether NAFLD is attributable to increased oxidative stress and/or abnormalities
      in innate immune response would be imperative in identifying potentially useful therapeutic
      targets for obesity-associated liver disease.
    
  