
    
      The RCT has the following three arms: (1) Ecological Momentary Intervention (EMI); (2) EMI +
      Home Visiting (HV); (3) EMI + HV + Video feedback. Delivery of the intervention will last 6
      months for each family, with a 6-month post-intervention evaluation visit. All arms will
      receive EMI family meal tips via smartphones for 16 weeks. Arms 2 and 3 will also receive 16
      weeks of in-home training, with 8 weeks (every other week) in-home education visits with a
      CHW focused on family meal quality and quantity and a family meal preparation activity and 8
      weeks "Try it Yourself" activities that reinforce the messages and skills taught by a CHW.
      Additionally, Arm 3 will receive video feedback from family's video-recorded family meals by
      a CHW focusing on family behaviors related to family meal quality and quantity. (EMI, in-home
      training, and video-feedback will occur during the same 16-week period.) After families have
      completed 16 weeks of the intervention, a 8-week maintenance phase will ensue. Having a
      maintenance phase is an evidence-based intervention component and will provide incrementally
      less support to families to build self-efficacy and increase sustainability of new behaviors.
      Over time, participants will receive less study support to evaluate if participants have
      internalized healthful behaviors. During the maintenance phase EMI meal tips will be reduced
      to only the days in which parents report their highest stress levels for all arms. The study
      will last 12 months, with three assessment time points including, baseline, 6 months (i.e.,
      post-intervention) and 12 months.

      Children ages 5-8 and family members (i.e., parent/primary caregiver, siblings) from
      low-income and diverse households (i.e., African American, Hispanic, Native American, White)
      - who are at high risk for obesity - will be recruited for the study. Theory informs the
      intervention study design, research questions and related hypotheses, methods, measurement,
      and analysis. Family Systems Theory drives the decision to direct the intervention at the
      "family unit" to increase the likelihood of individual and family-level weight and
      weight-related behavior change and sustainability. Additionally, partnerships with existing
      community-based healthcare systems and CHWs will be utilized to reach participants in
      community settings where they have existing relationships and resources.

      This study utilizes innovative and research-informed intervention components (i.e., in-home
      visiting, EMI, video-feedback) to increase the likelihood of intervention effectiveness and
      sustainability. The "Family Matters" study will be carried out across two Phases, an R61
      Phase and an R33 Phase. Specific aims for each Phase are described below:

      Specific Aims for the R61 Phase:

        -  Aim 1: Organize and prepare the study team, project materials, study protocols, and
           procedures. Aim 1 success will be measured by meeting established R61 Planning Phase
           transition milestones.

        -  Aim 2: Test recruitment, data collection, intervention protocols, and retention in the
           first 42 participants (4 per study arm and about equal numbers byrace/ethnicity). Aim 2
           success will be measured by meeting transition milestones.

      Specific Aims for the R33 Phase:

      • Aim 1 (Primary Outcomes): Conduct a three-arm RCT comparing EMI, EMI+HV, and EMI+HV+Video
      Feedback in diverse children ages 5-8 and their families to test the hypotheses that:

      Hypothesis 1: BMI percentile will decrease and diet quality will increase in children in the
      EMI+HV+Video Feedback arm compared to children in the EMI or EMI+HV arms.

      • Aim 2 (Secondary Outcomes): Examine intervention effects on familial, parental, and sibling
      factors.

      Hypothesis 1: Family meal quality and quantity will increase in households with children in
      the EMI+HV+ Video Feedback arm compared to children in the EMI or EMI+HV arms.

      Hypothesis 2: Controlling feeding practices (e.g., restriction) will decrease and coping
      skills will increase in parents in the EMI+HV+Video Feedback arm compared to parents in the
      EMI or EMI+HV arms.

      Hypothesis 3: BMI percentile will decrease in siblings in the EMI+HV+Video Feedback arm
      compared to siblings in the EMI or EMI+HV arms.

      • Aim 3: Examine cost effectiveness and feasibility of intervention implementation in primary
      care.

      Hypothesis 1: The BMI z-score reduction resulting from the intervention will be
      cost-effective.
    
  