
    
      Linear growth and final height are reported as rather normal in patients with CH diagnosed
      through the screening and the target height is the most important factor determining linear
      growth. Data on final height in patients with CH suggest that adult height is significantly
      correlated with parental height and the mean L-Thyroxine daily dose administered over the
      first 6 months of treatment. The lowest recommended dose during this period is 8.5μg/kg/day.
      Periodical adjustments of L-Thyroxine daily dose should be guided by clinical observation and
      serum free T4 levels.

      To our knowledge this is the first study from our center to assess final height in patients
      with congenital hypothyroidism diagnosed through the Egyptian neonatal screening program.

      A complex network of endocrine signals stimulates the process of longitudinal growth
      including growth hormone, insulin-like growth factor-1, glucocorticoids, thyroid hormone,
      estrogen, androgens, vitamin D and leptin.

      Thyroid hormones are essential for development and normal bone growth. Biochemical studies
      have shown that thyroid hormones can affect the expression of various bone markers in the
      serum, reflecting changes in bone remodeling which involves both osteoblastic and
      osteoclastic activities.

      Thyroid hormones act through chondrocytes bearing thyroid hormone receptors (TRs) to modulate
      growth plate proliferation, differentiation and vascular invasion. Several mechanisms mediate
      these functions including direct action on the chondrocytes, osteoblasts and mast cells. It
      also works through interaction with other hormones and growth factors acting in endocrine,
      paracrine and autocrine fashions.

      Overall, T3 acts via TRα in chondrocytes and osteoblasts to regulate intramembranous and
      endochondral ossification and control the rate of linear growth, bone maturation and
      mineralization,T4 induces the expression of both type II and X collagen and chondrocyte
      hypertrophy.

      Hypothyroidism in children causes growth arrest, delayed bone maturation, and epiphyseal
      dysgenesis that can result in short stature and delayed closure of the epiphyses.

      In severe undiagnosed cases, complete post-natal growth arrest and skeletal dysplasia occurs
      with characteristic X-ray features including stippled epiphyses reflecting epiphyseal
      dysgenesis, congenital hip dislocation, vertebral immaturity, scoliosis, patent fontanelles
      and sutures and delayed eruption of teeth.

      Prompt treatment of patients suffering from CH with thyroid hormone replacement induces a
      period of rapid catch-up growth in which skeletal maturation and bone age are also
      accelerated. Ultimately, normal adult height can be expected.

      It is controversial whether factors as the degree of hypothyroidism at diagnosis, the timing
      of the onset of treatment and the doses of replacement L-thyroxine (L-T4) affect linear
      growth in children with congenital hypothyroidism, detected by screening and treated from
      early infancy
    
  