
    
      Study Design:

      This study is being conducted at 4 clinical sites and consists of up to two study visits. All
      study participants will complete at least one study visit. A smaller cohort of participants
      will complete a second visit for the purpose of assessing test retest reliability across the
      study sample. Subjects will be recruited using the clinic's relevant patient population and
      IRB approved recruitment material. Interested volunteers will participate in an initial
      screening, which may be done by telephone or in person that will be conducted by the clinic's
      research staff. Upon preliminary confirmation that the subject meets all inclusion criteria
      and does not meet any exclusion criteria, an appointment will be scheduled for the first
      study visit.

      At the first visit, the study will be explained in detail. Adults will be asked to provide
      written informed consent. Parents or guardians of individuals under the age of 18 years old
      will provide written informed consent on behalf of the minor. Individuals between the age of
      7 and 18 years of age will also provide their written assent. All consents and assents will
      be obtained prior to any study procedure being performed. Following consent, a brief medical
      history, including current medications the subject is taking, will be obtained. Subjects will
      complete a standard self-assessment questionnaire, appropriate for age, to screen for
      presence of ADHD. Subjects will not be excluded from the study based on responses to the
      questionnaire but their results will be considered in the analysis of study data. All
      subjects will take the appropriate version; Child (ages 6 -12.11), Adolescent (ages 13 -
      19.11), or Adult (ages 20 - 79.11) of the 15-minute Quotient® System iPad Test.

      At this visit, a cohort of participants across 7 age groups will be asked to return the
      clinic for a second study visit. These participants will be asked, in consecutive order of
      enrollment, to return to the clinic for a second study visit. Study participants who complete
      visit one are not required to participate in the retest cohort group and may opt out of
      returning to the clinic for visit two. Once the required number of participants (350 - 400)
      have completed the second study visit, that portion of the study will be closed to further
      enrollment and no further subjects will be given the option to return for the retest visit
      (visit 2).

      Retest Visit 2 will occur 7 - 14 days following study visit 1. Subjects will be assessed for
      changes in health status and current medications since the time of visit 1. Subjects will
      repeat the appropriate version (Child, Adolescent or Adult) of the 15-minute Quotient® System
      iPad Test.

      ● Study Enrollment: A minimum of 1440 subjects with oversampling of 11%. Total enrollment is
      expected to be approximately 1600.

      ● Study Population:

      Visit 1:

      Male and female subjects from the age of 6 years until the age of 80 years. There will be a
      total of 16 age bands with approximately 90 subjects enrolled in each age band. Optimally,
      there will be a 50-50-male/female-gender stratification per each age category.

      Visit 2:

      A cohort of at least 350 subjects who have completed study Visit 1 will be asked to return
      for Visit 2. An oversampling of 11% is anticipated bringing the total number of subjects
      asked to return for Visit 2 to approximately 400. Visit 2 will include both male and female
      participants from 7 age bands.

        -  Study Procedures:

             1. Review Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria

             2. Obtain Written Adult Informed Consent

             3. Obtain Written Minor Informed Assent

             4. Verbal Report of Medical History

             5. Concomitant Medications

             6. Self-assessment Questionnaire:

                  1. ADHD Self Rating Scale (ADHDRS-IV) for subjects ages 6 - 19.11

                  2. ADHD Symptom Rating Scale (ASRS-V1.1) for subjects ages 20 - 79.11

             7. Quotient® System iPad Test - Child, Adolescent or Adult test as appropriate for age

        -  Study Duration:

      Dependent on accrual but estimated to be six (6) months to nine (9) months.

      ● Statistical Analysis Plan: The data of the study will be used to identify normative ranges
      and percentiles by age and gender. Each age range group of 90 will be compared for group
      differences between genders, and evaluated for the effects of age on performance. The SPSS
      software (SPSS Inc., Chicago, Illinois) will be used for statistic procedures in this study.
    
  