
    
      The research study will be conducted over a 12-week period. Overall, each participant will
      meet with the researcher three times. During the first visit, after the participant has
      signed the consent form, their blood pressure will be taken with a digital blood pressure
      monitor. If her systolic blood pressure is greater than 140 mmHg or her diastolic blood
      pressure is greater than 90 mmHg, she will not be eligible to take part in this study. If the
      participant is able to take part in this study, she will be given a code number to protect
      confidentiality and randomly assigned to one of two groups, Group I or Group II. The
      participant will then be asked to state their age, ethnicity, menopausal status, and whether
      or not they are taking oral contraceptives. Next, height and weight will be taken with an
      instrument called a Health-O-Meter. Body mass index (BMI) and percent body fat will be
      calculated using an instrument called a Body Composition Analyzer. After all measurements are
      taken, participants will be given instructions on how to keep a 3-day diet and supplement
      diary. A booklet will be provided to help them record their diet for two nonconsecutive week
      days and one weekend day. The 3-day diet and supplement diary is to be completed during the
      week between the first and second session with the researcher. During this session the
      participant will be asked to complete a food frequency questionnaire to help the researcher
      asses the phytoestrogen content of her diet. At the end of the first session, the researcher
      will schedule a second session with the participant.

      The second session will take place one week after the first session. During the second
      session, measurements taken will be height, weight, BMI, percent body fat, and blood
      pressure. Participants will be asked to return the 3-day diet and supplement diary to the
      researcher. The researcher will review the diary and ask questions to clarify foods recorded.
      The participant will then be asked to complete a physical activity questionnaire. Next,
      supplements will be distributed. The participants will not have knowledge of which group they
      are assigned to. Group I will receive 168 capsules, each capsule containing 1 gram of wheat
      germ oil, in two pill bottles. One bottle will contain 100 capsules; the second bottle will
      contain 68 capsules. Group II will receive 168 capsules, each capsule containing 1 gram of
      pumpkin seed oil, in two pill bottles. One bottle will contain 100 capsules; the second
      bottle will contain 68 capsules. Participants will be instructed to take 2 capsules per day,
      every day for 12 weeks. Two capsules per day are equal to approximately a ½ teaspoon or 18
      kilocalories. It does not matter if they choose to take each capsule at the same time or at
      different times during the day. To help remind participants to take their supplements each
      day, they will receive a 7 day pill organizer and a daily check list. At this session,
      participants will receive a second 3-day diet and supplement diary that is to be completed
      one week before the final session. At the end of the second session, the researcher will
      schedule the final session with the participant.

      The third and final session will take place 12 weeks after the initial session. Measurements
      taken during the final session will be height, weight, BMI, percent body fat, and blood
      pressure. The participant will be asked to complete a food frequency questionnaire identical
      the questionnaire filled out during the first session with the researcher. Participant will
      be asked to return their 3-day diet and supplement diary, daily check list, pill organizer, 2
      pill bottles, and any unused supplements. After completion of the study the participant will
      receive a $20 Target gift card at this session.

      A potential risk of this study includes loss of confidentiality. Confidentiality will be
      maintained by the use of code numbers rather than names on data containing documents. Digital
      data analyses will be done using only code numbers and not identifiable data. Data recorded
      on paper containing identifiable and non-identifiable participant information (consent forms,
      data collection forms, 3-day diet and supplement diaries, physical activity questionnaires,
      food frequency questionnaires, and participant daily checklists) will be kept in a locked
      cabinet in Room 10132B in the Texas Woman's University, Houston Office of Research.

      Another potential risk of this study may be that the participant's normal schedule is
      disrupted by coming to the Texas Woman's University, Houston campus. To minimize this risk,
      sessions will be scheduled with the researcher in advance Monday through Friday, from 8 a.m.
      to 5 p.m. to accommodate the participant's schedule.
    
  