
    
      Background: Hypertension is a common cardiovascular disease worldwide, contributing 4.5% of
      the global disease burden and 12.8% premature deaths annually. Despite recent advances in
      drug therapy, majority of diagnosed hypertensive patients are poorly controlled. Reasons for
      inadequate control of hypertension are heterogeneous including low adherence to
      antihypertensive medications and lifestyle changes, low compliance with scheduled follow-up
      visits and suboptimal pharmacotherapy. This study evaluated adherence to pharmacotherapy and
      non-pharmacological measures among ambulatory hypertensive patients, reasons for treatment
      non-adherence were evaluated, while perception and beliefs about hypertension and its
      management were also explored, with pharmacist-led patient-specific adherence education
      provided as appropriate to resolve the knowledge gap(s). Association between treatment
      adherence and blood pressure outcome at contact and the subsequent 2-months clinic
      appointment were investigated.

      Method: This study involved a cross-sectional questionnaire-guided interview and
      retrospective review of medical records of 605-patients from two hospitals. Nine-item
      modified adherence predictor scale was used to assess medication adherence. Overall adherence
      score to lifestyle modifications was obtained from the total scores from 4-domains of
      non-pharmacological measures including cigarette smoking and alcohol cessation,
      salt-restriction and exercise. Patient-specific adherence education was provided at contact
      to resolve the knowledge gap(s). Clinical-parameters especially the blood pressure values
      were retrieved at contact and subsequent 2-months appointment. Data were summarised using
      frequency, percentage, 50th percentile and mean ± standard deviation. Chi-square test was
      used to evaluate association between socio-demographic variables and adherence to
      antihypertensive medication and lifestyle recommendations. Student's t-test was used to
      investigate relationship between treatment adherence and blood pressure outcome at p < 0.05
      considered significant.
    
  