
    
      SMILE is an international, open label, randomized, controlled study of 18 months duration
      designed to assess whether cigarette smokers switching to combustion free-nicotine delivery
      systems (C-F NDS) will undergo measurable improvements in oral health parameters and teeth
      appearance as a consequence of avoiding exposure to cigarette smoke. Five countries have so
      far agreed to participate: Italy, Moldova, Poland, UK and Indonesia. An amendment will be
      submitted to the REC once the final two countries are signed up.

      A volunteer population of never-smokers and regular smokers of conventional cigarettes with a
      clinical absence of signs of periodontitis will be recruited. Regular cigarette smokers will
      be randomized 1:4 ratio either continuing to smoke commercially manufactured conventional
      cigarettes (Study Arm A) or switching to C-F NDS (Study Arm B). Never Smokers will be
      assigned to Arm C.The intended minimum number of participants in each arm by the end of the
      study is 84.

      Before randomization, all smokers will be reminded of the risks associated with smoking and
      will be offered a free smoking cessation program according to standard local guidelines and
      depending on the local availability of antismoking services. Those who decline the invitation
      will be eligible for recruitment into the study.

      Smokers are free to voluntarily quit smoking/C-F NDS and/or withdraw from the study at any
      time.

      Duration:

      All participants will attend a total of seven clinics visits: Day -28 to Day -1 - Screening;
      Day 0 - Enrollment and Randomization (Visit 0); Day 14 (+/-3 days) - Baseline Visit (Visit
      1); Day 90 (+/-5 days) - Visit 2; Day 180 (+/-7 days) - Visit 3; Day 360 (+/-10 days) - Visit
      4; Day 540 (+/-10 days) - Visit 5.

      Each participant will undergo screening within 28 days prior to Visit 0. Eligible
      participants will be enrolled and randomized on Visit 0. Baseline assessments will be
      performed at Visit 1, 14 days after Visit 0. The overall duration of study participation for
      each participant will be a maximum of 568 +/- 10 days.

      The randomization sequence will be computer generated, with an allocation ratio of 1:4 (Study
      Arm A : Study Arm B; Smokers : N-C NDS users) to compensate for an estimated 25% success rate
      (combined smoking abstinence rate + >90% smoking reduction rate) in the long term. The
      randomization scheme will be provided to clinical sites via a web-based application set up by
      the CRO. The staff randomizing the participant will access the web-based application when the
      participant is with them, entering their participant identification number, date of birth and
      initials into the program. The allocation will be immediately provided by the
      program/software.

      Product use Regular smokers will continue to smoke their usual brand of conventional
      cigarette until Baseline on Visit 1. After Visit 1, participants on both Arms A and B will be
      asked to use only their assigned products ad libitum for the whole duration of the study.

      Participants in Arm A will continue smoking their own conventional cigarette brand, as usual.

      Participants in Arm B will have the option to try and choose among a selection of either
      three e-liquids or three tobacco sticks (depending on the C-F NDS they have chosen). They
      will also be trained and instructed on how to correctly use their chosen C-F NDS.
      Participants wishing to use a heated tobacco device (HTD) will receive the number of tobacco
      sticks per day corresponding to the number of cigarettes smoked per day at baseline.
      Participants wishing to use a vaping product will receive one vaping kit and supply of
      e-liquids of their choice enough to provide consumption in between supply visits (see Table
      2); on average they will receive 4 x 10 ml refill containers per week. Free products will be
      supplied at each subsequent visit throughout the whole duration of the study.

      Participants in Arm C will continue to not smoking or use any form of tobacco or
      nicotine-containing products.

      A prospective monitoring of cigarette consumption, C-F NDS use, and oral hygiene routine will
      be carried out throughout the study with the tracker APP. Moreover, participants in Arm B
      will be asked to return all empty, part-used, and unused consumables (tobacco sticks,
      e-cigarette cartridges, e-liquid refill bottles) at each study visit.

      Justification for Study Design

      Participants in this study will be a minimum of 18 years of age. This is based on:

        -  The legal age to obtain tobacco products is 18 years

        -  The presence of at least 10 natural anterior permanent teeth in total (cuspid to cuspid,
           lower and upper jaw).

      To investigate the effects of abstaining from smoking by switching in smokers with clinical
      absence of periodontitis, a population of both smokers who are intending to make the switch
      to N-C NDS and never-smokers will be recruited. By the end of the study, it is estimated that
      a high proportion (approx. 75%) of patients randomized in the Arm B of the study will not be
      able to achieve success (defined as either complete smoking abstinence or as at least 90%
      smoking reduction). To account for this, the C-F NDS population will be over sampled and a
      1:4 randomization ratio scheme (i.e. for every patient randomized in the continue-to-smoke
      population, four will be randomized in the C-F NDS population) will be adopted.

      It will not be possible to blind participants to the intervention they will be receiving. It
      will not be possible to blind trial staff when providing the interventions and collecting
      data. However, data analyses will be conducted blind to Study Arms allocation. All other
      trial staff who have access to outcome data will remain blinded until prespecified data
      analyses will be completed.
    
  