
    
      Background: Difference in autonomic nervous system (ANS) processes across cultural and ethnic
      groups was suggested and autonomic regulation differentiation may occur even at an early age.
      However, the role of ethnicity and environment on regulation of response towards sensory
      stimulation in children is not well understood yet. This research aims to compare the
      autonomic activity at resting condition and toward a block of auditory stimulation between
      typically developing children from different countries and living environments and examine
      the role of environments and ethnicity on autonomic regulation.

      Methods: Four groups of typically-developing participants will be recruited in this study: 1)
      Chinese children living in Hong Kong (n=32); Filipino children living in Hong Kong (32);
      Filipino children living in urban-Philippines (n=32); Filipino children living in
      urban-Philippines (n=32). Participants will be males (nm=16) and females (nf=16), ages 7-12
      years old, and without known history of developmental disabilities, medical history of
      cardiac or pulmonary problem, medical history of diabetes, or having any sensory deficits.
      Recruited participants will watch a silent movie, and listen to a block of sound stimulus
      presentations. Autonomic activity (heart rate variability and electrodermal activity) will be
      measured and recorded using Polar H2 heart rate monitor and eSense GSR. Recordings will be
      screened for ectopic beats of HRV or bursts of EDA. The HRV and EDA signals will be processed
      by using aHRV and Ledalab software, respectively, and according to the standards of editing
      and analysing HRV and EDA artefacts. Autonomic activity (LF, HF and EDA) at experimental
      condition groups (HK group and PH-U group; Fil-HK group and PH-U group; PH-U group vs. PH-R
      group) will be tested with repeated measures of MANOVA. All significant levels will be set at
      a critical α=> .05.

      Discussion: This study will increase the understanding on the role of culture and environment
      in the regulation of behaviour in auditory processing. The findings of this research may
      further shed light on the evaluation and treatment planning for children across and within
      cultures.
    
  