
    
      Objectives

      Primary Objective:

      To determine the 18-month progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with previously
      untreated mantle cell lymphoma who are treated with aggressive chemo-immunotherapy and
      autologous stem cell transplant followed by randomization to either maintenance or
      consolidation bortezomib therapy

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To determine the toxicity profiles of maintenance and consolidation bortezomib by
           evaluating the number of patients able to complete all maintenance or consolidation
           therapy

        -  To determine the complete response rate to intensive chemo-immunotherapy plus
           maintenance or consolidation bortezomib

        -  To determine time to progression and overall survival using these two treatment regimens

      Correlative/Other Pre-Specified Objectives:

        -  To determine the importance of p53 mutation or deletion on patient outcome with respect
           to CR rate, PFS, and OS

        -  To determine the importance of Ki67, cyclin D1, phosphohistone 3, p27, p21, p16, and
           PARP p85 expression in pre-treatment tumor biopsies with respect to CR rate, PFS, and OS

        -  To determine the relationship between proliferation signature and clinical outcome using
           quantitative real-time RT-PCR

        -  To evaluate the importance of quantitative cyclin D1 expression and expression of cyclin
           D1 isoforms in predicting clinical outcome using quantitative real-time RT-PCR

        -  To evaluate the prognostic significance of microRNAs in mantle cell lymphoma using
           microRNA arras

        -  To explore the correlation of selected microRNA polymorphisms with gene target
           expression with clinical outcomes such as response, PFS, and OS

        -  To determine changes in gene expression profile from diagnosis to relapse samples to
           identify genes differentially silenced or over-expressed with disease recurrence

        -  To determine the importance of early PCR negativity (following Treatment 2) using
           bcl-1/IgH junction and/or IgH chain gene rearrangement with respect to maintained PFS
           and the success of maintenance or consolidation therapy to converting patients to PCR
           negative status

      OUTLINE OF INTERVENTIONS:

      CHEMOIMMUNOTHERAPY: Patients receive chemoimmunotherapy comprising rituximab* intravenously
      (IV) over 4-6 hours on day 1, methotrexate (MTX) IV over 4 hours on day 2, cyclophosphamide
      IV over 2 hours, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV, and vincristine sulfate IV on day 3, and
      prednisone orally (PO) on days 3-7. Beginning 24 hours after completion of MTX, patients
      receive leucovorin calcium IV every 6 hours until blood levels of MTX are in a safe range.
      Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) once daily (QD) beginning on day
      3 and continuing until blood counts recover. Beginning no sooner than day 22, but no later
      that day 29 of the first course, patients receive a second course of chemoimmunotherapy as
      above. Patients with > 15% persistent bone marrow involvement may receive a third course of
      chemoimmunotherapy. Patients are restaged and those with progressive disease are removed from
      therapy.

      NOTE: *During the first course of chemoimmunotherapy, patients receive rituximab only if the
      number of circulating mantle cells is =< 10,000/mm^3, otherwise, rituximab is omitted during
      the first course of chemoimmunotherapy.

      HIGH-DOSE CONSOLIDATION CHEMOIMMUNOTHERAPY AND PERIPHERAL BLOOD STEM CELL (PBSC) COLLECTION:
      Approximately 4 weeks after completion of chemoimmunotherapy, patients receive high-dose
      consolidation chemoimmunotherapy comprising cytarabine IV over 2 hours and etoposide
      phosphate IV continuously on days 1-4, and rituximab IV over 4-6 hours on days 5 and 12 OR 6
      and 13. Beginning on day 14 and continuing until completion of PBSC collection, patients
      receive G-CSF SC QD. Once blood counts recover, patients undergo 1-3 leukapheresis procedures
      for collection of PBSCs on days 22-25.

      HIGH-DOSE CHEMOTHERAPY AND AUTOLOGOUS PBSC TRANSPLANTATION (PBSCT): Beginning 4-6 weeks after
      completion of leukapheresis, patients receive carmustine IV over 2 hours on day -6, etoposide
      phosphate IV over 4 hours on day -4, and cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on day -2. Patients
      undergo autologous PBSCT on day 0. Patients also receive G-CSF SC QD beginning on day 4 and
      continuing until blood counts recover.

      POST-TRANSPLANTATION IMMUNOTHERAPY: Approximately 5 weeks after autologous PBSCT, patients
      receive rituximab IV over 4-6 hours once weekly for 2 weeks. Approximately 4 weeks after
      completion of post-transplantation immunotherapy, patients proceed to maintenance therapy or
      consolidation therapy with bortezomib as described in the Arms section.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 2 months for 2 years, every
      6 months for 3 years, and then annually for 5 years.
    
  