
    
      This randomized strategy trial addressed therapeutic questions for women from regions where
      antepartum HAART for PMTCT (for all CD4+ cell counts) and postpartum formula feeding is
      standard of care, and who also had both a pre-HAART CD4+ cell count >400 cells/mm^3 and a
      screening (on-HAART) CD4+ cell count > 400 cells/mm^3. For these women, the objectives
      related to the relative efficacy and safety of continuing HAART (when it is no longer used
      for PMTCT) versus discontinuing HAART.

      Potential participants were identified/recruited and consented during pregnancy or after
      delivery or other pregnancy outcome. Study-specific screening was initiated in the third
      trimester or after pregnancy outcome. Women who were screened for the study were counseled to
      continue their HAART until they were randomized.

      Randomization would occur within 0-42 days after pregnancy outcome. Women who did not carry
      their pregnancy to the third trimester but otherwise meet study eligibility criteria could be
      enrolled.

      Participants were randomized to one of the two study arms:

      Arm A: Continuation of HAART Arm B: Discontinuation of HAART and resume HAART when
      protocol-specified criteria were met

      Participants were to be followed until 84 weeks after the last participant was randomized.

      Key evaluations were conducted at Screening, Entry, post entry visits were scheduled to take
      place 4 weeks after entry, 12 weeks after entry, and every 12 weeks thereafter. Key
      evaluations included physical examinations, clinical assessments, and blood collection.

      On 7 July 2015, the study sites received formal communications regarding the results of the
      Strategic Timing of Antiretroviral Treatment (START) study and associated changes were
      implemented to the 1077HS study in response to these results. All sites were instructed that
      all women in the 1077HS study were to be informed of the START study results and that
      antiretroviral therapy (ART) was recommended for all women based on the START study results.
    
  