
    
      Eligible participants had previously received a bone scan using the radiolabel 99mTc-methyl
      diphosphonate (t99-MDP) as part of their regular medical care.

      18F-NaF and 18F-FDG are radioactive substances (radiolabels) that are absorbed by cancerous
      cells and allow for the cancer to be found using diagnostic procedures such as positron
      emission tomography (PET)/ whole body magnetic resonance imaging (WBMRI). PET/WBMRI is a
      combination procedure that combines the detailed PET images of areas inside the body from PET
      with the WBMRI scans, and may help find and diagnose skeletal metastases in patients with
      breast or prostate cancer. It is not yet known whether 18F-NaF/18F-FDG PET/WBMRI is better
      than standard imaging methods in detecting skeletal metastases.

      Eligible participants diagnosed with breast/prostate cancers and who have had 99mTc MDP bone
      scanning as part of their routine care are recruited and enrolled. Participants then receive
      an 18F-NaF/18F-FDG positron emission tomography (PET)/ WBMRI combination scan.

      The PET/MRI scans will be interpreted by 2 American Board Nuclear Medicine (ABNM)-certified
      physicians and 2 American Board of Radiology (ABR)-certified radiologists, all with
      significant clinical experience, who are blinded to the subjects' medical history and the
      results of other imaging modalities.

      The scans will be analyzed and compared against each other, with a consensus read will be
      obtained for each scan. Characterization of lesions as true-positive, true-negative,
      false-positive or false-negative will be done through a combination of clinical follow-up,
      imaging follow-up and/or histopathology findings. An overall diagnosis based on each scan
      will be determined on a 5-point scale (1=benign, 2=likely benign, 3=uncertain, 4=likely
      malignant, 5=malignant) to conduct a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis.

      If the diagnosis is positive for metastases on any of the scans, the investigator will
      identify the number of lesions and locations of positivity, and record this information.

      Clinical is obtained at about 12 months after the initial scans.
    
  