
    
      Since the participation of an athlete with a disability in the Olympic Games in 1904, a long
      road has been traveled until the Paralympic sport was understood as a standard of high
      performance, in which Brazil stands out when occupying the eighth place in the overall
      ranking of medals in the Rio 2016 Games, as well as consecutive leader in the Pan American
      Games (2007, 2011, 2015 and 2019). The approach of the Tokyo 2020 Paralympics brings an
      opportunity for reflection on how the academic universe follows the evolution of this sports
      segment and whether it is possible to carry out an intervention that will contribute to
      improving and maintaining the performance of these athletes.

      Mindfulness means being aware and describes a natural human capacity that can be trained. The
      option of the Paralympic Boccia Brazilian Team for a research on mindfulness is because of
      the identification of previous researches that indicate that the presence of mindfulness
      traits in athletes can be improved with mindfulness training. Specifically, the Paralympic
      Boccia is a sport that is on the rise for new resources that can collaborate with its
      performance in a national and international context.

      Considering that sports performance is composed of several pillars, such as physical,
      technical, tactical and psychological, there is an opportunity to investigate the following
      findings of mindfulness-based interventions in a complex population:

      Mindfulness practice consistently and significantly improves levels of mindfulness across
      various sports disciplines.

      Physiological and psychological performance improved significantly until the practice of
      mindfulness.

      Based on the available evidence, the practice of mindfulness can be considered as a
      supplementary training approach to improve performance in precision sports disciplines.

      Thus, the objective of this study is to evaluate the effects of a mindfulness-based
      intervention (MBI) on Paralympic Boccia athletes, in particular, the impact on sports
      performance and quality of life from the change in attentional level. It is an exploratory
      study (pilot) to verify if the intervention will be well accepted by the participants
      (feasibility) and if it will be effective to reproduce the expected effects (preliminary
      effectiveness) composed of a longitudinal intervention that uses as a baseline measure a
      Mindfulness Training of 2 cycles (each cycle is formed by 4 days of intervention); two
      follow-up measures (1 and 6 months after the 2nd cycle); and a final measurement (12 months
      after the start of the study).

      The research will have as a convenience sample 11 Athletes from the Paralympic Boccia
      Brazilian Team, which will be compared with itself in the data analysis. This study includes
      the category called "Other participants" formed by staff, freshmen, technicians and other
      professionals who are present during the interventions. In this way, the participants
      totalize 25 people: there are eleven athletes categorized as "Athletes" and 14 professionals
      in the "Other Participants" category. The measure instruments used in the Athletes category
      will be the same in the Other participants category, with the exception of Performance
      Evaluation applied only to Athletes.

      The methodological procedures of the present work were prepared within the fundamental
      ethical and scientific procedures, as provided for in Resolution No. 466 of December 12, 2012
      of the National Health Council of Ministry of Health, being approved by the Research Ethics
      Committee (CEP), by protocol 19577519.2.0000.5505.

      The intervention will take place at the Brazilian Paralympic Training Center - CTPB, in the
      City of São Paulo, SP, where an certified instructor with extensive experience in leading
      groups by Centro Mente Aberta - UNIFESP will conduct the MBI and recommend to athletes to
      incorporate formal and informal care practices into their daily lives.

      It is expected to show a positive impact on the athletes' quality of life (primary outcome).
      As secondary outcomes, it is expected to show the evolution of sports performance in relation
      to the accuracy of the pitch and the speed of the ball, in addition to improving the
      attention focus and perceived stress, which affect the tactics and performance of the game.
      The potential benefits of this research also have a social component, by expanding the
      understanding of human nature through sport, and also a functional component, by impacting
      the performance of these high-performance athletes. In this sense, it produces practical
      scientific knowledge that can pave the way for the subsequent realization of a large-scale
      trial that will benefit the greatest number of people.

      The investigation is limited by the lack of additional comparison groups and the small sample
      size to detect effects. However, this is justified by being Paralympic medalists who have a
      series of unique characteristics, according to the functional classification that includes
      people with severe or severe motor disabilities, caused basically by cerebral palsy, cervical
      spinal cord injuries and muscular dystrophies.

      The relevance of this research is in its pioneering spirit and originality when evaluating
      the first intervention based on mindfulness with Paralympic athletes held in Brazil.
    
  