
    
      Nivolumab is now the standard of care for second-line treatment of advanced squamous or
      nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) regardless of the tumor's expression of
      programmed death-1 ligand (PD-1L). The 2015 Food and Drug Administration approval cited
      results from the Open-Label Randomized Phase III Trial of Nivolumab Versus Docetaxel in
      Previously Treated Metastatic nonsquamous-NSCLC (CheckMate057) trial. Those results showed
      that in unselected patients with advanced or recurrent nonsquamous NSCLC who had stopped
      responding to a platinum-based chemotherapy regimen, treatment with nivolumab produced
      significantly better overall survival during follow-up as long as 18 months, compared with a
      docetaxel-based regimen. But a more detailed assessment of the survival data showed an
      unexpected pattern of an early hazard among the nivolumab patients. During the first 3 months
      on randomized treatment, 15 more patients died in the nivolumab arm than in the docetaxel
      arm. This quickly reversed during months 4-6 on treatment, when nine more patients died on
      docetaxel than on nivolumab. By 12 months after the onset of treatment, overall survival was
      51% in the nivolumab group and 39% among those randomized to docetaxel. A post hoc analysis
      showed a trend to a higher risk for death during the first 3 months of nivolumab treatment
      among patients with poorer prognostic features, more aggressive disease, and low or no tumor
      expression of PD-L1. In addition, only a subgroup of patients benefits from nivolumab with
      response rates of 20% in unselected cohorts and 10% in low PD-L1 expression cohort.
      Strategies to render the tumor micro-environment (TME) more susceptible to anti-PD1 might
      include stimulation of anti-cancer immune responses by induction treatment with low dose
      chemotherapy.

      Cyclophosphamide, an old-school chemotherapeutic agent used across a wide range of
      malignancies, was found to be a potent immune modulator that targets suppressive regulatory
      immune cells within the tumor microenvironment while enhancing effector cells. However,
      cyclophosphamide has a limited effect on TIL from tumors larger than a few mm diameter in
      view of an increased percentage of myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSC). Meanwhile,
      doxorubicin is also has a potent immune-modulating activity, which can selectively impair
      MDSC-induced immunosuppression. Additionally, both cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin have
      anti-tumor activity against NSCLC. Given the potent immune-modulating effects and anti-tumor
      activity of cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin, Investigator propose a study of combining
      nivolumab with induction therapy with cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin for nonsquamous NSCLC
      with PD-L1 expression less than 10%.
    
  