
    
      Different studies showed that acetyl L-Carnitine (LC) positively affects the development and
      maturation of T lymphocytes, involved in the immune response to viral agents. It also
      contributes to the inhibition of ROS production and to the remodulation of the cytokine
      network typical of the systemic inflammatory syndrome.

      SARS-CoV-2 virus activates the human cell ACE2 receptor, triggering a series of deleterious
      events. In COVID19, renin-angiotensin is upregulated and the pathway is overexpressed and a
      progressive cytokine storm is always observed. In all these pathogenic processes, LC could
      play a modifier function to enhance condition. LC can be beneficial to the antioxidant
      effects of Angiotensin II by inhibiting NF-kB and down-regulating NOX1and NOX2. For LC, an
      anti-apoptotic and genome-stabilizer role was estimated by inhibiting pro-apoptotic caspases
      and activating PARP-1. LC is an immunomodulator that downregulates pro-inflammatory cytokines
      including TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-1 that could extinguish the cytokine storm. LC can also serve
      as a protective agent against COVID19 cardiotoxicity due to disruption in the ACE2-mediated
      signaling pathway, cytokine storm, pulmonary dysfunction, and side effects of medications.

      In patients with coronavirus infection, provided LC's possible protective effects, it is
      suggested as a supportive and therapeutic alternative.

      Given this background, in the light of the current COVID-19 emergency, it is the intention of
      the investigators to conduct a prospective, randomized, open-label, controlled study in the
      cohort of hospitalized patients with covid-19 pneumonia, administering 2 gr of LC orally in
      addition to the standard of care therapy (SOC).

      The investigators hypothesize that the use of LC will be associated with an earlier
      improvement of clinical and humoral parameters after 14 days of LC treatment when compared to
      the group of patients provided with standard care.
    
  