
    
      This study was carried out from January 2005 to December 2007 at Mansoura university
      hospital, Departement 8 of surgical department. This study approved by local ethical
      committee Fifty patients had breast cancer were included in the study. Patients who received
      preoperative chemotherapy and radiotherapy were exclude Also, patients with previous axillary
      surgery or patients who underwent simultaneous reconstructive surgery and breast conservative
      surgery and locally advanced breast cancer were exclude.

      Informed written consent was obtained from all patients included in the study. All patients
      include in the study, MRM was done for then and axillary lymphadenectomy extended to the
      axillary level III was done with sharp dissection and ligation of the visible lymph vessels
      and minor blood vessel. After performing hemostasis in the mastectomy and axillary area.
      .Patients were randomly divided by closed envelop into two groups. Patients were randomized
      at end of surgical procedure to avoid possible treatment bias during surgical procedure.

      Group І (with fibrin glue) and group П without fibrin glue. In fibrin glue group. 4 ml of
      fibrin glue was sprayed on the surgical area with Y canula (doubleject application system).
      In group 11 after good haemostasis the same sized drain was applied in axillary and breast
      area and incision was closed. Followed by external compression for 10 minutes in both groups.
      Drains were left in places until the drainage for the preceding 24 h was less than 30 ml/day.

      Data collected Preoperative data collected included age, body mass indexed (BMI), medical and
      surgical history, history of chemotherapy, radiotherapy Operative data included estimated
      blood loss, types of dissection, duration of the operation Postoperative data included
      hospital stay , postoperative measurement of drainage daily , date of removal , state of the
      wound ( infection , haematoma, necrosis , opened wound ), number of axillary lymph nodes
      dissected , cancer stage , number of axillary lymph nodes positive, incidence of Seroma
      formation , interval of Seroma resolution , Seroma aspirated volume and number of
      postoperative visits Seroma formation was defined as inability to remove participant drain by
      postoperative day 10 because of high output (more than 30 ml /day drain Seroma) and / or the
      need to aspirate of fluid after removal of the drain.
    
  