
    
      The anticonvulsants carbamazepine (CBZ) and valproate (VPA) have efficacy in the treatment of
      mood disorders, suggesting that other anticonvulsants with related mechanisms of action may
      have similar utility. Additional treatments are sorely needed because many patients with
      recurrent affective disorder have symptoms refractory to treatment with conventional agents,
      including lithium, carbamazepine, and valproate. This refractory group is the major focus of
      our investigative efforts on 3-west in the Section of Psychobiology, NIMH. Moreover,
      establishing differential clinical and biological predictors of response has become
      increasingly important both to rapid allocation of appropriate treatment and as they may
      supply insight into the pathophysiology of the mood disorders and their subtypes.

      Lamotrigine, a phenyltriazine use-dependent sodium channel blocker that inhibits release of
      excitatory amino acids, is a new anticonvulsant with fewer side effects than older agents and
      was recently approved by the FDA as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial seizures.
      Heretofore, only preliminary open clinical evidence suggested that lamotrigine may have mood
      stabilizing properties.

      Gabapentin is a neutral amino acid and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) analog which increases
      brain GABA levels and has fewer side effects than older agents and does not require
      hematological or hepatic monitoring. Preliminary evidence only from open "add-on" series had
      suggested that gabapentin therapy might have antidepressant and antianxiety effects, if not
      mood stabilizing properties.

      We wish to evaluate the efficacy of lamotrigine and gabapentin in the refractory mood
      disorders. We also wish to examine the neurobiology and phenomenology of lamotrigine and
      gabapentin responders and nonresponders to ascertain potential predictors and concomitants of
      response to these medications. This study may lead to improvement in the treatment and
      understanding of mood disorders by providing controlled data on efficacy of these potential
      new treatments, potential predictors of response, and further insights into the
      pathophysiology of mood disorders.
    
  