
    
      Rationale: Healthcare professionals face a growing burden of responsibilities and work
      overload which may cause psychological suffering expressed by burnout, depression and other
      negative psychological variables. On the other hand, there are individual strategies which
      may be involved and facilitate the coping process: resilience, self-compassion, subjective
      well-being, subjective quality of life. In order to maintain these positive characteristics,
      it is necessary that one may decouple from automatic thoughts, habits and patterns of
      unhealthy behaviors, leading to behavioral and physiological regulation. There are many
      mindfulness techniques, which hold in common the following operating parameters: use of a
      specific technique, clearly defined and regularly practiced; use of muscle relaxation during
      the process; existence of logical relaxation without the intention of analyzing, judging or
      creating any expectation about the process. Specifically, Yoga is an ancient Indian
      philosophical and practical system and its ultimate goal is to calm the human mind, and
      increase vital capabilities. In addition to the ethical precepts of Yoga, its practices
      involve asanas (postures), pranayama (breathing exercises) and dhyana (meditation).
      Therefore, the process must be done in a gradual and progressive manner, from the outermost
      to the innermost, from the simplest to the most complex - from the body to the mind, with
      breath as a bridge between them. Many studies have shown the positive effects of Yoga and
      meditation on psychometric variables, however, there are few which address the effectiveness
      of Yoga on improving psychometric variables of health care professionals. Thus, aiming to
      reduce the symptoms that health care professionals suffer when they are in burnout, this
      study intends to use Yoga meditation, which may enable health professionals to experience
      decoupling of harmful feelings, improving one's own inner self-relationship and therefore,
      with patients and their families.

      Primary Objective: To assess whether a 8-week intervention of a yoga meditation program
      influences psychometric (burnout, resilience, self-compassion, subjective well-being, health
      related quality of life and mindfulness) and physiological (polysomnography, glutathione,
      catecholamine and serotonin) variables of Pediatrics health professionals.

      Secondary Objective: To investigate the cross psychometric profile of Federal University of
      São Paulo (UNIFESP) Pediatrics professionals at the inception of the program.

      Methodology Experimental design: randomized controlled clinical trial.

      Participants: 60 health professionals from the Pediatrics Department of a tertiary hospital
      from UNIFESP will be randomized to meditation or control (waiting list) groups. At the end of
      the protocol participants of the control group will be offered the possibility to participate
      of an identical meditation program. Inclusion criteria: adults; both sexes; not diagnosed
      with psychiatric/cognitive disorder or taking any medication which might bias the evaluation
      process. The intervention group will participate in an 8-week course of meditation (2 30-min
      classes a week).

      Space: Evaluations and meditation program will be conducted in a quiet room specifically
      reserved for this training at UNIFESP.

      Primary outcome: Demonstrate that meditation can be a useful tool in improving burnout,
      resilience, self-compassion, subjective well-being, quality of life and of health care
      professionals.

      Resources: All personnel and logistics necessary for this research will be provided by the
      Sports Center of the University of São Paulo (CEPEUSP) and UNIFESP.

      Procedures: Meditation training will follow a weekly stratified plan, through which
      participants will be guided from the most exterior perceptions, towards the inner most ones,
      focusing on yoga meditation processes. First week will have relaxation, and easy-to-perform
      asanas along with introduction to pranayama; second week will have pranayamas and
      introduction to concentration; from third week onwards, participants will have concentration
      and meditation as main components of the classes.

      Evaluation plan: Measurements will be done in two stages: study entry and after 8 weeks.
      Assessment instruments: burnout (MBI-HSS), resilience (BRCS), self-pity (SCS), subjective
      well-being (EBE), quality of life (WHOQOL BREF), attention and mindfulness (MAAS) scales;
      venous puncture (by a nurse from Clinical Studies Development Centre Brazil) - 20ml of blood
      for glutathione, catecholamine and serotonin analysis; polysomnography (Sleep Institute - São
      Paulo, Brazil).

      Statistical Analysis: mixed general linear model (intervenient factors: groups - meditation
      vs. control and moment - baseline vs. 8-weeks). Significance accepted with p<0.05.

      Potential impact: Investigators expect to have a great positive impact on health care
      professionals. Through meditation, participants may improve burnout rates, resilience,
      self-compassion, subjective well-being, quality of life and mindfulness. Such improvements
      may improve work environment, work satisfaction, decrease absenteeism and increase the
      professional-patient relationship. Besides, with positive results, it is possible to try and
      spread the practice of Yoga to other public hospitals.
    
  