
    
      With the development and advancement of modern medical technology, mechanical ventilation has
      become one of the most important supportive treatment methods to save the life of critically
      ill children. Ventilator-associated pneumonia （VAP） is a common complication of mechanical
      ventilation. It is one of the leading causes of hospital-acquired infections in the PICU. VAP
      can aggravate patients' condition and have adverse effect on mechanical ventilation. An
      overseas study reported that VAP increased 56% of the PICU length of stay and 43% of the
      length of hospitalization. Moreover, VAP is associated with significant increased mortality.
      Because the prevalence and mortality of VAP vary in adult and children, also in different
      area, it is very necessary to investigate the current status of VAP in local children, which
      can contribute to clinical prevention and treatment to decrease mortality. Appropriate
      nutrition support can improve the body's metabolism, promote tissue and body function repair,
      reduce the incidence of complications. However, inadequate enteral nutrition may cause
      gastroesophageal reflux and aspiration, which may lead to VAP and exacerbate the condition.
      Intermittent enteral feeding and continual enteral feeding are the most common methods of
      enteral nutrition at present. The relationship between enteral feeding methods and VAP has
      long been a controversial issue. There is little clinical research on the correlation between
      enteral feeding and VAP in children with mechanical ventilation, and mostly were
      observational studies which lacks strong evidence. How to choose the appropriate enteral
      nutrition remains an urgent need in PICU clinical work. Therefore, it is necessary for us to
      analyze the relationship between enteral feeding and VAP in critically ill children.

      The primary objective of this study is to investigate the influence of intermittent or
      continuous enteral feeding on VAP in PICUs. The secondary objectives are to collect the
      baseline characteristic data of ventilated children, and to analyze the risk factors of VAP
      in children. Each patient will be randomly assigned to an intermittent or continuous enteral
      feeding schedule. Intermittent enteral feeding schedule: feed administered via the
      nasogastric tube less than 30 mins. Continuous enteral feeding schedule: feed pump delivered
      via the nasogastric tube over 24 hours. Data on feeding progression, respiratory status and
      incidence of VAP will be collected and compared. The study will also collect data on baseline
      characters, ventilation management, ventilated days and the time to discharge from the
      hospital.
    
  