
    
      This study is divided into two stages. In Stage I, all women registered in the antenatal
      clinics at the Namakkal District Hospital or at the Rasipuram Government Hospital in the
      state of Tamil Nadu in India will be offered the opportunity to participate in an educational
      session on HIV infection and transmission. With informed consent, a systematic sample of the
      population will be asked to participate in a pre-educational session assessment of knowledge,
      attitudes, and beliefs, and in a post-educational assessment of knowledge, regarding HIV
      infection and transmission. All women will be offered voluntary HIV counseling and testing,
      irrespective of participation in the education session (those who refuse to participate
      although education offered) and in the pre- and post-educational assessments (those among the
      systematic sample who do not provide signed informed consent). The objectives of Stage I are:
      (1) to assess the acceptance of education regarding HIV infection and transmission among
      antenatal women at the participating clinical sites and, among a systematic sample of those
      offered such education, to assess knowledge, attitudes, and beliefs, as well as changes in
      knowledge; (2) to assess the acceptance of voluntary counseling and HIV testing among
      antenatal women at the participating clinical sites; and (3) to describe the HIV
      seroprevalence among antenatal women at the participating clinical sites who accept HIV
      testing. The main outcomes of interest are the proportions of women in the antenatal clinics
      who agree to undergo HIV testing and, of these, the proportion who are seropositive for HIV.

      HIV seropositive women will be offered enrollment in Stage II (a prospective cohort study).
      All women enrolled in the prospective cohort study will be offered education and counseling
      regarding infant feeding, i.e. the risks and benefits of breastfeeding, factors which are
      likely to increase the risk of transmission through breastfeeding, and the potential
      advantages and disadvantages of early weaning from breastmilk and replacement feeding.

      Women enrolled in the prospective cohort study at Rasipuram Government Hospital who meet
      eligibility criteria will be offered Protocol ZDV/NVP: zidovudine prophylaxis beginning at 28
      weeks gestation (or as soon as possible thereafter up to 36 weeks gestation if late
      presentation for antenatal care or other reasons preclude initiation at 28 weeks) and
      continuing through labor until delivery, and one dose of nevirapine at the onset of labor or
      as soon as possible thereafter. Their infants will receive zidovudine beginning within the
      first 24 hours of life and continuing through the end of the sixth week of life, and one dose
      of nevirapine within 24 hours after birth. Those women who decline protocol ZDV/NVP, or who
      enroll after 32 weeks gestation, can receive the standard of care: the two dose nevirapine
      regimen. (Women enrolled at Namakkal District Hospital could receive the two-dose nevirapine
      regimen.)

      The primary objectives of Stage II are: (1) to assess the safety and tolerability of protocol
      ZDV/NVP; (2) to assess the acceptance of, and adherence to, protocol ZDV/NVP; (3) to assess
      the acceptance of education and counseling regarding infant feeding; and (4) to describe the
      mother-to-child transmission rates, among HIV-infected women and their infants enrolled in
      the prospective cohort study. The secondary objectives of Stage II are: (1) to describe
      morbidity and mortality rates through 12 months after delivery/birth; and (2) to describe
      risk factors for mother-to-child transmission of HIV, among HIV-infected women and their
      infants enrolled in the prospective cohort study. The primary outcomes of interest are the
      safety and tolerability of protocol ZDV/NVP, the proportion of HIV-infected women who agree
      to receive protocol ZDV/NVP, the mother-to-child HIV transmission rate (overall as well as
      according to receipt of protocol ZDV/NVP and infant feeding modality), and risk factors for
      transmission.
    
  