
    
      Therefore, we plan to recruit 10 healthy subjects and 10 glucose intolerant patients with
      preserved kidney functions and to perform repetitive BOLD-MRI, before and after the
      administration of IV glucose. This will allow us to study the influence of hyperglycemia as a
      single factor, regardless of inflammation, oxidative stress and medical treatments, such as
      oral hypoglycemic agents and/or insulin, which are confounding factors present in all DM
      patients.

      The main hypothesis of the project is that acute hyperglycemia could be partially responsible
      for renal tissue hypoxia detected in diabetic nephropathy cases.

      In this study we will include 60 participants with a family history of diabetes, with a Body
      Mass Index (BMI) over 25 kg / m2 and/or having glucose intolerance. Each participant will
      undergo an initial glucose tolerance test. In total, we will select 10 participants with
      impaired glucose tolerance and 10 healthy subjects (matched for sex and age), to be included
      as control group.

      Selected subjects will return for a third visit at CHUV (V3): they will start at home with an
      oral hydration protocol (load dose of 3 ml / kg at 8:00 am, followed by 1 ml / kg every hour
      between 9:00 am and 3:00 pm to avoid as much as possible changes in kidney perfusion).
      Patients will arrive at the Department of Nephrology and Hypertension (CHUV) at 11.00 am. In
      this occasion, two catheters will be placed into each patient's arm. Later, participants will
      be escorted to the Radiology Department to undergo four renal oxygenation imaging (between
      1:00 pm and 2:00 pm) by the mean of BOLD-MRI technique. During this period, patients and
      control subjects will lie down and are not allowed to stand up. At T0, they will receive a
      bolus (0.75 ml / kg) of glucose 20%. Subsequently, four BOLD-MRI scans, together with blood
      tests, will be performed at T0, T1 (+10 min), T2 (+20 min), T3 (+30 min). Sodium intake will
      be measured by 24 hours urinary collection the day before V3 (sodium is known to influence
      R2*).
    
  