
    
      Psychological treatment (cognitive-behavioral) is a first-line smoking cessation treatment
      that has proven its efficacy. However, it is necessary to continue investigating to improve
      smoking outcomes as abstinence and reduce relapse rates. The use of information technologies
      (ICTs) in the field of health has grown and developed significantly in recent years.
      Specifically, mobile applications (Apps), aimed at different health-related aspects (mHealth
      Apps), are a valuable resource. Its use, as a complement to the face-to-face treatment, could
      help to increase motivation to quit smoking, treatment adherence, and therapeutic activities
      compliance.

      mHealth Apps are becoming highly relevant due to their cost-effectiveness and the added
      attractiveness for many users. Considering this context, the main aim of the present project
      is to design and assess the efficacy of a cognitive-behavioral treatment (CBT) for smoking
      cessation enriched with a Smartphone App.

      A randomized clinical trial will be carried out with a sample of 270 treatment-seeking
      smokers at the Smoking Cessation and Addictive Disorders Unit of the University of Santiago
      de Compostela. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of the following groups:

        1. The experimental group (CBT + App), in which participants will receive a
           cognitive-behavioral treatment* to quit smoking along with an App with active
           therapeutic components during the treatment and 12 months follow-ups period (n = 135)

        2. The control group (CBT), in which participants will receive the same
           cognitive-behavioral treatment* along with the use of a Control App (without active
           components) during the treatment (n = 135).

      The main hypothesis is that the combination of a cognitive-behavioral psychological treatment
      to quit smoking and an App with active therapeutic components will obtain higher abstinence
      rates at the end of treatment and the 12-month follow-up period, compared to the control
      group

      * Due to the COVID-19, the face-to-face cognitive-behavioral treatment will be conducted in
      an online format
    
  