
    
      This is a single center, randomized, blinded, interindividual, study involving 25 healthy
      subjects. After informed consent, confidentiality and photographic release forms, volunteers
      who meet all inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria on page 4, will be entered
      into the study. Subjects with a PASI of ≤10 will be included in the study.

      At Baseline, the Principle Investigator will identify comparable study plaques (where
      possible the plaques should be of comparable size, duration and severity and where possible
      on comparable body areas).

      The plaques will be evaluated using the Localised Psoriasis Severity Index (LPSI).

      At this point and thereafter, the Principle Investigator will be blinded to the
      intervention/plaque.

      The plaques will be numbered 1 and 2 by the study coordinator. The plaques will then be
      randomised by the study coordinator to receive either the active treatment or act as the
      control.

      Subjects test and control plaque will undergo a mechanical evaluation of hyperpigmentation
      and erythema using a MC1000® (Courage and Khazaka).

      Subjects will complete a Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) based on their psoriasis.

      After randomization subjects will be instructed on how to use the Dermawrap device and the
      treatment schedule (5 x weekly treatments for 12 weeks).

      A topical emollient (Hydrogel) will be dispensed to the subject and the subject will be
      instructed on its use and frequency (2 x weekly treatments for 12 weeks).

      The Subjects were then be asked to carry out a self-treatment in front of the study staff.
      Subjects will be instructed on potential side effects and severity and encouraged to contact
      the research center in relation to any side effects or concerns.

      Subjects will be given a subject diary to complete daily to capture any adverse incidents and
      record their treatment and treatment experiences.

      Seven (7) (+/- 7days) after Baseline, subjects will be contacted by study staff to check for
      any adverse incidents or problems in using the device. Subjects will be asked if there has
      been any change in their health or medication from their last visit.

      Twenty-eight (28) days (+/- 7days) after Baseline subjects will return to the study center.
      Subjects will be asked if there has been any change in their health or medication from their
      last visit. The PI will be notified of any changes. Any changes will be evaluated by the PI
      or SC against the exclusion criteria and recorded. Subjects diary will be collected and
      reviewed by the study staff for any adverse incidents.

      Subjects test and control plaque will undergo a mechanical evaluation of hyperpigmentation
      and erythema using a MC1000® (Courage and Khazaka). Subjects test and control plaque will be
      photographed.

      The device will be checked, and usage data will be collected from the device. The topical
      emollient (Hydrogel) will be dispensed to the subject.

      Fifty-six (56) days (+/- 7days) after baseline subjects return to the study center for
      assessment. Subjects will be asked if there has been any change in their health or medication
      from their last visit. The PI will be notified of any changes. Any changes will be evaluated
      by the PI or SC against the exclusion criteria and recorded. Subjects diary will be collected
      and reviewed by the study staff for any adverse incidents The device will be checked, and
      usage data will be collected from the device. Subjects test and control plaque will be
      evaluated using the Localised Psoriasis Severity Index (LPSI) by the Blinded PI and will
      undergo a mechanical evaluation of hyperpigmentation and erythema using a MC1000® (Courage
      and Khazaka).

      Subjects test and control plaque will be photographed Subjects will complete a Dermatology
      Life Quality Index (DLQI) based on their psoriasis. The topical emollient (Hydrogel) will be
      dispensed to the subject.

      Eighty-four (84) days (+/- 7days) after baseline subjects return to the study center for
      assessment. Subjects will be asked if there has been any change in their health or medication
      from their last visit. The PI will be notified of any changes. Any changes will be evaluated
      by the PI or SC against the exclusion criteria and recorded.

      Subjects diary will be collected and reviewed by the study staff for any adverse incidents
      The device will be collected from the subject, will be checked, and usage data will be
      collected from the device. The device will not be returned to the subject.

      Subjects test and control plaque will be evaluated using the Localised Psoriasis Severity
      Index (LPSI) by the Blinded PI and will undergo a mechanical evaluation of hyperpigmentation
      and erythema using a MC1000® (Courage and Khazaka).

      Subjects test and control plaque will be photographed Subjects will complete a Dermatology
      Life Quality Index (DLQI) based on their psoriasis. In addition, the subject will be asked to
      complete a standardized system usability scale (SUS). At day 84 (+/- 7 days) the subject will
      stop treatment.

      One hundred and twelve (112) days (+/- 7days) the subject will return to the study center.
      Subjects will be asked by the Research assistant or Study coordinator if they have
      experienced any changes in their health or taken new/adjusted current medications since the
      last visit. The PI will be notified of any changes. Any changes will be evaluated by the PI
      or SC against the exclusion criteria and recorded. Subjects diary will be collected and
      reviewed by the study staff for any adverse incidents.

      Blinded physician (PI) assessment of psoriasis plaques using the Localised Psoriasis Severity
      Index (LPSI), mechanical evaluation of hyperpigmentation and erythema using MC1000® (Courage
      and Khazaka).

      Standardised digital photography and Subject self-assessment of treatment response Including
      Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) will be conducted. Unless any AE or SAE have been
      reported and ongoing the subject will be signed out of the study.

      The duration of subject participation is 16 weeks. The total duration of the study is
      expected to be 12 months to include recruitment of subjects.
    
  