
    
      Study Procedures:

      Study Identification and Recruitment Potential subjects will be identified by members of the
      Center for Urogynecology & Pelvic Reconstructive Surgery at the Cleveland Clinic Main campus,
      Hillcrest Hospital and Fairview Hospital. Eligible patients who agree to participate will be
      provided written informed consent administered by the collaborators listed on this IRB.

      Randomization All subjects will be predetermined by their surgeon to undergo a laparoscopic
      sacrocolpopexy. The participants will then be randomized to either concurrent vaginal
      hysterectomy or laparoscopic supracervical hysterectomy according to a computer-generated
      randomization schedule with the use of the SAS statistical software package (SAS Institute,
      Cary, NC).

      Office Interventions All patients will be seen for a preoperative visit and then
      postoperatively at 6, 12 and 24 months. The 6 month visit will be standard of care, the 12
      month and 24 month visit will be a research visit. At each visit, a vaginal exam and a
      complete Pelvic Organ Prolapse Quantification (POP-Q) exam will be performed. In addition,
      patients will be asked to complete the Pelvic Floor Distress Inventory (PFDI-20),
      Incontinence Severity Index (ISI), Pelvic Organ Prolapse/Urinary Incontinence Sexual
      Questionnaire (PISQ-12) and Patient Global Impression of Improvement (PGII) questionnaires at
      the pre-operative visit as well as the 6, 12, and 24 month postoperative visits. Completion
      of these questionnaires is the only additional assessment that is specific to participation
      in this study and is not usually included as part of the standard care of sacrocolpopexy. It
      should take no more than 10-15 minutes to complete the questionnaires. The study subjects
      will not be exposed to any additional risk by participating in this study except for the
      inconvenience of completing the questionnaires.

      Surgical Interventions The laparoscopic portions of the surgery will be performed using four
      ports: an umbilical port for the laparoscope (either 5 or 10/12mm), two ports (either 5, 8 or
      10/12 mm) in the bilateral lower quadrants, and one 5-mm port placed at the level of the
      umbilicus, lateral to the rectus muscle on either side for retraction.

      If a supracervical hysterectomy is to be performed, it will be done in a standard fashion. A
      uterine manipulator will be placed inside of the uterus. The round ligaments will be
      transected using cautery. The fallopian tubes and ovaries will be left in situ or removed at
      the time of hysterectomy depending upon the preoperative decision made between the surgeon
      and patient. The uterine arteries and cardinal ligaments will be cauterized laparoscopically.
      The uterus will be amputated at the level of the internal cervical os and the endocervical
      canal will be cauterized. The specimen will be extracted in a laparoscopic endocatch bag and
      removed through an extended incision at the umbilicus at the end of the case. Dissection of
      the vagina anteriorly and posteriorly will be done laparoscopically with the use of an
      end-to-end anastomosis (EEA) sizer in the vagina. Dissection of the presacral space will also
      be done laparoscopically. Five to six 2-0 PDS sutures will be placed to secure the mesh to
      the anterior vagina as well as the posterior vagina for a total of 10-12 sutures on the
      vagina; the arm of the mesh will be secured to the anterior longitudinal ligament of the
      sacrum using two 0 Prolene sutures. The Coloplast® Restorelle Y mesh will be used for all
      cases. The peritoneum will be closed with 0 or 2-0 vicryl sutures.

      If a vaginal hysterectomy is performed, it will be done in a standard fashion using a
      traditional clamp and suture technique starting at the uterosacral ligaments and ending with
      the utero-ovarian ligaments. The specimen will be extracted through the vagina. Dissection of
      the vagina anteriorly and posteriorly will be done vaginally. The mesh will be attached
      vaginally using five to six 2-0 PDS sutures on the anterior and posterior vagina for a total
      of 10-12 sutures on the vagina. The Coloplast® Restorelle Dual flat mesh will be used. The
      vagina will then be closed in two layers using 0 or 2-0 vicryl suture. Laparoscopic entrance
      will then be gained and set up will be done as described above. The presacral space will be
      dissected laparoscopically and the mesh attached to the anterior longitudinal ligament of the
      sacrum using two 0 Prolene sutures. The peritoneum will be closed with 0 or 2-0 vicryl
      sutures.
    
  