
    
      The study will explore the impact of a nurse-led bundled antimicrobial stewardship
      intervention on the appropriateness of antimicrobial use in residential aged care facilities
      (RACFs).

      The antimicrobial stewardship intervention will include the following components:

        1. Education

             -  Focused on antimicrobial stewardship and appropriate antimicrobial use

             -  Delivered face-to-face, via workbooks and fact sheets to aged care staff, general
                practitioners (GPs), pharmacists, and residents and families. Education will be
                delivered by the research coordinator.

        2. Guidelines

             -  Aged care-specific guidelines for the assessment and antimicrobial management of
                urinary tract infections, respiratory tract infections and skin and soft tissue
                infections.

             -  Antimicrobial management recommendations including empirical oral therapy, doses
                and duration of therapy.

        3. Communication

             -  Documentation for the assessment and antimicrobial management of infections.

             -  Nurse-led engagement with residents and families.

             -  Newsletters and online updates to highlight evidence-based prescribing practice

        4. Audit and feedback - Surveillance and feedback to prescribers on antimicrobial use and
           facility-level antimicrobial susceptibility data.

      The intervention bundle will first be implemented and tested for feasibility and
      acceptability over a 3-month period in two RACFs in Victoria, Australia. This tailored
      intervention will then be assessed in a stepped-wedge cluster randomised controlled trial
      across 12 RACFs over an 16-month period.

      A cluster of two facilities will each transition through three phases over the 16 month
      trial:

        -  Control phase: baseline data collection. Usual care at each facility.

        -  Transition phase: Delivery of education and integration of the intervention. No data
           collection.

        -  Intervention phase: implementation of the intervention and outcome data collection.
           Ongoing education to new and existing staff will be provided as required.

      Following the 16-month trial, the refined intervention bundle will be implemented nationally
      across a network of RACFs.
    
  