
    
      This is a 9-visit randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group Phase IV
      study. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of mepolizumab for the
      treatment of refractory chronic cough in patients with eosinophilic airway disease. Patients
      will be recruited from secondary care clinics. Patient eligibility will be assessed against
      the study inclusion/exclusion criteria and patients will undergo informed consent in the
      research centre. Subjects who provide informed consent and are enrolled in the study will
      undergo screening procedures.

      The study will consist of a Mepolizumab treatment arm and placebo arm (normal saline).
      Fifteen subjects will be randomly assigned to the treatment arm and fifteen subjects will be
      randomly assigned to the placebo arm in a 1:1 ratio. Following screening and randomization,
      subjects will under an 12-week treatment period during which they will receive 4 doses of the
      study drug at days 0, 28, 56, and 84. The primary study outcomes will be measured at week 14
      week, 2 weeks following the treatment period.

      At Visit 1 (screening), subjects will undergo screening procedures: complete medical history,
      physical examination, methacholine challenge, spirometry, sputum induction, and blood
      sampling. Subjects will complete the Leicester Cough Questionnaire and modified Borg Scale.

      At Visit 2, subjects will be fitted with a 24-hour cough monitor.

      At Visit 3, 24-hour cough monitors will be removed and subjects will undergo spirometry,
      blood sampling and sputum induction. Subjects will complete the Leicester Cough
      Questionnaire, modified Borg Scale, and Cough Severity Visual Analogue Scale. The first dose
      of the study drug will be administered in the clinical research facility by a study
      physician.

      At Visit 4, subjects will undergo spirometry and blood sampling and complete the Leicester
      Cough Questionnaire, modified Borg Scale, and Cough Severity Visual Analogue Scale. The
      second dose of the study drug will be administered in the clinical research facility by a
      study physician.

      At Visit 5, the third dose of the study drug will be administered in the clinical research
      facility by a study physician. Subjects will be fitted with a 24-hour cough monitor.

      At Visit 6, 24-hour cough monitors will be removed and subjects will undergo spirometry,
      sputum induction and blood sampling and complete the Leicester Cough Questionnaire, modified
      Borg Scale, and Cough Severity Visual Analogue Scale.

      At Visit 7, subjects will undergo spirometry and blood sampling and complete the Leicester
      Cough Questionnaire, modified Borg Scale, and Cough Severity Visual Analogue Scale. The
      fourth dose of the study drug will be administered in the clinical research facility by a
      study physician.

      At Visit 8, subjects will be fitted with a 24-hour cough monitor.

      At Visit 9, the 24-hour cough monitors will be removed and subjects will undergo spirometry,
      methacholine challenge, sputum induction, and blood sampling. Subjects will complete the
      Leicester Cough Questionnaire, modified Borg Scale, and Cough Severity Visual Analogue Scale.

      All study procedures will be performed according to local standard operating procedures and
      be conducted by trained and experienced staff with supervision by medical doctors. Study
      physicians will administer all study drug injections. Safety will be assessed throughout the
      study by monitoring for adverse events and serious adverse events.
    
  