
    
      Female sex workers (FSWs) are at increased risk of HIV and sexually transmitted infections
      (STI) compared to women in the general population, and frequently experience violence in
      their working and domestic lives from a variety of perpetrators, which can enhance this risk.
      While progress has been made in addressing violence by police and clients, little work has
      been done to understand and prevent violence by intimate partners (IPs) among FSW
      populations.

      Samvedana Plus is a multi-level intervention programme that works with FSWs, their IPs, the
      sex worker community, and the general population, and aims to reduce violence and increase
      consistent condom use within these 'intimate' relationships. The programme involves shifting
      norms around the acceptability of beating as a form of discipline, challenging gender roles
      that give men authority over women, and working with men and women to encourage new
      relationship models based on gender equity and respect. The programme will aim to cover 800
      FSWs and their IPs living in 47 villages in Bagalkot district, northern Karnataka. The study
      is designed to assess three primary outcomes: the proportion of FSWs who report: (i) any
      physical or sexual partner violence; (ii) severe/moderate physical or sexual partner violence
      in the last 6 months; and iii) consistent condom use in their intimate relationship. The
      evaluation will employ a cluster-randomised controlled trial design, with 50% of the village
      clusters (n=24) randomly selected to receive the intervention for the first 24 months and the
      remaining 50% (n=23) receiving the intervention thereafter. Statisticians will be blinded to
      treatment arm allocation. The evaluation will use an adjusted, individual-level intention to
      treat analysis, comparing outcomes in intervention and control villages at endline (24
      months) using a mixed effects logistic model. We will adjust for confounders in two ways: i)
      outcome variables are adjusted for at a cluster level using the mean baseline summaries; ii)
      other variables will be adjusted for an at an individual level using endline data. We will
      include all women survey at endline. We will also report cluster-level summaries by trial arm
      for each primary and secondary outcome to double check our analyses. The evaluation design
      will involve quantitative and qualitative assessments with (i) all FSWs who report an IP (ii)
      IPs; and process/ implementation monitoring.

      This is an innovative intervention programme that aims to address violence by IPs as part of
      HIV prevention programming with FSWs. Reducing violence is expected to reduce vulnerability
      to HIV acquisition, and help women to work and live without fear of violence.
    
  