
    
      The World Health Organization's (WHO) 2018 World Malaria Report estimates that in 2017, 219
      million cases of malaria occurred worldwide resulting in 435,000 deaths, 93% of which
      occurred in Africa (WHO 2018). While this represents a remarkable improvement in comparison
      with 2000, with malaria deaths having fallen by 40% in Africa, the downward trends in
      incidence and mortality stalled between 2015 and 2017. This recent failure to maintain the
      hard-won progress, let alone accelerate progress towards elimination, over the past three
      years has caused WHO to describe the global fight against malaria as being at a cross roads,
      calling for increased funding and highlighting the need to develop, optimize, and implement
      new tools to combat malaria.

      Universal coverage of populations at risk with malaria vector control interventions-primarily
      insecticide treated nets (ITNs) and indoor residual spraying (IRS)-in malaria-endemic
      countries is a global and national priority because of its fundamental importance for malaria
      control and elimination. Unfortunately, the effectiveness of these tools is threatened by the
      emergence and spread of pyrethroid resistance in key mosquito populations, which is now
      reported in more than 85% of all malaria-endemic countries and poses significant risk to the
      future impact of these tools. Emerging evidence suggests, however, that increasing mosquito
      mortality-and thereby continuing to reduce malaria transmission-is possible in areas with
      pyrethroid resistance by introducing new insecticide formulations for IRS and ITNs. For
      example, Protopopoff et al. showed in Tanzania that the distribution of LLINs with PBO plus
      pyrethroid reduced malaria prevalence by 13% compared to standard pyrethroid-only LLIN
      distribution (42% vs. 29%; p=0.0011), and Tiono et al., working in Burkina Faso, showed that
      the distribution of a dual active-ingredient ITN reduced clinical malaria incidence by 22%
      (Incidence Rate Ratio = 0.88; p=0.04) and potentially infective mosquito bites by 51%
      (entomological inoculation rate ratio = 0.49; p<0.0001) compared to the distribution of a
      standard pyrethroid-only LLIN.

      While there is evidence that standard LLINs can continue to provide effective personal
      protection to regular net users in regions with resistant vector populations, new classes of
      ITNs developed to perform against pyrethroid-resistant mosquitoes have been developed, with
      early trials and modelling suggesting that they may provide superior protective efficacy
      against malaria in areas with pyrethroid-resistant vectors. Access to these new
      resistance-breaking ITNs is restricted by the need for efficacy data for continuing policy
      recommendations, high prices, lack of evidence of cost effectiveness compared to
      pyrethroid-only LLINs, and consequent poor demand in an uncertain market. Interceptor® G2
      (IG2) (BASF), a new type of ITN consisting of two active ingredients including a mixture of a
      pyrethroid (alpha-cypermethrin) and a pyrrole (chlorfenapyr) insecticide, recently achieved
      WHO prequalification listing demonstrating that it performs to the thresholds required of
      pyrethroid-only LLINs and has no known specific side effects. While the IG2 ITN has been
      subsequently registered and approved for use in Rwanda based on this WHO listing, the Roll
      Back Malaria Vector Control Advisory Group guidance indicates that dual active ingredient
      ITNs will require further epidemiological evidence before policy recommendations are made for
      their use in preference to pyrethroid-only LLINs in certain settings.

      The Global Fund and Unitaid have developed a market shaping project for IG2 and other ITNs
      with novel insecticide formulations. Evidence on the efficacy of IG2s will be generated by
      the project through two randomized control trials taking place in Benin and Tanzania. In
      addition, through this project, these next-generation ITNs will be made available to
      countries for incorporation into their national distribution programs as pilot distributions
      with the aim of determining real-world effectiveness and cost-effectiveness in different
      contexts. In addition to the pilot distribution of IG2s taking place in Rwanda, four other
      countries will be piloting IG2s as part of the New Nets Project: Burkina Faso, Mali,
      Mozambique, and Nigeria. This research will utilize these pilot distributions to understand
      the cost-effectiveness of the new ITNs in the chosen settings. The NMCP in Rwanda, in
      discussion with the Global Fund, chose to incorporate IG2 ITNs into the upcoming 2019 mass
      distribution campaign. This study will gather information to determine the public health
      impact of the IG2 ITNs in Rwanda, in comparison to sites that will receive standard
      pyrethroid-only LLINs or standard pyrethroid-only LLINs and IRS. The aim of this research is
      to better understand the effectiveness and cost effectiveness of IG2 ITNs in Rwanda and to
      collect data on community uptake of the ITNs. During the upcoming pilot implementation,
      entomological, epidemiological, and anthropological data will be collected in three study
      districts, one that will receive IG2 ITNs, one comparator district that will receive standard
      LLINs, and one additional comparator district that will receive standard LLINs with IRS. Data
      will be analyzed and results disseminated to support the NMCP, donors, policymakers, and
      other national and regional stakeholders in their ITN decision-making and planning processes.
      Each component specifically aims to:

        -  Epidemiological component - measure the epidemiological impact of the new IG2 ITNs and
           standard LLINs in real deployment scenarios through observational studies. These studies
           will compare trends in (1) malaria case incidence rates passively reported to the
           national health system (passive case detection, PCD) and (2) malaria infection
           prevalence, measured through Rapid Diagnostic Tests (RDTs), in participants 6 months of
           age and older from annual cross-sectional surveys during peak transmission periods.

        -  Entomological component - evaluate the impact of IG2 ITNs on vector populations and
           biting rates, compared to standard LLINs, through national mosquito surveillance data
           that will measure trends in species-specific (1) adult vector densities (2) indoor and
           outdoor human landing rates (3) estimated entomological inoculation rates and (4)
           insecticide resistance patterns.

        -  Anthropological component - map the social determinants of impact for IG2 LLINs and
           determine transmission risk defined as the intersection between time at risk of mosquito
           blood feeding and human activities not under protection of an ITNN, through gathering
           evidence on LLIN uptake and usage. The collection of reliable data using observation,
           focus group discussions, and key informant interviews is an essential component of the
           evaluation for both modeling and contextual analysis of impact.

        -  Costing and cost-effectiveness component - estimate the cost and cost-effectiveness of
           IG2 ITNs in Rwanda through data on the price of the product, delivery and deployment
           costs, and product effectiveness based on case incidence rates measured during the
           epidemiological component of this study. Additionally, mean costs per case averted that
           might occur in other contexts will be modeled and incorporated into the
           cost-effectiveness evaluations.
    
  