
    
      Cerebral palsy (CP) affects 0.25% of newborn babies in the U.S. alone each year. Hypertonia
      (increased joint resistance to externally imposed motion) is a common symptom that limits
      function in this patient population. It may originate in spasticity, dystonia or rigidity or
      may be a combination of all these factors. Surgical, rehabilitation and pharmacotherapeutic
      methods are used to improve functional outcome in patients with cerebral palsy. These
      treatments are not always effective, and the amount of improvement is difficult to predict.
      The choice of treatment is based on clinical tests that are not objective, especially in
      children, and they do not allow for differentiation between various causes of increased joint
      resistance. As a result, ineffective treatments are offered to patients with different types
      of movement disorders. The complex torque devices used in research facilities to quantify the
      resistance of a joint cannot be easily applied in clinical settings. In previous studies, a
      portable measurement method was developed based on a hand-held force transducer, which
      allowed for the quantification of biomechanical and bioelectrical characteristics of
      resistance of a knee joint at different velocities. Using this method, we found different
      types of hypertonia that had not been previously reported in patients with cerebral palsy. It
      is not clear to what degree hypertonia restricts an ability to execute selected functional
      tasks, due in part to the considerable variability in patients with CP. If this variability
      could be decreased, the relationship between restricted ability and the different types of
      hypertonia would be easier to determine. Strong arguments exist to consider different
      pathophysiologies in these different types of hypertonia.

      The aim of this non-invasive study is to sub-classify patients with CP based on the type of
      knee hypertonia, and to determine if the classification is valid during the functional tasks
      of walking. When validated, it can serve as a predictive model for the relationship between
      the clinical evaluation at bedside and functional outcome.

      To classify hypertonia, the resistance of a knee joint at different velocities in knee
      flexion and extension and the maximum activation of stretched and shortened muscles are
      measured with a hand-held force transducer, an electrogoniometer, and surface electrodes in
      100 patients with CP. The strength of velocity-dependent hypertonia during passive stretch
      and position, and/or velocity thresholds will be calculated. The knee extension and flexion
      muscles will be classified bilaterally as normal, or as one of the four types based on the
      pattern of activation of stretched muscles. To determine the impact of other impairments on
      the function, the maximum isometric knee flexion and extension strength and the monosynaptic
      reflexes of the rectus femoris muscle will be measured.

      At the functional level, we will evaluate knee motion during walking. To determine the impact
      of hypertonia on function, the Spearman R correlation will be used to analyze data in
      patients within the same class. To determine if the classification holds during walking, the
      Cronbach's alpha coefficient will be calculated. The significance of differences will be
      tested at the level of significance alpha less than or equal to 0.05.

      It is expected that as a result of this study, better criteria for classifying patients into
      predictable categories correlated to specific therapeutic responses will be established. In
      the future, the improvement of differential diagnoses with quantitative methods will increase
      the effectiveness of treatment by customizing the needs of each patient.
    
  