
    
      1. Personal Data recording:

             -  History: personal data, lifestyle and food, family history, current and previous
                history of disease.

             -  Physical examination: cardiac and lung auscultation,measurement of heart rate (HR),
                blood pressure (BP), body weight and height.

        2. Assessments:

           All experimental procedures were performed in the morning in order to minimize the
           influence of circadian cycle. The temperature of the experimental room was maintained
           between 22 ° C and 24 ° C with relative humidity between 40% and 60%. Patients were
           familiarized with the experimental protocol, and instructed not to ingest stimulant
           drinks such as coffee, tea and soft drinks, do not drink alcohol, do not perform
           strenuous exercise (48 hours before surgery), and to perform a light meal at least four
           hours before the collections.

           Aiming to verify if the baseline conditions were suitable for the beginning of the
           experimental procedures, the patients remained 15 minutes of rest in the supine
           position, and recorded blood pressure (BP) and HR.

           After this, were performed:

             -  Analysis of body composition by bioelectrical impedance analysis.

             -  Registration of HR and NN intervals (NN) during rest, in the supine and sitting
                positions.

             -  Recording of HR and NN during rest in the supine position, sitting, standing and
                during respiratory sinus arrhythmia maneuver.

             -  Spirometric test and

             -  Cardiopulmonary exercise test (CPET). This is a submaximal CPET performed on a
                treadmill, in order to verify and identify possible changes in hemodynamic,
                electrocardiographic induced to physical exertion, their aerobic functional
                capacity as well as to prescribe physical training protocol.

        3. Training:

           After this assessment the volunteers were trained by a aerobic water based physical
           training program for 4 weeks.

        4. Second assessment:

      Components of the first assessment have been repeated at the end of each month of physical
      training.
    
  