
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of competition preparation and recovery
      period on body composition, the endocrine system, metabolic rate, physical activity and
      performance, dietary and training habits and mood state in fitness athletes.

      Metabolic and hormonal adaptations due to weight loss oppose further weight loss and pose
      challenges for maintaining reduced body weight. Fitness competition preparation (i.e., a
      substantial decrease in body fat mass without notable decreases in muscle mass) is
      accomplished by restricting total daily energy intake and increasing dosage of aerobic
      exercise dosage while maintaining high levels of resistance training and dietary protein.
      There is sparse research regarding the effects of the competition preparation and the
      recovery period afterwards the competition on body composition, neuromuscular performance,
      hormone balance, and metabolic rate. Additionally, the effects of preparation on mood states
      and on systems biology is not well studied.

      The present study will help us understand the degree to which adaptations are due to the
      preparation and recovery process, or as a consequence of reaching the desired body
      composition (or some combination thereof). In turn, the findings may serve to help develop
      coaching guidelines for fitness athletes which minimize unfavorable adaptations to
      preparation and minimize the stress of the process. Participants will be notified of the
      research procedures, requirements, benefits and risks before providing written informed
      consent. The study will include one doctoral thesis and four scientific research articles
      during 2020-2024. Measurements of the study will be conducted during the spring of 2019 and
      2020. Analyzing the results will occur during the year 2021 and the scientific publications
      will be reported by the end of 2024. The study is funded externally by the Finnish Fitness
      Sports Association and we will apply to additional, appropriate research grants. A large
      amount of data will be collected and processed which requires good management and leadership.
      In order to avoid risks, a comprehensive data management plan will be made for the study.
    
  