
    
      BACKGROUND

      Most deaths in low and middle-income countries occur out of hospital and without medical
      attention and certification at the time of death. Hence, information on causes of death (COD)
      is lacking. In these settings, verbal autopsies (VAs), typically involving lay non-medical
      interviews of living family members or close associates of the deceased about the details of
      death, with subsequent assignment of COD by physician, can be used to estimate COD patterns.

      Although VA is being commonly used for acquiring community-based COD data, its application
      and mode of assignment of COD may vary. The choice of physician-certified verbal autopsy
      (PCVA) coding versus computer-coded verbal autopsy methods (CCVA) has been widely debated.
      Both these methods have limitations. While PCVA methods suffer from inter and intra-observer
      differences in coding in addition to physician time consumption and expense, the accuracy of
      CCVA methods which are faster and less expensive than PCVA have not been assessed in
      different settings. A literature search yielded only one study that have systematically
      assessed the performance of four computer-coded verbal autopsy methods for COD assignment
      compared with physician coding of VAs on 24,000 deaths in low and middle-income countries
      (Miasnikof et al. 2015).

      Here the investigators propose the first ever randomised control trial assessing PCVA versus
      CCVA at the population level.

      STUDY DESIGN

      This randomised control trial will be conducted in three states of India; a total of 12,500
      deaths that occurred in the last five years will be collected via VA. In each district (five
      districts across the three states - see below), 50% of deaths are randomly selected for PCVA
      and the rest for CCVA. The COD distribution for both groups are then compared within each
      district. If the performance of PCVA and CCVA are comparable, the attained distributions
      should be similar.

      Study districts in India (x number of anticipated VAs to be collected from approx. y number
      of households):

        -  Amravati, Maharashtra (2500 VAs from ~12,500 households)

        -  Anand and Kheda districts, Gujarat (5000 VAs from ~25,000 households)

        -  Sangrur and Mansa districts, Punjab (5000 VAs from ~25,000 households)

      OBJECTIVES

        -  Primary Objective: To assess physician versus computer coding of VAs at the population
           level - Do computer algorithms perform as well as physician coding of VAs when
           determining the COD distribution at the population level.

        -  Secondary Objective: To assess the quality of physician versus lay surveyor VA data
           collection - Does the quality of symptom information collected or final COD assigned
           differ when a physician versus a lay person carries out the VA data collection.

        -  Tertiary Objective: To assess household preference of short VA questionnaire with
           narrative versus a long questionnaire without a narrative - Which VA instrument do
           households prefer.

      DATA COLLECTION

      Data collection for the study will proceed in two phases.

        -  Phase 1: Enumeration and VA (short questionnaire with narrative, and long questionnaire
           with narrative) by lay data collectors. VA questionnaires were designed based on World
           Health Organization (WHO) recommendations.

        -  Phase 2: Physician re-sampling for 50% of the VAs to be used for PCVA The data will be
           collected using a laptop/tablet in an electronic format in the local language.

      Quality control/Quality Assurance:

        1. Random 2-5% of cases will be re-interviewed by surveyors with the Quality Control Survey

        2. An audio recording of the entire data collection will be done for quality control and
           monitoring.

      ANALYSIS PLAN

        -  Primary Objective: COD for 50% of VAs will be assigned by trained physicians using the
           Million Death Study (MDS) physician coding system; this includes dual, independent
           coding of VA records, disagreements resolved by reconciliation, and remaining cases by
           adjudication by a third physician. The assignment of CODs will be in line with the
           international classification of disease version 10 (ICD-10). The remaining 50% of deaths
           will be independently assigned COD by five leading CCVA algorithms. If the performance
           of PCVA and CCVA are comparable, the attained COD distributions at the population level
           should be similar, this "similarity" will be assessed by calculating the Cause Specific
           Mortality Fraction (CSMF) Accuracy for each algorithm's COD assignment in each district
           against the CSMF of the PCVAs in the respective district.

        -  Secondary Objective: Half of the PCVAs in each district will be re-interviewed by
           physicians, and CODs will be assigned to these re-interviewed VAs using the MDS
           physician coding system described above. To assess concordance of COD assignment between
           lay person and physician collected VAs, the CSMF Accuracy will be calculated to
           determine concordance at the population level, while Sensitivity and Partial Chance
           Corrected Concordance (PCCC) will be calculated to assess similarity of COD assignment
           at the individual level.

        -  Tertiary Objective: Respondents cooperation with the short VA questionnaire with
           narrative versus the long questionnaire without a narrative will be assessed to
           determine which VA instrument households prefer. A focus group with surveyors to receive
           their feedback on using both instruments in the field will also be conducted.

      The results of this study will be presented as three separate trials (one trial per state).
      The results of the first trial will be used for hypothesis generation.
    
  