
    
      Chemotherapy affects cancer patients in many ways. It is common that patients suffer multiple
      side-effects simultaneously. Psychological distress is also a common problem during
      chemotherapy. Distressful experiences in chemotherapy may lead to deterioration in a
      patient's of quality of life (QOL). In addition, cancer patients have particularly high unmet
      needs during treatment, including informational needs, psychosocial needs, needs in the
      activities of daily living, supportive care needs, sexual needs, and communication needs.
      Among them, information is the most frequently reported need in the treatment phase. These
      unmet needs cause uncertainty, anxiety, and distress to cancer patients.

      Outpatient-based chemotherapy is now widely established. Despite its benefits to health care
      institutions and cancer patients, there are attendant challenges. Cancer patients need to
      take care of themselves at home during each interval of chemotherapy. Without adequate
      support from health care providers, cancer patients may not be able to properly manage
      chemotherapy and its effects by themselves. The poor management of side-effects may lead to
      increased health care utilization. Cancer patients need to develop new self-care skills to
      cope with chemotherapy.

      Facing increasing numbers of cancer patients and burgeoning health care needs, health care
      professionals must address the issue of how to improve the quality of care during
      chemotherapy. Nurse-led care is a highly recommended and innovative way of improving quality
      of care. It shows distinct advantages in terms of providing holistic care because it is based
      on the philosophy of the uniqueness of individuals and the multidimensionality of human
      beings. The feasibility and effects of nurse-led care are being explored in an increasing
      number of studies. However, studies of nurse-led care for cancer patients receiving
      outpatient-based chemotherapy are far away adequacy. There is a need to examine the
      feasibility and effects of nurse-led care for cancer patients receiving chemotherapy in
      outpatient settings.
    
  