
    
      Study Design & Area:

      Randomized controlled trial (RCT) of pregnant women recruited from Department of Obstetrics
      and Gynecology Mansoura University Hospitals during September 2020 until September 2021 and
      may be extended if needed.

      The study groups will undergo:

      Informed consent

      History:

      Personal: (age, duration of marriage, special habits). Menstrual history Obstetric: (parity,
      mode of delivery, fetal outcome). Present history of any medical or obstetric problems. Past
      medical and surgical history. Clinical examination : General and obstetric examination

      Calculation of Gestational Age :

      Gestational age will be calculated by adding 280 days (40weeks) to the first day of the last
      menstrual period or by ultrasound.

      Investigation:

      Lab investigation:- Complete blood count , Bleeding profile, international normalization
      ratio, liver function tests, kidney function tests

      Ultrasound:

      Ultrasound Finding:- i. Establish the presence of a living fetus. ii. Estimate the age of the
      pregnancy. iii. Diagnose congenital abnormalities of the fetus. iv. Evaluate the position of
      the fetus. v. Determine the amount of amniotic fluid around the baby. vi. Assess fetal
      growth. vii. Assess fetal well-being. viii. Evaluate the position of the placenta.

      - When the antepartum diagnosis of placenta accreta is made, it is usually based on
      ultrasound findings in the second or third trimester. Sonographic findings that may be
      suggestive of placenta accreta include:

        1. Loss of normal hypoechoic retroplacental zone.

        2. Multiple vascular lacunae (irregular vascular spaces) within placenta, giving "Swiss
           cheese" appearance.

        3. Blood vessels or placental tissue bridging uterine-placental margin, myometrial-bladder
           interface.

        4. Retroplacental myometrial thickness of <1 mm. 3 - Color Doppler criteria:

             -  Diffuse or focal lacunar flow pattern.

             -  Sonolucent vascular lakes with turbulent flow typified by high-velocity (peak
                systolic velocity>15 cm/s) and low-resistance waveform.

             -  Markedly dilated vessels over the peripheral subplacental region (6)

      Surgical Procedure:

      Preparation of the patient before surgery:

        -  Patient will shave their pubic hair , take a shower with an antiseptic soap, antibiotic
           prophylaxis and urinary catheter insertion .

        -  Caesarean section steps :

      After spinal anesthesia and skin sterilization Abdominal Incision: Pfannenstiel incision then
      cut the subcutaneous fat and rectus sheath and blunt entry into the peritoneal cavity .
    
  