
    
      AZT is known to be an effective treatment for HIV infection. However, patients may develop
      reactions to AZT when it is administered for long periods of time. Combining AZT with another
      drug at lower doses might reduce toxicity in patients and prevent the development of drug
      resistant strains. IFN-A2a can reduce the growth of HIV in test tube experiments and recent
      studies have shown that when AZT and IFN-A2a are used together they reduce the growth of HIV
      more effectively than when either drug is used alone. This study will examine the
      effectiveness and safety of these drugs when they are given together and compare these
      results with the effectiveness and safety of the drugs when they are used alone.

      AMENDED: 04-18-91 Treatment extended to 96 weeks. Patients are seen weekly for the first
      month and for the month following initiation of combination therapy (Cohorts 1, 2), then
      every other week until treatment week 48, followed by every week for the duration of the
      study. AMENDED: The doses have been modified to one of 4 total daily doses of AZT and one of
      4 daily doses of IFN-A2a. AMENDED: Total treatment period will be 48 weeks. AMENDED: 9-24-90
      Treatment will end 901214. Original Design: Before beginning any treatment, patients are
      carefully examined and evaluated. Each patient receives medication for 24 weeks, followed by
      a 4-week follow-up period. Patients are assigned randomly to one of four dosing schedules
      within one of three groups stratified according to whether or not they have ever received AZT
      and / or IFN-A2a:

        -  Group 1 receives AZT alone for 12 weeks, then AZT plus IFN-A2a for the following 12
           weeks.

        -  Group 2 receives IFN-A2a alone for 12 weeks, then IFN-A2a plus AZT for the following 12
           weeks.

        -  Group 3 receives the combination of AZT and IFN-A2a for 24 weeks. Medications are
           administered according to one of four possible daily dosing schedules of AZT plus
           IFN-A2a (increasing doses of each). AZT is taken by mouth as a capsule every 6 hours.
           IFN-A2a is given by an injection under the skin once a day. Initially, doses of IFN-A2a
           are given by one of the research staff, after which patients are taught to give their
           own injections. Patients are examined weekly for the first 4 weeks, then every other
           week until the end of the study. Patients assigned to groups receiving two drugs will be
           examined weekly again for 4 weeks when the second drug is added.
    
  