
    
      Studies have shown that healthcare professionals working at the ICU are exposed to greater
      risk of developing burnout than colleagues working in other fields of medicine (Moss, Good,
      Gozal, Kleinpell, & Sessler, 2016). It is widely suggested that moral distress, resulting
      from morally problematic situations particular for the ICU, is an important risk factor for
      burnout (Fumis, Junqueira Amarante, de Fatima Nascimento, & Vieira Junior, 2017). One
      suggested way to help caregivers mitigate moral distress is moral case deliberation. Moral
      case deliberation is a structured dialogue between healthcare providers about ethically
      problematic situations in their daily practice. It has been widely held that frequent moral
      case deliberation may help healthcare providers to better appreciate moral problems, to learn
      about their own and others' moral viewpoints, to foster a sense cohesion within their team
      and to mitigate moral distress (Haan, van Gurp, Naber, & Groenewoud, 2018). Moral case
      deliberation may particularly help professionals if it is based on professionals' own
      objectives in and experiences and expectations of moral case deliberation. It is therefore
      needed to firmly root moral case deliberation in the ICU practice together with/with the help
      of ICU-professionals (Weidema, van Dartel, & Molewijk, 2016). Healthcare professionals
      themselves are best able to evaluate, learn from and adjust the practice of moral case
      deliberation on the ICU.

      This research sets out to assess the claim that moral case deliberation can help mitigate
      moral distress among healthcare providers and as such reduce the risk of burnout. It does so
      by employing Mixed Methods Action Research (MMAR), through which the research will be
      conducted through and with ICU-professionals, creating co-ownership of moral case
      deliberation among participants. The study hopes to achieve that, instead of developing
      burnout as a consequence of moral distress, moral case deliberation will help IC
      professionals learn from morally distressing situations, potentially leading to cultural an
      organizational improvement and improvement of quality of care.

      Research questions to be answered:

        1. How does moral distress, as a supposed risk factor for burnout of IC-professionals,
           relate to other risk factors of burnout, personality, negative work-home interactions
           and the ICU context?

        2. How do IC-professionals experience preparation, participation and the impact on daily
           practice of particular moral case deliberations?

        3. Does moral case deliberation lead to a reduction of moral distress, burnout and team
           cohesion?

        4. How can IC-professionals establish cumulative learning from moral case deliberation
           throughout their department?

      Methods:

      Quantitative methods Quantitative methods will be used to assess questions 1 and 3. Survey
      data will be gathered in a stepped wedge trial. Surveys will be sent to around 450
      ICU-professionals which are nested in six ICUs, nested in two hospitals. The data thus has a
      multilevel structure (individuals in units in hospitals). The study aims for a response rate
      of 50% or higher, including more than 230 participants. This is expectation is formulated on
      the basis of the departments' experience of response rates in previous studies done in this
      population. During the trial, the different ICUs will receive the intervention in a stepwise
      manner. Within a stepped wedge design, what is randomized is the time point at which a unit
      receives the intervention. One unit starts in January 2020 and will receive the intervention
      for the full two years. Two units will start participating as of July 2020 and will then
      participate until December 2021. In January 2021, two other units will start participating.
      The last unit will receive the intervention as of July 2021 and participate for the remaining
      six months.

      Survey data will be gathered at five measurement points, after every 6 months, the first
      being a baseline measurement. The baseline measurement will take place before January 2020,
      the second measurement will take place before July 2020, the third measurement will take in
      the months preceding January 2021, the fourth measurement will take place in the months
      preceding July 2021 and the last measurement will take place in December 2021. The survey
      consists of validated measurements for burnout syndrome (UBOS-C), moral distress (MDS-R),
      work-home interaction (SWING), personality (BFI), departmental culture (Culture of Care
      Barometer) and team cohesion (a set of six questions taken from the Safety Attitudes
      Questionnaire).

      The baseline data will inspire answering research question 1. Hierarchical linear regression
      analysis will be used to assess the association between several concepts (e.g. moral
      distress, work-home interaction, personality). With hierarchical regression analysis, the
      explaining variance of moral distress on burn-out, controlled for burnout risk factors such
      as work-home interaction and personality, will be analysed. Hierarchical linear regression is
      a framework for model comparison: several regression models are built by adding variables to
      previous model at each new step and thus, later models always include the previous smaller
      models. The question is whether the newly added variable shows a significant improvement in
      the proportion of explained variance of burnout (the R2).

      The survey data gathered at all five measurement points is suited for analysis which allows
      for assessment of question 3. The data gathered in the stepped wedge design, in which
      clusters (units) are randomized, is well suited for interrupted time series analysis.
      Interrupted time series analysis is used to evaluate the effect of an intervention in
      longitudinal data. The key assumption of interrupted time series analysis of this data is
      that moral case deliberation, as an intervention, changes the pre-intervention trend of
      burnout prevalence among ICU-professionals; in other words, it assumes that the
      pre-intervention trend would continue unchanged into the post-intervention period if there
      had not been an intervention. Training, as well as the advice of an expert statistician
      (Steven Teerenstra), will be sought to gain better insight in conducting interrupted time
      series analysis.
    
  