
    
      The primary objective of this feasibility study is to determine if administration of LUM015
      will result in positive fluorescence of tumor tissue from ex vivo specimen imaging with the
      LUM Imaging device from patients undergoing radical prostatectomy for prostate cancer. Both
      normal tissue and tumor tissue will be imaged and analyzed. The LUM Imaging System is a
      portable combination product consisting of an imaging device and an imaging agent (LUM015).

      Patients with an established diagnosis of adenocarcinoma of the prostate and who are eligible
      for radical prostatectomy will be screened. Patients will be seen by their surgeon in an
      office visit and undergo routine preoperative testing within 8 weeks of their planned
      procedure. After obtaining informed consent and confirming eligibility, patients will be
      enrolled and on the day of their planned surgery, LUM015 will be administered by bolus
      intravenous injection 2-6 hours prior to surgery. This injection is the only procedure that
      will be performed on patients outside of their routine care (standard of care).

      LUM015 will be administered in a single dose between 0.5 -1.5 mg/kg in up to 9 patients. An
      additional 3 patients will not be injected with LUM015, but their specimens will undergo LUM
      imaging.

      Patients will undergo radical prostatectomy 2-6 hours after LUM015 administration. All
      surgical specimens will be sent to the pathology suite for imaging with the LUM imaging
      device and routine diagnostic assessment. Imaging will be performed on the resected
      specimens. Alternatively, specimens can also be imaged in the operating room. Imaged areas
      showing high fluorescence will be marked with ink to guide pathology evaluation and determine
      whether the area contains tumor. Samples of imaged areas showing low fluorescence signal will
      also be evaluated by pathology to determine whether the area only contains normal tissue.
      Additional resection will not be performed if a positive surgical margin is detected by
      imaging.

      Patients are expected to be admitted to the hospital for the surgical procedure and will
      remain in the hospital post-surgery per standard of care treatment. Laboratory studies will
      be performed to assess for any imaging agent related adverse events prior to hospital
      discharge and at the standard of care post-surgical follow-up visit. Patients will be
      followed through their first standard of care post-surgical visit. Additionally, patients
      will be monitored for adverse events from time of injection through the first standard of
      care post-surgical visit. Patients with adverse events that are possibly related to LUM015
      will be followed until resolution or stabilization of the adverse event.
    
  