
    
      Impaired cognitive functioning is a common feature of schizophrenia and other serious mental
      illnesses that is related to poorer psychosocial functioning and less benefit from
      psychiatric rehabilitation. Research shows that cognitive remediation for persons with
      serious mental illness improves cognitive functioning and response to psychiatric
      rehabilitation. There is also evidence that physical activity such as aerobic exercise
      confers a benefit to cognitive functioning in both clinical and general population samples.
      The cognitive benefit of exercise is hypothesized to be the result of enhanced brain-derived
      neurotrophic factor (BDNF; a protein that promotes plasticity, reduces degeneration, and
      stimulates nerve cell survival). However, the potential synergistic effects of cognitive
      remediation and exercise on cognitive functioning have not been investigated in persons with
      serious mental illness. This pilot randomized controlled trial will evaluate the impact of
      adding a peer run exercise program to a standardized cognitive remediation program on
      cognitive functioning in 30 people with schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder or bipolar
      disorder. All study participants will receive a 10-week cognitive remediation program shown
      in previous research to improve cognitive functioning. One-half (N = 15) of the participants
      will also receive a peer-led exercise program designed to promote cardiovascular fitness. The
      primary research questions addressed are: 1) Does the addition of the exercise program to
      cognitive remediation lead to greater improvements in cognitive functioning than cognitive
      remediation alone?, and, 2) Are improvements in cognitive functioning mediated (explained) by
      exercise-induced increases in BDNF? The results of this pilot study will inform the design of
      a larger, more definitive trial to evaluate the potential benefits of combining cognitive
      remediation and exercise in improving cognitive functioning and response to psychiatric
      rehabilitation.
    
  