
    
      Patients with terminal liver failure are at risk to develop postoperative acute kidney injury
      (AKI) after liver transplantation. This is associated with augmented morbidity (CRRT/HD), and
      mortality. Hypotension perioperatively is a risk factor for the development of postoperative
      AKI.

      In the investigators' study, the researchers aim to investigate the importance of the level
      of mean arterial pressure (MAP) on functional renal parameters directly after liver
      transplantation. 12 patients will be included after given informed and written consent.

      Directly after the operation, the patients stay sedated and ventilated, have reached
      normovolaemia and are in need of vasopressor for adequate blood pressure. MAP is varied using
      the vasopressor norepinephrine.

      Central hemodynamics will be measured using arterial catheter, PiCCO and a central vein
      catheter.

      Renal data measures (RBF (renal blood flow), RPF (renal plasma flow), FF (filtration
      fraction), GFR (glomerular filtration rate), RVR (renal vascular resistance), Arterial-renal
      vein oxygen content difference, RVO2 (renal oxygen consumption), and RO2extr (Renal oxygen
      extraction)), are conducted via a renal vein thermodilution catheter: A 8-Fr catheter is
      introduced into the left or right renal vein, via the right femoral vein under fluoroscopic
      guidance, position being confirmed by venography using ultra-low doses of iohexol.

      After the collection of blood and urine blanks, an intravenous priming dose of chromium
      ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (51Cr-EDTA) is given, followed by an infusion at a constant
      rate, individualized to BSA and preoperative serum creatinine. Serum 51Cr-EDTA activity from
      arterial and renal vein blood is measured using a well counter. FF is measured as extraction
      of Cr-EDTA.

      After one hour and two control measurements and urine/blood sampling on baseline MAP 75 mmHg,
      the investigators will randomise to continue to MAP 90 mmHg or 60 mmHg reached by altering
      the infusion rate of norepinephrine. Measurements, blood sampling and urine collection
      according to the above description, are performed after 30 min at each level, finishing at 75
      mmHg with two control measurements with 30 mins in between.
    
  