
    
      This study will have a randomized, nonconcurrent A-B multiple baseline design across
      subjects. The purpose of this study will be to investigate the immediate effects of the P-AA
      intervention on habitual head deviation from midline, active head rotation range of motion
      (ROM), and functional use of both sides of the body in infants with CMT.

      The participants will be 3 infants with CMT, aged birth to 9 months, recruited from a private
      pediatric physical therapy (PT) practice. Baseline and intervention data will be collected 5
      days per week, Monday through Friday, until the study is completed. The length of the
      baseline phase will be randomly assigned to each consecutively enrolled participant. The
      appropriate measurements will be taken at every baseline phase session but no intervention
      will be provided until the intervention phase is initiated. The intervention phase will
      include 5 daily PT sessions during which the P-AA intervention will be used, with outcome
      data collected at the end of each session. Additionally, the participants' therapy-related
      behavior during intervention sessions will be documented.

      Measurements of still photos and scoring of video recordings to evaluate the participants'
      habitual head deviation from midline and functional use of both sides of the body for
      movement and play will be performed by an assessor blind to the timing of when the photos and
      videos are obtained within the study. The active head rotation ROM measurements and
      assessment of therapy-related behavior will be performed by the treating therapists.

      Prior to initiating this research, a pilot reliability study will be conducted for all
      outcome measures. A total of 3 to 5 infants will be recruited for the pilot project.

      Fidelity of intervention will be evaluated during the pilot study using a checklist. During
      the main study, intervention adherence will be assessed by tracking attendance, session
      duration, and intervention frequency.
    
  