
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability and to determine the dose-limiting toxicity and
      the maximum tolerated dose MTD of the combination of fludarabine, cytarabine, filgrastim
      (GCSF), idarubicin (FLAG-IDA) + venetoclax for patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML)
      (Phase 1b).

      II. To determine the overall activity of this combination in patients newly diagnosed or
      relapsed/refractory (AML) (Phase 2).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the preliminary assessment of efficacy by response to revised International
      Working Group (IWG) criteria and time to response variables including overall survival (OS),
      event-free survival (EFS) and duration of response (DOR).

      II. Determine biomarkers that may be predictive of venetoclax activity.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of venetoclax followed by a phase II study.

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive venetoclax orally (PO) on days 1-14, fludarabine
      intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 2-6, cytarabine IV over 4 hours on days 2-6,
      idarubicin IV over 15-30 minutes on days 4 and 5, filgrastim subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-7,
      or pegfilgrastim SC after day 5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients receive venetoclax PO on days 1-7, fludarabine IV over 30
      minutes on days 2-4, cytarabine IV over 4 hours on days 2-4, filgrastim SC on days 1-7, or
      pegfilgrastim SC after days 3. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may also receive idarubicin
      as in Induction Therapy during 1 cycle of Consolidation Therapy per the treating physician.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive venetoclax PO on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days
      for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up within 30 days.
    
  