
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Blood pressure has a continuous unimodal distribution in the general population. Individuals
      with levels elevated above the 80th percentile suffer from hypertension, a major cause of
      cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Over 95 percent of hypertensives have no other
      primary disease and are said to have essential hypertension. Pedigree and twin studies
      indicate that genetic differences account for a large fraction of the interindividual
      variation in blood pressure. In 1984 when the study began, no genetic loci had yet been
      identified that were useful markers for essential hypertension or served as probes into the
      biological basis for interindividual blood pressure variability. Environmental factors also
      influence blood pressure; increased dietary intake of sodium chloride, in particular,
      elevates blood pressure and may contribute to the development of essential hypertension in
      some people. It was hypothesized that genetically determined alterations in the metabolism of
      sodium ion occur in a subset of the population that is at increased liability to develop
      elevated blood pressure upon exposure to the usual range of dietary sodium intake

      Reports of altered sodium transport in the red blood cells of individuals with essential
      hypertension and their offspring stimulated interest in this hypothesis. Several proposals
      were offered to explain how alterations in sodium transport similar to those observed in red
      blood cells could lead to elevated blood pressure when present in the renal tubules or
      vascular smooth muscle. Studies of the sodium-lithium countertransport system indicated that
      red blood cell sodium transport pathways may provide informative phenotypes that relate blood
      pressure and essential hypertension more closely with genetic factors.

      Numerous laboratories have confirmed that the maximal rate of sodium-lithium countertransport
      is increased in red blood cells from individuals with essential hypertension. The
      sodium-lithium countertransport is normal in secondary forms of hypertension and increased
      levels in essential hypertension cannot be attributed to age, body size, gender or dietary
      salt intake. The highest levels are observed in individuals with a positive family history of
      essential hypertension and the lowest levels occur in normotensive controls without
      hypertensive relatives.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      When the study began in 1984, the objective was to determine whether genetic alterations in
      pathways of sodium transport in the red blood cells of children could predict their risk of
      developing primary hypertension in adulthood. Approximately 600 children between 7 and 18
      years of age were randomly selected as index cases for family studies. Each participating
      member of the pedigrees studied underwent venipuncture for withdrawal of whole blood. A
      medical history was obtained from each family member visiting the clinic and a physical
      examination was conducted. Existing medical records for all living and deceased adult
      relatives in the 600 pedigrees were reviewed. In addition, 40 normotensive adult members of
      300 pedigrees underwent metabolic balance and renal clearance studies, as well as ambulatory
      blood pressure recordings. Segregation analysis of pedigree data was carried out to determine
      the most likely mode for genetic transmission of the sodium-lithium counter-transport
      phenotype. Baseline genetic information about sodium-lithium was related to the prevalence of
      primary hypertension in the families of index children. Additional phenotypes involved in
      blood pressure regulation were also studied including renal proximal tubular sodium
      reabsorption, atrial natriuretic peptide, sodium-potassium adenosinetriphosphate pump, and
      sodium-potassium cotransport.

      The study was renewed several times, the last in 1992 to continue work on the genetic basis
      of interindividual variation in risk of essential hypertension in the population at large
      using the Rochester Family Heart Study (RFHS). The RFHS was used to address three major
      questions: 1) Which intermediate biochemical, physiological, and anthropomorphic traits
      predicted blood pressure and contributed to the pathogenesis of essential hypertension 2) Did
      allelic variation in one or more genes have large effects on any of these intermediate
      traits? 3) Did information about allelic variation improve prediction of risk of essential
      hypertension beyond what was provided by measure of the intermediate traits?

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  