
    
      AIM:

      The aim of this study is to determine the prevalence of myocardial injury in gastrointestinal
      surgery patients and to establish baseline data to allow evaluation of the potential benefit
      of RIPC (remote ischemic preconditioning) in these patients

      Significance:

      In available literature was one study including 51 patients that focused on postoperative
      arrhythmias in colorectal surgery . We think this study is important to establish more
      specifically the prevalence of myocardial injury in this cohort of patients so we can measure
      in our future research if RIPC or any other protective method could produce significant
      effect.

      Study Design:

      Prospective Observational cohort Study

      Study Objectives:

      To determine the prevalence of myocardial injury in patients undergoing gastrointestinal
      surgery

      Patients and Locations:

      Patients older than 18 years undergoing major resectional gastrointestinal surgery in Galway
      University Hospitals (UCHG, Mayo university Hospital), The Midland Regional Hospital,
      Tullamore and Letterkenny University Hospital will be asked to join the study and will
      considered eligible after informed consent and information handouts provided.

      Protocol:

      After informed consent patients' pre-op demographic data, co-morbidities, bloods including
      troponin and ECG will be recorded. Serum troponin levels will be measured daily for the first
      72 hours and a 12-lead electrocardiogram will be performed at 48 hours post-surgery. There
      will be 1 year flow up for candidates

      Data Handling:

      The data for each hospital will be kept locally and patients will be allocated numbers for
      later data analysis. The pooled data will be analyzed using a secure computer in an NUI
      Galway research facility building. No patients' name or any other identifier will be
      associated with this data except for their study number assigned earlier

      Primary Outcome:

      Prevalence of myocardial injury by comparing pre and post-op troponin and ECGs. The diagnosis
      of myocardial injury will be determined by a cardiologist after examining troponin and ECGs
      results using SAVES trial criteria (5).

      Perioperative Myocardial injury will include silent myocardial infarctions as determined by
      the study cardiologist upon examination of study ECGs and troponin results. The diagnosis of
      a myocardial injury will require the presence of at least two of the following:

        1. Characteristic ischemic symptoms lasting at least 20 minutes

        2. Electrocardiographic changes including acute ST elevation followed by the appearance of
           Q waves or the loss of R waves, the development of new left bundle branch block, new
           persistent T wave inversion lasting at least 24 hours or new ST segment depression
           persisting over 24 hours

        3. Positive troponin above normal range (0-14)

        4. New-onset arrhythmia (ventricular or supraventricular tachycardia or fibrillation) with
           an associated rise in troponin levels

        5. Alternatively, myocardial injury will be recorded if the patient develops sudden
           unexpected cardiac death involving cardiac arrest with symptoms suggestive of myocardial
           ischemia and accompanied by presumably new ST elevation or new left bundle branch block
           and/or fresh thrombus on coronary angiography and/or at post-mortem, but death occurring
           before blood samples could be obtained or at a time before the appearance of cardiac
           troponin I or T in the blood.

      Other Data:

        -  Age

        -  Gender

        -  Procedure type

        -  Renal Profile (Renal impairment will be consider when interpreting Troponin values)

        -  ECG

        -  Ethnicity

        -  Diabetes

        -  BP

        -  History of Cardiac event

        -  Other Comorbidities

        -  Smoking history

        -  NYHA classification (New York Heart Association )

        -  Medication at time of consent (Blood pressure and heart rate control medications)

      Exclusion Criteria

        -  Documented Pre-op Myocardium Injury

        -  Refused or unable to give informed consent

        -  Laparoscopic fundoplication

        -  Laparoscopic cholecystectomy surgery

        -  Appendectomy surgery

        -  Hernia repair surgery

      Sample Size:

      This is a prospective study to determine the incidence of myocardial injury in
      gastrointestinal surgical patients. There are no existing data upon which to base a sample
      size calculation. We estimate that data from 100 patients should provide a sufficient sample
      size to generate a reasonably robust incidence estimate. However, if the included centers
      recruit more patients they will be included in our analysis

      Statistical Analysis:

      Statsdirect will be used for analysis of the study results Budget No additional budget for
      the study will be needed as tests required routinely requested within the study clinical
      setting. The analysis and management of the study will be performed by clinical research
      fellow funded by National University of Ireland Galway

      Conflict of interest:

      Study team declare no conflict of interest
    
  