
    
      A deficit in cognitive suppression is a trait of patients with schizophrenia. Cognitive
      suppression is the ability to control or suppress irrelevant information and to adopt
      relevant responses instead. This ability is a basic skill which is essential to maintain a
      normal well-adjusted life. We need to suppress distracting information in order to focus
      attention, to suppress irrelevant cues in order to retrieve particular memories, and to
      suppress habitual responses in order to make adaptive choices (Dillon & Pizzagalli, 2007).
      The purpose of this study is to investigate the effects of transcranial direct current
      stimulation (tDCS) on information suppression in schizophrenic patients. This is a
      noninvasive technique of brain stimulation that induces prolonged functional changes in the
      cerebral cortex through the application of a weak direct current to the scalp (Nitsche &
      Paulus, 2001; Nitsche et al., 2003, 2004; Antal et al., 2004). The aim of this study is to
      test whether anodal and cathodal tDCS differentially modify performance on several cognitive
      tasks when applied to the left/right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC).

      Sixty patients will be divided into four groups: 1) 15 schizophrenic subjects in a tDCS
      treatment group; 2) 15 schizophrenic subjects in a sham tDCS group; 3) 15 healthy subjects in
      a tDCS treatment group; 4) 15 healthy subjects in a sham tDCS group. All participants will
      complete baseline tests including an n-back test, the Hayling test and metaphoric
      comprehension test. The schizophrenic subjects only, will complete a bank of cognitive tests
      as a baseline (MATRICS Consensus Cognitive Battery (MCCB). The first meeting for the
      schizophrenic subjects only will be used to determine the best stimulation area (right/left
      DLPFC) and type (anodal/ cathodal). Schizophrenic subjects in both the treatment and the
      control groups will undergo six treatment sessions in total. The cognitive tests will be
      given to all participants once again at the end of the study. In order to evaluate
      improvement between the pre-test and the post-test, differences in reaction times and error
      rate will be calculated for each participant.

      This study is important for few reasons. First, this study focus on the difficulty of
      suppressing irrelevant information, executive function ability essential to leading a normal
      life. Special populations, and specifically people with schizophrenia, have difficulty
      suppressing irrelevant information, and a correlation has been noted between this
      characteristic and weak executive functioning capabilities. In this study we evaluate the
      potential of minimizing these difficulties through use of tDCS. This particular tool was
      chosen for the study because it is easy to use, non-invasive, and painless. Research has
      shown that tDCS stimulation of the DLPFC can improve performance in cognitive tasks, a result
      that has not been mirrored through use of medications. Second, in recognition of the
      heterogeneity of schizophrenic patients (substantiated by the fact that the success of other
      treatments varies from patient to patient), our study will perform tests to identify the
      preferred stimulation region, DLPFC left/right. The results will help determine more
      specifically if there is a degree of heterogeneity in terms of the region responsible for
      suppressing irrelevant information . Related to this, we will be able to assess the impact of
      stimulation, including whether or not stimulation benefits all schizophrenic patients or,
      alternatively, if there are unknown variables involved which determine the relative success
      of this treatment amongst individuals. In addition, we will be able to explore differences or
      correlations between healthy subjects' verbal abilities in relation to the various tests
      conducted, and assess the impact of these tests on healthy subjects' cognitive inhibition and
      working memory. Finally, this study is critical because if the treatment method proves to be
      successful, we would be able to extend this study to other populations that have difficulties
      with executive functioning, and in addition, to examine the effect of electrical stimulation
      on other cognitive abilities.
    
  