
    
      HIV is most commonly transmitted via a mucosal surface. The mucosal lining is a potential
      site of both humoral and cellular protection through the activity of B lymphocytes, activated
      memory T lymphocytes, secretory IgA, and antigen presenting cells. In addition to systemic
      immunity, a preventive HIV vaccine should induce immune responses at the mucosal surfaces
      that are portals of HIV entry into the body.

      Targeted lymph node immunization involves vaccine injection into the subcutaneous tissue near
      a lymph node. This strategy has proven effective in the simian immunodeficiency virus
      (SIV)/rhesus macaque model. The iliac and inguinal lymph nodes in the groin are the primary
      draining lymph nodes of the genitourinary and rectal tracts. This study will evaluate and
      compare the safety and immunogenicity of ALVAC-HIV (vCP205) when administered subcutaneously
      in the groin and intramuscularly in the deltoid region. ALVAC-HIV (vCP205) is a canarypox
      virus vector vaccine expressing portions of the gp120, Gag, and Pol genes.

      Participants in this study will be randomly assigned to receive vaccine or placebo injections
      in the groin area or the upper arm. All participants will have three baseline visits for
      blood tests and sigmoidoscopies to measure baseline immune functions. After these visits,
      participants will receive weekly injections for 4 weeks. Groin injections will be given
      subcutaneously (under the skin) and upper arm injections will be given intramuscularly (into
      the muscle). Participants will have follow-up visits 5 and 11 months after the last
      immunization. Participants will have blood draws and sigmoidoscopies and will receive HIV
      risk reduction counseling throughout the study. Total length of participation will be
      approximately 14 months. Participants may continue to contact the study for HIV testing and
      study-related concerns for 1 year after study participation.
    
  