
    
      The Covid-19 viral pandemic has caused significant global losses and disruption to all
      aspects of society (including health, education, and business and economic security). One of
      the major difficulties in controlling the spread of this coronavirus has been the delayed and
      mild (or lack of) presentation of symptoms in infected individuals. Moreover, there is
      insufficient Covid-19 testing capacity in the UK, and only moderate accuracy of such tests at
      confirming coronavirus infection. Together, these obstacles have led to countless unknown
      coronavirus cases going unobserved and fuelling the viral spread in the population, by
      compromising the stringency of self- isolation measures undertaken by infected individuals
      who may have otherwise curbed or prevented their transmission of the virus. The profound and
      widespread cost of the continuing Covid-19 progression, coinciding with the lack of testing
      capacity, warrants the development of alternative diagnostic tools that reliably assess
      Covid-19 infection in the early stages of infection, while also being low- cost, low-burden,
      and easily administered to a wide proportion of the population.

      The free symptom-monitoring app 'Covid Symptom Study' was launched in mid-March by health
      technology start-up Zoe Global Ltd, and is currently being used in the UK, US and Sweden,
      with more than 2.7 million users in the UK alone who use the app to self-report their
      Covid-19 symptoms. Upon registering to use the app, users are asked to report demographic and
      phenotypic data such as age, sex, BMI, ethnicity, contact with infected individuals (through
      a healthcare professional capacity), smoking behaviour, existing health conditions, among
      other information. From then on, users are asked to report, on a daily basis, their
      presentation of symptoms attributable to Covid-19 (or lack thereof) through the use of
      app-administered questionnaires, thus enabling real-time tracking of disease progression
      across the UK. The app also allows users to report their Covid-19 test results, thus enabling
      the development of prediction algorithms based solely on self-reported user data to predict
      the presence of infection in untested users.

      On behalf of Zoe Global Ltd, the UK Department of Health and Social Care with support from
      the UK's Chief Scientific Advisor has committed to test up to 10,000 app-users per week for
      infection with SARS-CoV-2 across England and Northern Ireland, for the purpose of rapidly
      improving the accuracy of symptom-based predictions. Similar testing allowance may follow in
      Scotland and Wales.

      Symptomatic app-users will be asked to get tested for SARS-CoV-2 infection, using the popular
      swab and qRT-PCR technique, and asked to report their test results in the app, while
      continuing to log their symptoms.

      This validation study, conducted at King's College London, aims to validate the sensitivity
      and specificity of machine learning models as a diagnostic tool that predicts infection with
      SARS-CoV-2 based on app-reported symptoms and phenotypic data, against the 'gold-standard'
      swab PCR-test, by utilising the Covid Symptom Study app as a research platform.

      It is hypothesised that by training the symptom-based models using swab test results and
      through multiple model iterations following continuous data input from reporting and tested
      app users, predictions of infection will be made with considerable accuracy, thus enabling
      the Covid Symptom Study app to be used as a diagnostic tool that alleviates the strain of
      testing capacity in the UK while being easily accessible and posing low user burden.

      Study Design:

      Due to the rapidly developing and uncertain duration and intensity of the Covid-19 pandemic,
      the present study design is prospective and one that enables regular iteration on prediction
      models and continuous accumulation of validation data. The study consists of a series of
      phases, each lasting 14 days. Before the start of each phase (day 0), a set of machine
      learning models will be frozen and submitted for validation on data collected during this and
      subsequent phases.

      Machine learning algorithms improve with increasing data. Therefore, validation phases will
      continue as long as tests are available and app users consent to joining the study. Due to
      the uncertainty around the progression of UK infection rates, the validation study will be
      continue whilst it is of value to public health.

      A detailed statistical analysis plan is described in the document attached to this record. A
      record of all machine learning models used for validation will be regularly updated on GitHub
      (https://github.com/zoe/covid-validation-study).
    
  