
    
      Patients with peritoneal surface malignancy from gastrointestinal (GI) cancers almost
      uniformly succumb to advanced locoregional disease in the form of intractable ascites,
      malignant visceral obstruction and cancer cachexia. The natural history of peritoneal
      carcinomatosis from GI malignancies is inexorably lethal with median overall survival of
      approximately 5 months 7, as patients with disease confined to the peritoneum remain at
      increased risk of synchronous occult hematogenous metastases. While systemic therapy improves
      outcome in patients with hematogenous disease spread, improvements are needed in the control
      of peritoneal surface malignancy, which is known to be relatively resistant to systemic
      agents owing principally to the presence of a peritoneal-plasma partition. Moreover, the
      results of surgical resection alone for peritoneal dissemination of GI cancer have been
      disappointing given the difficulty in clearing surgically all microscopic disease foci. The
      infusion of chemotherapy into the peritoneal cavity provides distinct pharmacokinetic
      advantages. The addition of hyperthermia potentiates the effect of intra-peritoneal
      chemotherapy through anti-tumor synergism, without systemic drug absorption.

      Mitomycin- C is the cytotoxic agent of choice for this purpose, one that has been studied
      most extensively for hyperthermic intra-peritoneal chemotherapy in patients with peritoneal
      carcinomatosis of gastrointestinal origin. Mitomycin- C has also been shown to demonstrate
      consistent pharmacokinetics, favorable toxicity profile, and hyperthermia-facilitated tumor
      cytotoxicity, which is enhanced under conditions of tumor hypoxia; furthermore, Mitomycin- C
      contributes to improved outcomes after optimal cytoreduction. Hence, the delivery of
      intra-peritoneal heated chemotherapy has the advantage of dose-dense regional delivery of
      cytotoxic agents with relatively little systemic toxicity. Current clinical experience
      suggests that adding cytoreductive surgery and hyperthermic intra-peritoneal chemotherapy to
      modern systemic chemotherapy regimens may significantly improve oncological outcomes.

      The Montefiore-Einstein Center for Cancer Care has an on-going cooperative Cancer
      Bio-specimen Repository and correlative/translational research program to identify prognostic
      factors for patients with malignant tumors, as well as factors predictive of response to and
      toxicity of treatment. To support this important scientific work, tissue block submission
      [primary tumor and peritoneal surface malignancy] along with serum specimens will be
      mandatory for all patients providing informed consent for bio-specimen submission so that
      complete tissue microarrays (TMA) may be studied. These inquiries will establish molecular
      profiles of biomarkers of prognostic and predictive value in patients with gastrointestinal
      carcinomatosis undergoing treatment in the context of this trial.

      The primary endpoint for analysis is to evaluate the technical parameters including
      completeness of cytoreduction, achievement of hyperthermia, morbidity and mortality in
      patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis undergoing CRS and HIPEC with Mitomycin- C. Patients
      who have satisfied the inclusion criteria will be taken to the operating room for exploration
      and cytoreductive surgery. We will record the completeness of cytoreduction (CC 0 - CC 3) as
      described below. Complete cytoreduction will be defined as a CC 0 or CC 1. Ability to achieve
      adequate hyperthermia will be defined as target intraperitoneal temperature of 41-43º C.
      Adverse events will be assessed through enrollment following study treatment. The severity of
      adverse events will be evaluated using NCI-CTCAE version 4. Adverse events which are assessed
      as possibly, probably, or definitely related to study treatment will be followed until the AE
      is resolved or the subject is clinically stable. Other safety data including physical
      examinations, vital signs, hematology, clinical chemistry, and urinalysis will be collected
      from time of informed consent signed up through subject discontinuation or 12 months after
      initial study treatment, whichever occurs first.

      For every multi-modality (CRS-HIPEC) case, the following will be required in the context of
      this clinical trial:

        1. Patient eligibility for the trial will be determined and cross-sectional imaging
           reviewed;

        2. Pre-operative Peritoneal Cancer Index (PCI) score will be determined by CT and/or
           laparoscopy;

        3. Cytoreductive surgery will be undertaken involving any or all of the six principal
           peritonectomy procedures, based on volume and distribution of peritoneal surface
           disease, at the surgeon's discretion, in an effort to achieve complete resection of all
           grossly apparent peritoneal surface disease. Intraoperative PCI will be determined at
           the beginning of cytoreductive surgery;

        4. Heated intra-operative intra-peritoneal chemotherapy will be delivered;

        5. At the completion of the perfusion, the abdomen will be re-explored, residual fluid
           aspirated and reconstruction completed if not already completed prior to HIPEC;

        6. Post resection PCI will be determined and completeness of cytoreduction will be
           estimated and using the CC and RR systems defined above in section 5.2;

        7. Intra-peritoneal tubes and drains will be placed and the incision will be left open or
           closed in the usual fashion at the surgeon's discretion;

      5.4 Surgical quality assurance and control (QA/QC)

      5.4.1 Surgical QA/QC strategy

      For every multi-modality (CRS-HIPEC) case, the following will be required in the context of
      this clinical trial:

        1. Patient eligibility for the trial will be determined and cross-sectional imaging
           reviewed;

        2. Pre-operative PCI score will be determined by CT and/or laparoscopy;

        3. Cytoreductive surgery will be undertaken involving any or all of the six principal
           peritonectomy procedures, based on volume and distribution of peritoneal surface
           disease, at the surgeon's discretion, in an effort to achieve complete resection of all
           grossly apparent peritoneal surface disease. Intraoperative PCI will be determined at
           the beginning of cytoreductive surgery;

        4. Heated intra-operative intra-peritoneal chemotherapy will be delivered;

        5. At the completion of the perfusion, the abdomen will be re-explored, residual fluid
           aspirated and reconstruction completed if not already completed prior to HIPEC;

        6. Post resection PCI will be determined and completeness of cytoreduction will be
           estimated and using the CC and RR systems defined above in section 5.2;

        7. Intra-peritoneal tubes and drains will be placed and the incision will be left open or
           closed in the usual fashion at the surgeon's discretion; 5.5 Supportive care All
           appropriate supportive care for any side effects or toxicity will be provided by the
           physicians in the Montefiore-Einstein Center for Cancer Care of Montefiore Medical
           Center. Patients may be admitted as necessary to manage issues related to study
           treatment procedure.

      7.1 Definitions for adverse event reporting Adverse event (AE) assessment, data collection
      and reporting will be done to ensure the safety of patients enrolled in this study. Adverse
      events secondary to both cytoreductive surgery and the utilization of intraperitoneal
      chemotherapy will be monitored closely, recorded appropriately and reported as required. The
      descriptions and grading scales found in the revised NCI Common Terminology Criteria for
      Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 will be utilized for AE reporting. All appropriate
      treatment areas should have access to a copy of the CTCAE version 4.0. A copy of the CTCAE
      version 4.0 can be downloaded from the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP) web site
      (http://ctep.cancer.gov).

      Timely reporting of serious and unexpected adverse events will be conducted throughout the
      trial period. Only commercial agents (not provided under IND) will be utilized in this study.
      The study subject will be informed of the indications, nature, alternatives, expected
      outcome, risks and benefits of all procedures and therapies provided in the context of this
      study. Clearly, there are potential, foreseeable risks or discomforts to participants in this
      study. Detailed information on adverse events or complications, which may be related to HIPEC
      or operative procedures provided in this trial, will be collected during the course of the
      study.

      The CTEP CTCAE version 4.0 will be used to identify the type, and to grade the severity of
      adverse events in this trial. An adverse event will be considered a Serious Adverse Event
      (SAE) if that event led to death, resulted in a life-threatening illness or injury, resulted
      in permanent impairment of a body structure or body function, required inpatient
      hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, or resulted in medical or
      surgical intervention to prevent permanent impairment to body structure or body function.

      An Unanticipated Adverse Event (UAE) will be considered any serious adverse effect on health
      or safety or any life-threatening problem or death caused by, or associated with, the
      commercial agent and/or surgical procedure, if that effect, problem, or death is not
      identified in nature, severity, or degree of incidence in this investigational plan or any
      other unanticipated serious problem associated with the commercial agent and/or operation
      that relates to the rights, safety, or welfare of the subjects participating in this study.

      7.2 Adverse event assessment The severity type and grade of the adverse events will be
      identified using the NCI CTCAE, Version 4.0. Attribution/treatment relation of adverse events
      will be defined by the study doctor as Unrelated, Unlikely, Possible, Probable, or Definite.

      An adverse event is defined as any unfavorable and unintended sign, including an abnormal
      laboratory finding, symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of an
      investigational product, whether or not related to the investigational product. This includes
      any occurrence that was new in onset or aggravated in severity or frequency from the baseline
      condition. Adverse events (AEs) assessments will begin at time of signing of informed consent
      and will continue until 30 days following study treatment. AEs which are assessed as
      possibly, probably, or definitely related to study treatment must be followed until the AE is
      resolved or until the patient is clinically stable. Other safety assessments, including
      physical examinations, vital signs, hematology, clinical chemistry, and urinalysis, will be
      done through subject discontinuation or 12 months after initial study treatment, whichever
      occurs first.

      The condition which is detected by the diagnostic procedure conducted to test the efficacy of
      the investigational agent is not considered an AE.

      Symptoms or clinically significant laboratory or instrumental abnormalities of a pre-existing
      disease, such as cancer or other disease should not be considered an AE. However, occurrence
      of new symptoms or laboratory or instrumental abnormalities, as well as worsening of
      pre-existing ones, is considered AEs.

      Abnormal results of diagnostic procedures, including laboratory test abnormalities, are
      considered adverse events if they result in:

        -  Discontinuation from the study.

        -  Treatment or any other therapeutic intervention.

        -  Further diagnostic evaluation (excluding a repetition of the same procedure to confirm
           the abnormality).

        -  Associated clinical signs or symptoms that would have a significant clinical impact, as
           determined by the Investigator.

      Any untoward medical event that occurs from the time of signed informed consent to the time
      immediately prior to the first study treatment procedure will be reported as a "pre-treatment
      event" in the Medical History case report form (CRF).

      All adverse events that occur following study treatment will be documented on the AE CRF with
      indications of onset, duration, severity (NCI CTCAEs), presumed relationship to study
      procedure /medication (not related, unlikely, possibly, probably, definitely), remedial
      actions taken, and outcome.

      Surgical complications will be defined as secondary events deviating from the ideal course of
      convalescence that occurred during or following the operation, resulting in changes in
      management (diagnostic or therapeutic intervention) and delay in complete recovery and/or
      adjuvant therapy, or chronic disability.

      Surgical complications will be scored according to a five-tier surgical morbidity and
      mortality scale (according to the intensity of therapy required for the treatment of the
      defined complication):

      Grade Intensity of Treatment

        1. Oral medications (e.g. oral antibiotics for surgical site infection or bedside care)

        2. Intravenous medications or nutrition (e.g. antiarrhythmic therapy for supraventricular
           tachycardia)

        3. Endoscopy, interventional radiology or reoperation (e.g. operative drainage of an
           abscess)

        4. Chronic disability or major organ resection (e.g. reduction in performance status
           following post respiratory failure)

        5. Death 7.3 Expedited Reporting of Adverse Events

           Expedited adverse event reporting for patients receiving commercial agents is required
           for:

             -  All Grade 4 and 5 unexpected adverse events that are possibly, probably or
                definitely related to therapy.

             -  All Grade 5 adverse events, regardless of attribution, occurring within 30 days of
                the end of therapy

           Expedited adverse event reporting will NOT be required for the following:

           • Adverse events related to surgery

             -  Adverse events related to radiation

             -  Adverse events that occur following the first cancer recurrence or second primary
                cancer development 7.4 Routine Reporting of Adverse Events All Grade 3-5 AEs must
                be recorded on the appropriate data form. Expedited reporting is in addition to,
                and does not supplant, the reporting of AEs as part of the data submission
                requirements for the study.

           Adverse events will be categorized by body system (such as cardiovascular-related,
           renal-related, etc.) and will be reported to the Montefiore institutional review board
           (IRB) as required by the IRB.

           Any serious event, including death from any cause that occurs through 30 days following
           study treatment, whether or not related to the investigational drug, must be reported to
           PI immediately (within 24 hours) via telephone, fax, or e-mail. If initially reported
           via telephone or e-mail, this must be followed-up by a written faxed report to be
           submitted within 24 hours of the initial report.

           Initial Reports

           Within 24 hours of the investigator's knowledge of a serious adverse event:

           • Complete a Serious Adverse Event Report Form (SAER), sign it, and fax it to the PI.

             -  Place the initial version of SAER in the subject's file.

           Follow-Up Reports

           New information received spontaneously or by request of the Medical Monitor or Safety
           Surveillance. Within 48 hours of the receipt of new information:

           • Complete a new SAER with the new information. Sign and fax the form to PI.

           • Fax copies of supporting documents (e.g., hospital discharge summaries, lab test
           results with normal ranges, autopsy or biopsy reports) to PI.

             -  Place the follow-up version of the SAE and all supporting documentation in the
                subject's file.

           Final Report

           Within 48 hours of the receipt of final information:

           • Determine that there is no further information available and this update may be
           considered final.

             -  Complete a new SAER form with the new and final information. Sign and fax the form
                to PI. As above, send copies of any additional supporting information.

             -  Place this version of the final SAER into the subject's file.

           It is imperative that IRB be informed within 24 hours of a serious adverse experience so
           that reporting to the FDA can be met within the required time frame (7 or 15 calendar
           days).

           Because of the need to report to health authorities all serious adverse experiences in a
           timely manner, it is vitally important that an Investigator report immediately any
           adverse experiences, which would be considered serious, even if the Investigator does
           not consider the adverse experience to be clinically significant or drug-related.

           Should the Investigator become aware of an SAE (regardless of relationship to study
           treatment) that occurs while the subject is on the study, the SAE must be reported in
           accordance with the procedures specified in this protocol.

           If the subject is withdrawn less than 30 days after study treatment, any SAEs which
           occur within 30 days after study treatment must be reported in accordance with the
           procedures specified in this protocol.

           All serious adverse events that are assessed as possibly, probably, or definitely
           related to study treatment are to be followed until either: the adverse event resolves,
           the adverse event stabilizes, the adverse event returns to baseline values (if a
           baseline value is available), or it is shown that the adverse event is not attributable
           to the study treatment or study conduct.

           8.1 Bio-specimen collection

           Collection and submission of primary tumor (in cases of synchronous disease), peritoneal
           surface malignancy, peritoneal cytology and perfusate, and serum samples are required
           for patients who consent to participation in the correlative science studies.

           Frozen tumor tissue or tumor tissue (primary cancer and peritoneal surface) blocks,
           peritoneal fluid for cytology, peritoneal perfusate and serum samples will be used for
           correlative science studies described below. Patients also may consent to storage of
           unused samples for future research. Analysis results will not be reported to the study
           subject and will not have any impact on how the study subject is treated and followed on
           protocol.

           The tumor samples, peritoneal fluid washings and perfusate samples will be processed by
           Cancer Bio-specimen Repository (CBSR) in accordance with routine tissue banking policy
           which includes:

           • Safeguards to address medical-legal concerns of submitting pathologists

           • Quality control of storage and sectioning of tissue and tissue blocks

           • Quality assurance of stored/sectioned tissue and tissue blocks

           • Scientific review process for utilization of human biological specimens in CBSR
           approved protocols.

           The CBSR core laboratory is affiliated with Einstein-Montefiore Institute for Clinical
           and Translational Research (ICTR) and is located at

           9.0 ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS 9.1 IRB review The study will be conducted in the Montefiore
           Medical Center, in compliance with Title 21 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR),
           Part 50 (Protection of Human Subjects), and Part 56 (Institutional Review Board) as well
           as the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and its amendments. The Montefiore
           Institutional Review Board (IRB) will review the protocol and informed consent. The
           study will not be initiated without IRB approval. All subjects will be required to give
           written informed consent prior to participation in the study. This study will be
           performed in accordance with Good Clinical Practices (GCP) by qualified Investigators.

           The study specifically incorporates the following features:

             -  Single arm study design

             -  Prospectively stated objectives and analytical plan

             -  Accepted, pre-specified outcome measures for safety and efficacy

             -  Compliance with Good Clinical Practices (GCP), with assessment via regular
                monitoring.

           Quality assurance procedures will be performed to assure that safety and efficacy data
           were adequate and well documented.

           In order to maintain patient confidentiality, all case report forms, study reports and
           communications relating to the study will identify subjects by initials and assigned
           subject numbers; subjects should not be identified by name. In accordance with local,
           national or federal regulations, the Investigator will allow the personnel of data
           monitoring committee access to all pertinent medical records in order to verify the data
           gathered on the case report forms. Regulatory agencies such as the US Food and Drug
           Administration (FDA) may also request access to all study records, including source
           documentation for inspection. Clinical information will not be released without the
           written permission of the subject as outlined in the subject consent form.

           Researchers will ensure the confidentiality of the information gathered in the study by
           using following methods:

             -  Paper based records will be kept in a secured location and only accessible to
                personnel involved in the study.

             -  All study data will be kept in locked file cabinets and password protected files.

             -  Computer based files will only be made available to personnel involved in the study
                through the use of access privileges and passwords.

             -  Prior to accessing any study-related information, personnel will be required to
                sign statements agreeing to protect the security and confidentiality of
                identifiable health information.

             -  Whenever feasible, identifiers will be removed from study-related information.

      10. STATISTICAL CONSIDERATION 10.1 Sample size

      The target number of patients proposed for this protocol is based on our primary objective,
      assessing completeness of cytoreduction. The achievement of hyperthermia as well as
      postoperative morbidity and mortality will be important factors at the interim analysis also.
      The latent goal is to utilize these estimates for generating future research hypotheses and
      protocol development as well as to benchmark our data against published data.

      Sample size calculations are based on our primary objective. Our target sample size is 50
      patients unless undue toxicity is encountered or the accrual is terminated at the interim
      analyses. A sample size of n=50, would produce a two-sided 95% confidence interval with a
      maximum width of 0.289 for a proportion of 0.5 and 0.267 for a proportion of 0.70.
      Calculations are based on exact binomial distribution. In a large multi-institutional study,
      75% of patients were classified as Complete continuous remission 0 (CCR) and 17% CCR-1 1.

      10.2 Statistical Data Analysis

      Data will be entered on an excel spreadsheet and analyzed with SAS v9.2. Data analysis will
      be preceded by quality control of our data which will include checks for accuracy,
      completeness and internal validity.

      Rates of completeness of cytoreduction, achievement of hyperthermia and postoperative
      morbidity and mortality will be computed and reported with their 95% confidence intervals.
      Descriptive data analysis will be conducted and all adverse events and overall patient
      characteristics will be described. Bivariate analysis will be conducted to examine factors
      associated with complete cytoreduction and achievement of hyperthermia. Categorical variables
      will be analyzed using the Fisher's exact test. Continuous variables whose distribution meets
      normality assumptions will be analyzed with the t-test. Variables whose distribution does not
      approximate normality will be analyzed using the Wilcoxon rank sum test.

      For our secondary endpoints to evaluate time to progression, progression-free survival and
      overall survival we will use Kaplan-Meier methods. Progression-free survival will be
      calculated from time of surgery to date of recurrence or censored at time patient is last
      seen. Overall survival will be calculated from time of surgery to time of death or censored
      at the time patient is last seen. Log-rank test will be used to compare survival of patients
      who achieved complete cytoreduction with those who did not. We will compute 95% confidence
      intervals using Greenwood's formula.

      QOL data will be collected using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Treatment (FACT-C)
      instrument. The feasibility of collecting QOL data will be assessed and rates of missing data
      will be computed. Reasons for missing data will be characterized to the extent possible. In
      addition to this, QOL data will be described using mean, standard deviation, median,
      inter-quartiles and range as well as graphically. For exploratory analysis of QOL data over
      time we will examine the use of hierarchical linear models.

      Epigenetic and genomic data will be examined in an exploratory manner with the goal of
      informing the formulation of new research hypothesis.

      10.2.1 Interim Analysis Decision Rules Interim analysis will be performed after the first
      enrolled 20 cases to assess the safety of the proposed treatment. Stopping rules will be
      based on 30-day postoperative mortality.

      The overall mortality rate reported by Glehen et al in the largest retrospective series of
      patients with Peritoneal Carcinomatosis (PC) treated with Cytoreductive Surgery in
      combination with HIPEC was 4.1%. Based on Glehen's data, the upper limit of the 95%
      confidence interval around the 4.1% mortality rate is 5.3%.

      While it is anticipated a mortality rate of 5% - comparable to that reported by Glehen -
      given the variability in origin of PC, given some variability in reports of mortality rates
      as reported by Koppe eta! 58 and given that patients undergoing this approach have very
      advanced disease and often progress through all other therapies- we will consider a 30-day
      mortality rate (from the therapy) of greater than I 0% to be unacceptable since this rate is
      higher than one would expect from the largest retrospective series available.

      The 30-day mortality will be evaluated after the first 20 patients have been enrolled. If no
      more than 2 patients (I 0%) suffer a mortality within 30 days that is attributable to the
      therapy and not the underlying disease or unrelated to the therapy, we will continue to 50
      patients. If 3 or more patients suffer a mortality within 30 days of the therapy that is
      directly attributable to the therapy, we will suspend accrual and will investigate the causes
      of the higher mortality.

      After the root cause of the operative mortality has been determined, the study team will
      confer with the IRB and will make a determination as to whether accrual can be resumed.

      10.3 Patient Accrual:

      Based on our experience at the Montefiore-Einstein Center for Cancer Care and based on
      numbers of patients seen during the first half of the year, we expect to screen 30 patients
      yearly. We estimate 2/3 of these patients will meet inclusion criteria into the study. We
      expect high rates of participation into this protocol and estimate that it will take us 2-3
      years to recruit the proposed sample of 50 patients. We will follow-up these patients until
      evidence of progression or for a total study time of 5 years.

      10.4 Interim Reports

      Interim reports will be prepared every 12 months. These will include:

        -  Monthly patient accrual rate

        -  Descriptive patient's demographic characteristics

        -  Descriptive clinical data

        -  Frequency and severity of adverse events

           11. DATA COLLECTION AND REPORTING 11.1 Data collection

      Complete research records or medical records must be maintained on each patient treated on
      the protocol for both scheduled and unscheduled evaluations. These records should include
      primary documentation (e.g. laboratory reports, X-ray reports, scan reports, pathology
      reports, physician's notes, etc.) which confirm that:

        -  The patient meet all eligibility criteria

        -  Signed informed consent will be obtained prior to treatment

        -  Treatment will be given according to protocol (dated notes about doses given,
           complications, and clinical outcomes).

        -  Toxicity will be assessed according to protocol.

        -  Response will be assessed according to protocol (X-ray, CT-scan, MRI, lab reports, date
           noted on clinical assessment, as appropriate).

        -  MMC Drug Accountability Records will be kept for each patient.

        -  The patient should use a diary to document daily adverse events.

      11.2 Data Safety Monitoring Plan The PI and the research personnel will meet at least monthly
      to review all adverse events. Unexpected adverse events and/or serious adverse events will be
      reported to the MMC IRB. If trends are noted and /or risks warrant it, accrual will be
      interrupted and /or the protocol and/or consent will be modified accordingly. The MMC IRB
      will review submitted adverse events monthly to also evaluate trends and will require follow
      up plans from the principal investigator whenever a trend is identified.

      11. 3 Data Reporting All patients must have signed an informed consent form and an on-study
      (confirmation of eligibility) form filled out and signed by a participating Investigator
      before entering on the study.

      Patients will be followed at least monthly during therapy for development of toxicity.
      Toxicity will be scored using CTCAE Version 4.0 for toxicity and adverse event reporting. All
      adverse clinical experiences, whether observed by the investigator or reported by the
      patient, must be recorded, with details about the duration and intensity of each episode, the
      action taken with respect to the study treatment, and the patient's outcome. The investigator
      must evaluate each adverse experience for its relationship to the study treatment and for its
      seriousness.

      11.3.1 Routine Data Reporting:

      Data will be captured in the MMC C3D web based reporting system. A minimum of 25% of the data
      will be source data verified. Grade 1 and 2 lab toxicities and medications used to treat
      adverse events will be maintained in the source documents but will not be captured in C3D.
      Only the following outside labs will be captured in C3D:

      • Hemoglobin, WBC, ANC, Platelets, alanine aminotransferase/ aspartate aminotransferase
      (ALT/AST), total bilirubin, Creatinine {other labs associated with a serious adverse event
      may be captured as appropriate}

      11.3.2 Expedited Reporting of Deaths on Study and Adverse Events

      The protocol PI will report to the MMC-IRB:

        -  All deaths

        -  All grade 3 and 4 (CTCAE) events that are not listed in the consent form and that are
           possibly, probably or definitely related to the research

        -  All serious adverse events (SAEs) that are not listed in the consent form, but are
           possibly, probably or definitely related to the research. An SAE is defined as an
           untoward medical occurrence that:

             -  Resulted in death

             -  Was life-threatening

             -  Required or prolonged hospitalization

             -  Caused persistent or significant disability/incapacity

             -  Resulted in congenital anomalies or birth defects

             -  Required intervention to prevent permanent impairment or death

             -  Is an important medical event

             -  Suspected positive Pregnancy

      11.3.3 Adverse Event Reporting in the Continuing Review Report

      Data will be submitted for review by the IRB annually. The MMC-IRB requires a summary report
      of adverse events that have occurred on the protocol since the previous continuing review.
      The method of presentation should provide the MMC-IRB with the information necessary to
      clearly identify risks to participants and to make a risk: benefit determination. The summary
      report is based on the following guidance:

        -  Any unexpected severity and/or unexpected frequency of expected events needs to be
           reported and interpreted in relation to the risk: benefit of study participants in the
           narrative.

        -  Grade 1 events are not required.

        -  Grade 2 unexpected related to the research events is required.

        -  Grade 3 and 4 expected and unexpected events related to the research are required.

        -  All Serious Events regardless of attribution.

        -  Grade 5 (all) events are included regardless of attribution. Based on
           protocol-associated risks to participants, the MMC-IRB retains the authority to
           establish more frequent Continuing Review periods than the customary annual review
           period.
    
  