
    
      The study is to commence on March 1st 2001 and is to be completed within 2-5 years. The
      targeted number of patients to be enrolled is 15,000. All patients undergoing cardiac
      catheterization or have had a heart catheterization within one year, coming in for outpatient
      appointments, or have scheduled cardiac CT scans or CT scans performed within one year of
      scheduled blood draw, will be eligible to be enrolled. Patients inclusion criteria are as
      follows, once informed consent is obtained:

        1. Males or females at least 18 years old.

        2. Patient has not been previously enrolled in the genebank registry.

        3. Patient able to give informed consent.

        4. Patient to undergo cardiac catheterization or had a left heart cath at The Cleveland
           Clinic or at The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, or at MetroHealth Medical
           Center within 1 year.

        5. Patients > or = to 50 y/o with normal cardiac catheterizations (< 30% in all coronary
           vessels per angio). (If subjects enrolled as normal controls are later deemed to have
           significant Coronary Artery Disease (CAD), the subject's blood and data will still be
           useful in the Genebank under the broader scope of the study)

        6. Any patient with history of myocardial infarction (MI). (If a subject reports history of
           MI at another facility, outside records will be obtained to confirm the diagnosis. If MI
           cannot be confirmed by data in the record, the subject's blood and data will still be
           useful in the Genebank under the broader scope of the study.)

        7. Non-caucasian patients or of Hispanic Ethnicity (UNC and MetroHealth Medical Center
           only)

        8. All Patients undergoing Cardiac CT or had Cardiac CT within 1 year (CCF only)

        9. Any patient coming to the Heart and Vascular Institute for outpatient scheduled
           appointments.

       10. Any patients that have had or are going to have an implanted cardioverter defibrillator
           (ICD) or cardiac resynchronization defibrillator (CRT-D).

       11. Any patients with cardiac arrhythmias or a family history of cardiac arrhythmias.

      (Cleveland Clinic will follow inclusion criteria 1-6 and 8-11, UNC and MetroHealth Medical
      Center will follow criteria 1-11).

      Exclusion criteria:

      None except as in Inclusion criteria.
    
  