
    
      Background and rationale:

      Children and adolescents living with HIV and receiving antiretroviral therapy (ART) suffer
      high rates of treatment failure, predominantly caused by suboptimal adherence to therapy
      and/or viral drug resistance. While high-income countries routinely use genotypic resistance
      testing (GRT) to select an optimal ART regimen, this diagnostic tool is not routinely
      available in many resource-limited settings.

      Objective:

      The GIVE MOVE trial assesses if rapid GRT after detection of an unsuppressed viral load in
      children and adolescents on ART improves health outcomes when compared to the current
      standard of care. Furthermore, a nested study will assess the cost-effectiveness of this
      intervention. Combined, these results will provide evidence on whether GRT should be
      prioritised for children and adolescents with HIV.

      Study design:

      GIVE MOVE is a multi-centre (min. 4 centres in 2 countries, Lesotho and Tanzania),
      parallel-group (1:1 allocation), open-label randomised clinical trial. Children and
      adolescents living with HIV with a viral load ≥400 c/mL while on first-line ART are enrolled.

      The control group is managed as per the current standard of care that follows the World
      Health Organization guidelines, i.e. three sessions of enhanced adherence counselling at
      monthly intervals, followed by a second viral load test. A sustained viral load ≥400 c/mL
      triggers a switch to an empirically selected second-line ART regimen (according to national
      clinical guidelines); if the second viral load is <400 c/mL, the participant's ART regimen
      remains unchanged.

      In the intervention arm, participants receive GRT (Sanger sequencing) and GRT-informed onward
      therapy, selecting the best locally available drugs according to the drug resistance profile.

      The GIVE MOVE trial will compare clinical outcomes (mortality, morbidity, viral suppression;
      see the Primary Outcome section for the composite primary endpoint) at nine months. Assuming
      that 20% vs 35% reach the primary endpoint in the intervention vs control arm, and at a
      significance level of 5%, 276 participants (138 per arm) are required to reach 80% power.

      In addition to clinical outcomes, the trial intends to assess the cost and cost-effectiveness
      of the intervention. The GIVE MOVE trial aims at informing future clinical guidelines on the
      management of paediatric HIV.
    
  