
    
      RATIONALE FOR RESEARCH

      The Rift Valley of Africa is a 'hot spot' for ESCC, yet little is known about the etiology of
      this disease in Sub-Saharan Africa. In Malawi, ESCC is the third commonest cancer nationwide
      behind Kaposi sarcoma and cervical carcinoma. Among cancers that are not classically
      HIV-related, ESCC has the highest incidence in Malawi. The ESCC burden recorded in the
      national cancer registry is also likely an underestimate, as many cases may go undiagnosed
      and unregistered. Additionally, few data are available on the epidemiology of ESCC in Malawi,
      and underlying reasons for high frequency of the disease are largely unknown. This knowledge
      gap is a major barrier to public health prevention efforts. Given that survival after ESCC
      diagnosis is dismal in Malawi (12% at 1 year), developing evidence-based prevention efforts
      is paramount.

      The proposed study will make a significant contribution to existing literature from Malawi
      and Sub-Saharan Africa in several important respects. First, previous epidemiologic studies
      of ESCC in Malawi have been limited by challenges with appropriate control selection, which
      may have limited the validity of their findings. Secondly, our study will include prospective
      clinical follow-up of confirmed ESCC cases as they receive treatment under local conditions
      to provide accurate survival estimates. Thirdly, biospecimens from consenting patients will
      permit etiology and pathogenesis studies to understand mechanisms of ESCC development, which
      can be correlated with high-quality clinical and epidemiologic data. Finally, we plan to
      coordinate with other ESCC researchers in eastern and southern Africa to harmonize data
      collection, and help create a regional consortium in which Malawi can be a founding member
      and active participant.

      Primary Objective: Identify demographic and environmental risk factors for ESCC through a
      case-control study implemented at KCH and SGH. Hypothesis: Modifiable risk factors contribute
      significantly to ESCC. These include polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) exposure from
      various sources, excessively hot beverages, dietary factors such as maize fumonisin and low
      selenium, and HIV infection.

      Secondary Objective: Identify common genetic and epigenetic alterations in germline and
      somatic DNA associated with ESCC development. Hypothesis: Recurring genetic and epigenetic
      alterations can facilitate risk stratification, development of early detection biomarkers,
      and identification of novel treatment strategies.

      Procedures

      After informed consent and study enrollment, subjects will be interviewed using a structured
      questionnaire and provide biological samples including saliva, blood, urine, and toenail
      clippings. Esophageal biopsies will be taken for diagnostic confirmation and to support
      molecular studies. If patients suspected to have ESCC are enrolled but then pathologically
      confirmed to have an alternate diagnosis, they will be withdrawn. HIV testing will be offered
      to all participants, and CD4, HIV RNA, and ART status documented for HIV-infected
      participants. Exposures will be measured using the questionnaire and laboratory analyses of
      saliva, blood, urine, and toenail samples. We will collect information on: demographic
      characteristics; HIV status; tobacco and drug use; alcohol consumption; medical history;
      family history of cancer; indoor air pollution; occupational history; diet, cooking, and food
      preservation; beverage history including temperature; farming; signs and symptoms of upper
      gastrointestinal disease; oral health; anthropometric indices; and reproductive history. To
      examine correlates with patient outcomes, telephone follow-up to assess vital status will be
      done every 3 months until 2 years from enrollment. Biological samples will be stored in
      freezers and transferred to the US only for assays that are currently unavailable in Malawi.
      Laboratory testing will include serum selenium level, blood and urine testing for PAH
      exposure, tumor immunohistochemistry assays, salivary DNA isolation for genetic studies, and
      molecular profiling of ESCC tumors.

      Analysis

      Sample size will include 300 ESCC cases and 300 controls; 66-68 case control pairs will be
      enrolled per year, over 3 years, assuming a response rate of 75% in the endoscopy clinic.
      With 300 case-control pairs, estimated statistical power for an exposure with control
      population prevalence of 10% and OR 2.0 is 81%, using alpha level 0.05, with higher power for
      higher control exposure rates and odds ratios. Expected prevalence for key exposures (tobacco
      and alcohol, hot tea, PAH exposure, selenium deficiency, HIV) is 10-50% in the control
      population. To assess epidemiologic risk factors for ESCC, we will use logistic regression to
      estimate odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals for each exposure, while controlling for
      possible confounders. Survival estimates will be generated using Kaplan-Meyer curves to
      estimate overall survival at 6, 12 and 24 months.
    
  