
    
      Dysregulated sphingolipid ceramide (Cer) metabolism impairs mitochondrial function, insulin
      sensitivity and vascular reactivity and has been identified as a central common pathway
      towards the dyslipidemia, central adiposity, hyperglycemia, and hypertension that define
      metabolic syndrome, characterized as cardiometabolic risk (CMR). The decrease in insulin
      sensitivity that occurs with age and predisposes to metabolic syndrome is preventable, a
      reflection of changes in body composition rather than the aging process itself. Ectopic fat,
      not fat mass per se, drives CMR, but despite mounting concern about rising prevalence of
      pediatric CMR in America and globally, the use of plasma Cer as potentially mechanistic
      biomarkers of ectopic fat and lipotoxicity has not been well explored. This may be driven in
      part by our incomplete understanding of i) the consequences of Cer dysregulation in pediatric
      CMR; ii) putative interactions between Cer and ectopic lipotoxicity; and iii) how lifestyle,
      notably nutrition, impacts Cer metabolism. Information in these areas may support use of
      plasma Cers as sensitive, prognostic biomarkers to guide more effective preventive lifestyle
      management of aberrant weight gain and associated CMR.

      In preliminary work, the investigators compared plasma sphingolipid profiles in obese
      adolescents and their parent/adult caretakers (PAC). Data from this study demonstrated that
      Cers (notably C:14 and C:16) are associated with dyslipidemia in both adults and youth. The
      investigators also found that 2-mo of a daily nutrient bar supplementation (coupled with
      weekly group counseling and exercise) significantly decreased plasma Cers more effectively
      than counseling and physical exercise alone, without change in traditional biomarkers but the
      extent of Cer reduction correlated with improved dyslipidemia. The investigators also found
      that 10 days of dietary fructose reduction in obese pre-adolescents significantly lowers cers
      in direct proportion to the clearance of ectopic hepatic adiposity.

      If study hypotheses are supported, these findings will identify sensitive Cer biomarkers of
      CMR with putative mechanistic insight to mitochondrial function requisite for insulin
      sensitivity, metabolic flexibility, lipolysis, and weight loss, that might therefore be used
      to monitor early success in lifestyle change trials.
    
  