
    
      Hydroxyurea (HU) has been demonstrated to be efficacious in reducing complications such as
      vasocclusive pain crises and acute chest syndrome in children and adults with Sickle Cell
      Disease (SCD) and in improving survival in adults. It is also the only disease-modifying
      therapy and the only drug approved by the FDA for use in patients with SCD. However
      significant barriers remain in prescription and utilization of HU. Some of the barriers are
      under prescription and when prescribed, underutilization by patients. The majority of the
      reasons for underutilization by patients being fear of cancer or other side effects, concern
      about lack of efficacy, and unwillingness to take the medicine or come to clinic or pharmacy.

      Decision aids are designed to help patients improve their knowledge of the options, achieve a
      more accurate perception of risk and benefits of treatment, participate actively in decision
      making, and make choices more in keeping with their values and preferences. Decision aids
      have been shown to be effective in providing greater knowledge; lower decisional conflict
      among the subjects. The web based decision aid is also likely to serve as a tool for
      clarification of patient values to themselves and to their healthcare providers. The web
      based decision aid, sickleoptions.org is a rather extensive and detailed website with
      information regarding sickle cell disease(SCD) complications and standard of care monitoring
      and management as well as the treatment options of hydroxyurea, Endari, chronic blood
      transfusion, and bone marrow transplant. It is necessary to assure user ability to navigate
      all of the elements of the site. The study wants to determine the efficacy of training for a
      web based Decision Aid for Hydroxyurea(HU) usage among subjects with Sickle Cell Disease(SCD)
      that are randomized to using a web based decision aid with training versus without training.

      In the first phase of the study cognitive interviews will be conducted with 10-20 parents of
      patients with SCD or patients with SCD age > 18 years for development of training to navigate
      website. Interviews will be conducted in 5-subject iterative cycles to identify ease of
      usability and issues regarding navigation and usability to develop a training guide for
      website.

      After consent, subjects will be asked to complete demographic questionnaires. Subjects will
      be randomized to either receive training or to not receive training to use the website. All
      subjects will be asked to spend about 30mts navigating the website after consent. Those who
      are randomized to receive training will be trained to use it during this time. Those who do
      not receive training will be asked to navigate through the site on their own. They may be
      randomized to complete 4 question surveys during this time. Not everyone will need to
      complete these surveys. This will take about 15 minutes. They will then be contacted each
      week for the next 3 weeks with a reminder to use the website. At week 4 they will complete 5
      surveys over the phone. They may be randomized to complete a telephone interview. This
      interview will take about 30 to 45 minutes and will be audio recorded for transcription and
      analysis. Subjects will then be contacted every 3 months for 1 year to see if they made a
      decision about whether or not to start hydroxyurea for themselves (>18 yr-old subjects) or
      their child. These phone calls will take less than 5 minutes.
    
  