
    
      FMT RECIPIENTS:

      Participants will be recruited from the patient population treated by the Pediatric
      Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition Section at Baylor College of Medicine/Texas
      Children's Hospital.

      I. Activities prior to starting FMT therapy:

        1. Participants will be asked to discontinue or taper their current home medications for
           ulcerative colitis.

        2. Participants will be asked to complete enema training.

        3. The participant and family will be counseled in case emergency surgical and/or intensive
           care interventions are required.

        4. Survey Completion to assess clinical symptoms.

      II. Initiation of FMT Therapy:

        1. Pre-colonoscopy and FMT therapy preparation:

           One to two days prior to scheduled colonoscopy the study participant will be asked to
           provide a stool sample. They will also undergo a bowel clean-out with Miralax for
           colonoscopy preparation. Colonoscopy (endoscopic examination of the large bowel) will be
           used to deliver the first donor fecal transplant at the beginning of the therapeutic
           protocol.

        2. FMT treatment and Initial colonoscopy:

      Fecal microbiota transplantation is made possible by utilizing a donor (healthy adult)
      providing their stool sample. The donor's stool will be screened and tested for known
      disease-causing agents including viruses, bacteria and parasites to prevent spread of disease
      to the participant.

      On the first day of treatment, the participant will undergo a colonoscopy to deliver the
      filtered donor stool directly into their colon. Additionally, biopsies will be taken during
      this procedure for routine diagnostic as well as research purposes.

      III. Subsequent FMT treatments:

      Enemas will be given periodically to complete a total of 1-year therapy.

      IV. Follow-up endoscopy and samples:

      A similar but more limited procedure (sigmoidoscopy) will be repeated at 14 weeks into the
      study period. Biopsies will be taken during this procedure for routine diagnostic as well as
      research purposes.

      FMT DONORS:

      Potential healthy adult stool donors (between 18 and 45 years of age) will be recruited by
      the research staff. They will be asked to volunteer for the screening and regularly supply
      stool samples according to the study protocol.
    
  