
    
      Overall Goals: The overall goals of this research are to: (i) determine the feasibility of
      studying another approach to the detection of non-convulsive seizures in the paediatric
      intensive care unit, (ii) determine if paediatric intensive care nurses and
      non-neurophysiologist critical-care physicians can accurately identify seizures in critically
      ill children by reading quantitative EEG trends, as well as the positive and negative
      predictive value and inter-rater reliability of this approach, (iii) explore children's
      short- and long-term neurological outcomes.

      Background: Non-convulsive seizures and non-convulsive status epilepticus are common in
      children with acute brain injury admitted to paediatric intensive care units. Electrographic
      seizure burden and status epilepticus contribute to neuronal injury, and worsen functional
      and quality of life outcomes. Accurate and timely diagnosis and treatment of non-convulsive
      seizures are essential in these critically ill children.

      Purpose: This exploratory study aims to: (i) enable the investigators, after proof of
      concept, to assess the feasibility of this method, (ii) determine the performance - in real
      time at the bedside of critically ill children - of caregivers other than neurologists to
      identify electrographical seizures, using panels of quantitative EEG trends, and (iii)
      describe the outcome of these children.

      Method: This pilot study will be a single-centre prospective open observational study. Thirty
      consecutive children who meet the specific criteria for continuous EEG in the paediatric
      intensive care unit at McMaster Children's Hospital will be eligible for enrolment. The
      paediatric intensive care nurse and resident or fellow will review the quantitative EEG
      trends to detect seizures at the bedside and complete the seizure log. This will be compared
      to the seizures detected on the raw EEG data read by the neurologist. Demographic data,
      baseline, short- and long-term (12-month) questionnaires of each child's global function,
      quality of life, seizures and brain behaviour will be completed to assess functional and
      quality of life outcomes. This will include a Seizure questionnaire, the Glasgow Outcome
      scale, the Paediatric Cerebral Performance Category score, the Paediatric Quality of Life
      Inventory, the Adaptive Behaviour Assessment System 3, the Child Behaviour Checklist and the
      Behaviour Rating Inventory of Executive Function 2.

      Expertise: The investigator team includes research experts in neurology, epilepsy,
      neurophysiology, developmental paediatrics, critical care and biostatistics.

      Significance: Due to the small numbers in this pilot study, the investigators are unlikely to
      be able to draw definitive conclusions on the clinical effects of this approach on the short-
      or long-term outcomes. This proof-of-concept study should enable the investigators to assess
      the feasibility of this method for a future multi-centre controlled study, which has the
      potential to revise and considerably improve the method of detecting non-convulsive seizures
      in the paediatric intensive care unit. If earlier detection and treatment of seizures in
      critically ill children are feasible, this should lead to improvements in short- and
      long-term neurological outcome and quality of life. These improvements may substantially
      benefit the person, family and society while reducing the burden placed on the health care
      system.
    
  