
    
      The release a variety of pro-inflammatory cytokines including tumor necrosis factor-α
      (TNF-α), interleukin-1 (IL-1) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) mainly from monocytes and macrophages
      due to surgical trauma or anesthesia .

      IL-6 is constantly found in the peripheral blood and rapidly within few minutes unlike other
      pro inflammatory mediators. Thus, the rise of IL-6 is regarded as an early marker of tissue
      damage and IL-6 levels are proportional to the degree of tissue damage . The two major
      actions of IL-6 are having a key role in regulating stress responses by activating the
      hypothalamic-pituitary- adrenal (HPA) axis and synthesizing fibrinogen (which is necessary
      for the acute-phase response) serving as a growth factor for activated B-cells .

      While appropriate inflammatory reactions are advantageous and essential for wound healing and
      host defense against microorganisms, excessive immune responses can be detrimental. The
      released mediators prompt systemic endocrine, immunological and metabolic responses result in
      increased pain sensitivity, altered metabolism, hyperthermia and greater secretion of liver
      acute phase proteins and stress hormones, so yields unstable patient's hemodynamic status

      Propofol was documented to have an advantage in terms of inflammatory and immunomodulatory
      effects through significant effect on TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-10 release .

      Ketamine has the ability to modulate (modify) inflammation and this is why it is recommended
      in patients with sepsis undergoing surgery . This may be possibly related with the variations
      in TNF-α and nuclear factor-κB expression . Even the sub-anesthetic doses of ketamine in
      animal models were even provided to have an effect on the inflammatory response system in the
      central nervous system which is involved in its therapeutic effect on depression (Yang-2 et
      al., 2013).

      This study will be conducted to compare between the intravenous infusion of ketamine against
      the intravenous infusion of propofol during general anesthesia in patients undergoing major
      abdominal surgeries.
    
  