
    
      A prospective, open label, single arm trial that includes participants that suffer
      hypercalcemia due to primary hyperparathyroidism and are candidates for parathyroidectomy.

      participants visit the investigator's head and neck clinic. the investigator confirms that
      the participant has an indication for parathyroidectomy according to the official criteria.
      Later on, the investigator looks at the localization tests that have already been done (neck
      ultrasound and MIBI [methoxyisobutyllisonitrile] scan) in order to plan the surgery. In case
      participant has not made those tests- the investigator fills a written request to do so.
      then, the investigator will perform a neck ultrasound and identifies the pathological
      parathyroid gland. The suspected pathological gland is aspirated using a 27 gauge needle
      attached to a 5 cc syringe fills with 1 cc saline (0.9% NaCL) under the guidance of the
      ultrasound. The aspirated material is sent for 2 examinations:

        1. parathyroid hormone level: the aspirated material is injected into a
           ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) vial and send to the hospital's endocrine
           laboratory. the parathyroid hormone level is processed using chemiluminescence method
           and represented in Pg/ml units.

        2. cytology examination. The aspirated material is spread on a glassed slide and prepared
           with a Giemsa stain for a cytologic examination. cytologic features such as cell type,
           cytoplasmic characteristics,cell block structure and chromatin appearance is addressed
           by the pathologist.

      After completion of the ultrasound - guided needle aspiration the participant is given an
      exact date for the surgery.

      The surgery is carried out routinely with the same surgical steps that the investigator is
      familiar with. At the end of surgery, after the pathological parathyroid gland was extracted
      from the neck, it is aspirated with a 27Gy needle attached to a 5 cc, syringe filled with a 1
      cc saline (0.9% NaCL).

      The aspirated material is sent to the same, above mentioned, examinations (parathyroid
      hormone level and cytology).

      After the investigator receives the final pathological result of the suspected gland and
      confirm that the excised tissue was indeed a pathological parathyroid one, the investigators
      are able to answer 2 important questions:

        1. Is high level of parathyroid hormone which was aspirated from a suspected pathological
           parathyroid tissue is a good indicator that the tissue is indeed a pathological
           parathyroid.

        2. Is there a difference between parathyroid cytology of a tissue aspirated
           transcutaneously to a parathyroid cytology of material aspirated directly from the
           parathyroid gland.
    
  