
    
      Congenital heart disease (CHD) is the most common type of birth defect, but the etiology of
      CHD remains largely unknown. Genetic causes have been discovered for both syndromic and
      non-syndromic CHD utilizing several genetic approaches (Garg, 2006). The majority of these
      genetic causes have found by studying large families with autosomal dominant congenital heart
      disease and my laboratory has successfully used this methodology in the past (Garg, 2003;
      Garg 2005; Pan, 2009). Although these positional cloning approaches are very powerful, they
      are limited by rare nature of multi-generation pedigrees and are limited to milder forms of
      CHD that have allowed for the generation of large kindreds.

      The other method that has traditionally been utilized to identify genetic causes of CHD is
      the screening of large populations of children with sporadic (non-familial) cases of CHD for
      genetic abnormalities (nucleotide sequence variations in candidate genes for CHD or for
      chromosomal copy number changes that involve CHD-candidate genes). This work has been tedious
      as a large number of candidate genes have been implicated as potentially responsible for CHD
      in humans (Srivastava and Olson, 2000). Although this approach has been successful
      (Schluterman, 2007; Rajagopal, 2007; Tomita-Mitchell, 2007; Richards, 2008; Ransom, 2009), it
      is also limited to the candidate gene lists.

      Whole exome sequencing (WES) is a recently developed massively multiplexed sequencing
      technology that allows for the sequencing of all of the expressed genes. Therefore, this
      method can be applied to multiplex families and cohorts of sporadic cases to identify genetic
      causes of CHD in an unbiased manner. WES is dependent on the technical and bioinformatics
      prowess of the personnel running the WES and the controlling the data pipeline. The Institute
      of Genomic Medicine at Nationwide Children's Hospital (NCH) is both technically skilled and
      have developed their own powerful data pipeline (Kelly, 2015). As other groups have
      successfully implemented WES into their CHD gene discovery toolkit (Zaidi, 2013; El Turki,
      2014)), we expect to do the same. WES is powerful genetic tool that can be used in isolation
      or in conjunction with other types of genetic analysis (i.e. array comparative genomic
      hybridization, single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) arrays, traditional linkage analysis) to
      increase the yield of these investigations.
    
  