
    
      As the primary endpoint, this trial is be using pre- to post-vaccine changes in HAI titers to
      compare seroconversion rates and post-vaccination HAI titers to calculate the ratio of the
      geometric mean titers in the two treatment groups. HAI is an in vitro bioassay that
      determines a subject's serum levels of anti-influenza antibodies. The FDA uses this as a
      standard immunogenicity assay for licensure. The trial will follow guidelines set out in the
      FDA guidance document discussing non-inferiority immunogenicity studies. As additional
      methods to assess immunogenicity, an assessment of anti-NA by performing NA inhibition assays
      (NAI) and SVN assays will be added. A recent trial supported the use of NAI and SVN assays as
      a correlate for protection in a trial of geriatric subjects. A healthy human challenge model
      showed that NAI is more predictive of protection and reduced disease than HAI

      In the large HD vaccine clinical efficacy trial (n=31,989) one third of subjects also had
      immunogenicity data that allowed looking for correlations of immune assays with protection.
      Their conclusions were that HAI and other immune assays are potential correlates of influenza
      vaccine protection in older adults, and that the protective thresholds for the HAI assay in
      the elderly appear consistent with those previously described for younger adults, provided
      the assay virus matches the circulating virus.

      Significance Data compiled by CDC in 2011-2012 showed that there were 1,383,700 residents in
      NHs. Also about 4,742,500 patients received services from home health agencies, and 1,244,500
      patients received services from hospices, collectively accounting for much of the frailest in
      the US. Overall, these provider sectors served over 8 million people annually (2013). This
      study will focus on residents in NHs but the findings of this study are highly relevant to
      persons frail enough to require such services in all of settings where the vast majority are
      at least 65 years old and thus appropriate for Fluad or HD, influenza vaccines licensed for
      this age group.

      The SD influenza vaccine has diminished efficacy in the older population with the more
      debilitated LTC residents being among the worst responders yet with the highest mortality.
      Deaths due to pneumonia and influenza and chronic lung disease were 20 times higher among NH
      residents compared to community residents. The current availability of two vaccines
      specifically for the elderly that both appear to work better than SD vaccine begs the
      question: is the newer and less-costly Fluad vaccine non-inferior or even superior to HD
      vaccine? The proposed study aims to initially address non-inferiority using immunologic
      endpoints as this is feasible in the clinical trial R01 grant structure and a critical first
      step to obtain head-to-head data from the same trial, cohort and vaccine years. This proposed
      study itself may provide direct guidance on vaccine usage or inform a future trial assessing
      actual superiority should that be appropriate based on the results of this study.

      HD vaccine is increasingly used by older Americans despite its greater cost over the SD
      vaccine and no preferential recommendation by the Advisory Committee on Immunization
      Practices (ACIP), the CDC committee responsible for making the vaccine recommendations for
      the U.S. A finding of non-inferiority in the primary endpoint would provide a strong
      rationale to consider using Fluad over HD that could result in some cost avoidance across
      large long-term care system in the U.S. The trial is not powered for a superiority analysis
      but in a non-inferiority trial if the findings are substantial enough they may show
      superiority.

      In the normal seasonal setting, influenza strains drift antigenically and therefore vary from
      year to year. The CDC's prediction many months before the vaccination season sets the
      composition for the next season's vaccine, but does not always correctly anticipate the exact
      strain match that eventually actually circulates. There are Medicare claims data and modeling
      in the NH population that there is a significant increase in death and hospitalization in bad
      match over good match years particularly when A/H3N2 predominates. In those mismatched years
      in particular, heterologous immunity or immunity to other non-exact match strains becomes
      much more important if the vaccine is going to provide any benefit that season. Fluad is an
      adjuvanted vaccine that has been shown to have a more broad-based or heterologous immunity
      than SD vaccine that is not adjuvanted. HD is also not adjuvanted. Broad based immunity is
      especially desirable for A/H3N2 immunity as that has had 4 different circulating strains in
      the last 5 years while circulating A/H1N1 has been the same for 5 years; i.e., vaccine
      mismatch is more likely with the A/H3N2 circulating strain. A/H3N2 is associated with the
      majority of influenza hospitalizations and death among the elderly.
    
  