
    
      Dementia of the Alzheimer type (AD) is a serious illness affecting 60-70 000 people in Norway
      with an estimated cost of 12 Billion NOK (Norwegian kroner) per year. The Department of
      Social Affairs and Health has initiated psycho-social intervention programs for patients as
      well as caregivers, however, no research regarding etiology, pathology or prevention of the
      disease.

      In an earlier pilot study conducted on AD patients in a moderate stage, there were
      significant decrease in the concentrations of the vitamins thiamine, pyridoxal-5 phosphate,
      ascorbic acid retinol, cobalamin, and increased homocystein, compared with the control group
      of healthy elderly people. Logistic regression analysis showed that 5 models using different
      combinations of vitamins and spinal protein, all completely separating patients with dementia
      from healthy controls.

      The current study is a replication of the above mentioned study, and will include up to 120
      AD patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or mild dementia (MMSE above 24/30) and up
      to 60 healthy elderly controls. Measurement of vitamines and nutrients in blood and spinal
      fluid is the central element of the study. The specimens will therefore be obtained from
      patients and controls who have abstained from supplements the last four weeks.

      Outcome measures will include biochemical analysis of nutrients, expressions of peroxidation,
      expressions of DNA damage, proteomics and metabolomics of spinal fluid, blood and urine,
      microarray analysis of different nutritional deficiency subgroups, together with the routine
      diagnostics investigations undertaken at the memory clinic, and a nutritional assessment.

      The patients and the healthy controls will only receive information about results of
      examinations that are part of the routine investigation at the memory clinic, this according
      to the Norwegian Biotechnology Law and the permission from the National Committees for
      Research Ethics in Norway.

      In addition to the vitamins listed as primary outcomes, the following measurements will be
      carried through:

        1. Isoprostane measurements: The findings of F2-α-isoprostane-increase in cerebrospinal
           fluid close to the diseased organ, and not in the plasma, makes it important to confirm
           these findings. Isoprostane measurement in CNS might become an important parameter in
           prospective treatment studies where the actual treatment at least should normalize the
           pathological finding.

        2. 8 hydroxy-2-deoxy guanosine increase in cerebrospinal fluid or urine, reveals DNA-damage
           suggesting further mechanisms for the AD development.

        3. Spinal fluid: Nutrients in spinal fluid, expressions of increased peroxidation like
           F2-α-isoprostane, tau proteins and possibly with LC/MS methodology metabolic pattern
           (metabolomics) and different proteins (proteomics).

             -  Proteomics; determination of protein profiles. The emerging technology of mass
                spectrometry (MS)-based quantitative proteomics provides a powerful tool to
                systematically and quantitatively assess quantitative differences in protein
                profiles. Discovery based proteomics compares the proteome of a diseased sample
                versus normal at a global scale, and has been widely applied to study various human
                diseases with the goal of identifying biomarkers and/or reveal the pathogenesis of
                diseases. In this study, protein samples from control and diseased will be labeled
                with different stable isotopes, digested to peptides and analyzed by LCMS.
                Quantitative differences of the proteins from these groups will be performed by
                state-of-the-art hybrid mass spectrometer, LTQ XL-Orbitrap. The Orbitrap instrument
                has extremely high resolving power, mass accuracy and sensitivity.

             -  Metabonomics: Metabonomics aims at measuring and mathematically modeling changes in
                the metabolite concentrations found in biological fluids and tissues. Nuclear
                magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy allows the detection and quantification of
                compounds in large mixtures, such as the products of metabolism in biological
                fluids and tissues. There are hundreds of such metabolites to be found in
                cerebrospinal fluid, plasma, serum and urine. NMR spectroscopy offers the advantage
                of measuring their concentrations with micromolar sensitivity while conveniently
                requiring only little sample preparation. In recent studies involving large sets of
                spectra, the variation of results was shown to be as small as 2 % reflecting a high
                degree of reproducibility. By identifying patterns in the metabolic fingerprint of
                the organism, one can study the effects of diet, drugs and disease using
                multivariate statistics such as principal component analysis and partial least
                squares attempts to interpret NMR spectra.

        4. Genetic analyses: m-RNA measurement with SNP-profiles for

             -  DNA repair.

             -  Active components in processing av APP and Abeta.

             -  Will include if possible, sequencing of genome and/or GWAS.
    
  