
    
      The investigators anticipate that this project will allow the creation of a registry to
      describe our population in terms of the presence or absence of frailty. The investigators
      will use validated measures to determine existence of frailty prior to interventional cardiac
      procedures (PRISMA-7, Edmonton and FRIED Frailty Index). The measures will be repeated at 6
      weeks and 6 months post procedure. Clinical data will also be collected to assess any links
      between frailty and clinical outcomes. Data collection sheets will be designed, data will be
      entered and analyzed by a statistician.. If the data provides meaningful insight, the
      investigator will aim to create a specific frailty tool for the cardiac population.

      The investigators are also keen to understand the effects of health-related quality of life
      on frailty and will be collecting generic data via the SF-36 and EQ5-D. In order to assess
      the lived experience of frailty, the investigators are proposing a qualitative interview for
      15 willing patients, to allow the exploration of the concepts of frailty in more detail for
      patients who have undergone a cardiac intervention.

      The totality of the data collection will help the study team examine care pathways and assess
      any areas of concern, which may be addressed for the benefit of patients in the future.

      Once we have gathered data to define the population in terms of frailty and the impact of
      frailty on health-related quality of life, the investigators aim to adapt the services to
      accommodate the needs of frail patients undergoing heart procedures. This may involve amended
      pre-admission care which may influence discharge planning, depending on the nature of the
      individual patients. An integrated care pathway (ICP) is a step by step approach to patient
      care which also considers the requirements of research, training, resources, clinical
      governance and performance. It is anticipated that an amended ICP may be created for patients
      with frailty. . This initial project will form part of a longer-term plan to assess and
      manage frailty in a systematic process.
    
  