
    
      Prevention of post-operative urinary tract infections (UTI) is becoming important for both
      the individual patient and the health system. Complications of UTI include pyelonephritis and
      bacteremia, requiring hospitalization and parenteral antibiotics. Additionally, recurrent
      exposure to antibiotics commonly given for UTIs increases the risk of antibiotic resistance
      to uropathogens. UTIs also increase economic burdens on the health care system, with each
      episode costing nearly 600 dollars. UTIs associated with catheterization are particularly
      costly for hospitals, resulting in decreased hospital quality measures and lack of
      compensation.

      This is particularly important after pelvic reconstructive surgery, as reported rates of UTI
      reach up to 20-25%. Urinary retention requiring short-term indwelling catheterization, common
      in these women, contributes to the risk of UTIs by increasing the risk of bacteriuria by
      5-10% per day and through the dislodging of bacterial colonies during catheter removal.
      Balancing prevention and resistance and cost is key. A meta-analysis by Marschall et al
      indicated the benefit of a short dose of antibiotic prophylaxis at catheter removal in
      general post-surgical patients. However, data is lacking on the effects of daily antibiotic
      prophylaxis on resistance and cost.

      A possible alternative to antibiotics presents itself in methenamine hippurate, a urinary
      antiseptic which forms formaldehyde in the presence of acidic urine. It is relatively
      inexpensive, and does not induce resistance in vivo. Prior studies have shown that daily use
      of methenamine can decrease the risk of post-operative UTI.

      The purpose of our study was to investigate the efficacy of a short course of methenamine
      hippurate at catheter removal to that of a short course of ciprofloxacin in prevention of
      UTIs after short-term indwelling catheterization. Additionally, we investigated factors that
      influence post-operative UTIs, the rate of culture-proven UTIs after prophylaxis, the
      antibiotic resistance profile of those undergoing prophylaxis, and the cost effectiveness of
      prophylaxis.
    
  