
    
      In KwaZulu-Natal (KZN), South Africa (SA), after an abrupt decline in the 1990s, life
      expectancy has dramatically rebounded - all driven by the tremendous progress in earlier
      initiation, once daily, and greater access to ART.23 Efficient ART delivery is key for
      increasing population coverage and maintaining suppression for life. However, in SA, of the
      7.1 million HIV-positive persons, 56% are on ART, and only 45% are virally suppressed (the
      key indicator of treatment success). Men are less likely to be suppressed than women, due to
      barriers to care including clinic bottle-necks in ART provision. On a given day, up to 70% of
      a facility's prescription load is devoted to servicing repeat ART prescriptions.
      HIV-associated mortality continues to be high, particularly among hard to reach populations
      who do not regularly visit the clinic on a sufficiently frequent schedule to maintain
      uninterrupted ART and viral suppression. Over four years, a third of HIV-positive persons in
      SA are no longer retained in care. Clinically stable HIV-positive persons can safely and
      effectively receive ART resupply and monitoring in the community. In SA, efforts to deliver
      medications outside the clinic through the Centralised Chronic Medicines Dispensing and
      Distribution (CCMDD), led by Project Last Mile (PLM), are focused in urban areas. Data are
      needed on client preferences for modes of delivery in rural areas, as are innovative, high
      impact strategies to simplify ART delivery and facilitate life-long ART.

      Decentralized ART resupply and monitoring supports successful differentiated service delivery
      (DSD). Differentiated service delivery (DSD) for HIV (i.e. a client-centered approach that
      simplifies and adapts services to reflect preferences and expectations of clients while
      reducing unnecessary burdens on the health system) has the potential to deliver HIV
      treatment, remove barriers to care, increase retention on ART, and ultimately prevent
      disability and death at a lower cost. DSD may also have the advantage of de-bulking the
      clinic allowing providers to focus on clients with medically complex cases. However, there is
      a fundamental need to match the demand for ART resupply and monitoring with the ART supply,
      accounting for client preferences for resupply from a local mobile van or at home for
      convenience and to avoid stigma at the clinic.

      The goal of data-driven delivery algorithms is to match ART supply with demand. Amazon.com,
      the largest internet-based retailer globally, uses routing science extensively and is
      established in South Africa. Enormous expertise and successful implementation of efficient,
      low-cost, on-time delivery in diverse settings have been applied by Amazon to get goods to
      the right person at the right time. Amazon is building their capacity for delivery to rural
      areas in South Africa, the investigators target geographic location. Since minimal financial
      resources are available (NDoH pays ZAR 9.36 = USD 0.75 per refill) delivery optimization is
      essential. The classic computer science Travelling Salesman Problem is used to optimize
      vehicle routing for delivery through computer algorithms.

      Specifically, the investigators propose to adapt vehicle routing algorithms to determine the
      placement of mobile vans for ART resupply and monitoring in the community. The study area is
      divided into community clusters of HIV-positive persons who require ART resupply and
      monitoring. Currently, the study coordinator decides on a weekly basis where the mobile van
      should be placed, which may not adequately account for multiple cofactors (distance, travel
      time, client availability). A routing algorithm would efficiently match ART demand with the
      supply and determine mobile van placement. Importantly, algorithms can use the enrollment GPS
      location of clients and do not require formal addresses. Routing science guided delivery has
      the potential to increase efficiency and coverage of ART resupply and monitoring, reduce
      logistic barriers for clients, and improve the cost efficiency to the health system.

      The theoretical basis for proposing ART delivery to increase retention in care and viral
      suppression is implementation intention i.e. a strategy that automates action control such as
      planning to collect medication within a given window of availability or having the medication
      delivered. A fee for the service of home delivery of ART could also increase commitment to
      care through simplifying ART resupply, addressing logistic barriers (transportation costs,
      clinic hours), increasing perceived value, and strengthening implementation intentions. To
      address this separation between intention and action (unsuccessful intenders), cues and plans
      support engagement in health. Meta-analyses have demonstrated that implementation intentions
      have medium to large sized effects on behavioral outcomes. Paying a modest fee for home
      delivery has the potential to increase implementation intention through immediacy and the
      redundancy of further "conscious intent" (i.e. no additional planning required for clinic
      collections), simplifying the resupply process. Practically, a fee for home delivery could
      offset some of the costs of decentralized delivery, making it more appealing to
      government/investors.

      Conceptual model for strengthening ART delivery: Concerns about decentralized ART delivery
      include how clients would access clinic care, the need for providers to monitor ART,
      implementation challenges, and concerns about disclosure with home ART delivery. To address
      these concerns, the investigators are using the evidence integration approach, adapted from
      Glasgow and colleagues in the investigators current Delivery Optimization for ART (DO ART)
      Study. The investigators are working with key stakeholders at the department of health,
      policy makers, clients, and advocates to review evidence and rationale behind decentralized
      ART delivery and monitoring and assess how to target strategies for scale-up.

      Preliminary data: In a series of studies, which demonstrate the investigators capacity to
      conduct rigorous evaluation of community-based HIV testing and linkage strategies, and
      utilize study results including costs to contribute to policy, the investigators demonstrated
      that community-based HIV testing and counseling (HTC) results in >90% knowledge of serostatus
      and similarly high linkage rates for HIV-positive persons to HIV clinic, which was
      cost-effective. Results from the investigators work supported the World Health Organization
      HIV testing guidelines. However, drop-offs in HIV care resulted in only 60% of ART-eligible
      persons achieving viral suppression (the Linkages Study). Logistic barriers at the clinic
      such as long wait times, inconvenient hours, and multiple visits are barriers to sustained
      ART adherence. Preliminary data on spatial analyses: In the Linkages Study the investigators
      collected GPS data on the location of households and clinics and road map distances. These
      data demonstrate the investigators ability to collect and utilize geospatial data in
      statistical analyses.

      Significance summary: the investigators hypothesize that routing algorithm based ART delivery
      will be acceptable, efficient and improve health outcomes, specifically through meeting
      client needs, retaining HIV-positive persons in care, and achieving high ART resupply and
      viral suppression. They also hypothesize that a fee for home delivery will improve retention
      and viral suppression among persons willing to pay a fee for ART delivery. The investigators
      propose to test ART delivery using routing science and fee for home delivery as strategies
      that could be scaled-up to sustain lifelong ART.

      This proposal is highly innovative and creative in three ways. First, while simplified,
      decentralized client- centered ART delivery is essential for successful scale-up and lifelong
      adherence, current strategies do not use routing science methods and are not client-centered;
      they rely on existing businesses for pick-up points in urban areas. Working closely with the
      world's largest, successful internet retailer (Amazon.com), the investigators will adapt
      highly successful delivery algorithms methods to efficiently supply ART in rural settings
      outside of existing formal facilities utilizing client data on resupply needs, delivery
      preferences, and availability for pick-up. Second, they will leverage GPS guided delivery in
      areas without a formal address system, thus increasing overall coverage for decentralized ART
      delivery. Third, a small fee paid by the client could offset costs of home delivery in a
      system with an extremely small margin (ZAR 9.36 = USD 0.75 is paid by NDoH for each
      medication pick-up conducted by CCMDD in the private urban sector). Testing willingness to
      pay for services to simplify delivery is innovative as the strategy could increase funds for
      HIV care making home delivery cost neutral.
    
  