
    
      Experiment theme / background:

      Cancer immune surveillance is considered to be an important host protection process to
      inhibit carcinogenesis and to maintain cellular homeostasis. In the interaction of host and
      tumor cells, three essential phases have been proposed: elimination, equilibrium, and escape.

      In the elimination stage, a small portion of cancer cells can be eliminated by immune
      reactions. Direct cancer and innate immune system interaction including natural killer cells
      (NK), dendritic cells (DC), macrophages, polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PM including
      neutrophils, eosinophils, and basophils), mast cells and cytotoxic T lymphocytes, directly
      target cancer cells. NK cells, DC, PMN, mast cells, and macrophages are first-line effectors
      to damaged cells and cancer cells. NK-T cells and γδ T cells play roles as both innate and
      adaptive components, through close interactions with cells of the adaptive immune system,
      such as CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocytes with cytotoxic effects and memory. In addition to direct
      cancer/innate immune system interactions, a large number of molecules released due to cancer
      cell death, may function as damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMP) and interact with
      innate immune cells. Those cancer-derived DAMP include both intracellular molecules and
      extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules released from apoptotic and necrotic tumor cells.

      However, cancer cells show immune tolerance and go in to escape stage. Currently, programmed
      death-1 (PD-1) in T cells and programmed death ligands 1 and 2 in cancer cells overexpression
      was proved as one of the mechanisms of immune tolerance of cancer cells. The cytotoxic
      T-lymphocyte-associated antigen -4 (CTLA-4) is another negative regulator of immune reaction
      in cancer patients. Immune therapy including anti-PD1, anti-PD-L1, anti-CTLA4 medicines,
      developed and showed clinical benefit in many cancer types, including melanoma, renal cell
      carcinoma, head and neck cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, etc. It shows us that if
      investigators can break immune tolerance in cancer patients, cancer can be controlled.

      Beta-glucan (long polymer ([1,6] B-d-glucopyranosoyl-[1,3] Bd-glucopyranose, PGG) is isolated
      from Baker's yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae).8 Preparation of purified yeast beta-glucan
      sphere is commercially available in the form of whole glucan particles (Wellmune, WGPs) as a
      food supplement. Further efforts resulted in the development of a water-soluble,
      pharmaceutical-grade yeast beta-glucan whose biological effects have been extensively studied
      in vivo. Beta-glucan particle is consumed by macrophages after being transported from the
      lumen of the small intestine through Peyer's patches. The macrophage degrades the beta-glucan
      (a pro-drug) to its bioactive fractions.

      Two major functions of beta-glucan are immune stimulation and hematopoietic stem cell
      mobilization. A substantial number of studies have indicated that beta-glucan functions to
      increase the host immune response to infection and cancer Small molecular weight WGPs exert
      their function through neutrophils by priming complement receptor 3 (CR3) to kill
      iC3b-opsonized microorganism or tumor cells. The complement (C) system is a major component
      of innate immunity and plays a critical role in host defense, but also enhances adaptive
      immunity through the regulation of both T- and B-cell responses. Furthermore, GPS elicit
      mouse dendritic cells to release a significantly higher amount of IL-12 but a lower amount of
      IL-6 and TNF, as a potent promoter of Th1 adaptive responses. Cellular immunity against tumor
      cells chiefly is dependent on Th1 immune responses.

      Early studies of WGPs demonstrated a rapid hematopoietic recovery following bone marrow
      injury from irradiation and chemotherapeutic agents. Stem-cell mobilizing effects of WGP and
      the combination of WGP with G-CSF have been studied. A single dose of WGP beta-glucan was
      found to mobilize hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs) to the peripheral blood. Moreover, an
      additive effect was seen when WGP beta-glucan was used in conjunction with G-CSF. This
      mobilization ability requires the activity of matrix metalloproteinase. Because hematopoietic
      stem cell mobilization is enhanced by beta-glucan, WGP is able to shorten the leucopenia
      period of patients after chemotherapy. Patients undertaking treatment with WGP should have a
      better quality of life (QoL) because higher immunity and leukocyte level are essential to
      prevent infection after chemotherapy.

      A significant amount of pre-clinical and clinical data is available supporting the efficacy
      of this product. A clinical study of advanced colorectal cancer treated with FORFIRI plus
      Cetuximab compared to FORFIRI/Cetuximab/beta-glucan has been reported in the ASCO annual
      meeting.23 Median progression-free survival increased 38% to 22 weeks with the beta-glucan
      combination, compared with 16 weeks for the standard of care. The overall response rate
      (complete response + partial response) was 30% with beta-glucan combination, compared to 16%
      for the standard of care.

      Glutamine is an abundant and versatile nutrient that participates in energy formation, redox
      homeostasis, macromolecular synthesis, and signaling in cancer cells. Glutamine levels in
      plasma and skeletal muscle were decreased in tumor-bearing rats, although glutamine
      production and the conversion of arginine to glutamine were increased. Glutamine supplement
      reduced whole-body protein breakdown rate during chemotherapy in tumor-bearing rats and
      increase fat-free mass in cancer-related cachexia patients. It also enhanced lymphocyte
      mitogenic function and reduced permeability of the gut during radiochemotherapy in esophageal
      cancer patients. However, the role of glutamine in cancer growth is equivocal. In some cancer
      cells, excess glutamine is exported in exchange for leucine and other essential amino acids.
      This exchange facilitates activation of the serine/threonine kinase mTOR, a major positive
      regulator of cell growth. An opposite study showed that glutathione (GSH) increases under
      glutamine supplementation that can resist chemotherapy and radiotherapy in normal cells. In
      cancer tissue, glutamine supplementation appears to decrease intratumoral GSH stores, which
      may cause sensitivity to treatment.

      Test purposes:

      Investigators need to evaluate the efficacy of bone marrow function recovery after
      chemotherapy, analyze the type of immune cells, and measure the number of immune cells,
      including CD4 + T cells, CD8 + T cells, NK-T cells, etc., which can help innate immune
      response, cancer response. In addition, Investigators want to assess whether simultaneous
      treatments can help treat response and quality of life.

      Experiment method:

      Study nutritional supplements have been used since the 7th day of Week 2 and lasted to 2
      months after completing 6 cycles of systemization, using one pack or one nutrient for every
      10 kg of body weight Tracking or rehabilitation plan: The case is closed for one year, and
      the case is tracked one year after the case is closed. On the seventh day of the second
      course, on the twenty-first day, on the seventh day of the fourth course, on the
      twenty-second day of the sixth course, and two months after the end of the treatment, 10 c.c.
      of blood were taken for the leukocyte surface antigen test, and in the second course The
      seventh day, the fourth course of treatment, the seventh day, the sixth course of the 22nd
      day.

      Main efficacy or evaluation index: When the subjects joined the trial, the clinician's
      treatment needs a complete examination, including the detection of hepatitis B surface
      antigen and hepatitis C antibody, on the seventh day of the second course, the twenty-first
      day, and the seventh day of the fourth course On the 22nd day of the 6th course of treatment,
      and taking 10cc of blood for two weeks to complete the leukocyte surface antigen test two
      months after the treatment, And two months after the end of treatment and assisted in the
      assessment of the quality of life scale (with EORTC QLQ-C30 and QLQ-CX24 Taiwan Chinese
      version)

      Primary endpoint:

        -  1. Assess the white blood cell status of the three groups of patients before, after and
           two months after the end of chemotherapy,

      Including the distribution and performance of T cells, B cells, and NK cells.

        -  2. Improvement of patients' quality of life.

      Secondary endpoint

        -  1. The smoothness of patient treatment, such as whether to receive treatment as
           scheduled and whether there is an infection.

        -  2. Overall survival and no-deterioration survival.

      Statistical methods:

        -  1. Evaluation with Quality of Life Scale (with EORTC QLQ-C30 and QLQ-CX24 Taiwanese
           Chinese version)

        -  2. Use regression analysis to analyze the white blood cells of the three groups of
           patients before, after and two months after the end of chemotherapy. Conditions,
           including the distribution and performance of T cells, B cells and NK cells.

        -  3. Kaplan Meunier survival curve analysis of overall survival and non-deterioration
           survival.

      Possible harm criteria:

      According to the results of current trials and clinical use of this nutritional supplement,
      no obvious side effects have been found, but patients with lactose intolerance may experience
      mild diarrhea, which can be reduced or discontinued; very few people may produce Allergic
      reactions or glutamic acid, if there have been allergic reactions such as rash, immediately
      withdraw from the test.

      Processing method:

      When the subject has any discomfort, please tell the subject's trial host doctor, the doctor
      will try his best to give the subject the best treatment and care. If the subject has any
      emergency or other unusual physical condition, which cannot be effectively controlled with
      existing drugs, please contact the subject's physician immediately. When the subject
      encounters serious side effects or complications on a regular holiday, please immediately
      send it to the emergency room of the subject's hospital and inform the emergency physician of
      the content of the human trial he participated in.
    
  