
    
      The present study was approved by the Research Ethics Committee from the Federal University
      of Vale do São Francisco - UNIVASF under number 1.687.330. The study had as inclusion
      criteria: (i) to be male between 18 and 40 years; (ii) a Capoeira practitioner for at least 2
      years; and (iii) mastering the technique of the three rhythms of performance investigated
      (Angola, Benguela and São Bento). As exclusion criteria: (i) to be hypertensive, diabetic or
      obese; (ii) a smoker; (iii) alcohol addicted and (iv) have some cardiovascular dysfunction or
      musculoskeletal problem. The participants volunteered and signed a written informed consent
      in accordance with resolution 466/12 from the National Health Council of Brazil and
      principles of the Declaration of Helsinki. Finally, the sample was composed of 11 male
      individuals with experience in the three rhythms of Capoeira performance selected for the
      study. For the evaluation of aerobic fitness was a Maximal Aerobic Incremental Test (MAIT) in
      the cyclergometer was performed (Biotec 2100, Cefise). MAIT began with one minute warm-up
      without load, with 50 watts or power followed by increments of 25 watts of power to each
      stage of one minute. The participants were instructed to maintain a frequency of 50 rpm's
      during the entire test, until voluntary exhaustion or not maintaining the pre-established
      rotation. The last stage of the test was considered valid when the individual remained at
      least 50% of the stage time duration in exercise. During the MAIT, measures of aerobic power,
      RPE and HR were obtained. The Capoeira performance experimental sessions were performed based
      on three distinct rhythms, namely: 1) Angola; 2) Benguela and; 3) São Bento. The choice of
      these performance rhythms is justified because they are the most practiced in the Capoeira
      world and the literature has reported possible differences in technical standards of physical
      requirement between them. The performance rhythms were performed in different days and
      separated by an interval of 48 hours. All the performance rhythms were accompanied by
      standardized percussion instruments, with three berimbaus, one with severe intonation
      (berimbau gunga), another intermediate (medium berimbau) and the last with acute intonation
      (berimbau viola), an atabaque and two tambourines. The musical instruments were played by
      experienced individuals and the songs were also sung in a standardized way for each
      performance. The performances in different rhythms always occurred at the same time of day
      between 3:00 and 4:00 p.m. A period of rest (pre-intervention) with a duration of 10 minutes
      occurred prior to completion of each performance rhythm, with volunteers being seated
      comfortably in an upholstered armchair. At the end of the rest measurements of the
      physiological and the perceptual variables of the study were performed. Soon after the
      pre-intervention a standardized warm-up/stretching in light intensity perceived was performed
      during 5 minutes with the own Capoeira movements. Then pairs of participants were conducted
      for the intervention with the performing of its respective Capoeira performance rhythms
      (Angola, Benguela or São Bento). Each rhythm of performance had duration of 90 seconds and
      participants received voice instructions to start and finish the performance. After each
      physical performance with the Capoeira rhythm, during recovery period (post- intervention) in
      the moments 1, 3, 5, 7, and 9 minutes was measured the physiological and the perceptual
      variables of the study. The pre-intervention, intervention and post-intervention were
      performed in a room free of noise and temperature between 22-24ºC. During the experimental
      sessions the participants used a device brand Polar Electro Oy mod. RS800CX duly validated to
      record the HR and R-R intervals (RRi) of HR variability (HRV). In addition to the analysis
      pre- and post-intervention, during the intervention it was considered the lowest HR and RRi
      (MIN), the average HR and RRi (AVE) and the largest HR and RRi (PEAK). The records of the
      RRi, during the intervention, were exported from the device Polar to the software Polar
      ProTrainer 5 by infra red and analyzed through the software Kubios HRV version 2.0. In order
      not to jeopardize the reliability of the indexes obtained, the early ectopic and artifact
      beats were removed and adjusted, being a criterion the differences greater than 20% in
      relation to adjacent beats. After editing the RRi, analyzes using linear methods in the time
      and frequency domain were performed with the objective of estimation of cardiac autonomic
      modulation. Concerning the time domain, the parameters analyzed were the absolute mean RRi
      and rMSSD (root mean square differences of successive RRi) as an indicator of the modulation
      of the parasympathetic nervous system. As to frequency domain the high frequency components
      (HF: 0.15 to 0.4 Hz) as well as the low frequency (LF: 0.04 to 0.15 Hz) were analyzed to
      calculate the LF:HF ratio, which characterizes the cardiac sympathovagal balance In the pre-
      and post-intervention BP measures were conducted by means of an automatic sphygmomanometer
      brand Microlife, mod. BP3AC1-1PC, equipment validated and with high reproducibility for
      normotensive individuals. The procedures adopted for BP evaluation were those recommended by
      the Cardiology Brazilian Society. Besides, in the pre- and post-intervention periods a
      puncture in the participants' ear lobe was done to collect 25 μl of capillary blood by
      calibrated capillaries. The blood samples were deposited in Eppendorf microtubules and stored
      in 50 μl of sodium fluoride to 1% for later analysis of [Lac] and [Gluc]]. To this end, a
      biochemistry electroenzymatic analyzer (Yellow Springs 2,700 STAT, OH, USA) was properly
      calibrated and used. During MAIT and at the pre- and post-intervention periods with the
      experimental sessions the perceptual variables were measured through psychometric scales.
      Rate of perceived exertion (RPE): The whole-body perceived exertion was assessed using the
      Borg's RPE [6-20] Scale. Before the MAIT, and experimental sessions with Capoeira, the
      meaning of RPE was explained to the subjects. A rating of 6 (low anchor, "very, very light")
      was assigned to the lowest exercise intensity, while a rating of 20 (high anchor, "very, very
      hard") was assigned to the highest exercise intensity. Basic affective response: The Feeling
      Scale (FS) was used to assess the affective response and it is an 11-point bipolar scale
      ranging from +5 to -5, commonly used to measure pleasure/displeasure during exercise. This
      scale presents the following verbal anchors: -5 = very bad; -3 = bad; -1 = fairly bad; 0 =
      neutral; +1 fairly good; +3 = good; and +5 = very good. The subjects received standard
      instructions regarding to the use of the FS in according to Hardy and Rejeski. Perceived
      activation (PA): The PA scale was used to assess the arousal state of the participants. The
      PA scale is a 6-point single-item measure, ranging from +1 (low arousal) to +6 (high
      arousal). This scale assesses how the participant felt activated, stimulated and motivated
      during different times of the study (pre- and post-intervention). In addition, an integrated
      analysis interpolating FS and PA responses was performed, aiming to obtain the sense that the
      affective domain points from different quadrants of the circumplex model (high
      activation-pleasure; high activation-displeasure; low activation-displeasure; low
      activation-pleasure). Finally, standard definitions of perceptual responses and separate
      instructional sets for scales were read to the participants immediately before the MAIT. The
      low and high perceptual anchors for the RPE, FS and PA scale were established during the
      MAIT. RPE, FS and PA values were evaluated randomly during the last 10 seconds of each stage
      of MAIT, during pre-intervention and, different moments of post-intervention. Descriptive
      statistics with mean and standard deviation was performed. The normality of data distribution
      was tested by the Shapiro-Wilk test. ANOVA two-way for repeated measures, reporting the
      "F-ratio", degrees of freedom and the "P" value was used to verify the interaction
      time*rhythms and the main effect of time within each Capoeira performance. The test of
      Mauchly was adopted to verify the sphericity of the data, which, in case of violation, the
      degrees of freedom would be corrected by the epsilon of Greenhouse-Geisser. Partial eta
      squared (ηp2) was used to determine the effect size. Post hoc of Bonferroni was adopted for
      identification of pairs of difference. The alpha was set at 5% and the software used was SPSS
      22.0 for Windows (SPSS, Inc., Chicago, IL).
    
  