
    
      The study will be a pilot, prospective, single-center, open-label, non-randomized,
      non-controlled, parallel clinical trial. 25 HCV genotype 1 infected patients post transplant
      will be enrolled in the study. Recruitment will be conducted through the renal transplant and
      nephrology outpatient clinics at the University of Maryland.

      The post-transplant cohort will include renal transplant recipients of both living donor and
      deceased donor organs infected with HCV prior to their transplantation with GFRs <50 with
      active HCV viremia. These patients will be recruited from the University of Maryland's
      multidisciplinary transplant nephrology clinic or infectious disease clinic.

      Screening All patients will be screened at the Institute of Human Virology (IHV) Clinical
      Research Unit. At this visit, all patients will have screening labs drawn and a history and
      physical examination performed. Additional requirements will be genotype testing prior to
      enrollment, but after transplant and disease staging within 12 months of enrollment by liver
      biopsy, elastography, or biochemical testing. For those who do not have a genotype or disease
      staging within the specified time frame, genotyping and elastography will be repeated as part
      of the study screening work up. Eligibility will be determined based upon these results
      within 6 weeks of starting the study drugs.

      Given the reduced efficacy of this regimen in patients with genotype 1a with the presence of
      baseline NS5A resistance-associated variants (RAVs), the investigators will screen patients
      for RAVs in patients with HCV genotype 1a at the time of enrollment. Any patient with
      genotype 1a HCV found to have NS5A RAVs will undergo 16 weeks of therapy according to current
      treatment guidelines.

      Starting therapy Study drugs will be administered starting on day 0 after a history and
      physical examination is performed and safety labs are checked. All patients will sign an
      informed consent as approved by our Institutional Review Board (IRB) prior to administration
      of study drugs.

      Study visits during treatment Patients will be followed every 4 weeks while they are
      receiving study drugs. HCV viral load (VL), safety labs and hepatic panel will be performed
      at each of these visits. Patients will also be advised about study adherence and monitored
      for adverse events.

      Safety and adverse event monitoring At each study visit, research nurses will inquire about
      adverse events that may or may not be related to study drugs. Any unfavorable medical
      occurrences will be recorded, whether or not considered related to the patient's
      participation in the research, temporally associated with the patient's participation in the
      research. Adverse events (AEs) classified as grade 3 or higher will be reported to the IRB
      and principal investigator. Any grade 3 or 4 AEs and all serious adverse events (SAEs) will
      be reviewed as they occur by the study team.

      Safety labs will also be drawn at these visits. Levels of immunosuppressive agents will also
      be determined at these visits as appropriate. The need for dose modification of the patient's
      immunosuppression in the time between visits will be recorded.

      End of treatment visit Patients will be seen 12 weeks after starting study drugs (or 16 weeks
      in the case of genotype 1a patients with baseline NS5A RAVs) for an end of study visit. HCV
      VL, safety labs and hepatic panel will be performed at this visit. Patients will also be
      counseled about study adherence and the investigators will inquire about adverse events.

      Post treatment follow up visits Patients will be followed every 4 weeks for 12 weeks after
      they complete treatment. HCV VL, safety labs and a hepatic panel will be performed at these
      visits.
    
  