
    
      Higher fatigue levels are found in women with stage I, II or IIIA breast cancer receiving
      adjuvant chemotherapy (CT) who adopt patterns of daytime inactivity and nighttime
      restlessness and have more symptom and psychological distress. Interventions that improve
      sleep quality and reduce daytime fatigue in persons with insomnia may also benefit women
      receiving adjuvant CT. Using selected factors from Piper's Integrated Fatigue Model (IFM), a
      randomized, controlled clinical trial will compare women with breast cancer who receive a
      four component behavioral sleep intervention to women in the attentional control group during
      and after adjuvant CT. The intervention is designed to reduce fatigue in these women by
      promoting daytime activity, improving sleep quality and decreasing symptom and psychological
      distress. The aims of this study are to: 1) Compare the immediate (sleep/wake,
      activity/exercise, symptoms, psychological distress) and consequent (fatigue) outcomes of
      women who receive a four component behavioral sleep intervention (sleep hygiene counseling,
      relaxation therapy, sleep restriction and stimulus control) (n=110) with the outcomes in the
      healthy eating group (n=110) in women with stage I, II or IIIA breast cancer during 4 or 8
      cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy, at 30, 60 and 90 days after their last treatment, and 1 year
      after their first treatment; 2) Determine the extent to which factors selected from the IFM
      influence fatigue intensity levels a) in the total sample at baseline and b) differentially
      influence fatigue intensity levels between groups 30 days after the last chemotherapy
      treatment and 1 year after the first treatment and 3) Evaluate the adherence to the refined
      behavioral sleep intervention and preferences for sleep hygiene and relaxation therapy
      techniques in the experimental group over time. Women will be randomized on the basis of good
      or poor sleeping history and intent to treat (4 versus 8 cycles of CT) to the intervention or
      attentional control group. Using the co-scientist model, the sleep intervention group will
      follow an Individual Sleep Promotion Plan negotiated with the investigator with regularly
      scheduled reinforcements and revisions. The healthy eating group will receive equal time and
      attention regarding general topics and nutrition. Established instruments include the Piper
      Fatigue Scale, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, SF-36 Health Survey, Symptom Experience
      Scale, Daily Diary and Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index. Objective measures include wrist
      actigraph, hemoglobin/ hematocrit, white blood count, T4 & TSH, and body mass index and a C -
      reactive protein at 1 year. Statistical analyses include RM-ANOVA, generalized estimation
      equation methodology and multiple regression analysis. Results may inform development of
      clinical guidelines for fatigue management during adjuvant CT.
    
  