
    
      The pathophysiology of gender dysphoria is still poorly understood, but a number of clues
      point to an origin derived from biological and environmental factors, particularly studies of
      twins, birth order, and family groups. Several explanatory models have been put forward. In
      particular, the differentiation of genitals taking place in the first half of pregnancy while
      that of the brain in the second makes it possible to imagine a different differentiation
      between the external phenotype and the cerebral gender. Several developmental features have
      thus been found in gender dysphoric subjects, including the finger length ratio D2 / D4,
      lateralization. Some neuroimaging studies have shown brain features in gender dysphoric
      subjects that seem original compared to control subjects. Nevertheless, the results are
      scarce, poorly reproduced, and for some, the differences highlighted may be related to
      phenotypic variability including the non-consideration of sexual orientation. Moreover, some
      of these studies combine subjects treated or not with hormone therapy which is a bias because
      it is likely that hormone therapy may have structural and functional effects on brain
      function. The investigators team deals with dysphoric gender issues as part of a coordinated
      course of hormone-surgical reassignment. We wish to better characterize the brain effects, at
      the level of the "connectome" of the reassignment hormone therapy in a population of
      dysphoric subjects, taking into account signs of pre-natal hormonal impregnation (D2 / D4
      ratio), developmental features (onset of dysphoria, lateralization, size), and controlling
      sexual orientation as a potential confounding factor.

      The aim of the research is then to study longitudinally the effects of reassignment
      hormonotherapy on the connectome of MtF dysphoric subjects after 6 months of hormone therapy.
      The subjects will be compared to a control group of healthy subjects taking into account
      sexual orientation.

      This is a prospective longitudinal study that includes, in a consecutive manner, open-label
      patients with MtF gender dysphoria (biological men who are transitioning to the female
      gender) attending the forensic psychiatric consultation for a request for hormone-surgical
      reassignment. Subjects will receive initial clinical assessment and MRI before and 6 months
      after initiation of hormone therapy; the imaging data will be compared to a control group (n
      = 20).
    
  