
    
      We propose to study prospectively 68 patients who have been identified as positive with mAb
      DAS-1 immunostaining without histological evidence of specialized columnar epithelium ("True
      Barrett's" epithelium) during routine endoscopy for dyspepsia or GERD symptoms. These
      patients have been studied for initial screening for antibody staining under IRB protocol
      #1698. This number is based on the statistical analysis by Fisher's exact test and has 90%
      power to detect a 30% negativity (mAb Das-1 positive to negative) at a p<0.05 level. During
      participation in IRB Protocol #1698, initial biopsy specimens were taken at:

        -  the squamo-columnar junction (at least 2 sites - 12 o'clock and 6 o'clock positions and
           any other area with mucosal "tongues" of columnar epithelium),

        -  one from squamous epithelium at the distal esophagus to seek for the presence of
           esophagitis,

        -  one from antrum for the presence or absence of intestinal metaplasia of the stomach,

        -  and one from the gastric cardia.

      Following endoscopy and participation in IRB Protocol #1698, for the symptomatic patients who
      are not taking any proton pump inhibitor, an H2 blocker, Ranitidine (ZantacÒ) 150 mg twice
      daily, will be started while the biopsy is being analyzed for histology and
      immunocytochemical stainings. This is usually completed within 2 weeks. Patients who showed
      positive reactivity in at least one biopsy sample taken during participation in Protocol
      #1698 with mAb Das-1 will be included in this study. Patients who have been taking a proton
      pump inhibitor (PPI) for longer than 3 months preceeding study entry are not eligible to
      participate in this study. Patients who have been taking proton pump inhibitors for 3 months
      or less at the time of the endoscopy and biopsy screening for mAb Das-1, may participate in
      this study 4 weeks after discontinuing the PPI (i.e., a 4 week washout period).

      Patients will be randomized in a double-blinded fashion to receive either Pantoprazole, 40 mg
      twice daily (34 patients), or continued on Ranitidine, 150 mg twice daily (34 patients) for a
      total period of 6 months. Pantoprazole and Ranitidine will be provided by Wyeth and the code
      will be kept by the pharmacy department at The Cancer Institute of New Jersey. The drugs will
      be provided free of cost to the patients for the entire period. Patients will be followed as
      out-patients at three-month intervals up to 6 months. Patients will be advised to return any
      unused capsules during the follow-up visits. The number of unused capsules as well as review
      of the patient's medication diary will allow assessment of non-compliance. Patients must be
      at least 75% compliant to remain on the study. If any patient complains of persistent
      symptoms, an effort will be made to provide relief with antacids, as much as needed. However,
      if the patient is still symptomatic, they will be taken off the study and unblinded. If the
      patient is on Ranitidine they will be switched to open label Pantoprazole and will be
      followed and further treated in a routine manner. If the patient is taking Pantoprazole, pH
      monitoring to document acid reflux and planning of further management will be determined.

      All patients will have a follow-up endoscopy at 6 months, with no cost to the patient. This
      cost will be born by the grant received by Dr. Das. Additional endoscopy will be performed at
      12 months and 24 months, which is the current "standard care" procedure for surveillance in
      such patients. Follow-up biopsy specimens will be taken the same way as the initial specimens
      and processed to see any changes in histology and mAb Das-1 reactivity.
    
  