
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the toxicity of recombinant fowlpox-CEA-TRICOM vaccine with or without
      sargramostim (GM-CSF) or recombinant fowlpox-GM-CSF in patients with advanced or metastatic
      CEA-expressing adenocarcinomas.

      II. Determine the CEA-specific T-cell precursor frequency in patients treated with these
      regimens.

      III. Assess the immunogenicity of GM-CSF in patients treated with these regimens.

      IV. Determine the inflammatory response and cytokine expression at the vaccination site in
      these patients 48 hours after vaccination.

      V. Correlate telomere length of leukocytes with prior cytotoxic therapies and immunologic
      response in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. The first three cohorts of 3-12 patients receive
      escalating doses of recombinant fowlpox-CEA-TRICOM vaccine (fCEA-TRI) until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined.

      The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients or 3 of 12 patients
      experience dose-limiting toxicity. fCEA-TRI is administered intradermally every 2 weeks for 4
      doses and then every 2 months thereafter (beginning on day 56) in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      The fourth and fifth cohorts of 6 patients receive fCEA-TRI at the MTD in the same manner as
      the first three cohorts combined with escalating doses of sargramostim (GM-CSF). GM-CSF is
      administered subcutaneously once daily beginning on the day of each vaccination and
      continuing for a total of 4 days.

      The sixth through eighth cohorts of 6 patients receive fCEA-TRI at the MTD in the same manner
      as the first three cohorts combined with escalating doses of recombinant fowlpox-GM-CSF
      (rF-GM-CSF). rF-GM-CSF is administered in the same manner as GM-CSF.

      Patients are followed every month for 4 months.
    
  