
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is characterized by the obstruction is not fully
      reversible airway, where the severity of the disease and the prognosis is not determined
      solely by changes in lung function. Pulmonary rehabilitation is a multidisciplinary program
      of care for patients with chronic respiratory diseases, individually designed to optimize
      physical and social performance and autonomy of these patients, promoting improvement in
      functional exercise capacity, quality of life, reducing dyspnea, frequency and duration of
      hospitalizations and reduce the frequency of exacerbations of the disease. It is still
      reported in the survey improved ability to perform activities of daily life, exercise
      capacity, quality of life, reduction in respiratory symptoms, anxiety and depression in
      patients with chronic lung diseases. The overall objective of the research is to evaluate the
      effects of pulmonary rehabilitation program on exercise capacity, lung function, quality of
      daily life and reduction of dyspnea in patients with COPD. A study type randomized,
      open-label trial following the recommendations of the CONSORT (Consolidated Standards of
      Reporting Trials) will be held. The study will be conducted at the Clinical Department of
      Physical Therapy School The calculation of the sample held at LEE program (epidemiology
      laboratory and statistics) with 95% confidence interval and allowing a loss of 20% the sample
      then goes to 58 patients. Inclusion criteria: Patients with COPD eligible to moderate COPD
      according to the criteria of gold GOLD (Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung
      Disease) as well as being ex-smokers and no exacerbation of the disease in the last three
      months. Accompanied by a pulmonologist. Age between 40-85 years. Be not practicing physical
      activity and without cardiovascular or orthopedic disease, make use of bronchodilators and
      oral theophylline, oxygen therapy or corticosteroids. Exclusion criteria: Patients who have
      comorbidities musculoskeletal, peripheral saturation of oxygen fall lower than 90% during the
      6 minute walk test (six) minutes. Difficulty cognitive understanding of body awareness. The
      evaluation procedure will be: functional independence measure (FIM); london chest activity of
      daily living (LCADL); scale medical research council (MRC); the world health organization
      disability assessment schedule 2.0 (WHODAS 2.0); anthropometric examination; walk test of six
      (6) minutes; step test; As the repetition maximum (RM); muscle activation - electromyography;
      grip strength of the upper limbs (DMS); ultrasound diaphragm dynamometer; spirometry;
      respiratory muscle strength; saint george in respiratory disease questionnaire (SGRQ). The
      intervention will be performed sessions three times a week for 16 weeks (8 weeks for
      assessment and 8 weeks for adaptation and PR training). PR will last from 60 to 120 minutes
      each. Patients who agree to participate and the PR will be divided into two groups randomly
      through enveloped draw. Group A (control) will receive treatment from traditional pulmonary
      rehabilitation and without resistive training for upper limb (UL) and group B will receive
      the same treatment control with additional upper limb resistance training. For data analysis
      continuous variables will be analyzed with central tendency and dispersion measures, data or
      dichotomous categorical variables will be analyzed frequently measures. For the realization
      of inferential statistics are. Since the data are normally distributed, the Student t test
      for independent samples. The Mann-Whitney test is used to compare the differences in the
      means of the variables between the groups. To analyze the correlation between the functional
      capacity variables and QOL will be used in calculating the Pearson correlation coefficient
      (r) if the data are normally distributed and the calculation of the Spearman correlation
      coefficient was not distributed normally. To evaluate the reliability will be used the
      coefficient of intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC). Statistical analysis will be
      performed using the Statistical Package for Social Sciences for Windows (version 17.0).
    
  