
    
      The study is a non-commercial phase II randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled,
      multi-centre study to test moderate dose prednisolone versus placebo in patients with early
      diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis (dcSSc).

      Our aim is to investigate whether treatment with the steroid prednisolone is beneficial in
      patients with early diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis (also termed "scleroderma"). This is
      a controversial subject. Although it is very possible that prednisolone can help relieve the
      severe pain, itching, and disability (due to contractures and musculoskeletal involvement) of
      early diffuse scleroderma, doctors are often reluctant to prescribe prednisolone because of
      possible side effects, particularly an increased risk of serious kidney problems. Our
      proposed trial, treating patients with either prednisolone or placebo therapy for 6 months,
      should provide clinicians with a long awaited answer to the important clinical question: Can
      prednisolone be used as a therapy in this group of patients?

      The study, funded by Arthritis Research UK, aims to determine:

        1. Is moderate dose prednisolone effective in reducing pain, disability and skin thickening
           in patients with early diffuse scleroderma?

        2. Is moderate dose prednisolone a safe therapy in patients with early diffuse scleroderma
           (with particular reference to kidney function)?

      If the answer to both is 'yes', then prednisolone therapy will be much more widely prescribed
      for this patient group.

      The patient population will be selected from individuals with early dcSSc, as defined by skin
      involvement of less than 3 years, who are considered potentially able to benefit from this
      treatment. Following screening, to minimise bias, eligible patients will be randomised at the
      baseline visit to receive either daily moderate dose prednisolone (as determined by body
      weight) or a matched placebo. To further eliminate subjective and unrecognised bias both the
      research team and patients will be blind to the randomisation. A placebo control, as opposed
      to an active treatment control, will be administered. This is necessary as the study
      treatment is adjunctive to and not a substitute for any other therapies which may be
      prescribed, such as immunosuppressant therapies.

      Patients will attend on 5 occasions (screen, baseline, 6 weeks, 3 and 6 months). All patients
      will be considered off-study at the end of the 6 month visit whereupon the treatment code
      will be broken. At each visit a number of measurements will be taken including functional
      ability, degree of skin involvement (skin score), mood and kidney function. This will allow
      us to determine whether 'active' (prednisolone) therapy is effective and free from serious
      side-effects.

      Please note: from August 2020, due to Covid-19 the trial was re-designed and re-started
      following trial halt as open-label. A placebo is no longer required. The aims, primary
      outcome measures and number of visits remain unchanged. However, to further mitigate the
      ongoing impact of Covid-19, the screen and baseline assessments may now be conducted at the
      same visit. Remote visits can also be carried out at 6 weeks and 6 months, if necessary.
    
  