
    
      This study plans to learn more about whether simpler diagnostic tests can be used to identify
      the development of acute neuromuscular loss of function in patients with critical illness and
      respiratory failure receiving mechanical ventilation. ICU patients admitted to the University
      of Colorado Hospital will be screened for eligibility and enrollment in the study to receive
      weekly measurements of nerve and muscle function through nerve conduction studies (NCS),
      muscle ultrasound tests, and concentric needle electromyography (EMG) tests.

      Collected data includes the subject's age, gender, race, ethnicity, length of stay in ICU,
      time on mechanical ventilation and pertinent medical history that could indicate baseline
      neuromyopathy (CNS disease, diabetes, HIV, alcohol use disorder). Baseline neurological
      examination will be performed within 48 hours of meeting the inclusion criteria. This
      examination will include the level of consciousness, muscle tone, motor strength using the
      Medical Research Council (MRC) Scale, sensory function, muscle stretch reflexes, and plantar
      responses. For MRC testing, six muscle groups will be tested bilaterally: shoulder abduction,
      elbow flexion, wrist extension, hip flexion, knee extension, and foot dorsiflexion. Clinical
      weakness on examination (which is necessary to make the diagnosis of CIPNM (Critical Illness
      Polyneuropathy and Myopathy)) is defined as an MRC score equal to or less than 48 (maximum
      score is 60). If a subject cannot participate in any MRC strength testing (e.g. due to
      sedation or encephalopathy) they will be coded at the lowest level (most severe clinical
      weakness). Nerve conduction studies (NCS) and concentric needle electromyography (EMG) will
      be performed (as described below) on the same day as the initial neurological examination.
      The neurological examination and NCS/EMG will be repeated on a weekly basis until CIPNM is
      diagnosed or the subject is discharged from the ICU.

      SPECIFIC AIM #1:

      Aim 1.1: To determine whether amplitude reductions in the peroneal and sural nerve action
      potentials on NCS can serve as accurate screening tests for CIPNM in patients with acute
      respiratory failure.

      Aim 1.2: To determine whether increased duration of the CMAP on NCS can serve as an accurate
      screening test for CIPNM in patients with acute respiratory failure.

      Aim 1.3: To determine whether changes in muscle ultrasound echogenicity and/or thickness can
      serve as accurate screening tests for CIPNM in patients with acute respiratory failure.

      Aim 1.4: To determine the incidence of CIPNM in patients with neurological critical illness
      (such as intraparenchymal and subarachnoid hemorrhage), which requires prolonged length of
      stay in a neurosurgical intensive care unit.
    
  