
    
      Background:

        -  Therapeutic vaccination against cancer has proven very challenging with little clinical
           benefit.

        -  Vaccines against non-viral tumors have mainly targeted differentiation antigens, cancer
           testis antigens, and overexpressed antigens. However, negative selection in the thymus
           against these normal non-mutated antigens severely limits the ability to generate high
           avidity anti-cancer T-cells. Such depletion can impair their antitumor activity and
           limit tumor elimination.

        -  The National Cancer Institute Surgery Branch (NCI-SB) has developed a pipeline for the
           identification of immunogenic T-cell epitopes derived from neoantigens.

        -  In recent studies, we identified the neoantigens recognized by tumor-infiltrating
           lymphocytes (TIL) that mediated regression in patients with metastatic melanoma. Using
           whole exome sequencing of a resected metastatic nodule followed by high throughput
           immunologic screening, we were able to demonstrate that tumor regressions were
           associated with the recognition by the administered TIL of unique somatic mutations that
           occurred in the cancer.

        -  We also found that TIL from 29 of 32 patients with a wide variety of metastatic
           gastrointestinal cancers contained lymphocytes that recognized unique mutations
           presented in that patient's cancer.

        -  We, therefore, aim to use this pipeline to identify immunogenic neoantigens and to
           predict for neoantigens binding the patient human leukocyte antigen (HLA) molecules from
           melanoma or epithelial cancer patients and to use these epitopes for a personalized
           therapeutic messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) vaccine.

      Objectives

      Primary objectives:

        -  Determine the clinical response rate in patients with metastatic melanoma,
           gastrointestinal or genitourinary cancers who receive NCI-4650

        -  Determine the safety of NCI-4650 in patients with metastatic melanoma, gastrointestinal
           or genitourinary cancers

      Eligibility

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years and less than or equal to 70 years

        -  Evaluable metastatic melanoma, gastrointestinal, or genitourinary cancers refractory to
           standard of care treatment

        -  Metastatic cancer lesions suitable for surgical resection to perform whole exome
           sequencing and preparation of TIL

      Design:

        -  Patients with metastatic cancer will undergo surgical resection of tumor followed by
           exome and RNA sequencing to identify expressed mutations. This will be conducted under
           the NCI-SB cell harvest protocol 03-C-0277. (Cell Harvest and Preparation for Surgery
           Branch Adoptive Cell Therapy Protocols).

        -  Immunogenic neoantigens will be identified from TIL by high throughput immunologic
           screening using long peptides and tandem minigenes covering all mutated epitopes.

        -  Up to 15 predicted neoantigens will be selected based on exome and RNA sequencing and
           their binding affinity to the patient HLA molecules.

        -  The mRNA vaccine will be manufactured and supplied as Current Good Manufacturing
           Practice (cGMP) product by ModernaTX, Inc.

        -  The patient will be vaccinated with mRNA containing epitopes from immunogenic
           neoantigens, predicted neoantigens and mutations in tumor suppressor or driver genes.

        -  The mRNA vaccine will be administered intramuscularly (IM) for four cycles every two
           weeks. A patient may receive a second course for a total of eight cycles given.

        -  Blood samples will be taken every two weeks (during the vaccination period) and at each
           follow-up visit, and patients will be monitored for the quantity and quality of
           circulating neoantigen-specific T-cells.
    
  