
    
      CP is characterized by aberrant control of movement or posture of a patient , appearing early
      in life , and not the result of a recognized progressive or degenerative brain disease . CP
      is an umbrella term and represents a group of conditions (not a single disorder) , has a
      broad range of expression with a static condition originally within the developing central
      nervous system . CP Is a disturbance of movement and or posture . At the present time there
      is no standard medical or surgical treatment for it .Stem cell therapy is a new and promising
      treatment .

      150 cases of diparetic and quadiparetic spastic CP between 4-14 years old selected among the
      patients referred to the pediatric neurology outpatient department of Children's Medical
      Center Hospital (CMC) affiliated to Tehran University of Medical Sciences and had our
      inclusion criteria. HLA analysis were done for these patients and 36 cases of class 6 matched
      cases enrolled to the hematopoietic stem cells derived from allogenic umbilical cord (MNC)
      because of necessity of Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) matching in this type of cells and 72
      cases among the remaining patients randomly divided to Mesenchymal stem cells derived from
      allogenic umbilical cord (MSC) and control group . Therefore 108 cases enrolled in 3 divided
      group of 36 patients .

      Patients admitted to CMC hospital and intrathecal injection were done with sedation . Only
      one injection of stem cell was done for each patient . In the control group after insertion
      of the needle into the skin with an appearance of lumbar puncture simulation , no injection
      were done without the awareness of the patients or their parents. All of the patients
      admitted for one day and discharged the next day . As we wrote in the consent form for
      ethical consideration we are committed to perform stem cell injection for control
      participants free of charge after 12 months of the follow up . All of the participants will
      be referred for neurorehabilitation with a identical protocol .Both parents and clinical
      evaluators are not aware of the 3 divided groups and our study is double blind .Outcome
      measures will be evaluated 1, 3, 6. and 12 months after intervention .

      Standard brain Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) with Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS)
      and Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI) were done before injection as baseline and will be
      repeated after 12 months of clinical follow up . This study designed for the evaluation of
      therapeutic effects of intrathecal MNC and MSC derived from allogenic umbilical cord in
      change and probable improvement of developmental functions of spastic CP patients between
      4-14 years old in comparison with control group .Different scoring systems such as Gross
      Motor Functional Classification System (GMFCS) , Gross Motor Function Measure Score (GMFM66)
      , Manual Ability Classification System (MACS) , Pediatric Evaluation of Disability Inventory
      (PEDI) , CP QOL , Life Habits Questionnaire and Modified Ashworth scale for spasticity were
      done at baseline and then will be repeated in follow ups until 12 months of final evaluation
      .

      Acute side effects and probable long term side effects will be reported and noted on our
      preformed questioners .
    
  