
    
      Background: Clopidogrel (CLO) is a pro-drug metabolized in the liver by the Cytochrom-P450
      system to its active component. Studies in acute ischemic stroke (IS) patients have proven
      that genetic differences in coding of an enzyme responsible for the metabolism of CLO
      (CYP2C19) results in different response to CLO when tested in the blood. An American study in
      cardiac patients have shown an association between the genotype and the CLO-response to
      different dosages of CLO, meaning that patients who are non-responders to low dosages of CLO
      may be responders to higher CLO dosages. Furthermore, the study showed that patients with a
      distinct genotype does not gain CLO response even at high CLO dosages (300 mg/day).

      Perspective: The study will have an impact on the patient, the relatives and the social
      economy. The project answers if it is possible to give personalized therapy to IS patients
      securing the best possible prophylactic treatment for each single patient. Hereby reducing
      the risk of early death, disability and dependency. The project determines the genetic
      distribution of CYP2C19 alleles in the Danish IS population and determine the association
      between genotype and CLO-response in clinically relevant dosages in a Caucasian population of
      IS patients.

      Objective: To determine the correlation between genotype and Clopidogrel response to
      different CLO dosage and to determine the distribution of different alleles of CYP2C19
      genotypes in a Danish IS population.

      Hypothesis: CLO response is determined by CYP2C19 genotype, and there is a correlation
      between drug-response and CYP2C19 genotype.

      Method: Systematic recording of data on 103 IS patients receiving prophylactic treatment with
      CLO 75 mg/day.

      Genotype is determined in collaboration with Division of Clinical Biochemistry, Dept. of
      Diagnostics, Glostrup Hospital determining the CYP2C19 genotype *1(wild-type), *2(Loss Of
      Function=LOF) and *17(Gain Of Function=GOF). CLO responder status is determined using the
      VerifyNow P2Y12 assays.

      Patients receiving CLO 75 mg/day who are non-responders when testing with VerifyNow P2Y12
      assays have a blood sample for genetic testing. Patients carrying the *2 genotype on one or
      both alleles are CLO responder status tested on increasing doses of CLO, rising 75 mg/day
      every 14 days (150/225/300 mg) until maximum CLO 300 mg/day. Responder status is tested at
      the end of every second week, before increasing dosage. If the patient is CLO responder on
      the tested dose (150/225/300 mg) or non-responder on CLO 300 mg/day, the patient is ended in
      the study and switched to treatment with ASA in combination with Dipyramidole.
    
  