
    
      Many recent studies have suggested that there is an overlap between pain and emotion-related
      neurophysiological processes. Several modern pain theories also advocate that pain should be
      considered as a complex sensory and emotional experience, rather than as an isolated sensory
      event. In accordance with these theories, it is reasonable to expect that an intervention
      such as CBT, which teaches patients to understand and control both the emotional and sensory
      aspects of pain, could alter the brain's responses to both pain and emotionally provocative
      stimuli and, consequently, change the underlying neural circuitry.

      To date, there are no published studies that explore the neurobiological effects of
      psychotherapeutic approaches, such as CBT, on chronic pain. A previous pilot study showed
      that the exaggerated amygdala response to negative emotional stimuli in chronic pain patients
      was normalized after 12 weeks of group CBT, suggesting that CBT may affect at least the
      emotional component of the pain process. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI),
      which creates a three-dimensional picture of the brain, this study will determine the
      following: (1) whether CBT treatment changes the function of brain neural circuitry in
      response to acute noxious physical stimuli and to fearful emotional stimuli; and (2) how
      altered activation in brain areas associated with the attentional, affective, and sensory
      aspects of chronic pain relate to measurable improvement in someone's clinical response to
      group CBT. Directly measuring the effects of CBT on brain function could ultimately improve
      clinical decision making and contribute to the development of individualized treatment for
      patients with chronic pain.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to receive 12 weeks of either CBT or pain education,
      which will act as an attention control condition. Each CBT session will last for 90 minutes
      and will teach participants specific skills to better cope with chronic pain. These skills
      will include breathing exercises, distraction, and relaxation techniques. Each weekly pain
      education session, also lasting 90 minutes, will be structured as a group discussion and led
      by a health care counselor. During the session, participants will receive information about
      the nature of chronic back pain, talk about treatment options, learn exercises and stretching
      techniques for maintaining strength and flexibility, and learn how to protect their backs.
      Every participant will undergo two fMRI examinations: one before treatment and one after
      treatment.
    
  