
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Gemcitabine is a drug used to treat pancreatic cancer. However, there are no studies that
      show that gemcitabine is able to enter pancreatic cancer cells.

      Losartan is a drug that lowers blood pressure. It also may increase the amount of gemcitabine
      that reaches the cancer cells. Participant may be asked to take this drug before
      participant's surgery.

      Before Surgery:

      If participant is found to be eligible and participant agrees to take part in this study, the
      following tests will be done before participant's surgery:

        -  Participant will have a routine CT (computed tomography) scan and a research MRI
           (magnetic resonance imaging) of participant's abdomen to check the status of the
           disease.

        -  Blood (about 3-4 teaspoons) will be drawn for biomarker testing.

      Participant may be asked to take losartan for 2-4 two to four weeks before participant's
      surgery (described below).

      Surgery:

      Participant's surgery will be performed in the same way as it would be even if participant
      was not taking part in this study. Participant will sign a separate consent form for surgery.
      The length of the surgery and the time participant is under anesthesia are not changed by
      taking part in the study.

      To measure how much gemcitabine enters pancreas cancer cells, participants who are having
      their pancreatic cancer removed by surgery will receive an infusion of gemcitabine during the
      surgery. Some of the pancreatic cancer tissue removed then will be checked to learn if
      gemcitabine is found in the cancer cells.

      During surgery, participant will have routine procedures to learn if the disease has spread
      to other areas. If the disease has spread beyond the pancreas, surgical removal is not
      possible.

      If for any reason during the surgery, the surgeon decides that removal of the pancreas is not
      possible, participant will not receive gemcitabine and participation in this study will end.

      If there are no signs of spread or other reasons the cancer cannot be removed, the surgeon
      will begin the process of removal of the disease.

      Gemcitabine Infusion:

      Participant will receive an infusion of gemcitabine just before the surgeon begins to remove
      the cancer. Gemcitabine will be given through an infusion catheter that is placed in the
      operating room after participant is asleep. The infusion will take over 100 minutes. The
      infusion catheter is not required for the study but is a standard of care procedure for all
      participants who are having pancreatic cancer surgery. Participant will sign a separate
      consent form for the infusion catheter.

      Losartan Administration:

      If participant is asked to take losartan, participant will take 1 tablet by mouth every day
      for up to 4 weeks before participant's surgery. After Week 1, the study staff will tell
      participant if participant's dose will stay the same or increase, based on any side effects
      that participant may have.

      Blood and Tissue Collection:

      Up to 10 blood samples (about 1 tablespoon each time) will be drawn during surgery starting
      before the gemcitabine infusion begins and at the end of surgery. The blood samples are used
      to measure the levels of gemcitabine in participant's blood at different time points. This is
      called pharmacokinetic (PK) testing. The blood will also be used for biomarker testing.
      Biomarkers are chemical "markers" in the blood/tissue that may be related to participant's
      reaction to the study drug.

      Some of the tumor tissue and normal tissue removed during surgery will be collected to learn
      if gemcitabine is able to enter the tissue cells and for biomarker testing.

      Length of Study:

      Participant's active participation in this study will be over once participant has had
      surgery and completed the follow-up. The research team will continue to collect information
      on participant for 30 days after surgery (or until participant is no longer having side
      effects).

      Follow-Up:

      The study team will follow participant's health status for 30 days after surgery to check if
      participant is having any side effects from gemcitabine. This follow-up will be done daily
      while participant is in the hospital recovering from the surgery. Follow-up will also occur
      at the time of a routine clinic visit, or by phone call at least once weekly. These calls
      should last about 5 minutes each.

      This is an investigational study. Gemcitabine is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of pancreatic cancer. Its use during surgery is investigational.

      Losartan is FDA approved and commercially available for the treatment of high blood pressure
      and diabetic nephropathy. It is not approved for the treatment of pancreatic cancer.

      Up to 40 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  