
    
      The main objective of this project is to evaluate the effectiveness of Observation of Action
      (AO) both in increasing the speed of movement of the upper limbs, agility and locomotion, and
      in improving activities and quality of life in people with Parkinson's disease (PD) during a
      4-6 month follow-up. The second objective is to evaluate the feasibility and effectiveness of
      a tele-rehabilitation protocol using home-based AO therapy. The telecommunication technology
      will provide a complete training through a low-cost software run on a touch-screen device,
      which will show the actions to be imitated several times by people with PD. This project will
      be the first attempt to implement AO-based treatment at home and, if successful, will be
      highly translational to clinical practice thanks to the advanced development and broad
      accessibility of information technology and telecommunications in our country. Furthermore,
      continuous exercise will reduce the risks of complications and the frequency of hospital
      admissions, thus reducing costs for the National Health System.

      Parkinson's disease (PD) should impose a growing social and economic burden on our country.
      In fact, even with optimal medical management, people with PD experience a worsening of
      mobility and independence in daily activities, with a consequent reduction in quality of
      life. In the last ten years there has been a growing demand to consider rehabilitation as an
      essential adjunct to pharmacological treatment. However, the reference rates for
      physiotherapy for people with Parkinson's disease have been historically low, both because of
      poor compliance by patients with the therapies of the movement and because of the scarce
      availability of physiotherapy services. Action Observation Therapy (AO) has recently been
      described as an effective strategy in stroke rehabilitation (Sale 2011, 2012), since it can
      shape the reorganization of the neural circuit, promote neural plasticity and motor learning.
      . The purpose of this study is to verify the efficacy of AO therapy on PD-related disability
      and to verify the feasibility of a home-based AO protocol.

      The first specific objective of this project is to evaluate the effectiveness of action
      observation as an additional rehabilitative tool to improve upper limb function in terms of
      bradykinesia and dexterity and to investigate the stability of treatment effects after 4 / 6
      months of follow-up regarding functional improvement and quality of life (QoL). The second
      specific objective of this project is to evaluate the effectiveness of the observation of the
      action as an additional rehabilitative tool to improve the balance , gait and, consequently,
      to reduce falls, and to investigate the stability of treatment effects at 4/6 months of
      follow-up in terms of functional improvement and quality of life (QoL). The third objective
      is to evaluate the feasibility and effectiveness of a home telerehabilitation protocol (TR)
      based on AO therapy to improve dexterity and ambulation in people with Parkinson's disease.
    
  