
    
      This is a single arm, prospective, observational study enrolling up to 50 patients to the
      intervention in groups of 10 within Indiana University Simon Cancer Center. Subjects must
      meet eligibility at the time of informed consent. Once 10 eligible subjects are identified
      and have signed informed consent, each subject will return for their baseline visit and begin
      the app intervention with their group of 10.

      Primary Objective Evaluate the feasibility of a smartphone application, LifeExtend-AI, in
      patients with early stage breast cancer currently prescribed aromatase inhibitor therapy,
      determined by patient usage of the application.

      Secondary Objectives

        1. Determine a preliminary estimate of effect size of the app intervention on medication
           adherence, by self- report using the Brief Medication Questionnaire

        2. Determine a preliminary estimate of effect size of the app intervention on patient
           -reported AI arthralgia, as measured by the Basic Pain Inventory (BPI).

        3. Determine a preliminary estimate of effect size of the app intervention on patient
           reported health associated quality of life, measured by the Functional Assessment of
           Cancer Therapy- Endocrine symptoms (FACT-ES) questionnaire.

        4. Determine a preliminary estimate of the effect size of the app intervention on patient
           satisfaction with healthcare team communication, measured by the FACIT- Treatment
           Satisfaction-Patient Satisfaction questionnaire (FACIT-TS-PS).

        5. Determine a preliminary estimate of effect size of the app intervention on patient
           reported health depression and anxiety, as measured by the Hospital Anxiety and
           Depression Scale (HADS).

        6. Determine a preliminary estimate of effect size of the app intervention on patient
           reported physical activity level, as measured by the International Physical Activity
           Questionnaire (IPAQ).

        7. Investigate psychosocial and behavioral determinants of application usage and subsequent
           medication adherence, including perceived AI necessity, fear of cancer recurrence,
           health self-efficacy, and e-health literacy.
    
  