
    
      This implementation research involves mixed methods combining qualitative and quantitative
      elements. The first preliminary part of the study will define the current baseline practice
      in the MOP wards in University Hospital Southampton (UHS) with regard to the identification
      of patients at high risk of poor healthcare outcomes, inpatients' nutritional care and
      management of their mobility. For this purpose, an ethnographic approach (involving
      interviews, focus groups, and audit of clinical records) will be followed. Understanding how
      the healthcare system works will enable justification and integration of GS measurement in
      the routine practice in an effective way. Participants and situations will be sampled on a
      purposive basis which means "cases/participants are sampled in a strategic way to best answer
      the research question". Single in-depth semi structured interviews will be conducted with
      different groups of healthcare staff with different levels of experiences and roles including
      consultants, junior doctors, ward sisters, dieticians, physiotherapists, and therapy
      assistants (a total of 10-15 healthcare staff members). The investigators will also conduct
      focus groups with nursing staff from the 5 wards, with nurses of similar seniority in each
      group to encourage free discussion (approximately 15-20 nurses divided into 4-5 focus groups)
      to gain an understanding of their shared practice.

      The medical notes for the patients in the first 1-3 beds in each bay in the 5 wards will be
      examined (approximately 54 records). Basic information about the patient such as: age,
      gender, date of admission, domicile status, and reasons for admission will be first
      extracted. Then investigators will check the records to extract any information within the
      first 2-3 days of admission about risk assessment measures and what could indicate risk
      factors for poor healthcare outcomes. In addition, the number of and reasons for referrals
      weekly for the last 3 months to the dietetic team will be abstracted from the E-referral
      system. The number of prescribed oral nutritional supplements (ONS) will be also calculated
      weekly for the last 3 months from the electronic prescribing system. These figures are
      important for later analysis and comparison in order to assess changes in routine practice.

      The second part of the research involves developing a training programme on measuring GS and
      creation of a care plan for older patients with low GS levels. Then, the nursing, medical and
      therapy staff in 5 wards in the MOP department will be trained in the measurement of grip
      strength and interpretation of grip strength values. There are approximately 150 nursing
      staff in MOP across the 5 wards, all of whom will be trained over a period of 3 months in GS
      measurement in groups of 5-10 each. Additional training sessions will be provided to junior
      doctors, consultants and therapy staff taking the opportunity to incorporate this into
      regular educational sessions where possible. The time and date of the training sessions will
      be defined and agreed liaising with the training lead in the MOP to avoid any disruption to
      the daily tasks of the MOP staff. The training session will last for approximately 1 hour. At
      the end of each session, participants will be asked to evaluate the training session using
      5-points rating scale and give feedback. Nurses attending the training session will be asked
      as part of the training program to measure GS of a colleague according to the standard
      protocol as an assessment of their competency to measure GS of patients.

      Implementation of GS should be start soon after completing the first training session in each
      ward. GS will be measured on all patients admitted to the MOP wards within 1-3 days of
      admission by a ward nurse. Only patients who are unable to squeeze the dynamometer handle
      such as patients with arthritis or who are very ill will be excluded. Grip strength will be
      measured by the ward nurse using a Jamar dynamometer by asking the patient to squeeze with
      each hand twice, starting with the right hand using the standardised protocol. A brief break
      of approximately 1 minute will be allowed between each squeeze. The maximum GS measurement
      will be recorded. A total of 5 Jamar dynamometers will be available for this study, one in
      each ward. The maximum GS values will be coded in two categories: score 1 representing values
      less than 27 kg for men and less than 16 kg for women which refers to patients at high risk
      of poor health outcomes, and score 2 representing values ≥27 kg for men and ≥16 kg for women
      representing lower risk. Patients who have low maximum GS values (men < 27 kg and women <16
      kg) or those who are unable to perform the test will receive a care plan. The care plan will
      focus on review of dietary energy and protein intake and any need for oral nutritional
      supplements or dietetic review, and review of mobility with any need for physiotherapy review
      with regard to progressive resistance exercises to increase muscle strength.

      During the implementation process, monitoring and evaluation of the outcomes of
      implementation which are referred to by the World Health Organisation (WHO) as
      "implementation outcome variables" will include assessing: acceptability of GS measurement,
      its adoption, coverage, fidelity, and costs.

      Patients and staff acceptability will be assessed by conducting qualitative research
      (interviews or focus groups). A sample of 10-15 patients and 10-20 MOP staff is deemed to be
      enough to gain an understanding of their views and experience of GS measurement. Staff
      interviews will also assist understanding how GS routine implementation has been adopted and
      initiated in each of the five wards. Random weekly visits to MOP will be conducted to check
      fidelity and continuing staff competency on measuring GS as well as to audit the number of
      the number and proportion of patients who have their GS measured and those who have received
      a care plan in each ward. Coverage of GS implementation will be measured by calculating in
      the total number and proportion of patients who have their GS measured and those who have
      received a care plan in MOP within 6 months of routine implementation.
    
  