
    
      Background:

      Hospital-acquired infections can occur five times as frequently in rehabilitation patients
      than in other hospital admissions. We postulated that this high infection rate may be due to
      nutritional problems frequently experienced in these patients. In this study, we examined the
      role of nutrition in inpatient geriatric rehabilitation patients' immune function and
      infection rates.

      Objectives:

      We examined immunologic correlates of nutritional status in elderly veterans hospitalized for
      extended periods of inpatient rehabilitation. We tested the hypotheses that geriatric
      rehabilitation inpatients who receive standard clinical and dietary care: 1) experience
      deficiencies in nutrients important to immune function while they are hospitalized; and 2)
      those patients deficient in nutrients important for immune function experience higher
      infection rates.

      Secondary objectives included: 1) identifying nutritional and physiological factors that
      might lead to immune function deficiencies and infection; and 2) developing a clinical
      assessment model of malnutrition that can be used to assess immune function in geriatric
      rehabilitation inpatients.

      Methods:

      In this descriptive cohort study, to test Hypothesis 1, we collected data to describe, over
      time, in 100 non-acute elderly patients receiving longer-term inpatient rehabilitation care,
      trends in and relationships among: 1) caloric, protein, and immunologically-relevant
      micronutrient intake; 2) body composition, metabolism, and biochemical indices of nutritional
      status; 3) humoral and cell mediated immunity; and 4) infection. To test Hypothesis 2, we
      collected data to examine differences in infection rates in adequately versus inadequately
      nourished patients. Secondarily, our study was conducted to examine the relationship of
      patients' eating, their nutritional status, and their immune function over time.

      Status:

      Project data collection activities have been completed. A total sample size of 100 patients
      completed the study protocol. No study-related serious adverse events occurred during study
      implementation. As declared above, while data analysis activities have been initiated as
      planned, no study results or findings are ready to report at this time.
    
  