
    
      PHASE I DESIGN

      The number of evaluable patients to be included in this trial is 25. However 28 patients will
      be enrolled considering the possibility of 3 non-evaluable cases.

      The dose escalation rules proceed as follows: escalating in cohorts of 3-6 patients per dose
      level. Three patients are treated at a given dose level. If at least 2 patients are observed
      to have dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), the prior dose level is defined as the maximum
      tolerable dosage (MTD) (unless only 3 patients have been treated at that level, in which case
      it is the tentative MTD). If 0 of the 3 patients are observed to have DLT, the dose level is
      escalated one step for the next cohort of 3 patients, and the process continues as above. If
      exactly 1 of the 3 patients treated show DLT, 3 additional patients are treated at the
      current dose level. If none of these additional 3 patients show DLT, the dose level is
      escalated for the next cohort of 3 patients, and the process continues as above; otherwise,
      the prior dose level is defined as the MTD.

      Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) is usually defined as cycle 1 grade 3 or above toxicity,
      excepting grade 3 neutropenia unaccompanied by either fever or infection. More specifically,
      for this clinical trial, DLT will be applied only to either of the following toxicities
      occurring during the first treatment cycle:

      Hematological toxicity:

        -  Febrile neutropenia with documented Grade ≥3 infection or sepsis

        -  Grade 4 thrombocytopenia, or Grade 3 thrombocytopenia complicated by haemorrhage

        -  Grade 4 neutropenia lasting 7 days or longer

      Non-hematological toxicities:

      Grade 3-4 events, excluding:

        -  Nausea or vomiting without appropriate antiemetic treatment.

        -  Grade 3 transaminitis will not be considered Dose Limiting Toxicity unless this would
           entail a delay in the treatment administration. This Adverse Event (AE) is well known as
           secondary effect of trabectedin in the first two cycles and has no clinical impact.

      Dose-escalation levels:

      LEVEL -1: Olaratumab 15 mg/Kg D1 and D8 + Trabectedin 0.9 mg/m2 D1 This is a security level
      in case level 0 causes DLT.

      LEVEL 0*: Olaratumab 15 mg/Kg D1 and D8 + Trabectedin 1.1 mg/m2 D1

      LEVEL 1: Olaratumab 15 mg/Kg D1 and D8 + Trabectedin 1.3 mg/m2 D1

      LEVEL 2: Olaratumab 15 mg/Kg D1 and D8 + Trabectedin 1.5 mg/m2 D1

      LEVEL 3**: Olaratumab 20 mg/kg Cycle 1, Day 1 (C1D1) and Cycle 1, Day 8 (C1D8) (induction) +
      Trabectedin 1.5 mg/m2 D1 Olaratumab 15 mg/kg D1 and D8 (maintenance) + Trabectedin 1.5 mg/m2
      D1

      * Dose starting level is 0.

      **In the LEVEL 3 Olaratumab dose of 20 mg/kg will be considered only for the first 2 doses
      (as induction doses, cycle 1 days 1 and 8)) and then, the maintenance dose will be 15 mg/m2
      for the rest of cycles.

      Each cycle encompasses 21 days. It is not allowed dose-escalation for one given patient.

      For safety reasons the first patient will be followed for 1 week before any other patient can
      be enrolled, given than the combination of trabectedin and olaratumab hasn't been
      administered to any patient so far.

      For the inclusion of the third patient in a given dose-level it is necessary to have all the
      safety information of the first cycle of the previous 2 patients included in the same
      dose-level. Before moving on to the next dose-level, at least three patients must have been
      followed during 3 weeks (1 cycle).

      The proposed trabectedin dose-level escalation is supported by previous phase I trials
      focusing on trabectedin combination. In STS, the lowest level for trabectedin was 0.9 mg/m2
      for combination with doxorubicin 60 mg/m2 and showed to be active61. With other
      antiangiogenic agents, combination produced prolonged cytopenias. Therefore, starting level 0
      uses Trabectedin 1.1mg/m2.

      * Tumor samples to be collected: The most recent archive tumor sample (1 block) must be
      donated for diagnosis confirmation and for biomarker analysis and another tumor sample after
      2 cycles of olaratumab and trabectedin is also mandatory..

      When feasible another tumor block should be collected after treatment.

      * Translational study:

        1. Evaluate the signalling pathways underlying the response to the combination of
           olaratumab and trabectedin in formalin-fixe, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) samples, from STS
           patients (HTG Molecular Oncology Biomarker Panel (OBP) Assay).

        2. Correlate the potential predictive biomarkers (immunomodulatory signature) of the
           response to olaratumab and trabectedin, with clinic results, such as progression-free
           survival (PFS), overall survival (OS) and response assessment.

        3. To correlate the activity of olaratumab plus trabectedin with gene expression profiling
           in 3-methylcholanthrene (3-MCA) fibrosarcoma immunocompetent mice models.

      Samples:

        1. FFPE samples (pre-treatment), before enrolment and after cycle 2. Both biopsies are
           mandatory. If the patient did not received any treatment in the last 6 months,
           previously to the enrolment, any biopsy taken within this period will be acceptable to
           the translational study.

        2. When feasible, optionally for the patient, another tumor block should be collected after
           the end of treatment.

        3. Peripheral blood samples taken at baseline, cycle 1 days 8, pre-cycle 2 day 2, pre-cycle
           3 day 1 and after documented response of progression and after progression in 1 PAXgene
           tube and 2 BD Vacutainer® Cellular Preparation Tube (CPT)™.
    
  