
    
      Background:

      Acute kidney injury is more frequent than before and the incidence rate was about 35-50% in
      hospital. The mortality rate would be as high as 50-60% when the renal replacement therapy
      was needed. Many studies about the timing of start and discontinuation of dialysis, dialysis
      dose, dialyzer, anticoagulation and dialysates were initiated but the results were still
      controversial. In addition, more new biomarkers were found to predict the outcome of acute
      kidney injury and these biomarkers may play an important role for the dilemma of
      aforementioned studies

      Objectives:

        1. To find the predictors of outcome for the acute kidney injury with renal replacement
           therapy and determine the appropriate method of renal replacement therapy for acute
           kidney injury

        2. To find the relationship between new biomarkers and acute kidney injury and determine
           whether it can be a factor for the monitor of the response of the renal replacement
           therapy.

      Methods:

        1. Study duration: 2010/01/01 to 2011/6/30

        2. Patient eligibility : over 18 years-old and admitted to medical intensive care units of
           National Taiwan University Hospital

        3. A prospective study to collect the parameters including underlying diseases, vital
           signs, biochemistry data, urine output, disease severity scores, dialysis timing,
           dialysis dose, dialyzer, anticoagulation agents

        4. Collect serum and urine sample for biomarkers if patient agree

      Statistics:

      Normally distributed variables are expressed as means ± SDs. Statistical significance is set
      at P<0.05. All statistical analyses are performed with SAS statistical software. Comparisons
      between two groups are assessed with the student's unpaired t test and Mann-Whitney test.
      Differences between more than two groups are analyzed by ANOVA (ANOVA) using one-way ANOVA.
      Survival analyses are made with the Kaplan-Meier survival curve and the Cox proportional
      hazard model.

      Keywords : acute kidney injury, renal replacement therapy, biomarkers
    
  