
    
      Metastatic melanoma is an aggressive tumor with a 5-year survival rate of about 6 months.
      Although recent progresses have been made in the treatment of metastatic melanoma, improved
      patient survival is still limited because of primary resistance and relapses. It is therefore
      important to continue to understand the molecular mechanisms involved in melanoma development
      and progression to improve current treatments and / or to discover new anti-metastatic
      melanoma treatments.

      Drugs such as the alkylating agents (temozolomide and fotemustine) or vemurafenib trigger
      senescence-like phenotypes in melanoma cells. Although senescence is a process that limits
      the proliferation of cells, it is now known that senescent cells secrete factors that exert a
      pro-tumoral role. If many studies have focused on the role of the soluble factors of this
      secretome, the potential existence and the role of insoluble factors remain undetermined.
      Preliminary results from the investigators laboratory indicate the presence in the senescent
      secretome of exosomes; microvesicles involved in intercellular communication,
      immunomodulatory functions, and tumorigenesis. The exovesicules discharged by a cell in its
      environment are the subject of increasing interest in oncology as a prognostic factor and
      marker of therapeutic response. Several studies showed that these vesicles shape the tumor
      microenvironment and contribute to the migration of cancer cells.

      This project aims to study the effect of exosomes produced by senescent melanoma cells in the
      development and progression of melanoma in vitro and in vivo using cell cultures and animal
      models. In addition, the investigator propose a pilot study whose objective is to determine
      the effect of vemurafenib on production, quantity, size and composition of nanovesicles
      produced by patients with advanced unresectable or metastatic melanoma. The investigator hope
      to show that exosomes participate in the process of drug resistance and relapse, with the
      goal of developing (with the exosomes study) theranostic tools for personalized care in
      patients.
    
  