
    
      Rationale:

      The incidence of diabetes is rising constantly. According to the WHO projections, the
      population of diabetics will double by 2025. In France, the current population of diabetics
      is estimated at 2.5 millions persons. The cause of death in diabetics involves a
      cardiovascular condition in approximately 65-80% of the cases. The leading event is
      myocardial infarction. The prevalence of silent myocardial ischemia (SMI) in diabetics varies
      widely from 10 to 30%. The prognosis of SMI is closely dependent on the presence or not of
      angiographically significant coronary artery stenosis - CAS (patients with SMI and CAS>70%
      show 31% of major cardiac events at 41±24 months vs only 1.4% in patients with SMI and no
      CAS>70%). It seems therefore important to identify diabetic patients with SMI and CAS
      especially knowing that endovascular or surgical treatments are available and can potentially
      improve the prognosis of such patients.

      Myocardial Perfusion Scintigraphy (MPS) is widely prescribed to detect coronary stenosis. It
      has a high sensitivity (90%) but an intermediate specificity (75%), providing a significant
      amount of false positive cases. Such false positive cases are usually followed with
      unnecessary coronary angiographies. Myocardial Perfusion Stress MRI (MRI) has been recently
      developed and shows promising preliminary results (equivalent sensitivity, higher specificity
      compared to MPS) for the identification of coronary artery stenosis. Few studies directly
      compare MRI and MPS in the general population, none in the diabetic population.

      Principal objective: To evaluate and compare diagnostic performances of MRI and MPS for the
      diagnosis of coronary insufficiency in diabetic patients free of known coronary disease.

      Secondary objective:

        -  Cost efficacy analysis for the diagnosis of coronary insufficiency in diabetic patients
           free of known coronary disease.

        -  Impact of clinical information on MRI and MPS diagnostic performances.

      Design:. Prospective, monocentric study, where MRI and MPS will be assessed in a centralised
      manner by 2 independent blinded readers (2 readers for each technique) and compared to
      coronary angiography (Gold Standard, assessed by 2 independent blinded readers).

      Patient selection: Patient with diabetes (type 1 or type 2), free of known coronary disease,
      addressed for MPS.

      Inclusion period length: 24 months

      Follow up period length: 2 days

      Principal judgement criteria:

      Coronary angiography: positive diagnosis of CAS if stenosis >50% on the left coronary artery
      (trunk) or stenosis >70% on the IVA (inter ventricular artery), LCx (circumflex artery) or
      RCA (right coronary artery) and branches.

      MPS : positive diagnosis of CAS based on the following criteria : severity perfusion index,
      reversibility, contractility anomalies, signal attenuation due to patient morphology.

      MRI : positive diagnosis of CAS based on an algorithm including the following criteria :
      first pass perfusion defect at stress, reversibility at rest, Myocardial Delayed Enhancement.

      Number of necessary patients: 165

      Expected results: An assessment of MRI performances compared to MPS for the diagnosis of
      coronary insufficiency in diabetic patients free of known coronary disease that will help
      improve diagnostic strategy.
    
  