
    
      The investigators will compare a combined positive psychology and motivational interviewing
      (PP-MI) intervention that is adapted for patients with T2D to a diabetes education
      intervention (control) in a randomized controlled trial. The investigators will enroll 70
      participants, who will be randomized to either a 16-week PP-MI health behavior intervention
      or an 16-week diabetes education intervention.

      In this project, the investigators plan to do the following:

        1. Examine the feasibility and acceptability of a 16-week, telephone-delivered health
           behavior intervention utilizing PP exercises and MI with systematic goal-setting.

        2. Determine whether the PP-MI intervention leads to greater increases in physical activity
           than the education intervention in T2D patients.

        3. Explore the impact of the PP-MI intervention on other psychological, behavioral, and
           medical outcomes, compared to the education intervention.

      Participants will undergo an initial screening visit during which they will meet with study
      staff in person. At this visit, study eligibility will be confirmed, and eligible and willing
      participants will be enrolled. Following enrollment, participants will complete self-report
      measures, and vital signs and A1c will be measured. They then will take home and wear an
      accelerometer for one week, to measure baseline physical activity.

      Baseline information about enrolled participants will be obtained from the participants, care
      providers, and the electronic medical record as required for characterization of the
      population. This information will include data regarding medical history (type 2 diabetes
      mellitus), current medical variables (conditions affecting physical activity), medications,
      and sociodemographic data (age, gender, race/ethnicity, living alone).

      Participants will undergo a second in-person visit once adequate baseline physical activity
      data has been obtained. In this visit, accelerometer data will be reviewed to ensure that
      adequate baseline activity was captured. If so, participants will be randomized to either the
      PP-MI or diabetes education condition, then begin the study intervention. During this second
      in-person visit, participants will receive either a PP-MI or diabetes education treatment
      manual, depending on randomization.

      For the PP-MI intervention:

      For each session, a PP exercise will be described in the manual, with instructions and space
      to write about the exercise and its effects. Next, an MI section will outline specific
      MI-based topics (e.g., pros/cons, managing slips) and facilitate physical activity
      goal-setting. At subsequent sessions, participants will review the prior week's PP exercise
      and learn about a new exercise, then will review the prior week's physical activity goal and
      set a new one.

      For the diabetes education intervention:

      Each week, participants will learn about a different health behavior topic related to
      diabetes health. This includes information about diabetes self-monitoring, medication
      adherence, having a heart-healthy diet, and being physically active.

      Participants will complete the remaining sessions by phone approximately weekly over the next
      16 weeks. Phone sessions will last approximately 30 minutes, with PP-MI and physical activity
      assignments completed between phone sessions. PP and MI will be delivered step-wise within
      sessions (rather than intertwined) based on our experience, participant feedback, and pilot
      work. If a week is missed, the session will not be skipped, but rather the intervention will
      be completed sequentially (with participants who miss weeks then missing the final sessions),
      with the exception of the final visit, which skips to Planning for the Future in all cases.

      Participants will undergo an in-person follow-up assessment at 16 weeks. At this session,
      participants will repeat self-report assessments that were administered at baseline. Vital
      signs and a blood sample will again be collected at this in-person visit. Prior to this
      assessment, participants will wear an accelerometer for 7 days to measure physical activity.
      Participants will also undergo a phone follow-up assessment at 24 weeks. During this session
      over the phone, participants will repeat self-report assessments that were administered at
      baseline. Finally, prior to this follow-up, participants will wear another accelerometer for
      7 days to measure physical activity.
    
  