
    
      Background: Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is considered the "signature injury" of recent
      conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, with 22% of returning troops experiencing a TBI. After
      receiving acute and rehabilitative healthcare services, combat veterans with a TBI (active
      Service Members and Veterans) are typically cared for at home, by their female (79%) parent
      (62%, 32% spouses), and the majority (60%) of these caregivers receive little or no help from
      others with their caregiving responsibilities. Not only is TBI a well-documented risk factor
      for dementia of the Alzheimer's type (AD) later in life, noteworthy similarities exist
      between the experiences of family caregivers of Veterans with TBI and caregivers of civilians
      with AD. Symptoms of a TBI are very similar to AD and include cognitive impairment (deficits
      in memory, language, attention, and/or planning), difficulty communicating, poor impulse
      control, and poor emotion regulation. Both conditions necessitate adaptation to emotional and
      behavioral changes in the injured family member, and personality changes may result in
      relationship strain between the injured person and his or her family caregiver. Similar to
      AD, symptoms of a TBI do not lessen over time, are often perceived as burdensome, and are
      associated with negative mental health outcomes in their family caregivers. Similarly, both
      AD and TBI family caregivers report additional stressors (e.g., continuous monitoring for
      unpredictable behaviors and their consequences) when cohabitating with the impaired or
      injured family member for an extended period of time.

      Objective/Hypotheses: To improve the mental health of family caregivers of post-9/11 combat
      veterans with a TBI, the proposed study is designed to evaluate the efficacy of an
      evidence-based, short-term (9, 60-mintue session), solution-focused, self- management
      intervention utilizing problem-solving therapy (PST) to lessen burden and depression levels,
      and improve the quality of life (QOL) in co-residing family caregivers of combat veterans
      with a TBI (military family caregivers). PST is based on the premise that real-life
      problem-solving plays an important role as a mediator of the relationship between stressful
      life events and negative mental health outcomes. When deficits in problem-solving lead to
      ineffective coping attempts, under high levels of stress exposure, burden and depression is
      likely to ensue. Building on our previous work with caregivers of civilians with mild
      cognitive impairment (a proposed precursor for AD) and early-stage AD, it is hypothesized
      that military family caregivers receiving PST training will endorse lower levels of
      caregiving burden and depression, and improved mental health QOL, at each follow-up
      assessment, than caregivers in the comparison (usual care) group.

      Specific Aims: The primary aim of this study is to assess the efficacy of PST for positively
      impacting distressed military family caregiver's burden, and depression levels, ultimately
      enhancing their mental health QOL (primary outcomes). Data will also be collected to
      characterize physical and social stressors for these caregivers such as illness that limits
      the caregiver's activities, new household management and caregiving responsibilities,
      satisfaction with social roles and activities, lifestyle constraints, the quality of the
      marital relationship, perceived social support, and demographic factors. A secondary aim of
      the proposed study is to determine which of a series of key caregiver sociodemographic
      factors moderate PST- intervention efficacy for caregiving burden and mental health QOL
      outcomes.

      Study Design: A randomized controlled trail design (intention-to-treat model) will be used to
      evaluate the effects of an individualized PST-based intervention on burden, mental health,
      and well-being outcomes in family caregivers of combat veterans with a TBI. We expect to
      enroll and randomize 100 family caregivers of Veterans with a TBI from the Joint Forces
      Explosive Ordnance Disposal (the disarming and disposal of bombs) Warrior Foundation and
      Boulder Crest Retreat for Wounded Warriors family caregiver websites. Caregivers assigned to
      the PST group will receive nine PST training sessions (each approximately 60 minutes)
      delivered face-to-face every two weeks (to allow time for problem solving efforts and
      scheduling conflicts) using study-specific webcams (part of the Study Welcome Kit). Software
      will be utilized that permits recording and saving of intervention sessions for review (to
      ensure treatment fidelity over time). Outcomes will be collected through the Internet (to
      enhance the study's sustainability and scalability) and measured baseline, and at 1-, 3-, 6-,
      and 12-mos. post-intervention.

      Study Relevance: Since family caregivers constitute the largest group of adult care providers
      in the United States and the market value of family caregiving exceeds that spent on formal
      health and nursing home care, the mental health and well-being of family caregivers of
      Veterans with a TBI - and their subsequent ability to assist wounded Veterans at home (e.g.,
      prevent institutionalization of injured/impaired Veterans) - is of paramount importance. If
      the PST-based intervention reduces burden levels and improves mental health aspects of QOL in
      military family caregivers, the data will be used to lay the foundation for offering PST-
      based mental health services for distressed family caregivers of Veterans with a TBI through
      the VA Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers.
    
  