
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the efficacy and safety of the combination of rituximab, cladribine, and
      temsirolimus for newly diagnosed mantle cell lymphoma.

      II. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of temsirolimus combined with a fixed dose
      and schedule of rituximab and cladribine. (Phase I) III. To assess the efficacy of the
      combination of rituximab, cladribine, and temsirolimus for newly diagnosed mantle cell
      lymphoma with the proportion of complete responses as the primary endpoint. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess other measures of efficacy of the regimen including progression free survival,
      duration of response, and overall survival.

      II. To assess the toxicity profile of the combination of rituximab, cladribine, and
      temsirolimus.

      III. To assess efficacy using traditional lymphoma parameters and absolute lymphocyte count.

      IV. To assess metabolic markers (hyperglycemia, hyperlipidemia) as markers of mammalian
      target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibition using the glucose and lipid measurements being
      performed in the clinical laboratory as part of routine care.

      V. To correlate response with serum free light chains, single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)
      in host immune genes, vitamin D metabolites, and phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)
      pathway member expression.

      VI. As part of ongoing research for North Central Cancer Treatment Group (NCCTG) lymphoma
      studies, paraffin-embedded tissue blocks/slides and blood products will be banked for future
      studies.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of temsirolimus followed by a phase II
      study.

      Patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV) on day 1 and cladribine IV over 2 hours on days
      1-5. Patients then receive temsirolimus IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Patients
      also receive filgrastim subcutaneously (SC) on days 6-15 or pegfilgrastim SC on day 6.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 4 months for 3 years.
    
  