
    
      Patients will be selected according to inclusion/ exclusion criteria after referral from
      their psychiatric team or, in exceptional cases, from their GP. Patients will be referred to
      the trial after being assessed by Dr Malizia (Consultant Senior Lecturer) in the Treatment
      Resistant Disorders Psychopharmacology clinic in the Bristol Royal Infirmary. Informed
      written consent and baseline measures will be taken for all patients.

      We plan to recruit 8 patients with treatment resistant unipolar depression for a single blind
      trial of bilateral consecutive deep brain stimulation of Cg25 and ventral anterior capsule
      separately and then together. Medication will be left unchanged and maintained to the same
      level until the end of the study postoperatively. However, medication thought to be
      potentially detrimental in the long term will be stopped or reduced prior to surgery and a
      period of at least 6 weeks stability in prescribed medication will be required prior to
      baseline assessment.

      The surgical procedure will be under general anaesthesia and will consist of implanting
      bilateral deep brain stimulating electrodes (four overall) into Brodmann's area 25 and the
      nucleus accumbens/ ventral anterior capsule. Following the operation a period of one-week
      recovery will be allowed to minimise any effect secondary to target impact effect at surgery
      or from post-operative oedema.

      After recovery the combination of electrodes with maximal response will be assessed in a
      double blind design (patient and raters).

      Stimulation will be bilateral. Four patients will be randomised to receive Cg25 stimulation
      first and 4 patients will be randomised to receive anterior capsule/ventral striatal
      stimulation first. Patients will be blind to the order of stimulation, to the contacts
      selected and to any 'off' period in the contact selection process.

      After at least four months patients will crossover to the alternative site of stimulation
      unless they have achieved remission (MADRS <8 for at least two months). Patients and raters
      will still be blind to the site of stimulation. After a further four months selection will be
      for both sets of contacts that have achieved best results. If the MADRS score is <8 with one
      location and no significant improvement has occurred in the other (MADRS>18 and improvement
      <25%), then only one set of contacts will be stimulated from there on.

      Clinical assessments will be at least two monthly on average.

      The full evaluation procedure will last an average of 18 months from surgical implantation of
      the electrodes.
    
  