
    
      At the time of ICU admission, the investigators will collect clinical data from the medical
      chart on a daily basis including demographics, pre-existing disease(s), treatment and reason
      for ICU admission.

      At the time of ICU discharge, the investigators will measure exercise tolerance and quality
      of life at 3 time intervals (Phase 2).

      For Phase 2, patients will be seen at day 7 following ICU discharge, 6 months following ICU
      discharge and 12 months after ICU discharge during their routine oncology follow up visits.
      During these visits, they will undergo a functional assessment (6 minute walk test) and
      questionnaires to determine their quality of life following ICU (validated outcome measures).

      All patients will complete outcome measures 1 to 5 below; Outcome measures 1 to 3 will be
      administered at 7 days and 1 to 5 at 6 months and 12 months after ICU discharge.

      Validated Outcomes Measures:

        1. Functional Independence Measure (FIM): a patient-centered measure of functional
           disability that captures burden of care on a daily basis and involves motor (FIM-motor)
           and cognitive function (FIM-cognition). FIM predicts disability outcome and
           rehabilitation needs in diverse patient populations.

        2. Six Minute Walk Test (6MWT) with continuous oximetry to measure the oxygen saturation of
           arterial blood will be performed to assess exercise capacity. It is simple to execute,
           inexpensive, standardized and gives a tangible measure of functional exercise capacity
           because it uses an exercise mode that is relevant to everyday activities.

        3. Clinical Frailty Scale (CFS): CFS is a 9-category tool ranging from 1 (Very fit) to 9
           (Terminally ill). It provides predictive information about death or need for an
           institution. It is easy to administer in less than 5 minutes.

        4. Medical Outcomes Study Short Form - 36 Questionnaire (SF-36): SF-36 evaluates 8 health
           concepts: physical functioning, role functioning-physical, bodily pain, general health,
           vitality, social functioning, role functioning- emotional, mental health and reported
           health transition. It has been validated in diverse patient populations and is a
           responsive and reproducible instrument; and can be completed in less than 15 minutes.

        5. FACT-BMT: A 47-item, valid and reliable measure of five dimensions of quality of life.
    
  