
    
      The basis for a successful implementation of an evidence-based treatment in routine clinical
      care is quality assessment of all stages of delivery, implementation and evaluation. In the
      Swedish county councils and municipalities, Motivational Interviewing (MI) training with
      different forms and content is taking place as part of the implementation of the method.

      Aims: To evaluate to what extent the practitioners acquire and retain MI skills through the
      different training methods used in the Swedish county councils and municipalities by
      comparing them with a format that in previous studies has shown to be required for the
      long-term acquisition of proficiency in MI; training including supervision consisting of
      feedback based on monitoring of practice.

      Method: In 2013-2014, 175 practitioners that attend MI training in five different county
      councils and municipalities in Sweden will be randomized to one of the study's three groups:
      (a) "Regular training" (n= 66), b) "Regular training" followed by six individual supervision
      sessions at monthly intervals based on only the behavior counts component of the Motivational
      Interviewing Treatment Integrity (MITI) Code (n= 67), and (c) "Regular training" followed by
      supervision based on both the behavior counts and the five global dimensions of the MITI (n=
      67). All practitioners will record three sessions: one before " regular training", one after
      "regular training" and one six month after training. The practitioners in group b and c will
      record five additional sessions in conjunction with the supervision. All supervision and
      recording sessions will be made over the phone with actors role-playing clients. The sessions
      will be assessed for proficiency in MI by MIC Lab at the Karolinska Institute according to
      the Swedish translation of MITI 3.1.

      Time Frame: The specific time points at which the outcome measure (the Swedish version of the
      MITI, version 3.1.) will be assessed are:

        1. Before the county councils' workshop trainings (pre-workshop).

        2. Directly after the workshop trainings (post-workshop).

        3. Six months after the workshop trainings (follow-up). => Since the different county
           council workshop trainings differ in time (e.g. one to four month) the participants from
           the different county councils will be followed for a period in between seven month (one
           + six) to ten month (four + six).

      The participants randomized to the two groups with additional supervision will also be
      assessed five times between the post-workshop and the follow-up assessment (e.g. every
      month).
    
  