
    
      Objectives of this study are to determine if:

        1. Patients with McCune-Albright syndrome differ from unaffected controls in wheal and
           flare response to histamine and codeine.

        2. Affected skin will differ from unaffected skin in wheal and flare response to histamine
           and codeine.

        3. IgE and IL-4 levels in MAS patients differ from normal controls.

      Specific Aims:

        1. Compare the skin response of MAS patients to normal controls using standard histamine
           and codeine skin testing.

        2. Compare skin testing response in MAS patients with known standards for skin testing.
           Compare response to histamine and codeine skin testing in MAS patient's affected
           (café-au-lait) skin to unaffected (normal) skin.

        3. Compare IgE and IL-4 levels in patients with MAS to controls.

      Background:

      The McCune-Albright syndrome (MAS) is a genetic disorder characterized by constitutive
      activation of the Gαs proteins involved in the adenylyl cyclase enzyme. The disease is now
      known to be caused by a genetic mutation, commonly a substitution of histadine or cysteine
      for arginine at amino acid 201 in the Gαs protein. Adenylyl cyclase, with its formation of
      cyclic AMP (cAMP), works as a second messenger for many cellular and hormonal events.
      Clinically, MAS is characterized classically by precocious puberty, café-au-lait skin
      markings, and bone lesions termed polyostotic fibrous dysplasia. Other conditions that
      represent overactivity of receptor-coupled adenylate cyclase include hyperthyroidism
      resulting from activation of the TSH receptor, hypercortisolism (CRH and ACTH receptor
      activation), acromegaly (GHRH receptor activation), among others. Clinical heterozygosity of
      affected individuals is explained by mosaicism of the mutation.

      The H2 histamine receptor is also coupled to the Gαs protein. Release of histamine from mast
      cells is primarily responsible for immediate hypersensitivity reaction in the skin. Clinical
      observations of our patients with MAS suggest increased responsiveness to histamine. We
      speculate that this results from upregulation of Gαs coupled to H2 receptor. In our
      identified patients, this has been manifested as asthma, chronic hives, dermatographism,
      contact hypersensitivities, drug reactions, ulcers, as well as anaphylactic reactions to
      seafood, dyes, and latex. Approximately 75% of our patients with MAS exhibit one or more of
      the aforementioned reactions. Anaphylaxis has occurred in three separate patients.

      Interleukin-4 (IL-4) is also released from immune cells in response to histamine. This
      cytokine response is mediated by H2 receptor activation and activation of Gαs. IL-4 is
      required for function and production of IgE, another important mediator of hypersensitivity
      reactions. Two of our MAS patients with allergy symptoms have additionally demonstrated
      markedly elevated IgE levels.

      Codeine is a very effective agent in causing release of histamine from mast cells and is
      commonly used in addition to histamine. We plan to use codeine as well as histamine skin
      testing to evaluate histamine response. Comparison of codeine responses between the MAS
      patients and unaffected controls will be made. Age and sex do not exert major effects on
      histamine responsiveness. Only infants and adults over the age of 50 have been noted to have
      decreased responsiveness in comparison to other age groups. Menstrual cycles in females have
      been noted to cause slight variation with increased dermal reactivity around ovulation and
      lower reactivity during the menses. Because most girls with McCune-Albright have irregular
      menses it will be difficult to time skin testing with the menstrual cycle. Therefore, we will
      record the date of last menstrual period for each female patient and control.

      Excessive histamine responsiveness has not been a reported association of the MAS complex.
      Even though data are available, MAS patients could be predicted to be at risk for vigorous
      histamine response, because histamine acts via Gαs.

      Study Design:

      This will be a single center controlled study of histamine response in children with MAS
      compared to unaffected subjects. No investigational drug/device/biologic agent will be
      employed.

      Subject Selection Criteria:

        1. Expected sample size: 10 McCune-Albright patients and 20 controls.

        2. Patients will be recruited for the study during endocrinology clinic visits. Most
           patients with MAS are seen at least every 6 months. Families of patients with MAS tend
           to be medically sophisticated, as MAS can be a severe, chronic, multisystem disease. We
           estimate that at least 80% of our 13-14 known patients will consent to participate. A
           control group will also be recruited.

        3. Inclusion criteria: Children with MAS ranging from toddlers to young adults. Diagnosis
           of MAS will be made on a clinical basis. Blood testing is not helpful in this condition,
           as bone marrow progenitor cells with the Gαs mutation display a survival disadvantage.
           All patients are mixed chimeras, as this mutation is lethal if it occurs in germline
           cells. Patients who exhibit two or more of the following clinical findings fit the
           diagnosis of MAS:

             1. GnRH independent precocious puberty

             2. Polyostotic fibrous dysplasia

             3. Café-au-lait spots with Coast of Maine borders and respect for the midline.

             4. Non-autoimmune hyperthyroidism. Ten controls will also be recruited from family
                members of patients with MAS with no known allergies. An additional control group
                of ten unrelated subjects, also with no known allergies, will be recruited from the
                Endocrine Clinic for comparison.

        4. Exclusion criteria:

             1. Any MAS patient or control who has not or cannot discontinue any home regimens of
                antihistamines or glucocorticoids (including inhaled steroids) at least seven days
                prior to skin testing.

             2. Any MAS patient or control on tricyclic antidepressants within two weeks prior to
                skin testing.

      Study Groups:

      No specific treatment is being investigated in this study.

      Observations/Measurements:

      Patients will be asked to have discontinued any usual home regimens of antihistamines and/or
      glucocorticoids for seven days prior to skin testing. First each participant will undergo a
      single blood draw to obtain levels of IgE and IL-4. We will utilize commercially available
      ELISA kits for human IL-4. We have published extensively using ELISA methods. Quantitative
      IgE levels will be performed in our lab.

      Children with MAS and controls will undergo standard pin-prick skin testing procedures with
      dilutions of histamine, codeine, and a saline control solution to assess skin wheal and flare
      response in order to objectively assess hypersensitivity and/or responsiveness. Skin testing
      specifically involves placing a drop of histamine solution on the skin surface. A needle is
      then penetrated gently into the epidermis. The same procedure will be used for codeine and
      saline. Tests will be spaced at least 2 cm apart to avoid false reactions. Testing will
      include two standard sites for skin testing, i.e. arm and back, for all participants. An area
      of skin with café-au-lait formation and its normal skin counterpart will be tested on the
      patients with MAS. The normal controls will undergo skin testing at a matched area. Testing
      will be performed in the Allergy Clinic by a trained allergy fellow or attending. Wheal and
      flare responses will be documented 20 minutes after the skin tests are administered. The
      wheal and flare response will be outlined in ink, and the image will be transferred to
      hypoallergenic transparent tape and placed on a data collection sheet for measurement. The
      longest and orthogonal erythema diameters are measured and summed. Sum of wheal diameters
      will be determined in a similar manner. Previous studies have shown that a standard wheal and
      flare response yields a sum of 7.0 cm ± 1.25 cm.

      After testing is complete, participants will then be given a dose of antihistamine (Zyrtec)
      and topical calamine lotion to pin prick areas to decrease irritation. There will be careful
      monitoring for extreme hypersensitivity or anaphylaxis as is the usual standard of care when
      testing children for allergies. However, classic systemic allergic reactions are caused by
      protein allergens. As histamine and codeine are not protein compounds, a systemic allergic
      reaction would not be expected. An epinephrine pen will be on hand for use if such an unusual
      reaction occurs.

      Significance:

      Currently there is no literature stating that children with McCune-Albright syndrome display
      an increased responsiveness to histamine. If this study shows that MAS patients indeed do
      have increased histamine responsiveness, risk for severe allergic reactions could be
      anticipated. Life threatening events could be potentially averted by having MAS patients
      carry epinephrine pens and/or by treating these patients with antihistamines.

      Power analysis:

      A published report of standard wheal and flare responses to histamine demonstrates that the
      sum of the longest (A) and orthogonal (B) (determined by the midpoint of A, labeled X) [Σ
      =A+B] diameter of the wheal and flare response to histamine was 7.0 cm ± 1.25 cm. (mean ±
      S.D.) Assuming that McCune-Albright patients will display a mean wheal and flare response 50%
      greater in diameter compared to controls, and using an alpha level of 0.05; testing of 10
      patients will provide an 84% power to detect differences between patients and controls.
    
  