
    
      Primary objective: decrease the iron overload (as measured by the T2* MRI sequence) in the
      substantia nigra in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) after 6 months of deferiprone
      treatment, relative to the placebo group.

      Secondary objectives:

        1. Other radiological criteria: Modification of T2* in MRI of the caudal nucleus head,
           putamen and pallidum.

        2. Evaluate the "disease modifier" effect on the clinical symptoms:

             -  Parkinsonian syndrome: UPDRS III

             -  the Clinical Global Impression scored by the examiner and the patient.

        3. Evaluate the safety on cognitive and behavioral functions

             -  MDS-UPDRS I

             -  overall cognitive function (Mattis, MMSE), memory, executive function, attention
                (simple and choice reaction times)

             -  drowsiness and sleep (Epworth scale, Parkinson Disease Sleep Scale), depression
                (MADRS).

        4. Safety: complete blood count (CBC) with weekly leukocyte counts, standard blood
           biochemistry profile, blood iron profile, ECG, blood pressure, bodyweight, adverse event
           reporting.

        5. Specific biochemistry screen: heavy metal profile, oxidative stress and dopamine
           metabolism.

      Study center: Service de Neurologie et Pathologie du Mouvement (Head: Prof. Destée, Clinique
      Neurologique and Service de Neuroradiologie (Head: Prof. Pruvo), Salengro Hospital, Lille
      University Medical Center, Lille, France.

      Study characteristics: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group,
      single-center trial with a delayed onset paradigm (Early-start group with 12 months of
      deferiprone versus delayed -start group with 6 months of placebo then 6 months of
      deferiprone) to study the effect of deferiprone on the relaxation time of the substantia
      nigra during a T2* MRI sequence (R2*=1/T2* reflecting iron overload) with respect to motor
      disorders in Parkinson's disease.

      Active compound: the iron chelator 1,2-dimethyl-3-hydroxy-4-pyridinone (deferiprone,
      FERRIPROX®), which decreases abnormally high iron and ferritin levels. Its low molecular
      weight and liposolubility enable it to cross the blood-brain barrier.

      Posology: the recommended dosage in neurology is a total of 30 mg/kg/day, in 2 doses.

      Study population: 40 adult parkinsonian volunteers, with early-stage PD under their first
      optimised dopaminergic therapeutic strategy (i.e. either dopamine agonist and/or slight dose
      of L-dopa) and free of motor fluctuations or dementia.

      Planned inclusion period: 12 months. Study duration for individual patients: 13 months (2
      weeks between screening and randomization, 6 months of double-blind treatment, then 6 months
      of open label treatment and then a 2-week wash-out period).

      Study procedures and timeline:

        -  A screening visit (Sc).

        -  Two comprehensive examinations (a neurological and neuropsychological check-up) at the
           randomization visit (V0, at D7-15 ± 1 week after Sc), visit after 6 months (V6, at least
           6 months after V0), visit after 12 months (V12, at least 12 months after V0)

        -  Weekly monitoring of the CBC with the leukocyte count, results faxed by the patient's
           local clinical lab or Lille University Medical Center's central lab.

        -  Monitoring of blood iron and zinc status and overall tolerance during a brief
           consultation: V1, V3, V5, V7, V9, V11

        -  MRI in an external facility at V0, V6, V12.

        -  Telephone follow-up: V2, V4, V8, V10

        -  Patients will be invited to participate in an ancillary study involving analysis of the
           cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) at the randomization visit and the V6, in order to perform a
           full set of CSF biochemistry assays and with a view to determining biological benefits
           at the central nervous system level and identifying biological markers.
    
  