
    
      For decades, investigators have been evaluating the efficacy of music for pain relief. Music
      for pain management has been studied in the field of palliative care, oncology, physical
      therapy, pediatrics, post-operative procedural pain and childbirth. A 2006 Cochrane review
      found that listening to music reduces pain intensity levels and opioid requirements, but the
      magnitude of the benefits is small and the clinical importance unclear. Previous studies in
      obstetrics vary, as some evaluate music for pain control at time of cesarean section and
      others during labor. A 2014 study investigated the effect of progressive muscle relaxation
      exercises and music on low back pain and quality of life in pregnancy. Some previous studies
      investigating music or white noise for pain control during labor revealed beneficial results.
      One prospective trial of 25 women found little practical value of audio-analgesia.

      However, most studies evaluating music therapy for pain relief in labor were limited by
      sample size. Specifically, a 2011 Cochrane review investigating randomized controlled trials
      comparing relaxation methods as a method of pain management in labor found insufficient
      evidence for the role of music and audio-analgesia and the need for further research.
      Excluded from this review was a trial by Phumdoung et al. due to the inability to obtain
      additional methodological and statistical information from the authors. More recently, a
      randomized controlled trial (RCT) done in Turkey randomized 156 women into a music and
      control group. Mothers in the music group were found to have a significantly lower level of
      pain and anxiety in all stages of labor. Pain and anxiety were evaluated by a visual analog
      scale. While this evidence is the best to date, there is a lack of generalizability for other
      populations and the primary outcome was subjective. A 2012 systematic review of video games
      found improvement in psychological therapy, physical therapy, physical activity, clinical
      skills, health education, pain distraction, and disease self-management outcomes.

      Labor induction is a common obstetrical procedure. Labor results in severe pain for many
      women and typically requires medical treatment for pain relief. Types of analgesia for pain
      control on labor include parenteral (Fentanyl, Nalbuphine, Meperidine) and regional (spinal,
      epidural, combined spinal epidural) analgesia. However, all types of analgesia pose risks to
      the mother and fetus. Administration of parenteral agents result in minimal-to-absent
      reduction in pain scores and high doses affect fetal heart rate tracing and later increase
      the number of infants requiring naloxone therapy. While regional analgesia provides superior
      pain relief, common complications include hypotension, fever, postdural puncture headache,
      transient fetal heart rate decelerations, pruritus, and inadequate pain relief. Due to these
      risks and other reasons, many women prefer to go through labor without medical therapies or
      with minimal medical therapy and desire complementary therapies to help manage their pain.
      Data are lacking regarding the use of music and video games for the management of pain in
      labor.

      In view of the lack of good quality evidence from well designed RCTs, we propose a randomized
      controlled trial to determine the utility of music and video games for pain management during
      induction of labor. Pregnant women that are scheduled for labor induction with Foley bulb
      after 37 weeks will be approached for participation in the study. The study informed consent
      will be obtained. Patients will be randomized to a music/video games group (group 1) and a
      non-music/video games group (group 2). Those randomized to group with music/video games will
      be given an iPod for those purposes. The iPod will include free music applications such as
      Pandora as well as some of the most commonly downloaded games. Randomization will be
      performed using a computer generated random list of numbers assigning patients to the 2
      groups of the study. Randomization will occur after the Foley bulb is placed. Study
      assignment and the list of random number assignments will be kept secure in opaque envelopes
      until the end of the study.

      Prospective subjects presenting for induction of labor in labor and delivery, and willing to
      participate in the study will be evaluated for their eligibility. After the Foley bulb is
      placed, patients will be randomized. Those assigned to the music/video game group will be
      given an iPod to use during labor. These patients will have the choice of listening to music
      via earphones or a speaker which amplifies the sound. Patients assigned to the
      non-music/video game group will not be given an iPod and will be asked to avoid using their
      own personal devices (if applicable) as much as possible. Understanding that patients
      randomized to the non-music/video game may still elect to use their own electronic devices,
      time of use of electronics for music/video game purposes will be recorded in both groups with
      assistance from the patients and nursing staff.

      All nurses will be educated regarding the study procedure. Nurses will not ask any patient if
      they desire pain medicine to avoid prompting the patient. Every patient enrolled will receive
      a Foley bulb inserted just superior to the internal cervical os and then inflated with normal
      saline for mechanical dilation of the cervix. The Foley bulb will be placed under traction by
      taping the tubing to the patient's leg. No additional traction will be applied to the Foley
      bulb after placement and initial traction. After twelve hours, if the Foley balloon is still
      in place, the Foley balloon will be deflated and removed and the remainder of obstetrical
      care will be left to the discretion of the supervising faculty. After six hours or after
      epidural placement the use of music/video games will be continued or ceased pending patient
      desire.

      The study will be explained as in the consent form and if agreed, patients will elect either
      to participate in the study or not after all risks and benefits are explained. Data to be
      collected will consist of age, gravida/para, gestational age, body mass index, time and date
      of intervention, time and date of delivery, mode of delivery, bishop score at admission
      (bishop score is a score that assesses cervical readiness for delivery and is measured by
      digital pelvic exam. A score < 7 is considered unfavorable and is an indication for cervical
      ripening to induce labor), time and date of pain medication request, type and amount of
      parenteral medication, time from Foley bulb placement until expulsion, patient pain score by
      visual analog scale, and patient satisfaction. Data will be extracted from patients' medical
      records as well as from direct interview with the patient. If elected to participate consents
      will be obtained and stored in patient chart. A copy of the consent will be given to the
      patient. Patients will be consented in either English or Spanish by research personnel fluent
      in the language. The primary outcome will be the time for patients to request pain
      medications after Foley bulb placement. The two groups will be compared for differences in
      pain outcomes.
    
  