
    
      This case-control multicentre trial was performed from January 1, 2017, to May 31, 2018, in
      University of Health Sciences Bakirkoy Dr. Sadi Konuk Training and Research Hospital and
      Hitit University Hospital. This study was conducted with approval from the BTRH ethical board
      (number: 2018/166). This study covered 20 cases suffered from Celiac Disease and 18 were with
      regular menstrual period and healthy adolescent girls. Adolescents who were in compliance
      with the inclusion criteria were called by telephone for blood collection and ultrasound on
      the 3rd day of menstruation after approval from local ethical registration. Data on age, body
      mass index (BMI), levels of antitransglutaminase immune globulins A (IgA), positivity to
      antiendomysium IgA were recorded. On days 2-5 of the menstrual cycle, level of follicle
      stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH), estradiol (E2), prolactin (PRL), and AMH
      were measured from venous blood samples in both groups. The samples were centrifuged at 3,000
      rpm for 10 minutes to aliquot the supernatants. Antral Follicle Counts (AFCs) and ovarian
      volumes were determined on the same day by the same ultrasound devices. The inclusion
      criteria included the following items;

        -  13 ≤ Age ≤20

        -  At least one year after menarche

        -  Non-obesity or malnutrition, Non-Hyperandogenism symptoms, and blood tests, Non-Hyper or
           hypothyroidism, Non-Hyperprolactinemia.

        -  Control group; with a normal menstrual period, Non-chronic diseases The study had
           exclusion criteria such as delayed menarche, early puberty, delayed puberty, delayed
           development of secondary sexual characters due to another sexual disorder.

      IBM SPSS version 22.0 (IBM Corp., Armonk, NY, USA) was used for all data analyses.
      Descriptive statistics are presented as numbers and percentages (%) for qualitative variables
      and as mean ± standard deviation and median (range) for quantitative variables. Normality
      distribution of data was evaluated using Kolmogorov-Smirnov, and Shapiro-Wilk tests to guide
      statistical test choice.
    
  