
    
      BACKGROUND AND INTRODUCTION:

      Atrial fibrillation (AF) arises as a result of a complex interaction between triggers,
      perpetuators and substrate. As early as 1995, Morillo et al have demonstrated that AF is
      associated with ultrastructural changes in myocytes. In animal models, alterations in
      myocytes after sustained AF resemble those of myocardial hybernation with a phenotypical
      adaptation towards a more fetal stage. Ultimately, these structural changes would lead to
      Calcium overload and metabolic stress, similar changes have been observed in humans. However,
      in humans, atrial dilatation and degenerative changes have been observed. Interstitial
      fibrosis (caused by deposits of collagen and fibronectin) is the prime cause of structural
      remodeling in left atrium (Boldt et al., 2004). It has been well established that fibrosis is
      a confounding clinical factor in causing AF (Kostin et al., 2002). But AF itself promotes
      fibrosis, which in turn leads to increased conduction heterogeneity within the atrial
      substrate resulting in further progression of AF (Everett,and Olgin, 2007).

      The recent introduction of Late Gadolinium enhancement magnetic resonance imaging (LGE-MRI)
      sequence now allows for non-invasive assessment of the location and extent of arrhythmia
      related fibrosis.

      Contrast enhancement occurs as a result of altered washout kinetics of gadolinium relative to
      normal surrounding tissue, which may reflect increased fibrosis or tissue remodeling of the
      myocardium. Our group has demonstrated the feasibility of a new LGE-MRI acquisition and
      processing protocol to detect fibrosis in the LA.

      To date, no controlled trials evaluating the effect of antiarrhythmic drugs (AAD) and
      regression of left atrial fibrosis as assessed by LGE-MRI has been performed. We propose to
      use LGE-MRI to evaluate the effects of dronedarone vs. placebo on atrial and ventricular
      fibrosis. It has been shown that the success of catheter ablation procedure (which has been
      shown to be superior in terms of maintaining sinus rhythm in AF patients when compared to
      anti-arrhythmic drugs) is dependent upon the extent of fibrosis (Akoum et al., in prep). In
      AF patients with greater than 35% enhancement (percent left atrial fibrosis), the success of
      catheter ablation in reducing AF recurrence is greatly reduced. Hence for these patients, a
      drug that can control the progression of fibrosis and simultaneously provide respite from AF
      recurrence would be an extremely desirable prescription.

      Multaq® is the chosen drug in this study because clinical trials (Hohnloser et al., 2009)
      have shown that it has the potential to reduce incidence of hospitalizations due to
      cardiovascular events by 25.5% and death in AF patients by 45%. We acknowledge the
      information that Dronedarone may be more prone to AF recurrence, however, it has a better
      safety profile with regards to thyroid and neurologic events and does not interfere with oral
      anticoagulants (Le Heuzey et al., 2010), which make dronedarone a more preferred
      antiarrhythmic drug to be used for this study. Furthermore, in patients who took dronedarone
      post cardioversion procedure to revert arrhythmia back to normal sinus rhythm (NSR),
      dronedarone has been shown to decrease AF recurrences (Le Heuzey et al., 2010).

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary:

      The primary objective of this study is to demonstrate how dronedarone may aid in the
      regression or slowing of progression of left atrial and ventricular fibrosis in patients with
      atrial fibrillation as assessed by LGE-MRI, using longitudinal data from a double-blinded,
      prospective study of patients diagnosed with atrial fibrillation over a twelve month follow
      up period.

      Secondary:

        -  To study the effects of dronedarone in global parameters of myocardial remodeling such
           as right and left atrial volumes and right and left ventricular volumes.

        -  To study correlation between AF burden expressed as percentage of AF measured by an
           8-day Holter Monitoring at three, six and twelve months post initiation.
    
  