
    
      This study was built on our first study (IGPC-1, REB number 15551) which acquired
      multi-modality imaging in 36 patients undergoing radical prostatectomy. We successfully
      demonstrated the ability to accurately co-register pre-operative multi-modality images (MRI:
      T1, T2, Diffusion Weighed (DW), Dynamic Contrast enhanced (DCE); Dynamic Contrast Enhanced
      CT, 3D Ultrasound with post-operative whole mount pathology specimens. We have developed a
      platform for the segmentation of prostate cancer on the whole mount pathology specimens and
      are in the process of analyzing the data to develop a hybrid imaging map (HIM) of prostate
      cancer distribution (location and grade) based on the correlation of the pre-operative
      imaging signals and the post-operative pathology (citation provided below). The HIM will need
      subsequent validation in a separate cohort of radical prostatectomy patients and evaluated as
      to its ability to be incorporated as a targeting tool for prostate interventions such as
      prostate biopsy and this is the purpose of this follow-up study.

      On the IGPC-2 study, pre-operative imaging panels were successfully obtained in 24 patients
      accrued to cohort 1. The protocol was then amended to include [18-F]-DCFPyl instead of
      [18F]-FCH. [18-F]-DCFPyl was a newer PET probe that may possess superior performance because
      it is directed against prostate specific membrane antigen (PSMA), a protein commonly
      expressed on prostate cancer cells. Imaging-pathology correlations in the first 6 patients
      imaged with [18-F]-DCFPyl were compared to the correlations obtained with [18F]-FCH imaging
      in the first 24 patients.

      IGPC-2 Cohort 1 (Radical Prostatectomy) was expanded to provide an additional 20 men imaged
      with [18-F]-DCFPyl as part of the imaging panel. The goal was to acquire 24 complete imaging
      datasets with [18-F]-DCFPyl as the PET imaging agent to enable us to draw comparisons with
      the 24 [18F]-FCH imaging data sets acquired.
    
  