
    
      Substance use disorders are among the most important problems of our time. It has become a
      public health problem which is very common in developed and developing countries and affects
      the individual and the family as well as the society. Treatment of this problem, which leads
      to important disorders in many parts of individuals' lives, is quite difficult. Primary
      treatment is carried out by pharmacological methods. In cases where pharmacological methods
      are not sufficient, treatment is supported with psycho-social methods.

      The aim is to identify the effect of mindfulness-based education, which is in accordance with
      self-efficacy theory, given to individuals who have substance abuse disorders.

      The research was planned as a test model with pretest-posttest control groups. Individuals
      who have been diagnosed with substance abuse in the substance abuse clinic of Turgut Özal
      Medical Center, and at the Substance Abuse Treatment and Education Centre of Gaziantep 25
      Aralık State Hospital formed the core of this study. The research was conducted between
      January 2018-May 2019. 112 patients, 56 in the treatment and 56 in the control group,
      participated in the study. Scientific research started after ethical approval. Mindfulness
      therapy was applied to experimental group patients. For the data collection, the
      Socio-Demographic Characteristics Questionnaire and Self-Efficacy scale were used.
      Kolmogorov-smirnov distribution test was used for normal distribution and Cronbach's alpha
      was used for internal consistency. Percentage, mean and standard deviation in evaluation of
      patients' demographic data, chi-square test in parametric cases in comparison of control
      variables of experimental and control groups, Fisher's exact test in non-parametric cases,
      t-test in dependent groups in comparison of mean scores of experimental and control groups,
      score in test and control groups in itself. t test was used in independent groups.
    
  