
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of
      talazoparib (BMN 673) seven day schedule in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel.

      II. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of
      talazoparib (BMN 673) three day schedule in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity of talazoparib (BMN 673) in combination with
      carboplatin and paclitaxel.

      II. To determine whether the pharmacokinetic parameters of talazoparib (BMN 673) when given
      in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel correlate with thrombocytopenia.

      III. To observe and record anti-tumor activity of talazoparib (BMN 673) alone after the
      combination with carboplatin, paclitaxel and talazoparib (BMN 673).

      IV. To observe the safety and tolerability of talazoparib (BMN 673) in combination with
      paclitaxel and carboplatin and talazoparib (BMN 673) alone after the combination therapy.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To serially evaluate pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamics parameters and use indirect
      pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamics models to correlate with tumor response and resistance to
      the combination talazoparib (BMN 673), carboplatin, and paclitaxel therapy.

      II. To explore mechanisms of resistance to the combination of talazoparib (BMN 673) with
      carboplatin and paclitaxel.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of talazoparib. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2
      dosing schedules.

      SCHEDULE A: Patients receive talazoparib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-7, paclitaxel
      intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15, and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on
      day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4-6 cycles in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      SCHEDULE B: Patients receive talazoparib PO QD on days 1-3, paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on days
      1, 8, and 15, and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days
      for 4-6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      At any time after 4-6 cycles of treatment, patients may continue combination study therapy
      with talazoparib, carboplatin, and paclitaxel, talazoparib and carboplatin, talazoparib alone
      (continuous dosing), or observation without therapy at the discretion of the treating
      physician.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.
    
  