
    
      Aim: To determine how Subjective Well-Being (SWB; past, present, and future-oriented): (1) is
      affected by life transitions, and (2) affects outcomes after life transitions.

      Rationale: Social, economic, and health transitions are common in aging populations.
      Adaptation to these transitions likely impacts SWB and therefore may alter subsequent health
      and healthcare-cost outcomes.

      Hypotheses: Negative life transitions will negatively impact assessments of present and
      future-oriented SWB and result in worse health and healthcare-cost outcomes. More positive
      intra- and inter-personal resources will lessen this impact. Having better present or
      future-oriented SWB will diminish the impact of the transition on health and healthcare-cost
      outcomes.

      Approach: Investigators will establish an observational cohort of adults aged 50 and older
      (n=600) seen in the same primary care practice stratified by gender, race, and SWB.
      Investigators will collect information at baseline and each of two annual follow-up
      assessments regarding SWB, intra- and inter-personal resources, and outcomes. Investigators
      will compare those who experience life transitions to those who do not in terms of their
      changes in the temporal perspectives of SWB, health, and healthcare-cost outcomes.

      The successful completion of this project will disentangle temporal perspectives in SWB,
      further the understanding of the impact of aging and life transitions on SWB, relate
      individuals' SWB to health and healthcare-cost outcomes, and clarify the relationship of
      experienced SWB to evaluative SWB, all within the context of intra- and inter-personal
      resources. It will enable researchers, clinicians, and policy makers to better use SWB as a
      metric assessing the health and welfare of individuals and societies. The study population is
      primarily older adults from a primary care practice, University of Pittsburgh's General
      Internal Medicine Oakland (GIMO).

      Aim: To determine how SWB (past, present, and future-oriented): 1) is affected by life
      transitions and 2) affects outcomes after life transitions.

      C.2.a. Overview of the Aim Social, economic, and health transitions, commonly occur in aging
      populations. Adaptation to these transitions likely impacts SWB and subsequent health and
      healthcare-cost outcomes.

      Investigators will enroll a purposive sample (n=600) of adults aged 50 and older seen at the
      GIMO primary care practice. Investigators will collect information at baseline and each of
      two annual follow-up assessments regarding SWB, intra- and inter-personal resources and
      outcomes. Investigators will compare those who experience life transitions to those who do
      not in terms of their changes in temporally-oriented SWB and health and healthcare-cost
      outcomes.

      Measures In addition to basic demographics including age, gender, ethnicity, race,
      educational attainment, marital status, and employment status, investigators will collect
      data described below.

      Subjective Well-Being. Investigators will use the temporal measure of SWB by Pavot, Deiner,
      and Suh8 which includes 15 items-5 representing each of past, present, and future-oriented
      SWB.

      Intra- and inter-personal resources. These constructs were selected because they are
      important to the understanding of SWB and the relationships between SWB and the outcomes
      tested in our model. Each instrument has been related to health outcomes, healthcare-cost
      outcomes, SWB, and/or health-related quality of life in prior work and key citations are
      provided. Bringing together such a comprehensive assessment battery to understand
      temporally-oriented SWB and its relationship to these measures and outcomes, the impact of
      transitions on these relationships, and the relationship of experiences and experienced SWB
      to evaluative SWB, as proposed in the current project, is necessary to advance the field.

      Definition of transitions. Separate groups will be defined for those who undergo, or do not
      undergo, three broad categories of transitions: social, economic, and health, or any of the
      three transitions; individuals may have more than one type transition. In addition to "any"
      transition, each transition type will be analyzed separately. As described in the
      significance section, investigators have found that these transitions are common in older
      adults. Participants will complete items from the Life Events Scale at each time-point.
      Investigators will use MARS and EpicCare to identify any new health conditions (based on
      additions to the problem list or past medical history) supplement the identification of
      health transitions.

      Health and healthcare costs. Investigators will use health and healthcare costs to assess the
      predictive validity of our measure in the Primary care sample. Health and healthcare-cost
      measures will be obtained from both the using the Medical Archival System (MARS)43 and the
      EpicCare electronic medical record (EMR). MARS data include all patients seen at the
      University of Pittsburgh Medical Center's (UPMC) twenty hospitals, four long-term care
      facilities, and 350 physician offices and outpatient clinics. The MARS repository houses 209
      million clinical reports, 460 million financial transactions, and patient demographic
      information. EpicCare, GIMO's EMR, electronically contains all information required in a
      traditional paper medical record. All documentation (including past medical history), orders,
      and results are captured. Any paper result, for example laboratory testing done out of state,
      is abstracted as discrete data items into EpicCare. The primary measure will be healthcare
      costs. Cost outcomes, from MARS and EpicCare, will include the total healthcare charges
      documented within the UPMC system (including outpatient prescription medications at the
      average retail cost) in the year following the assessment. As the largest provider of care in
      Western Pennsylvania, UPMC delivers the vast majority of care received by GIMO patients.

      Why use costs as the primary measure in this sample? Healthcare costs provide a relatively
      simple summary of overall care intensity across people with a variety of health concerns and
      is particularly relevant to health policy. It is broadly applicable and is responsive to this
      request for applications. Two alternative endpoints are diagnosis of a new medical condition
      or disease management process measures. Based on our prior experience, we expect the majority
      of participants to develop new medical conditions, so treating a new diagnosis as the primary
      measure would give minimal variation in the measure and would limit our ability to see a
      difference based on temporally associated SWB. GIMO's clinical variety makes disease
      management process measures an impractical primary measure. Investigators have chosen to
      examine two common primary care conditions, diabetes and coronary artery disease, that
      require both patient and physician participation in management as a secondary measure.

      Secondary health measures will include (1) number of new diagnoses developed, (2)
      hospitalization (yes or no) and, among those hospitalized, length of stay, and (3) disease
      management over one year. Investigators will track the development of the following
      conditions identified by Verbrugge and Patrick: arthritis, visual impairment, hearing
      impairment, ischemic heart disease, hypertension, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
      diabetes mellitus, and malignant neoplasm.42 A diagnosis will be considered new if it is used
      as a billing diagnosis and has not been used previously as a billing diagnosis or listed on
      the problem list or past medical history. Because all participants will have been seen in the
      past at GIMO we will be able to easily differentiate new from previously existing diagnoses.
      Hospitalization will be defined as admission to one of twenty UPMC medical or psychiatric
      hospitals and length of stay. Disease management will be based on percent of fulfilled
      quality metrics (total number of metrics fulfilled, divided by the total number of metrics)
      defined by NCQA44 and used as quality measures in GIMO.
    
  