
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Patients with dental-facial deformity require orthognathic surgery to improve face profile
      and asymmetry, and to correct malocclusion. Positional changes in the mandible, jaw or both
      jaws during can affect the temporomandibular joint (TMJ), chewing muscles, surrounding soft
      tis-sue and symptoms of joint dysfunction (TMD). Pain is a natural response of the body to
      injury and at the same time one of the symptoms defining the inflammatory reaction.
      Orthognathic surgery procedures are often used to correct skeletal deformation II and III of
      the skeletal class, dental-facial-maxillary deformation, mandibular laterognathion and
      maximal-facial asymmetry. After-care care of the patient aims to minimize the risk of
      complications and therapy of existing ones. Regardless of intensity, the fight against pain
      is one of the basic activities in post-operative care of the patient. Some studies have shown
      that patients undergo-ing physiotherapeutic care immediately recover from the surgery much
      more quickly. The use of physical treatments allows to obtain a significant faster
      improvement in the pain and associated swelling after surgery.

      PROBLEM:

      The motivating factors for patients undergoing orthognathic surgery are: improvement of
      chewing, speech and swallowing as well as aesthetic and psychosocial factors. Correction of
      occlusal defects requires a group orthodontic, surgical and rehabilitation treatment.
      Surgical techniques that have evolved over the last decades now allow for almost any
      displacement within the bony structures of the jaw and mandible. The pain after orthogonal
      surgery occurs almost always, although the degree of its severity is the subjective sensation
      of each patient. Patients above all experience pain from mild to severe. His post-operative
      treatment is very important to reduce the stress caused the occurrence itself pain.
      Postoperative pain is often controlled by the use of opioids, which are often used in the
      United States. Cold compresses are also used in the stimulus treatment to reduce pain related
      associated with the occurrence of edema. Regardless of intensity, the fight against pain is
      one of the basic activities in post-operative care of the patient. Pharmacotherapy often
      necessary also causes a number of adverse effects harmful to the whole organism. In order to
      restore the physical and psychological comfort of patients after orthognathic procedures,
      physiotherapeutic methods as well as physiotherapeutic devices can be used.

      AIM:

      The aim of the study was to assess the effectiveness of the combined physiotherapeutic
      method, which uses a slow-changing electromagnetic(ELF EMF) field and light energy, emitted
      from high-energy LEDs, in reducing pain in patients after orthognathic surgery.
    
  