
    
      Saint-Luc University Hospital (CUSL) are the sponsor of the study. The study is bi-centric,
      in collaboration with the William Lennox Neurological Hospital Center (CHNWL).

      Will be included prospectively the first thirty patients with refractory focal epilepsy being
      evaluated at CUSL or CHNWL between for surgery, and for whom the cerebral MRI 3 Tesla (3T)
      did not show any obvious causal lesion.

      The pre-surgical evaluation includes (standard of care - SOC):

        -  EEG-video scalp monitoring (SOC)

        -  MRI 3Tesla (SOC)

        -  PET scan FDG (SOC)

        -  neuropsychological assessment (SOC) MRI examination will be reviewed by an experienced
           neuroradiologist at CUSL (SOC).

      The automated EEG analysis and electrical source localization with EPILOG PreOp® (non-SOC)
      will be carried out by Epilog (Epilog, Ghent, Belgium), blind to the rest of the workup. The
      costs of this analysis are 250 € / patient and will be covered by a clinical research fund.
      If the patient is referred by the CUSL, the costs are charged to account 830 E. If the
      patient is referred by the CHNWL, the costs are charged to a local scientific account.

      The results of the pre-surgical evaluation will be discussed in a multidisciplinary meeting,
      blind to the results of EPILOG PreOp®, in order to determine the presumed localization of the
      epileptogenic zone as well as the management plan. The result of this discussion will be
      classified as follows:

        -  A focal surgical resection is possible;

        -  B the assessment must be completed by an invasive EEG (SOC);

        -  C the option of resective surgery is rejected. If an invasive EEG is considered, the
           anatomical location of electrodes is planned. Then, the results of EPILOG PreOp® are
           presented (by Dr. Susana Ferrao Santos) and their influence on the management is
           evaluated. The possible change of care in relation to the initial plan is considered to
           be relevant if the EPILOG PreOp® analysis results in

             1. a modification of the therapeutic decision as defined above,

             2. a modification of the invasive EEG implantation plan or

             3. the use of an additional non-invasive imaging method to delineate the epileptogenic
                zone or to establish the functional risk.

      Patients will then be followed for 6 months to determine the clinical relevance of any
      management changes derived from the EPILOG PreOp® analysis. We will also evaluate the
      relationship between the localization of the EPILOG + regions (ie the brain regions involved
      in the irritative zone according to the results provided by the EPILOG PreOp® analysis), the
      surgical resection, the pathology analysis results and post-surgical results.

      EPILOG PreOp® analysis will be carried out using the full length EEG recording collected
      during video-EEG monitoring (SOC) at CUSL or CHNWL, ie 7 days of recording. with 19-27
      electrodes placed according to the international 10-20 system. The EEG data will be
      transmitted after acquisition and anonymization. For patients investigated at CHNWL, a
      high-density (non-SOC) recording with 64-76 electrodes will be offered for 24 to 48 hours if
      the investigator deems it necessary. The additional costs associated with high density EEG
      are borne by the CHNWL. The result will also be sent to Epilog for analysis, after
      anonymisation of the data.

      The EPILOG PreOp® analysis will begin with automated detection of interictal epileptiform
      activity using the Persyst program (Persyst Spike Detector P13, Persyst, San Diego, CA, USA),
      and interictal activity will be clustered and localized. source will be estimated using the
      sLORETA inverse solution model, using the methodology described previously.

      Pathology For all patients undergoing resective surgery, histological sections will be
      reviewed (SOC). Focal cortical dysplasias will be classified according to the ILAE (SOC)
      classification. Non-contributory results include: gliosis, absence of microscopic or
      histological abnormality.
    
  