
    
      Standard Treatment:

      If you are found to be eligible and you choose to take part, you will be enrolled in this
      study. Study participants will be those who are receiving the standard radiation treatment
      for prostate cancer, which has come back after surgical removal of the prostate. If your PSA
      level is lower, you will receive radiation alone. If your PSA level is higher, you will
      receive hormone therapy in addition to radiation. You will sign a separate consent form that
      will describe these treatments and their risks in more detail. This study requires no other
      treatment. The main purpose of this study is data gathering through the use of questionnaires
      and tissue banking.

      Follow-Up Tests

      After your treatment (radiation with or without hormone therapy), you will receive routine
      follow-up care. The results of the following routine tests will be entered into the registry:

        -  After completing radiation, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn to check your PSA
           levels every 3 months for the first 2 years, every 6 months for the next 3 years, and
           every year from then on.

        -  If you receive hormone therapy, additional blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn to
           check the levels of testosterone hormone. These blood tests to check your testosterone
           levels will be drawn at the same time as your PSA blood tests, until your testosterone
           levels are in the normal range.

        -  Every 6 months for the first 2 years after completing radiation, you will have a
           physical exam and a digital rectal exam. After that, the physical exam and digital
           rectal exam will be repeated every year from then on.

      Information Collection:

      While you are on study, on a long-term basis, researchers will collect information from your
      medical records about the status of the disease. This information will be entered into the
      registry. To identify you, the registry uses your medical record number instead of your name
      or other identifying information. The registry is password-protected to keep the data secure.

      Length of Study Participation:

      You will be on study for as long as you agree to keep taking part. If you go off study, your
      data will no longer be entered into the registry.
    
  