
    
      Percutaneous PFO closure has been established as a first-line therapy for preventing
      recurrent strokes, after embolic stroke of unknown source (ESUS) and a patent foramen ovale.
      The PFO closure is achieved by the implantation of suitable devices, which occlude the shunt
      between the two atria and prevent the creation and detachment of thrombi. Until today, there
      are two devices approved by FDA for the specific purpose; Amplatzer PFO Occluder and Gore
      Cardioform Septal Occluder. Despite the architectonic differences between these devices, the
      main material of both is nitinol, an alloy of nickel and titanium. While titanium is an
      extremely rare allergen, nickel is considered as one of the most common allergens and the
      most frequent metal allergen in nature, with a prevalence about 20%. The main clinical
      expression of nickel hypersensitivity is allergic contact dermatitis, but cases with systemic
      allergic reaction have been described as well. It has been observed that nickel is released
      by the implanted devices and circulates through bloodstream, having the potential to cause
      systemic clinical picture. Device syndrome includes signs and symptoms (i.e. palpitations,
      dyspnea, chest pain, rash, etc.), which are appeared after the device placement and are
      associated with hypersensitivity reaction. The existing literature is considered as
      inadequate for explaining the effect of nickel release in the patients implanted with an
      occluder.

      Our trial will try to investigate the impact of device placement to nickel skin patch test
      results and the correlation with the clinical manifestations of patients. Considering that,
      skin patch tests for nickel and other allergens will be performed in all included patients,
      14 days prior and 90 days after the procedure. The patients will be randomized to receive
      either Amplatzer or Gore device, with parallel assignment and randomization 1:1. During
      follow-up, clinical manifestations and transthoracic echocardiographic findings will be
      evaluated and associated with patch skin tests. The time frame of 90 days has been selected,
      due to the duration of device's endothelization and nickel release.
    
  