
    
      Summary of Study Design: The study will be a double blind randomised controlled trial with
      patients undergoing laparoscopic appendicectomy randomly allocated into two groups. The study
      group will receive bilateral TAP blocks and the control group will receive local anaesthetic
      infiltration of the laparoscopic port sites

      A double blind design was chosen to eliminate patient and observer bias in reporting of pain
      scores.

      The presence of the control arm will ensure that any difference observed will be due to the
      effect of sensory nerve block due to the TAP block than due to the systemic effect of the
      injected local anaesthetic.

      The null hypothesis will be that there is no difference between the groups in the amount of
      opioids consumed by the patients during 24 hours after the operation. The investigators chose
      this measurement as an objective but indirect measurement of efficacy of TAP block and pain
      relief thus received. Measurement of pain with various scoring methods are reliable only when
      concurrent reduction in consumption of pain killers are demonstrated.

      Recruitment and randomisation:

      All patients meeting the inclusion criteria will receive a patient information leaflet about
      the study during the procedure and investigators will gain informed consent during the
      procedure consultation. Investigators aim to recruit 288 patients with 144 patients in each
      group.

      Informed consent will be taken the evening before, or on the morning of, surgery. Patients
      will then be randomly allocated into either the study group or a control group. Randomisation
      will occur by using computer generated random numbers using the block randomisation method.
      Group allocation will be kept in a consecutively numbered, opaque, sealed envelope in the
      controlled drugs cupboard in theatre-4/emergency theatre anaesthetic room of the John
      Radcliffe Hospital. Once the patient has consented, the anaesthetist will open the
      corresponding numbered envelope and perform bilateral TAP blocks after induction of general
      anaesthesia if the patient is in the study group. The surgeons will infiltrate the port sites
      with local anaesthetic at the end of the procedure if the patient is in the control group.

      Blinding:

      The study group will receive bilateral TAP blocks with 20mls 0.25% bupivacaine on each side
      and the skin punctures on either sides will be covered with a small plaster. Patients in the
      control group will receive subcutaneous infiltration of the laparoscopic port sites and
      specimen extraction site with equivalent amount bupivacaine at the end of the procedure and
      small plasters will be stuck on either flanks approximately where the skin punctures for TAP
      block will be made.

      The assessor of pain scores and morphine doses (Recovery nurse, Ward Nursing Staff & SEU
      Foundation Doctor) and the patient will be blinded to group allocation.

      Patient: Plasters will be stuck on flanks of all the patients, both study and control group,
      so that patient will not know if they have received TAP block.

      Recovery nurse: During handover to recovery the anaesthetist and scrub nurse will not mention
      group allocation.

      SEU Foundation Doctor: The foundation doctor who will be following up patients on the ward
      will not be present in the operating theatre, ensuring that they are blinded to the technique
      used.

      The study duration will be from induction of anaesthesia until the patients are medically fit
      for discharge from hospital. No extra visits other than routinely required for the surgical
      procedure are expected.
    
  