
    
      India is home to 1/3rd of the world's estimated three million annual undetected TB cases. The
      primary objective of the investigators' Tuberculosis (TB) Aftermath study is to develop,
      implement and measure feasible case finding strategies among recently treated TB patients in
      India, a population known to be at high risk for recurrent disease. In a recent analysis of
      the TB treatment cascade in Indian public-sector hospitals, of the 1.2 million patients who
      successfully complete treatment each year, approximately 10% experience TB recurrence within
      1 year, giving the patients a TB incidence rate 50 times higher than thae overall population.
      Thus, active case finding (ACF) approaches targeting recently treated TB cases may be an
      effective component of a combination strategy to reduce India's TB burden and help detect
      many of the "missing millions." The Indian National TB Control Program (RNTCP)'s new
      strategic plan for TB elimination strongly recommends developing and implementing a scalable
      surveillance system for recurrent TB. The investigators' formative discussions with the RNTCP
      leadership revealed that a key knowledge gap is insufficient evidence on the yield and
      cost-effectiveness of ACF strategies among treated TB patients. These discussions also
      emphasized the RNTCP's strong interest in household (HH) follow-up screening for these
      patients. The World Health Organization's Systematic Screening for Active TB guidelines
      suggest that screening for recurrent TB in treated TB patients is a "conditional
      recommendation"; conditional only because there is a lack of evidence. TB Aftermath will
      compare effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and feasibility of two ACF strategies that are
      presently being considered by the RNTCP for detecting recurrent TB and provide evidence
      needed to implement and scale the preferred intervention. While treated TB patients and
      patients' HH contacts represent a high risk population for recurrent and incident TB, with
      over 1 million TB cases diagnosed annually in India, it may not be feasible to intensively
      follow all patients after TB treatment. Thus, lower-cost approaches such as telephone-based
      outreach could increase the reach of ACF, and targeted implementation may be needed to
      prioritize resources. Thus, the investigators will determine if visiting every HH of treated
      TB patients or visiting just those identified as symptomatic through an initial telephonic
      screening call will identify a similar yield of recurrent TB. The investigators' prior work
      in India has shown higher risk of recurrent disease among TB patients who smoke, consume
      alcohol, and those with untreated diabetes or respiratory impairment.

      The proposed study will address this gap, through the following specific aims:

      Aim 1: To conduct a non-inferiority randomized trial to measure the comparative effectiveness
      of two potentially implementable ACF interventions within the RNTCP, conducted by existing
      RNTCP "home visitors": (i) Household ACF (HHACF) by symptom screen and sputum collection
      among treated TB patients and patients' HH contacts and (ii) ACF by periodic telephonic
      interviews (TACF) followed by HH screen for HHs reporting any symptomatic members among
      treated TB patients and patients' HH contacts. The investigators will implement both
      interventions at 6 and 12 months following treatment completion by the index TB patient, and
      all HHs will have a final HH ACF visit 18 months post-treatment completion ("mop up") for
      comparison between arms. For both strategies, the investigators will calculate and compare
      the number of TB cases (recurrent and new HH cases) detected per index patient in each study
      Arm.

      Aim 2: To characterize implementation processes of the ACF interventions using the RE-AIM
      framework to inform future scale-up and sustainability. The investigators will use the RE-AIM
      framework to: (1) understand barriers and facilitators to implementation of the two
      interventions; (2) identify sub-populations that are best reached by the interventions and
      sub-populations who may benefit the most from the interventions; and (3) contribute knowledge
      to improve health services that span from the clinic to the community and home. The
      investigators will enhance the RE-AIM approach, by exploring the acceptability of the
      strategies in depth across three key stakeholder groups (TB patients, HH members, and health
      care personnel) to optimize implementation.

      Aim 3: To model the impact and cost effectiveness of the ACF interventions evaluated in the
      trial, and of potential alternative strategies for the targeting and timing of those
      interventions: To better inform RNTCP decisions using locally-collected data, the
      investigators will use data from the trial (on TB incidence and detection, targetable risk
      heterogeneity, and intervention costs) to model and compare potential strategies for ACF in
      terms of expected diagnostic yield, cost effectiveness, and impact on TB control in India. A
      Markov model of the burden of new and recurrent TB at the HH level over time after index case
      diagnosis will be used to model the lifetime impact of ACF interventions on HH TB morbidity,
      mortality, and time with infectious TB. The investigators will estimate cost-effectiveness by
      calculating the incremental cost per Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALY) averted. Estimates
      of the contributions of recurrent TB and HH transmission to population-wide TB incidence will
      be used within a population-level transmission model to predict impact on India's TB
      epidemic.

      TB Aftermath will answer key questions in a population that is often ignored by the TB
      community once treatment is complete, despite being at considerable risk for recurrent TB
      disease. The investigators will provide evidence for an effective and scalable strategy
      targeting HHs of treated TB cases, a high priority of the RNTCP. The investigators' high TB
      burden setting, strong multidisciplinary team, communication with the RNTCP and state TB
      program, and proven research infrastructure ensures successful implementation of TB
      Aftermath.
    
  