
    
      the objective is to create a database registry documenting the induction of labor (IOL)
      process and apply machine learning tools to create a more precise assessment score for
      doctors as a contemporary follow-up method.

      we will collect data from at least 12 centers worldwide describing the course, outcomes,
      maternal or fetal complications, and any related data. The data will be collected after
      ethical approval and from consenting patients in a prospective manner. during the period from
      July 1st, 2020 to June 30th, 2021 (anticipated dates).

      each center will be responsible for quality assessment, data collection, and ensuring the
      data is accurate, complete, and representative.

      Data collection includes baseline pelvic examination (cervical position, consistency,
      dilation, effacement, fetal position, and bishop score), method of induction and their time
      of administration in relation to index time (start of IOL), findings and time of serial
      pelvic examinations, fetal heart tone, and maternal vital signs. The entry of data from
      serial examinations will continue during active labor and fetal and maternal outcomes will be
      reported. If the diagnosis of failed IOL is made and obstetric team decides delivery by
      Cesarean section, criteria of diagnosis/indication of Cesarean delivery will be reported.
      Length of active labor and the second stage will be documented, and maternal/perinatal
      complications will be reported. the collectors must ensure patient confidentiality and
      safety.

      Inclusion criteria:-

        -  Pregnant women admitted for IOL, aged between 18 to 40 years

        -  Term or late preterm pregnancy (gestational age at 34 weeks or beyond)

        -  A reassuring fetal heart tracing prior to IOL

      Exclusion criteria:-

        -  Fetal growth restriction with abnormal Doppler indices

        -  Intrauterine fetal death

        -  Suspected intra-amniotic infection prior to IOL

        -  Fetal major congenital anomalies

        -  Patients who decline IOL in prior or during IOL without medical indication

      statistical analysis :- Data will be described using (mean, median, standard deviation,
      range) in the final sample. Machine learning method is superior to traditional statistical
      methods as it provides robust and automatic estimation of complex relationships between
      different variables and clinical outcomes. Data will be utilized as xi and yi where xi
      presents input (features) and yi presents dependent variables (outcomes). Functional
      regression is based on support vector machine by regressing the outcomes yi on inputs xi.
      Model Validation will be performed via bootstrap estimation to evaluate the predictive
      ability of the functional regression models. Data will be split to training data
      (approximately 63% of the data) to create prediction model where bootstrapping will be
      applied, and testing data where prediction model will be validated. Machine learning models
      will be created using python 3.8.
    
  