
    
      Prostate cancer is the most common malignancy observed among men in industrialized countries,
      with 1.11 million new cases diagnosed in 2012 . For patients with localized prostate cancer,
      different treatment options are available; radical prostatectomy, external beam radiotherapy,
      interstitial radiotherapy also called Brachytherapy (early-stage disease), and 'active
      surveillance' (low risk patients). The optimal treatment for patients having localized
      prostate cancer is not unambiguously proven. Different treatment options cause different side
      effects that may impact the patients' health-related quality of life. The treatment of choice
      depends on preferences and personal values. In these preference-sensitive choices it is
      important to involve the patient in the decision-making process. In this process both the
      practitioner and the patient exchange information and collaborate in the decision, the
      physician knows more technical information about the disease, the treatment options and the
      side effects, the patient knows how the treatment options correspond with his lifestyle,
      values and preferences.

      Patient Decision Aids (PDAs) are tools that can help patients to get involved in decision
      making by clarifying treatment options, outcomes, and personal values. In the development
      process of a decision aid it is mandatory to follow a systematic and iterative approach to:
      (a) understand patient's decisional needs; (b) create prototypical tools; (c) evaluate these
      prototypes with patients and clinicians, and (d) use these results to improve the tool.

      Considering the International Patient Decision Aid Standards (http://ipdas.ohri.ca/), the
      investigators designed an initial prototype, called Treatmentchoice
      (http://www.treatmentchoice.info). These standards recommend assessing patients and doctors
      views in decisional needs, use this information to develop an alpha version of the PDA and
      validate the Treatmentchoice again with patients and doctors to create a beta version.

      The aim of this project is user-testing the initial prototype of the Treatmentchoice. This
      will allow the investigators to follow a systematic development process and to gain knowledge
      on the validity of approach of the investigators. The project covers 4 activities:

      ACTIVITY 1.1: ASSESS DECISIONAL NEEDS: Elicit patients' and clinicians' views on patient's
      information, expectations, and needs on decision support. Conclusions and recommendations for
      improvement of Treatmentchoice will be derived and the current prototype will be improved
      creating an alpha prototype.

      ACTIVITY 1.2: ALPHA-TESTING: Testing patients' and clinicians' comprehensibility,
      acceptability and usability on the alpha prototype. A mixed method will be used; structured
      interviews combined with think aloud (Ahmed, 2009) and questionnaires (Unified Theory of
      Acceptance and Use of Technology (UTAUT) - Venkatesh et al.) with both patients and
      clinicians (urologists, radiotherapists and general practitioners). Conclusions and
      recommendations will be documented. Considering this assessment, the prototype will be
      improved. Alpha testing will be repeated with this improved prototype using an iterative
      process, until the tool is comprehensible, acceptable and usable for both patients and
      physicians.

      ACTIVITY 1.3: DELPHI STUDY: Gain an in-depth understanding of the information needs of
      prostate cancer patients at each stage from diagnosis to treatment and post-treatment. The
      purpose is to improve the contents of the decision aid so that it contains an accurate
      representation of the factors that are most relevant to prostate cancer patients. First,
      focus group interviews with former prostate cancer patients and patient organizations will be
      carried out. The results will be analyzed and a list of factors will be generated. A Delphi
      consensus process will be used to rank the relative importance of these factors and the tool
      will be updated to give information that is most important for patients.

      ACTIVITY 2: IMPACT STUDY (or beta testing): Evaluation of the impact of Treatmentchoice on
      knowledge, decisional conflict and the shared decision making process, as well as the extent
      to which clinicians involve patients in decision making. A variety of questionnaires will be
      used to assess different outcome measures:

        -  Age and educational level, home internet connection, and computer skills

        -  Knowledge test will be assessed using 20 statements, which can be rated as "true",
           "false" or "do not know" .

        -  Decisional conflict will be assessed using the Decisional Conflict Scale (DCS). This
           16-item scale has five subscales: feeling informed, decisional uncertainty, clear
           values, support, and quality of decisions. Each of these items is scored on a five-point
           Likert scale from 1 (strongly agree) to 5 (strongly disagree).

        -  Patient's desire to participate in medical decisions will be assessed using a 5-item
           Control Preference Scale.

        -  The Shared Decision Making (SDM) process will be assessed by the perceptions of
           patients, using the SDM-Q9 instrument for patients. The instrument provides 9
           statements, which can be rated on a six-point scale from 0 (completely disagree) to 5
           (completely agree). (SDM-Q9, Rodenburg, 2015 /Dutch version).

        -  The process of SDM will also be assessed by the perceptions of the physician (the
           urologist or the RTO if the decision is made together with an RTO), using the SDM-Q9
           instrument for professionals. The instrument provides 9 statements, also rated on a
           six-point scale.

      The patients will be asked to fill in the questionnaires at two time points: directly after
      the decision making process and 3 months after the decision making process. Their physician
      will be asked to fill in the questionnaire at one-time point, directly after the decision
      making process.

      ACTIVITY 3: IMPLEMENTATION: Identify key aspects on the implementation and dissemination for
      shared decision-making in prostate cancer. Semi-structured interviews will be performed to
      recognize barriers and facilitators for implementation in clinical practice, to develop
      strategies for the implementation of decision aids and to facilitate optimal shared
      decision-making which is tailored to the needs of the end-users (patients and doctors).
    
  