
    
      Wound care is a major clinical challenge and presents an enormous burden to health care
      worldwide. Wounds Canada describes chronic wounds as "a Canadian healthcare crisis."
      According to Wounds Canada and Diabetes Canada, approximately 15% of the 2.3 million diabetic
      Canadians will develop a diabetic foot ulcer (DFU) and every 30 seconds someone in the world
      loses a toe or limb to diabetes. Diabetics are about 23x more likely to be hospitalized for
      amputations, approximately 85% of which are due to a previous DFU. Delayed wound healing has
      been linked to a variety of factors including infection, which disrupts key biological
      changes at the tissue and cellular level that are associated with the wound healing process.
      Standard of care (SoC) of DFU infections involves visual inspection of the wound under white
      light (WL) and identification of common signs of infection using the Clinical Signs and
      Symptoms Checklist. However, SoC is limited by inconsistent guidelines and subjective
      assessment. In addition, visual inspection and WL-guided sampling are inaccurate and
      currently, no point-of-care technologies exist to assist the unaided eye. In response to this
      gap, Dr. DaCosta (PI) and colleagues at University Health Network developed a handheld
      fluorescence imaging platform (MolecuLight i:X) that detects bacterial autofluorescence in
      wounds in real-time, at the point-of-care, and without the use of exogenous contrast agents.
      The investigators propose a 3-year randomized control trial to test the therapeutic benefit
      of AF-image guided intervention on DFU management using the i:X. The research questions are
      Q1). Does AF-guided diagnosis and wound bed preparation improve wound healing in DFUs
      relative to SoC alone? Q2). Does AF-guided intervention decrease the bioburden in DFUs
      relative to SoC alone? Q3). Does AF-guided intervention improve patient quality of life
      relative to SoC alone? Q4). Is AF-guided intervention associated with reduced treatment cost?
      Primary objective: is to determine if AF-guided diagnosis and wound bed preparation improve
      wound healing in DFUs compared to SoC alone. To measure this, the investigators will compare
      between study arms i) the frequency of complete wound healing (CWH) at 12 weeks; ii) the
      frequency of partial wound healing (PWH) at 6 and 12 weeks, CWH at 6 weeks, and mean
      time-to-CWH (days); iii) the reduction in wound size at 12 weeks; and iv) the rate of wound
      healing over 12 weeks. Secondary objective: is to determine if AF-guided intervention
      decreases the bioburden in DFUs compared to SoC alone by evaluating bacterial diversity and
      measuring bacteria load at specified regular intervals over 12 weeks. Tertiary objective: is
      to determine if AF-guided intervention is associated with improved quality of life (QoL) and
      with reduced treatment costs, which will be measured by using patient questionnaires and the
      Canadian Institute for Health Information database.

      If successful, this Randomized Control Trial (RCT) will demonstrate that AF image-guided
      wound care improves time to CWH or PWH among Ontarians with DFUs by increasing wound healing
      rates and reducing bioburden. If our technology can improve CWH by our target of >= 16%
      (absolute), an additional 55,000 Canadians could reach CWH by 12 weeks, resulting in reduced
      wound care costs and improved QoL. The average cost of treating a DFU is $5000-8000/patient.
      Improving the number of patients that achieve CWH by >= 16% will substantially reduce costs
      associated with treating DFUs in Canada. The results of this study may inform health policy
      decisions and recommendations for changes to current SoC DFU practice guidelines. Health
      economic and QoL comparison of AF-guided wound care vs SoC in the proposed RCT will help
      define the overall value proposition of the new approach. If the investigators fail to
      demonstrate improved wound healing rates, this will also be of value to physicians, patients
      and the Canadian health care system. Knowing not to further pursue this line of research is
      important in an era of limited funding.
    
  