
    
      DOT-C is a cluster randomised trial of a pharmacist-led, directly observed anti HCV therapy
      pathway versus the conventional care pathway within 8 community pharmacies. Patients
      attending an individual pharmacy are the cluster. Pharmacies who are participating in the
      trial will be allocated to the pharmacist-led pathway or the conventional care pathway. The
      pilot trial aims to recruit 40 patients into the both the pharmacist-led and the conventional
      care pathways.

      Approximately 2,000 patients are prescribed OST within the Tayside region of North East
      Scotland. Around 85% of these patients receive daily or regular supervision of their OST
      consumption through one of the 92 community pharmacies. It is expected that at least 40% of
      these patients will be infected with HCV and that around 40% of infections will be with
      Genotype 1 virus. The 8 pharmacies acting as cluster sites for this trial have around 400
      patients attending for supervised OST administration.

      Design: This is a cluster randomised trial of directly observed anti HCV therapy versus
      conventional care in HCV positive patients, who are in a pharmacist delivered OST program,
      where the patients attending an individual pharmacist are the cluster. Pharmacies
      participating in the trial will be allocated to conventional care pathway or the DOT pathway.

      Entry into the trial will be following a positive HCV test at which stage the patient will be
      allocated to a pathway, dependent on the pharmacy they are attending. The pathways are:

        -  Pharmacy DOT

        -  Conventional care pathway

      Research Questions Trial

        1. Does a pharmacist-led HCV treatment pathway increase the uptake of testing and treatment
           by OST users and result in a higher proportion of patients achieving a sustained
           virological response (SVR) compared to the conventional pathway?

        2. Can a pharmacist-led pathway be introduced in a way that is feasible and acceptable to
           users and service providers and are there any unintended consequences?

      Conventional Care Pathway In pharmacies randomised to the conventional care pathway, the
      pharmacist will opportunistically discuss with the patient the possibility of HCV infection.
      Information will be provided verbally and by offering standard leaflets about HCV and local
      services for testing and or treatment. Patients who seek referral for testing and/or
      treatment will be managed according to the standard local treatment pathway. The pharmacist
      will record on a screening log which OST patients they have had the discussion with. If the
      patient achieves a referral and attends treatment at one of the dedicated treatment centres,
      the treatment nurses will enquire about any methadone prescription and which pharmacy is
      providing the methadone. The participant's medical regimen will be as standard but that there
      will be some additional data collection. As this is a real world study patients may be
      referred into treatment by other agencies (e.g. drug keyworker) after a positive test; if
      tested within pharmacy their data will be captured for this study.

      Pharmacist-Led Pathway In pharmacies randomised to the Pharmacist pathway, the staff training
      and educational materials on HCV testing, HCV treatment, and behaviour change will be
      delivered. At the start of the pathway pharmacists will discuss HCV infection with their OST
      patients. Those with unknown HCV status will be offered testing using DBS in the pharmacy. In
      pharmacies where dried blood spot testing for HCV is not available this will be established.
      Patients identified as HCV positive will have a post-test discussion with the pharmacist.
      During this discussion the pharmacists will obtain informed consent, explain about HCV
      treatment. Next, the pharmacist will offer them anti-HCV therapy in the pharmacy. The
      patients who decline study participation will be entered in the screening log. For the
      patients who do consent, the pharmacist will complete a pre-treatment checklist of medical
      co-morbidities, medical history, concomitant medication to look for drug-drug interactions,
      and blood tests including viral parameters. This will also include a set of blood tests to
      check full blood count, urea and electrolytes, liver function testing, including markers of
      liver fibrosis (Fib4, APRI, AST:ALT ratio) and viral parameters (genotype and load), this
      will be performed outside the pharmacy at a local health care facility that provides a
      routine phlebotomy service. These bloods are standard of care for HCV treatment and are not
      research specific (i.e., they are also part of the Conventional pathway). If there are no
      contra-indications to therapy, the patient will commence the treatment. In patients where
      there are contraindications or queries about suitability, the pharmacist will contact the
      central clinical co-ordinator for advice. Unsuitable patients will be referred to local
      hospital services for assessment outside the study as standard clinical care. The suitable
      patients entering treatment will have daily dispensing of therapy drugs with consumption of
      antivirals observed at the same time as the OST within the pharmacy (usually 5 or 6 days, so
      a modified version of DOT). For doses that patients have to self-administer and the weekend
      doses when there is no OST distribution), the pharmacist and patient will make a brief
      if-then action plan (an implementation intention) and coping plan (to overcome anticipated
      barriers)(19).

      Recruitment Patients in OST attending participating pharmacies will be recruited after a new
      HCV diagnosis or patients with a previous known diagnosis would be systematically approached
      to participate in the trial. Those that agree to enter the trial would provide consent and at
      this point be randomised to the different pathways dependent on the pharmacy they are
      attending. For the study there would be no further adjustment of the groups so the trial will
      be testing the whole pathway of care.

      For those patients attending a pharmacy within the DOT cluster, a Pharmacist-led,
      protocol-driven checklist for therapy suitability, with medical review available for
      participants who fall outside protocol, would be performed.

      Consenting Participants Potential participants will be approached by pharmacy staff familiar
      with the trial methodology and trained in obtaining informed consent in clinical trials.

      Randomisation Eight pharmacies will be enrolled to this study. They will be split into two
      matched groups based on geography and patient numbers. Four will be allocated to pharmacist
      DOT. The four pharmacies allocated to conventional care will refer patients to the local BBV
      services. Randomisation will be carried out using http://www.randomization.com . The subjects
      are randomized into 1 block. To reproduce this plan, use the seed 12576 along with the number
      of subjects per block/number of blocks and (case-sensitive) treatment labels as entered
      above.

      Intervention Allocation All participants will have HCV testing and genotyping and will be
      allocated to conventional BBV treatment based on the HCV genotype. Only those patients who
      are genotype 1 will be enrolled in this study. Participants will be allocated to pharmacist
      led or conventional pathway; contingency management or not, according to the cluster pharmacy
      that they normally use.

      Sample Size - Since this a pilot study no sample size calculation has been performed Overview
      of Qualitative Research Components The qualitative research will take the form of a process
      evaluation designed to inform aspects of the proposed phase III trial. It will contribute to
      assessing the feasibility and acceptability to service users and service providers of using
      pharmacies to deliver testing and treatment alongside OST delivery (including identification
      of barriers and facilitators); identifying any unintended consequences of participation;
      exploring responses to randomization approaches; providing guidance on how the intervention
      might be modified for the Phase III randomised controlled trial.

      Interviews will be conducted with small samples of (i) service users and (ii) relevant
      professionals. This work will expand on qualitative research already undertaken with clients
      and professionals in the pilot work and modelling that preceded this study. Qualitative
      interviews will be conducted with service users and professionals using semi-structured topic
      guides developed in line with the research aims. Topics will not be explored in a
      prescriptive manner but as part of an open discussion. This flexible format will enable
      additional salient topics and insights to emerge. In broad terms, the focus for the different
      respondent groups will be as follows:

      Health Economic Assessments - Economic analysis will be undertaken alongside the trial,
      utilising the costs, resource use and effectiveness data generated within the trial. For
      example, the cost service delivery, staff time, will be collected and combined with other
      resource use data. The number of patients achieving SVR at the end of the trial will be
      combined with the cost data to calculate the incremental cost per cure for each pathway.

      This phase II trial will establish a workable design and approach in order to reduce the
      risks associated with a future definitive phase III multicenter randomized controlled trial
      and establish a framework to assess the costs and benefits of using a community pharmacy
      pathway to treat HCV in patients participating in an OST program
    
  