
    
      The study was conducted in a 16-bed American Burn Association certified burn unit. Patients
      age >18 years old, with at least a 5% burn injury and an expected length of stay (LOS) of 48
      hours, were approached for enrollment in this prospective, placebo controlled randomized
      study. Patients who were pregnant, lactating, prisoners or who had renal insufficiency were
      excluded. After consent, patients were assigned to either placebo or Gp by random numbers
      generated in Microsoft Excel (2010). Both the drug and the placebo were over-encapsulated to
      appear identical. The placebo pills contained starch. The research clinical pharmacist was
      the only unblinded staff member and did not participate in clinical care of the patients.

      Following randomization, patients received a loading dose of study drug on day one and began
      three times a day (TID) dosing per the dose escalation schedule the following day. At
      discharge, patients were given a three day taper per the dose de-escalation schedule Patients
      were assessed for completion of psychosocial adjustment (Brief Symptom Inventory, BSI, and
      Sickness Inventory Profile, SIP) at their first clinic visit.

      Agents used for pain control included: acetaminophen, non-steroidal anti-inflammatories,
      morphine instantaneous release and morphine extended release. In the case of allergies or
      ineffectiveness, other agents were occasionally used. Short acting morphine was ordered every
      two hours prn and hydromorphone was ordered every four hours as needed. All were converted to
      morphine equivalents.

      The study was powered to detect a 22% difference in opioid consumption between the two groups
      based on the work by Cuignet et al. It was estimated that a total of 50 patients were needed
      to achieve an alpha of 0.05 and a beta of 0.80 to detect the difference in the primary
      endpoint.

      For statistical purposes, conversion tables were used to convert all opioid medications into
      morphine equivalents with 1 morphine equivalents (ME)=30mg oral morphine. The primary outcome
      variable (morphine consumption) were adjusted for days past injury. The BSI and SIP scales
      were scored according to study directions.

      Both an intention to treat and actual treatment analysis were performed using Stata 11.2 for
      Windows (Stata Corp. College Station, Texas, U.S.A.). Continuous variables between groups
      were analyzed with the students T test. Categorical variables were analyzed with the Chi
      Square test or Fischer Exact Test where appropriate. A random effects model adjusting for
      confounders was used to assess the effect of treatment on the outcome measures. The study was
      approved by the University's Institutional Review Board and was registered with the clinical
      trials association (200909736).
    
  