
    
      Study design: Using a within-subjects repeated measures design, up to 40 SCI participants
      will be randomized to receive 6-week hand robotic training preceded by 20 min anodal 2mA tDCS
      or sham (3 sessions/week, 18 sessions total). Clinical and functional scales, robotic
      kinematics and neurophysiological data (TMS evaluation) will be collected before and after
      the combined intervention period, and a month later (pre, post and follow up evaluations).
      Randomization will be done using a randomized block design with a block size of 2. All
      participants, raters, and experimenters will be blinded to treatment allocation.

      AIM 1. To determine whether combining non-invasive brain stimulation (tDCS) and behavioral
      training (robotics) in SCI can lead to functional improvement. The investigators hypothesize
      that the group receiving the real stimulation will obtain a greater clinical improvement in
      hand motor function. Using a within subjects repeated measures design, baseline clinical hand
      function (Box and Blocks test) will be compared to post 6-week robotic training intervention,
      and then a month later (follow up), each session preceded by real (2mA anodal M1) or sham
      tDCS.

      AIM 2. To examine the kinematic changes (from robotic measures) associated with the combined
      training. Quantitative measurements obtained from robotics are highly sensitive, precise and
      reliable. The investigators predict an enhancement of motor performance in all participants,
      measured by 5 key parameters: mean speed, peak speed, smoothness, aim and deviation; with
      greater improvements in the intervention group receiving the pre-conditioning effect of
      transcranial stimulation. These data will identify features of motor control that underlie
      improvements in clinical function, when comparing the two intervention groups.

      AIM 3. To identify and compare the neurophysiological mechanisms (by TMS) associated with the
      combined training. The relationship between clinical improvement in neurophysiological
      measures pertaining to robotic motor training alone and combined with tDCS will be assessed.
      Measuring changes in MEP amplitude of hand muscles before and after the training will
      establish a) the plasticity associated with training alone and with supplementary brain
      stimulation, b) the neurophysiological characteristics of patients who respond better to the
      training. By understanding how brain excitability changes underpin motor dysfunction, and
      motor recovery, interventions can be more effectively prescribed and prognoses established.
    
  