
    
      2 Background Information

      2.1 Device Description

      Exsalt® Wound Dressings (Test Dressings) contain oxidized silver oxysalts deposited
      throughout a non-woven polyester/High density polyethylene non-adherent dressing. Silver in
      the exsalt® Wound Dressings inhibits microbial growth in the dressing. The concentration of
      the silver and oxidized silver species on the dressing is 0.4 mg/cm2 (2.5% w/w). The exsalt®
      dressings have been shown to be effective in vitro against Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia
      coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Enterococcus faecalis. Exsalt® Wound Dressings maintain
      their antibacterial activity for up to 7 days against Pseudomonas aeruginosa and
      Staphylococcus aureus.

      Exsalt® Wound Dressings are indicated for the management of partial and full thickness
      wounds, including decubitus ulcers, venous stasis ulcers, diabetic ulcers, first and second
      degree burns, grafts and donor sites, or other acute or chronic wounds. The dressing may be
      used over debrided and grafted wounds.

      2.2 Study History

      The Canadian Institute of Health Information estimates that foot wounds (with diabetes as the
      leading cause) are present in 4% of all hospital inpatients, 7% of homecare clients and 10%
      of long-term care residents (CIHI, 2013). Ulcerations are a critical event in the loss of
      limbs or amputation as they create an avenue for infection and may exacerbate necrotic tissue
      and ischemia. Of 210,000 people with diabetes in Alberta, 5,250 will seek treatment of a foot
      ulcer annually. In Alberta in 2014-15 there were 425 LLA performed on 309 diabetic patients
      representing an increase of 89 LLA over 2010-11.

      The 5-year mortality rate after new-onset diabetic foot ulcer is 43-55% and as high as 74%
      for patients undergoing LLA (Ollendorf et al, 1998). Moreover, there is a tremendous
      reduction in quality of life of the patients and negative effects on their families. The
      Diabetes Foot Care Clinical Pathway Project (DFCCPP) aims to optimize methods of early
      detection and treatment of foot ulcers in an effort to reduce LLA by 50% and improve
      patient's quality of life. Therefore, there is a need for an effective tool for the
      prevention and management of local infection in diabetic foot ulcers.

      2.3 Device History

      Exsalt® wound dressings have to date been formally evaluated (including clinical studies and
      post-market surveillance) on over 125 patients throughout North America and Europe. In these
      studies, many wound etiologies were investigated including: venous leg ulcers, diabetic
      ulcers, diabetic neuropathic ulcers, post-surgical wounds, wounds resulting from trauma, skin
      tears, pressure ulcers, burn wounds, and chronic non-healing ulcers. The formal clinical
      evaluations investigated the safety and efficacy of the Exsalt® wound dressing as a device.
      Data and feedback generated supported wound healing, with increased granulation tissue and
      lessened pain, odor, and signs of infection (Thomason et al, 2016; Lemire et al, 2015). The
      wound dressing was shown to support progression to wound closure or wound healing without
      signs of toxicity or side-effects.

      2.4 Risk Summary

      Precautions need to be taken when using exsalt® Wound Dressing as it should not be used on
      patients with a known sensitivity to silver; is not compatible with oil-based products, such
      as petrolatum; is not compatible with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) procedures; should be
      removed prior to administering radiation therapy; and should not come in contact with
      electrodes and conductive gels during electronic measurements (e.g. EEG, ECG).

      Additionally, frequent or prolonged use of Exsalt® wound dressings may result in permanent
      discoloration of skin.

      2.5 Benefit Summary

      Benefits of this product vs. other silver antimicrobials include rapid and sustained
      bactericidal activity; broad spectrum of activity; minimized pain; reduced staining of skin;
      non-toxicity to human tissue; decreased likelihood of resistance; cost-effectiveness as it
      requires less silver.

      2.6 Good Clinical Practice and Regulatory Requirements

      2.6.1 Regulatory Requirements: Exsalt® Wound Dressing

      Exsalt® Wound Dressings exsalt® SD7 and exsalt® T7 have been licensed in Canada by Health
      Canada as of January 2011 and March 2012, respectively. Exsalt® wound dressing is "indicated
      for the management of partial and full thickens wounds such as decubitus ulcers, venous
      stasis ulcers, diabetic ulcers, 1st and 2nd degree burns, grafts and donor sites' or other
      acute or chronic wounds."

      3 Study Objectives & Purpose

      The purpose of this pilot study is to evaluate the effectiveness of the Exciton exsalt® Wound
      Dressings when combined with the DFCCP in patients with locally infected diabetic foot
      ulcers. The objective of the proposed work is twofold, namely 1) to quantify the
      effectiveness of exsalt® Wound Dressings on locally infected diabetic foot ulcers not
      progressing to healing under the current standard of care: evaluating IDSA wound
      classification, pain, wound size, and signs and symptoms of infection through a one-arm
      prospective repeated measures pilot study and 2) to compile subjective patient outcomes:
      satisfaction, perceived benefit, compliance. Evaluating the benefits of utilization of the
      Exciton exsalt® Wound Dressings when combined with the DFCCP.

      Specifically, the following work and objectives are proposed:

        1. A prospective, single-arm, repeated measures study to pilot the use of Exsalt® wound
           dressing in chronic wounds within an outpatient clinical setting; evaluate the benefits
           of utilization of exsalt® Wound Dressings within the DFCCPP.

        2. Repeated measures evaluating and reporting wound infection classification (IDSA), pain
           score, wound size, and key indicators of infection; pre and post-intervention.
           Quantifying the impact of the intervention to diabetic foot ulcer local infection,
           healing, and associated pain. Qualifying subjective patient outcomes including
           satisfaction, benefit, and compliance. Incidence of safety and adverse events will be
           reported within the scope of this pilot study.

      3.1 Research Questions

      The research proposed here is designed to address the following questions:

        1. What is the impact (monitoring key indicators of infection, wound size, and wound
           classification) of the application of the exsalt® Wound Dressing utilized as a primary
           dressing for up to four weeks in outpatients with diabetic foot ulcers that have a mild
           local infection and are non-responsive using standard-of-care.?

        2. What is the clinical utility of the use of the Exsalt® wound dressing from the
           perspective of clinical staff and patients?

        3. What are the benefits of utilization of the Exciton exsalt® Wound Dressings when
           combined with the DFCCP?

      4 Pilot Study Design

      4.1 Study type

      A prospective, single-arm, repeated measures study pilot study will be coordinated by the
      DON-SCN on the use of exsalt® Wound Dressings in mildly infected chronic diabetic foot ulcer
      wounds within three outpatient clinical settings; evaluating pre and post-intervention.
    
  