
    
      Minipuberty is a term used to describe the transient activation of the pituitary-gonadal axis
      2-3 months after birth in both boys and girls. It is, however, not known why infants reach
      adult levels of reproductive hormones in early life, nor is the exact timing of the peak
      known. Furthermore, what determines the timing of peaks and suppressions of reproductive
      hormones from infancy throughout childhood and into adolescence remains to be elucidated.

      Few studies have investigated minipuberty and one, for example, found that it is affected in
      premature infants (before gestation week 37). However, no studies on normative data
      throughout minipuberty in infants exist.

      Furthermore, using minipuberty as a window for diagnosis of endocrine disorders and future
      reproductive function has been suggested. Defining minipuberty, both in terms of circulating
      hormone levels and urinary metabolites, in healthy infants is therefore essential in order to
      utilize this window. Studies using patients with Disorders of Sex Development during
      minipuberty have been carried out, but they are hampered by small sample sizes and lack of
      control groups.

      In addition, little is known about the genetic and epigenetic factors that drive the onset,
      progression and termination of minipuberty as well as the actual puberty, i.e. the factors
      responsible for the quiescence of the HPG axis during childhood and the dis-inhibition
      responsible for pubertal onset. Therefore, much attention was drawn on the study performing
      whole exome sequencing in patients and relatives with central precocious puberty (CPP). For
      the first time, MKRN3 was suggested as the primary factor responsible for HPG inhibition
      during mid-childhood. A number of studies support that MKRN3 mutations cause CPP, and genetic
      variation of MKRN3 affect pubertal timing in healthy girls. Our findings of declining serum
      levels of MKRN3 prior to pubertal onset in healthy girls support MKRN3 as a regulator of
      pubertal onset. The exact mechanism through which MRKN3 exceeds its effect remains to be
      elucidated; however, its zink-finger structure indicates regulation of superior cellular
      processes such as epigenetic regulation of DNA transcription.

      Twin studies suggest that 60% of the inter-individual variation is caused by genetic factors.
      However, genome wide association (GWA) studies only explain a fraction of the variation in
      age at puberty. Recently, our research group has revealed the largest effect of a single SNP
      on age at pubertal onset in girls. The location of the SNPs in genes regulating FSH action
      emphasizes the need of a wide focus including downstream processes in the HPG axis when
      evaluating factors regulating puberty.

      In general, the abovementioned studies have led to a spark in the interest in epigenetic
      studies, i.e. studies of genetic changes that are not caused by changes in the DNA sequences
      themselves, but rather regulatory mechanisms of DNA expression. Generally, this is thought to
      include DNA methylation, histone modifications and small RNAs. Epi-mutations (improper
      epigenetic regulation) possibly account for more of the variation in puberty than genetic
      factors. Previously, both gene-specific and genome-wide DNA methylation patterns have been
      studied. Genome-wide hypomethylation seen in peripheral leukocytes has been shown to be
      linked with an array of cancers, including colorectal cancers. As multiple histone
      modifications exist and analysis requires special sample treatment procedures, DNA
      methylation is the most appropriate epigenetic marker to analyze. A study of rats found that
      specific gene hypomethylation was accountable for lack of pubertal onset, but the link
      between epigenetics and mini- and pubertal timing and progression has, however, only scarcely
      been studied. Understanding this link would greatly add to our knowledge of reproductive
      function and normal sex development.

      Disorders of Sex Development (DSD) is an umbrella term covering conditions with congenital
      disordered development of chromosomal, gonadal or anatomical sex. Genital abnormalities may
      include as many as up to 4-6 in 1000 births, although individual disorders are much rarer,
      e.g. 45,X/46,XY mosaicism is seen in about 1 in 15000 live births. Previously DSD diagnoses
      were labeled with different and often imprecise terms such as 'intersex', 'sex reversal' and
      'hermaphroditism' etc. In 2006, DSD nomenclature was renamed and grouped according to genetic
      sex into sex chromosome DSD, 46,XY DSD and 46,XX DSD.

      DSD patients are diagnosed at different periods in life depending on their diagnosis,
      phenotype and primary and secondary sexual development. Patients with sex chromosome DSD can
      be diagnosed at prenatal screenings, patients with affected external genitalia at birth, some
      during childhood due to growth abnormalities, some during adolescence due to abnormal
      pubertal progression and lastly, some in adulthood due to infertility.

      Understanding normal sex development is therefore the key to identifying and optimizing
      diagnosis and treatment of patients with DSD. A project, as the present, that seeks to
      investigate normal minipuberty while comparing to minipuberty in patients with DSD is
      therefore of great importance. Furthermore, knowledge of the genetic and epigenetic control
      mechanisms of minipuberty will aid the understanding of reproductive physiology and in
      particular DSD pathology.
    
  