
    
      HaRTC refers to an alcohol treatment that integrates the traditional Native practice of
      Talking Circles with harm reduction, a low-barrier approach to substance-use treatment that
      does not require sobriety or use reduction. The HaRTC study is a collaboration between WSU,
      UW, and Seattle Indian Health Board (SIHB). It is funded by the National Institute on Alcohol
      Abuse and Alcoholism at the National Institutes of Health. In this study, researchers from
      WSU and UW are working together with urban-dwelling community members who have Native
      heritage and lived experience of alcohol use disorder as well as with traditional health
      professionals, staff and management at SIHB. As a team, we are tailoring, implementing, and
      evaluating HaRTC as a culturally appropriate treatment for urban American Indians and Alaska
      Natives.

      This study is divided into three phases:

      Phase 1: During one-on-one interviews and focus groups, WSU and UW researchers asked
      patients, traditional healers, staff and management at SIHB how to best tailor HaRTC.

      Phase 2: The researchers assembled a community action board comprised of Native community
      members who have lived experience as well as traditional health professionals, staff and
      management at SIHB to refine the HaRTC treatment manual and procedures to best fit the needs,
      setting and values at SIHB based on their own lived experiences and on the findings from
      Phase 1. This protocol was then revisited together with our community action board and
      community partners to ensure appropriate physical distancing in the wake of the COVID-19
      pandemic. Thus, our in-person procedures were converted to a fully virtual, online protocol.

      Phase 3: Researchers are conducting a randomized clinical trial of the virtual adapted Harm
      Reduction Treatment Circles (HaRTC) program. Participants (N=280) in the RCT will be urban
      American Indians and Alaska Natives. Additionally, they must be at least 21 years of age and
      meet criteria for a current alcohol use disorder. Participants will provide informed consent
      and will be randomized (like flipping a coin) to receive either HaRTC or no-treatment control
      so the investigators can evaluate whether HaRTC is efficacious. Participants will be asked
      questions about their involvement in cultural practices, alcohol use and quality of life
      prior to randomization, a month into the HaRTC, after the HaRTC ends, and at 1-, 3-, and
      6-month follow-up interviews. It is expected that HaRTC will help patients increase their
      engagement with cultural traditions, enhance their quality of life, and reduce their
      experience of alcohol-related harm. If so, the research team will work with SIHB to make this
      intervention sustainable for its community members.
    
  