
    
      Typhoid Fever is a highly prevalent infection in the Indian subcontinent. Due to multidrug
      resistant strains in these areas, third generation cephalosporins, such as ceftriaxone, are
      the treatment of choice. However, the latter regimen exhibits a slow response with mean time
      of 5 to 7 days or even longer to defervescence, which could be attributed to poor penetration
      capability of the drug into cells, and thus difficulty to eradicate the bacteria from the
      intracellular niche.

      Attempts have been made to overcome this setback by introducing alternative antibiotic
      regimens, such as azithromycin. However studies comparing between azithromycin and a
      third-generation cephalosporin for the treatment of typhoid fever in adult population in the
      Indian subcontinent are lacking.

      Over the last few years our approach towards non-immunized travelers, who acquired typhoid
      fever in the Indian subcontinent, was to administer a combination therapy of intravenous
      ceftriaxone with oral azithromycin. The rationale of this dual regimen was its
      pharmacokinetic profile, which suggests a complimentary action of the two agents -
      ceftriaxone on the extracellular compartment and azithromycin on the intracellular
      compartment. Moreover, in our clinical experience, preliminary published data has proven
      combination therapy significantly superior to ceftriaxone alone albeit in a small group of
      travelers.

      In the current study the investigators intend to compare the efficacy of ceftriaxone vs.
      azithromycin and vs. combined therapy of both agents for the treatment of uncomplicated
      typhoid fever in terms of time to defervescence.

      4 different treatment strategies will be examined (as mentioned in the arm section). All
      participants will be checked for vital signs, will undergo physical examination, ECG,
      laboratory testing, blood, urine and stool culture and tests for susceptibility to
      antibiotics.
    
  