
    
      Hip fractures account for 20% of all fractures and displaced subcapital fractures represent
      45% of the hip fracture workload. All of these patients are treated with some form of hip
      replacement. Recent randomised trials have confirmed that total hip replacement is probably
      the best choice of treatment in a fit older patient and is better than partial hip
      replacement or repair of the fracture with screws which are the other most commonly used
      treatments. Hip replacements may be cemented or uncemented. The uncemented type of hip
      replacement has not been commonly used in this group of patients but may have some
      advantages. The uncemented hip replacement is a shorter operation and this may be
      advantageous in the hip fracture population group since these are older patients, many of
      whom have other medical problems. The use of cement is occasionally associated with
      development of heart problems during anaesthesia.

      Participants: The original aim was to recruit 200 patients who have been admitted with a
      displaced subcapital hip fracture to the New Royal Infirmary and will undergo total hip
      replacement surgery within 48 hours of admission. Patients fitting the inclusion criteria
      will be given a patient information sheet and will be given between 24-48 hours to decide
      whether they give consent to participate in the trial. Patients who have given their consent
      will be randomly allocated to one of two groups i.e.. allocation to one of the two groups
      will entirely by chance. Each group will have 100 patients.

      Intervention Both groups will received a total hip replacement. The only difference between
      the two groups is the type of hip replacement and the way it is fixed in the thigh bone. One
      type of hip replacement requires cement ('Exeter'), the other ('CORAIL' from DePuy) doesn't.
      Other surgical protocols and care after the surgery will be exactly the same for both groups.

      Purpose The purpose of this research is to compare the clinical outcome (i.e. complications,
      revisions etc.) and the function of the patients between the two groups at several different
      time points: around 8 weeks, 4 months, 12 months and 24 months post surgery.

      Outcome measures Clinical: Surgery complications, duration of surgery, readmissions, revision
      surgery, duration of hospital stay.
    
  