
    
      Ankle injuries account for approximately 14% of sports-related orthopedic emergency visits.
      Various pathological conditions can affect the ankle, including trauma, overuse disorders,
      and inflammatory conditions.

      Several imaging modalities, such as computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and
      ultrasound (US) can be used to evaluate the ankle. However, US has several benefits for the
      evaluation of the tendons and ligaments of the ankle, such as its suitability to be
      integrated with a dynamic assessment and a stress test, its ability to provide real-time
      analysis, its avoidance of the risk of radiation exposure, and its cost-effectiveness. US is
      especially powerful when used to evaluate a tear, subluxation, or dislocation in a dynamic
      examination and when performing a comparison with the contralateral extremity. Dynamic
      imaging with muscle contraction or passive movement is often helpful. Additionally, Doppler
      imaging may be used to distinguish small intrasubstance tears from blood vessels that can
      occur in a tendinopathic tendon.

      Approximately 85%of them are due to inversion forces and, therefore, involve the lateral
      collateral ligamentous complex. A Grade I sprain is a mild injury limited to microtears and
      stretching of the ligaments. Grade II sprains are partial macroscopic tears and in Grade III
      sprains the ligament has ruptured completely. There is general agreement that the
      overwhelming majority of Grade I and II sprains heal uneventfully with conservative care.
      Treatment of Grade III sprains is more controversial: some practitioners prefer operative
      repair, at least for high-performance athletes and others prefer a regimen of casting and
      physical therapy, which is the case in our institution. The proper role of imaging in the
      diagnosis of ankle sprains includes first of all conventional radiographs to ensure a
      fracture is not overlooked. Ultrasound is will be used to evaluate disorders of the
      musculoskeletal system, and because of their size and superficial location the ankle tendons
      can be well evaluated
    
  