
    
      Activated phosphoinositide 3-kinase δ syndrome (APDS) is a recently described autosomal
      dominant primary immunodeficiency (PID), caused by the mutations in PIK3CD gene. The
      manifestations of APDS mainly include recurrent respiratory tract infections, persistent
      Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)/ cytomegalovirus (CMV)infections, lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly,
      CD4+T cells lymphopenia, and hyper-IgM syndrome. PIK3CD encodes p110δ, the catalytic subunit
      of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) which mainly expresses in leukocytes, being critical
      for their proliferation, activation and survival. Gain-of-function (GOF) PIK3CD mutations
      lead to PI3Kδ hyperactivity, with the downstream mediators Akt and mammilian target of
      rapamycin (mTOR) hyperphosphorylated. Patient-derived lymphocytes had increased levels of
      phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate and phosphorylated AKT protein. Hyperactivation of
      mTOR increases phosphorylation of kinases and increased glycolysis that results in enhanced
      proliferation and senescence of terminally differentiated CD8+ Tcell populations.

      The optimal treatment for these APDS patients is not yet determined; however, there are many
      kinds of therapeutic approaches (anti-infection prophylaxis, immunoglobulin replacement,
      conventional immunosuppressants, PI3K/mTOR inhibitors and hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation). The APDS patients frequently receive treatment with immunoglobulin
      replacement and antibiotics. Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) has been
      currently curative in APDS patients; however, longer-term follow-up to determine the degree
      of donor chimerism and efficacy is required. There are several subjects without a prompt
      suitable matched donor or for whom the critical disease conditions force to postpone HSCT.The
      mammalian/mechanistic target of inhibitor rapamycin was reported to improve circulating
      T-cell profiles. Individual patients in previous studies experienced a decrease in
      nonneoplastic lymphoproliferation while taking rapamycin.

      The investigators in this study hope to evaluate the efficacy and safety of rapamycin in the
      treatment for carefully selected patients with APDS.
    
  