
    
      The purpose of this research study is to determine how safe and effective subconjunctival
      injections of CGC-11047 are in subjects with wet age related macular degeneration at two
      different dosing intervals. Half of the participants in the study will receive CGC-11047
      every two weeks and half of the participants in the study will receive CGC-11047 every four
      weeks. If your doctor determines that you are eligible for the study based on his/her
      judgement and according to the entry requirements set by the sponsor of the research, you
      will be randomly assigned (by chance, like the flip of a coin), to receive CGC-11047 every
      two weeks or every four weeks. Whether you receive drug every two weeks or every four weeks,
      you will still need to come to the clinic approximately every two weeks for the first three
      months, and approximately four times after that until it has been at least 12 months since
      you received your first treatment of study drug.

      Two studies (this one and another one) are occurring to test CGC-11047 in patients with wet
      age-related macular degeneration for the first time. However, this drug (CGC-11047) is being
      studied in cancer patients at doses much higher than will be given to any subjects in either
      of these studies. The cancer patients have tolerated the drug well with the exception of one
      cancer patient who had two reactions to the drug (pancreatitis and hypotension). However,
      this patient had advanced cancer (non-Hodgkin's lymphoma with a life expectancy of less than
      3 months) and received 38X the dose to be administered in this AMD study. Aside from this one
      patient, there have not been any serious side effects related to the drug.

      This study will involve about 100 subjects at about 15 different sites internationally.

      The study will take place over 12 months and will include about 12 office visits to the study
      doctor.
    
  