
    
      Trait anxiety is a major risk factor for developing anxiety disorders and major depressive
      disorder, all sharing the same genetic and environmental etiological factors. Another
      hypothesis is that the etiological factors predispose first to the occurrence of trait
      anxiety which afterwards, develops into anxiety disorders and clinical depression. Based on
      this, it's of great importance to be attentive to trait anxiety in clinical practice and
      research. It's also important to investigate how trait anxiety leads to poorer health
      outcomes in order to lower its burden and consequences.

      Years lived with disability (YLD) is one component that assists in measuring the burden of
      disease. YLD is the number of years that a person lives with disease. Globally, 24.6 million
      years lived with disability was due to anxiety disorders. 354 YLD per 100,000 populations
      were recorded in the Eastern Mediterranean region. Moreover, anxiety ranked the seventh cause
      of YLD in the Eastern Mediterranean region.

      Oral disorders (e.g. periodontal disease and dental caries) collectively have been the most
      prevalent conditions from 1990 to 2017. Globally, 3.4 billion people lived with oral
      disorders in 2017.

      Bruxism by definition is an activity that involves clenching and grinding of the teeth during
      sleep(nocturnal bruxism) or when awake(diurnal bruxism). Dentists regard bruxism as a major
      issue due to its consequences, which range from the destruction of the tooth structure and
      dental restorations to tempro-mandibular joint (TMJ) manifestations as well as temporal
      headaches reported by the patients. Psychological disorders such as stress and anxiety are
      risk factors for the development of bruxism in individuals. Results from previous studies on
      the relationship between anxiety and bruxism were contradictory; while some studies reported
      an association between anxiety in different age groups and bruxism, other studies denied such
      relationship. It's important to study the association between common mental disorders and the
      occurrence of bruxism activity.

      High frequency of sugar consumption in food and beverages has been linked to several common
      mental disorders. Individuals with mood disorders usually follow a diet that has high amounts
      of sugar and fats and low amount of fibers. Dental caries is majorly dependent on the
      frequency of sugar intake, in addition to its form and amount. Therefore individuals with
      common mental disorders are at an increased risk of developing 'rampant caries'. Rampant
      caries by definition is a progressive and rapidly appearing dental caries with acute onset,
      which leads to early pulp involvement, and affects a large number of erupted teeth. Therefore
      it is of great importance for dental practitioners not only to treat the disease outcome, but
      also to identify the different phases of the disease. According to this, assessing the risk
      of developing dental caries in mentally vulnerable patients has been of great importance to
      tailor a preventive approach specially designed for each patient.

      Study procedures:

        -  A comprehensive literature review was conducted using electronic databases to identify
           relevant tools (questionnaires and clinical examination tools) to be used in the present
           study.

        -  Data about socio-demographic characteristics, severity of trait anxiety(assessed by
           Egyptian version of State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI Y2 form), presence of bruxism
           activity, self-perceived dental health status and oral health care-seeking behavior will
           be collected by means of questionnaires.

        -  Clinical examination to assess periodontal health condition and caries risk assessment
           will be conducted.

        -  All data, as well as, clinical examination will be conducted via one well-trained
           investigator.
    
  