
    
      Despite improvements in dialysis machine and filter technology and refinements in providing
      an adequate "dose" of HD, patients receiving thrice-weekly hemodialysis (HD) have an alarming
      20% annual mortality rate. Concomitant with this high mortality rate, patients with end stage
      renal disease (ESRD) also endure poorer qualities of life and medical complications such as
      anemia, infection, accelerated cardiovascular disease and bone disease associated with
      calcium-phosphorus disequilibrium. Recently, quotidian dialysis regimens, which include both
      the short-daily and nocturnal modalities, have emerged as dialytic approaches that appear to
      improve the patient's quality of life and attenuate the medical complications associated with
      ESRD1- 4. Specifically, recent studies have documented improvements in a patient's quality of
      life as measured by both general instruments (SF-36) and by renal disease specific tools.
      Short-daily HD regimens have also led to improvements in anemia allowing reductions in doses
      of erythropoietin. Similarly, in one study blood pressure control was improved with
      short-daily HD to such an extent that the majority of the study patients were eventually off
      of all antihypertensive medications. Phosphorus control has also improved with hemeral and
      especially nocturnal short-daily regimens. In one study of patients receiving nocturnal HD,
      all of the patients were completely weaned of their phosphorus binders and actually required
      intradialytic phosphorus supplementation. Finally, nutritional status also appears to be
      enhanced in studies of short-daily HD with increases in both appetite and weight gain
      observed. The medical benefits observed in these studies are believed to be secondary to the
      enhanced solute clearance and better extra-cellular volume management that short-daily HD
      affords as compared to intermittent HD. In particular, the nocturnal regimen appears
      especially effective since it provides a higher "dose" of HD than its hemeral counterpart.

      According to the most recent United States Renal Data Service (USRDS) compilation, infection
      continues to exact a heavy toll among dialysis patients. The most recent USRDS mortality rate
      attributable to sepsis for dialysis patients was 27.0%. Despite the reported improvements in
      quality of life and medical complications provided by short-daily HD, infection will likely
      remain a persistent medical issue for dialysis patients. As a result, the appropriate
      provision of antibiotic therapy to patients receiving hemodialysis will remain paramount.
      Currently, there are no studies that have evaluated the pharmacokinetics of the commonly used
      antibiotics in the growing short-daily HD population. With no specific guidelines,
      pharmaco-kinetic estimations and frequent drug levels have been utilized to direct antibiotic
      dosing. This is likely not the best therapeutic approach and may not be the most
      cost-effective. This study will attempt to address this deficit in the clinical knowledge for
      three commonly used antibiotics, vancomycin, levofloxacin and gentamicin. The drug dosing
      guidelines developed from this study will ensure that this patient population receives the
      optimum antibiotic therapy to treat their infection in the most cost-effective manner.

      Utilizing drug level data from an as yet unpublished study on the removal of gentamicin by
      thrice weekly dialysis, we configured the pharmacokinetic modeling software ADAPT to compare
      the serum levels of gentamicin during intermittent and short-daily HD. For the short-daily HD
      simulation, the ADAPT software demonstrated two periods of increased removal of gentamicin
      corresponding to the two sessions of short-daily HD (Figure 1). The purpose of the present
      study is to demonstrate in vivo that this is indeed true for gentamicin, as well as for
      vancomycin and levofloxacin.
    
  