
    
      Aminoglycosides are often prescribed as part of empirical therapy for severe sepsis and
      septic shock, especially when Gram-negative bacteria are suspected. From a pharmacodynamic
      perspective, the ratio between the maximal plasma concentration (Cmax) and the minimum
      inhibitory concentration (MIC) of the infecting pathogen (Cmax/MIC) is considered as the best
      index of bacterial killing for aminoglycosides. In 2011, French guidelines on aminoglycoside
      use recommend a targeted Cmax of 30-40 mg/L for gentamicin and 60-80 mg/L for amikacin.
      However, these recommended plasma levels may not be achieved in high risk patients such as
      ICU patients. Many factors can influence the pharmacokinetics of antimicrobial drugs in
      critically ill patients. Indeed, alterations in the volume of distribution, plasma albumin
      concentration, increased cardiac output, increased blood volume, and paradoxical renal and
      hepatic clearance increase can be observed in the early stage of severe sepsis and are
      frequently observed in ICU patients. Previous studies have reported low aminoglycoside plasma
      concentrations in the early phase of therapy in ICU patients. However, data for the
      subsequent doses of aminoglycosides were not available. Therefore, to address this lack of
      data, an observational study is performed to describe the proportion of ICU patients
      achieving targeted aminoglycoside Cmax after the first and subsequent aminoglycoside doses
      using conventional dosing regimens.

      Aminoglycoside agents are given in combination with broad-spectrum antibiotics according to
      the suspected pathogens and to local clinical practice. A once-daily dosing regimen based on
      the French guidelines is used: ≥15 mg/kg for amikacin and ≥3 mg/kg for gentamicin based on
      actual weight at admission. For obese patients,the weight used for dosing is left to the
      physician's discretion.All aminoglycosides are given as a 30-min i.v. infusion in glucose 5%
      solution. The timing of Cmax sampling is 30 min after the end of initial infusion. When
      subsequent doses of aminoglycoside were recommended as part of the patient's treatment plan,
      trough plasma concentrations (taken at 16-24 h post-infusion) (Cmin) and Cmax were collected
      as part of routine practice.The targeted concentrations for amikacin and gentamicin are as
      follows: amikacin, Cmax ≥60 mg/L and Cmin <2.5 mg/L; and gentamicin, Cmax ≥30 mg/L and Cmin
      <0.5 mg/L.The following data are collected:•demographic characteristics: age, sex, and height
      , weight and body mass index (BMI);•medical history, initial reason for ICU admission and
      Simplified Acute Physiology Score II (SAPS II) at ICU admission;•clinical parameters: urine
      output; the Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score and the Acute Kidney Injury
      Network (AKIN) score are calculated daily from the initiation of aminoglycoside
      therapy;•presence of renal replacement therapy (RRT);•co-prescription of nephrotoxic agents
      (e.g. glycopeptides, diuretics);•biological parameters: serum creatinine concentration,
      hepaticf unction (serum total bilirubin and transaminase) and platelets that are daily
      measured in routine practice;•type of infection and anti-infective therapy and
      microbiological cultures collected. Amikacin and gentamicin concentrations are measured using
      automated immunoassays(Roche Diagnostics GmbH, Mannheim, Germany) on a COBAS®C System.
    
  