
    
      Objectives: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of rupatadine for the treatment of CIU
      symptoms.To assess the clinical efficacy of a dose ranging of rupatadine fumarate (5mg, 10mg,
      and 20 mg) compared with placebo for relief of CIU symptoms.

      Methodology: A dose-finding multicentre, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled,
      parallel-group study Number of patients (planned and analysed): 248 patients. 62 patients
      will be allocated to each treatment group. 283 patients were randomised and analysed.

      Diagnosis and criteria for inclusion: Man or woman aged between 12 and 65. Documented history
      of active CIU (urticaria wheals) with or without an associated angioedema for at least three
      days per week over the last 6 weeks prior to Day 0 . Active CIU (score ³2 labelled as
      moderate pruritus) for at least 3 days (not necessarily consecutive days) in the week before
      inclusion with a total score of active CIU ³6 labelled as moderate pruritus for these 3 days.
      Results of standard laboratory biochemistry and haematology tests obtained at screening
      within acceptable limits as assessed by investigator. Patient who signed the informed consent
      form.

      Test product, dose, mode of administration, batch N°: Rupatadine 5,10 and 20 mg tablets; oral
      dose of 1 tablet/day for 4 consecutive weeks; batch 0102 (France) and batch 0203 (Hungary,
      Romania and Argentina). Expiry date: 12/2003 (France) and 10/2004 (Hungary, Romania and
      Argentina).

      Duration of treatment: Oral administration of test formulation (5, 10, 20 mg) or placebo
      daily, for 4 consecutive weeks.

      Reference therapy: Placebo tablets, 1 tablet/day for 4 consecutive weeks. Criteria for
      evaluation (efficacy): Primary efficacy measure of each treatment will compare the frequency
      and severity of symptoms of CIU as measured by the patient in terms of change in mean
      pruritus score (MPS) over the 4-week treatment period.Secondary efficacy measures include
      change from baseline over the 4-week treatment period in the mean number of wheals (MNW)
      score; mean total symptoms score (MTSS), calculated as the sum of the MPS (Mean pruritus
      symptoms) and the MNW (Mean number of wheals) scores and the interference with sleep and
      daily activities due to urticaria symptoms Criteria for evaluation (safety): AEs, laboratory
      tests and vital signs
    
  