
    
      This project will work with 12 community health centers across the country that are part of
      and extended from the HRSA-established Community Health Applied Research Network (CHARN) to
      determine the optimal way to train CHC staff in the collection of SOGI data, and will
      evaluate the impact of enhanced SOGI data collection on health outcomes for LGBT patients.
      The project will build on more than six years of collaborations of a network of safety-net
      CHCs, including patient investigators from the inception of the project, with a plan for
      ongoing local patient engagement. Aim 1: Conduct interviews with patient and clinical
      stakeholders regarding how SOGI data are being used to inform patient care, and how they feel
      SOGI data should best be collected and utilized. Aim 2: Educate providers in culturally
      competent patient-centered care with sexual and gender minority populations. Aim 3: Compare
      the effect of a SOGI educational training program to usual practice on SOGI documentation
      rates and appropriate screening rates for LGBT patients.

      The project will determine the optimal way to train CHC staff in the collection of SOGI data,
      and will evaluate the impact of enhanced SOGI data collection on health outcomes for LGBT
      patients. The project team proposes a study design that is commonly employed to examine
      changes in outcomes (e.g., screening rates) across time, comparing rates prior to and after
      the educational training intervention. The project will measure the impact of changes to
      practice and to patient outcomes (e.g., depression screening, appropriate use of mammography
      and HPV screening for lesbians and transgender women), as well as patient satisfaction.

      Results of this study would be the first of their kind to evaluate the impact of a series of
      educational programs on the healthcare outcomes of LGBT patients and could provide a
      replicable patient-centered model for routinely collecting and documenting sexual and gender
      minority information at CHCs and improving provider competence in care. Ultimately, the study
      has strong potential for improving the quality of care for sexual and gender minorities and
      reducing health disparities.
    
  