
    
      Background

      Aortic valve stenosis represents the clinically most important valvular heart disease in the
      elderly patient population. After onset of symptoms including chest pain, congestive heart
      failure or syncope, prognosis decreases substantially and the average survival amounts to
      only 2 to 3 years without surgical intervention. For several decades, surgical aortic valve
      replacement has been considered the standard in the treatment of symptomatic patients,
      resulting in effective symptom relief and improvement of prognosis. Patients deemed at
      excessive-risk for conventional aortic valve replacement were treated conservatively with a
      very poor prognosis. In the search for less invasive treatment options, transcatheter aortic
      valve implantation (TAVI) was introduced in 2002. TAVI represents an alternative, less
      invasive treatment option for non-operable or high-risk patients for conventional surgery.
      TAVI has shown to be technically feasible with a procedural success rate of > 90% in several
      registries. Most recently, a randomized, controlled clinical trial in patients deemed
      inoperable, and non-inferiority when compared to surgical aortic valve replacement among
      patients considered to be at high risk demonstrated the superiority of TAVI as compared to
      medical treatment alone in patients deemed inoperable for conventional aortic valve
      replacement.

      The present registry aims to assess the safety and efficacy of TAVI with CE approved devices
      at Swiss cardiovascular centers. The Swiss Working group of Interventional Cardiology and
      Acute Coronary Syndrome decided to establish a nationwide registry in collaboration with the
      Swiss Society of Cardiac Surgery in order to assess the procedural and clinical outcome of
      TAVI patients. This prospective registry will help to identify candidates for TAVI, will
      report on peri-procedural outcome and on long-term efficacy of the devices. Last but not
      least it is a tool to increase quality of treatment of this high-risk patient population.

      Objective

      The purpose of this multi-center national registry in Switzerland is to obtain clinical
      baseline, procedural and follow-up data of all patients treated with TAVI in Switzerland and
      to assess short, mid- and long-term clinical outcome data of the CE approved devices.

      Methods

      This is a prospective multi-center, observational registry performed in Switzerland. All
      centers in Switzerland implanting the CE approved devices for TAVI will be invited to
      consecutively include patients in the registry. Each center will sign an agreement that all
      patients will be included in the registry. Each site will collect baseline and procedural
      data as well as clinical outcome data up to five years.
    
  