
    
      Rhinoplasty is a common facial plastic surgery procedure, one complication of which is nasal
      vault narrowing and consequent nasal obstruction. Recently, researchers have paid much
      attention to nasal valve area and especially to the role of upper lateral cartilage (ULC) in
      preserving of nasal patency, since a possible consequence of destructive techniques was
      permanent functional problems for patients. In addition to functional problems, it can cause
      some aesthetic problems such as the inverted-V deformity . Accordingly, reconstruction of the
      midvault after dorsal reduction has been advocated and widely adopted.

      The gold standard for midvault reconstruction after dorsal reduction has been the spreader
      graft, first advocated by Sheen . Subsequently, its usage has been widened to include repair
      of the valve in the unoperated nose, and its efficacy well-documented. However, it can be a
      time-consuming procedure that requires the harvest of septal cartilage. Therefore, some
      authors proposed the spreader flap as an alternative technique. While the results of the
      above mentioned articles proposed the efficacy of spreader flaps, none of them was a
      randomized trial and subjective methods were used for measurement of nasal breathing after
      rhinoplasty.

      Nasal obstruction can be evaluated in different methods, both quantitative and subjective,
      the validity of each debated. For example, while the numeric form of Visual Analogue Scale
      (VAS) is commonly used, it is ultimately related to patients' subjective perception.
      Alternatively, objective evaluation of nasal patency is also of common interest to many
      researchers, and various methods for objective measurement exist. Among these different
      methods, acoustic rhinomanometry is an effective tool. However, some researchers debate the
      reliability of these results. Herein we examine the efficacy of the spreader flap in
      preventing nasal obstruction after dorsal reduction using a randomized trial with both
      objective and subjective measures.
    
  