
    
      Stroke is the second leading cause of death worldwide in 2010. In rural Maharashtra, it is
      the leading cause of death. The Stroke incidence in India ranges from 135 to 145 per 100,000
      population. From the recent Ludhiana population-based Stroke Registry and also from the
      INSPIRE Registry 25% of the patients are below 49 years of age. Hypertension, smoking,
      alcohol, diabetes, heart disease and lifestyle-related problems are the common causes of
      stroke in India. Rheumatic heart disease and cerebral venous thrombosis are the main
      etiologies of stroke in the young in our country.

      Recurrent stroke

      In an Oxfordshire Community Stroke Project reported in 1994, it was found that actuarial risk
      of suffering a recurrence was 30% (95% confidence interval, 20% to 39%) by 5 years, about
      nine times the risk of stroke in the general population. The risk was highest early after the
      first stroke: 13% (95% confidence interval, 10% to 16%) by 1 year, 15 times the risk in the
      general population. After the first year, the average annual risk was about 4%.

      In the Copenhagen Stroke Study, stroke was recurrent in 23% despite most of these patients
      being given prophylactic treatment prior to recurrence. Only 12% of patients with atrial
      fibrillation were receiving anticoagulant treatment prior to recurrence. In multivariate
      analysis, recurrence was more frequently associated with a history of transient ischemic
      attack (TIA), atrial fibrillation, male gender, and hypertension, but not with age, daily
      alcohol consumption, smoking, diabetes, ischemic heart disease, serum cholesterol or
      hematocrit. Mortality was almost doubled compared with patients with a first-ever stroke. In
      survivors, however, both neurologic and functional outcomes and the speed of recovery were,
      in general, similar in the two groups. Despite similar neurologic impairments, patients with
      recurrence contralateral to their first stroke had markedly more severe functional disability
      after completed rehabilitation than patients with ipsilateral recurrence, implying that the
      ability to compensate functionally is decreased in patients with contralateral recurrence.

      However, recently the rates of stroke recurrence have changed in developed countries. On
      average, the annual risk for future ischemic stroke after an initial ischemic stroke or TIA
      is ≈3% to 4%. Recent clinical trials of patients with non-cardio embolic ischemic stroke
      suggest the risk may be as low as 3%, but these data probably underestimate the
      community-based rate. The estimated risk for an individual patient will be affected by
      specific characteristics of the event and the person, including age, event type, comorbid
      illness, and adherence to preventive therapy. The current average annual rate of future
      stroke (≈3%-4%) represents a historical low that is the result of important discoveries in
      prevention science. These include antiplatelet therapy and effective strategies for the
      treatment of hypertension, atrial fibrillation, arterial obstruction and hyperlipidemia.

      Even in developed nations currently, there are large gaps in the utilization of preventive
      drugs, control of risk factors, and uptake of lifestyle-changing behaviours. This is often
      because of failure in the initiation of secondary prevention.

      Novel methods to improve the risk factor control to prevent recurrent stroke

      In 2017, the number of mobile phone users is forecast to reach 4.77 billion. The number of
      mobile phone users in the world is expected to pass the five billion mark by 2019. In 2014,
      nearly 60 per cent of the population worldwide already owned a mobile phone. Mobile phone
      text messages can be used to remind, encourage, and motivate patients to adhere to secondary
      prevention strategies, but there has been limited robust scientific evaluation of these
      interventions.

      Recurrent stroke in India

      Data on recurrent stroke and its causes are scarce from low and middle-income countries like
      India. In the door-to-door survey done in Kolkata, 15% of patients had a recurrent stroke.
    
  