
    
      Background: Considering the health benefits both for the infant and the mother, American
      Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) and World Health Organization (WHO) recommend only mother's milk
      in the first six months of life and then continuing breastfeeding for at least two years with
      complementary feeding (Eidelman, 2012; Topal et al., 2011). A review of the breastfeeding
      status of babies in Turkey reveals that breastfeeding is common, but it is not at a
      satisfactory level in terms of the length of time babies are given mother's milk only or in
      the total length of breastfeeding. One of the most important reasons is early start of
      complementary food or early weaning (TNSA2018). In 5.7 to 29.2% of the cases where
      breastfeeding was terminated early, the mother became pregnant again during the lactation
      period. Both mothers and healthcare professionals are confused as to whether breastfeeding
      should continue in pregnancy. Moreover, the field literature does not offer any information
      about any changes in the milk composition of a mother breastfeeding two babies of different
      ages at the same time (tandem breastfeeding). It is also known that some mothers who get
      pregnant during lactation period or with an interval of less than two years do not wean the
      first-born and continue breastfeeding both babies at the same time (Bøhler & Ingstad, 1996;
      Moscone & Moore, 1993; O'Rourke & Spatz, 2019). In light of this information, this study
      project is aimed to explore any differences in the composition (fat, protein, lactose, water,
      and casein) and density of milk during pregnancy or tandem breastfeeding.

      Method: The universe of the study is planned to consist of all multigravid women admitted to
      the Obstetrics and Gynecology Clinic of the Sakarya University Education and Research
      Hospital, Turkey, breastfeeding postpartum in tandem and not breastfeeding during pregnancy.
      The sample of the study, including 15 control and 15 experimental groups, 30 mothers to be
      selected according to the inclusion criteria. groups will be determined by simple random
      sampling method. In order to assign the mothers who meet the selection criteria into the
      experimental group or the control group, the randomization method with a computer program
      (http://www1.assumption.edu/users/ avadum/applets/RandAssin/Groupgen.html) was used. Data
      collection is planned to take place in two stages for control and experimental groups. The
      first stages correspond to 24 to 72 hours postpartum. This is to be accomplished through
      house calls upon appointment with the mothers. During the house call, 15 ml milk is obtained
      from the mother with suitable methods (Appendix…) and preserved in a sterilized milk
      collection container. At the end of birth, 15 ml colostrum will be taken from the mother,
      instead of 30 ml, so that the babies in both groups benefit more from colostrum. Then, it is
      analyzed within the next 3 hours in terms of its composition (moisture, protein, oil,
      lactose) and to the Tubitak Mam Research Center to the Nutrition Lab for analysis.Results are
      recorded in the "Breastfeeding Follow-up Form." The final stages (after the 1st month
      postpartum), during the house call, 30 ml milk is obtained from the mother with suitable
      methods (Appendix…) and preserved in a sterilized milk collection container, other steps will
      be repeated in the same order. The results of the analysis will be compared with the breast
      milk compositions in the control group. The results of this study are expected to clarify the
      attitudes of healthcare professionals about tandem breastfeeding and to draw attention to
      this issue, thereby providing guidance and encouragement for further studies on the subject..
    
  