
    
      Data on transgenerational effects following nuclear accidents are important for understanding
      fully the consequences of parental exposure to ionizing radiation. Few studies to date have
      had adequate statistical power to detect effects of the magnitude expected based on animal
      data, and most have not been of low-dose, protracted exposures associated with nuclear
      accidents and their aftermath. Although, to date, scant use has been made of the new genomic
      technologies, in Chernobyl-exposed areas of Ukraine and Belarus, excess minisatellite
      mutations have been seen in children born after the accident. We propose a study of
      parent-child trios in which at least one parent was exposed to Chernobyl radiation as a
      clean-up worker (mean dose >=100 mGy) and/or evacuee from a contaminated area (mean >=
      50mGy). The specific aims are to investigate the transgenerational and de novo mutation rates
      of the spectrum of genetic variants in trios, in particular looking at effects in children
      and mapping them to possible parental origin of the chromsome. Together with long-term
      collaborators at the Research Center for Radiation Medicine (RCRM) in Kiev, epidemiologic
      data will be collected for up to 450 trios of parents with preconceptional doses and their
      unexposed offspring. We will use state-of-the-art genomic technologies to characterize the
      landscape of the genomes of the trios to determine whether parental radiation exposure is
      associated with genetic mutations transmitted to the offspring, by examining de novo mutation
      rates, minisatellite mutations, copy number alterations, and variations in telomere length.
      The analysis will be conducted in peripheral blood and/or buccal samples (when blood is not
      available) from complete father-mother-child trios. Doses to the gonads from the time of the
      accident to the time of conception will be reconstructed for all parents using existing
      records supplemented by interview data.

      Trio subjects will be selected from representative populations exposed to radiation from
      Chernobyl who are under active follow-up in the Clinico-Epidemiologic Registry at RCRM. To
      help identify specific effects of paternal and maternal radiation exposure, we will initially
      select sets of trio subjects in five categories: (1) exposed father, unexposed mother; (2)
      unexposed father, exposed mother; (3) both parents exposed; (4) both parents unexposed; and
      (5) a group of high dose emergency workers with acute radiation syndrome. All trio members
      will be invited to the RCRM outpatient clinic for collection of a 20 ml blood sample (or
      buccal cells for those who refuse phlebotomy). Both parents will be asked to complete a
      general questionnaire to obtain demographic and lifestyle data. Then one or both will
      complete detailed dosimetry questionnaires, based on forms used in previous collaborations
      with RCRM and administered by specially trained interviewers. Once 50 trios have been
      recruited (10 from each of the 5 exposure categories), we will conduct an interim evaluation
      of participation rates, sample collection and quality, and dose reconstruction in order to
      modify the protocol as needed. The analytical approach will be to correlate the extent,
      especially for de novo events of genetic alterations in the offspring with parental
      preconceptional radiation dose overall and by parental origin. The statistical power in
      relation to de novo mutations is very high, in excess of 90%, but somewhat lower for trends
      in minisatellite mutations. Study findings will contribute importantly to knowledge of the
      heritable effects of moderate- and low-dose radiation exposure in humans and to radiation
      risk projection. Eventually data from the Trio Study may be shared with the international
      community through dbGap.
    
  