
    
      In this RCT subjects are randomly and parallel assigned to one of two groups: one (the
      experimental group) receiving "Tamsulosin 0.4 mg"/ day, 5 days prior to the day of
      laparoscopic inguinal hernia repair surgery, at the day of surgery and for 1 day following
      surgery. (5+1+1), and the other (the control group) receiving one placebo capsule matching
      the active study drug per day from 5 days prior to the day of surgery, at the day of surgery
      and for 1 day following surgery. (5+1+1). There will be effective (concealed) randomization
      of the subjects to the intervention/control groups (to eliminate selection bias and minimize
      confounding variables). Both groups will be treated identically in all respects except for
      the intervention being tested and to this end patients, investigators, care providers and
      outcomes assessors will be blinded to which group an individual is assigned. Group assignment
      will be performed using a covariate-adaptive allocation procedure to provide a balance for
      selected covariates (Site, IPSS-Score, Age, "uni- or bilateral surgery" and "history of
      prostate or bladder surgery". To achieve that; Minimization, first described by Taves [and
      expanded by Pocock and Simon [the most commonly used covariate-adaptive randomization method
      will be applied. It achieves the balance in treatment assignments across factor levels by
      choosing the allocation for the new subject that would lead to the smallest degree of
      imbalance possible across the set of his baseline characteristics. The two groups are then
      followed up to 3 days after surgery to see if there are any differences between them in
      primary and secondary outcomes. Patients are analyzed within the group to which they were
      allocated, irrespective of whether they experienced the intended intervention (intention to
      treat analysis). This RCT is designed as a superiority trial and aims to demonstrate the
      superiority of Tamsulosin in prevention of POUR compared to placebo. We anticipate the
      detection of a 65% relative risk reduction of POUR in the experimental group in comparison
      with the placebo group. To detect a 65% reduction of POUR in the experimental group (2.9%
      anticipated) in comparison with the placebo group (8.3% anticipated) and to assure a study
      power of 80% with a Fisher's Exact Test and a significance level of 5% and adjusting for a
      drop-out rate of 2% we need 634 patients in total; 317 in each group. Our target population
      consists of male patients ≥ 60 yrs, scheduled for elective endoscopic inguinal hernia repair.
      The studied sample is appropriate to the hypothesis being tested so that any results will be
      appropriately generalizable.
    
  