
    
      Thyroidectomy is the main treatment of well differentiated thyroid carcinoma. Residual or
      recurrent cervical metastases are common (9-20% of patients during long-term follow up).
      Thermal ablation of cervical metastatic lymph nodes from thyroid carcinoma has been proposed
      in research centers as an option for the treatment of patients who remain with metastatic
      disease in cervical lymph nodes, despite thyroidectomy with or without neck dissection
      associated with radioiodine treatment. Potential advantages from percutaneous thermal
      ablation are related to less complication rates, less morbidity, possibility of outpatient
      treatment modality, and less global treatment costs when compared to the surgical approach.

      Aims of the study:

        1. To evaluate safety and efficacy of ultrasound-guided thermal ablation in the treatment
           of cervical lymph node metastases from differentiated thyroid carcinoma

        2. To evaluate the best response to thermal ablation defined as lymph node reduction or
           volume stability after ablation

        3. To evaluate the CEUS patterns of lymph nodes before and after ablation

        4. To evaluate the elastography patterns of lymph nodes before and after ablation

        5. To evaluate the tumor marker response after ablation

        6. To evaluate the contribution of thermal ablation to decrease additional therapeutic
           procedures

        7. To compare differences between LA, RFA and cryoablation in terms of complications, side
           effects and tolerability

      Patients with cervical metastatic lymph nodes from differentiated thyroid carcinoma or
      medullary thyroid carcinoma who meet the eligibility criteria and who have been determined to
      be an appropriate candidate for local ablation therapy will be offered enrollment into the
      study. Patients agreeing to participate will become subjects of the study if they read and
      sign an informed consent form.

      Treatment will be performed using three different ablation technologies (laser ablation, RFA
      or cryoablation) in a randomly assignment fashion.

      Subjects will have up to six simultaneous treated lesions larger than 0.8 cm diameter with
      positive fine-needle aspiration biopsy. Ultrasound (and CEUS when applicable) will be
      performed over 24 months follow up in order to evaluate efficacy. Baseline and follow-up data
      will be collected for each subject via a web-based electronic data collection tool.

      In case of recurrent disease treated by any ablative technique in patients who did not
      undergo previous neck dissection, a rescue neck dissection will be performed; in case of
      recurrent disease treated by any ablative technique in patients who underwent previous neck
      dissection, a new ablative technique approach will be considered.
    
  