
    
      Background: Newborn infants have blood work procedures for screening and medical monitoring
      in their first days of life that cause pain, distress and physiological changes.
      Breastfeeding (BF), skin to skin care (SSC), or giving small amounts of sweet solutions
      (sucrose or glucose) with or without a pacifier, effectively and safely reduce pain in
      newborn infants during painful procedures. However, recent studies of neonatal pain
      management practices demonstrate infrequent use of these strategies. There is a clear need
      for developing and testing acceptable parent-targeted interventions, alongside health care
      provider-targeted knowledge translation (KT) interventions, to support parents' involvement
      in comforting their infants during painful procedures. To address this knowledge to action
      (KTA) gap, Denise Harrison's Be Sweet to Babies team developed the BSweet2Babies video, which
      shows parents the effectiveness of BF, SSC, and sucrose during infant bloodwork and how they
      can use and advocate for these pain treatment strategies.

      Objectives: To conduct a pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) that will inform all aspects
      of a full-scale trial of the parent-targeted BSweet2Babies knowledge to action (KTA)
      intervention. The objective of the full scale trial will be to evaluate the effectiveness of
      the BSweet2Babies video when shown to parents of newborns prior to newborn screening, on
      subsequent use of effective pain reduction strategies during the newborn screening blood
      test.

      Study design and methods: This study is a pilot 2-armed RCT that will enroll 100 parents in
      the mother baby unit at The Ottawa Hospital. Following consent, the research assistant will
      randomize parents to one of two groups: the intervention group (viewing the BSweet2Babies
      video prior to their baby's newborn screening blood test) or the control group (no
      intervention). Parents in both groups will complete a brief baseline survey to establish
      previous knowledge and use of pain management strategies. Participants in the intervention
      group will subsequently view the 5 minute BSweet2Babies video. Lastly, participants in the
      intervention group will be asked to complete a second online survey after viewing the video.
      To evaluate the use of BF, SSC or sucrose during newborn screening, the study research
      assistant will collect the data from the baby's electronic medical record.

      Outcome Measures: The primary outcome is the use of BF, SSC or sucrose during newborn
      screening measured using data from the electronic medical records. The secondary outcomes
      are: i) feasibility of recruiting parents and showing the video prior to the infants' newborn
      screening; ii) effectiveness (i.e. did the video influence intent to use/advocate for one of
      the strategies); iii acceptability (i.e. would they recommend the video to other parents and
      suggested improvements to the video). The secondary outcomes will be measured with the online
      survey.
    
  