
    
      IDH1-mutated gliomas are slow-growing brain tumors which progress into high-grade gliomas.
      The early molecular events causing this progression are ill-defined. Previous studies
      revealed that 20% of these tumors already have transformation foci. These foci offer
      opportunities to better understand malignant progression. The investigators used
      immunohistochemistry and high throughput RNA profiling to characterize foci cells. These have
      higher p-STAT3 staining revealing activation of JAK/STAT signaling. They downregulate genes
      involved in Hippo/Yap pathway (AMOT, CCDC80, LIX1), Wnt signaling (CPE, DAAM2, GPR37, SFRP2),
      EGFR signaling (EPS15, MLC1), cytoskeleton and cell-cell communication (EZR, GJA1) while
      increasing SKA3, a kinetochore-associated protein. In addition, foci cells show reduced
      levels of the lipid metabolic ethanolamine-phosphate phospho-lyase (ETNPPL/AGXT2L1). This
      enzyme is involved in the catabolism of phosphoethanolamine involved in membrane synthesis.
      The investigators detected ETNPPL protein in glioma cells as well as in astrocytes in the
      human brain. Its nuclear localization suggests additional roles for this enzyme. ETNPPL
      expression is inversely correlated to glioma grade and the investigators found no ETNPPL
      protein in glioblastomas.

      Overexpression of ETNPPL reduces the growth of glioma stem cells indicating that this enzyme
      opposes gliomagenesis. Collectively, these results suggest that a combined alteration in
      membrane lipid metabolism and STAT3 pathway promotes IDH1-mutated glioma malignant
      progression.

      Tumors with foci of at least four millimeters in diameter, assessed by hematoxylin & eosin
      stainings, were selected. Four drills (two in foci and two in the other part of the tumor )
      were performed in the FFPE tumor blocks using a two millimetres punch from a Tissue Micro
      Array apparatus in RNAse-free conditions. After the punches, the adequate selection of tumor
      areas was checked by hematoxylin & eosin stainings of sections. Total RNA was extracted using
      the Qiagen RNeasy FFPE kit, quantified with Nanodrop 1000 (Thermo Fisher) and the RNA
      integrity number (RIN) was determined using a Bioanalyzer 2100. The RIN was on average 2.5
      but were still suitable for labelling and hybridization on DNA chips according to the
      Affymetrix technical department. After amplification and labelling with an Affymetrix WT Pico
      Kit, cDNA were hybridized on Human Gene 2.1 ST chips. Data were normalized with the
      Affymetrix Expression Console software (GC-RMA algorithm) and the RNA profiles were generated
      using the Affymetrix Transcriptome Analysis Console (3.1.0.5) software. Differentially
      expressed genes were selected on the basis of a linear fold change ≥ 1.1 and p-value ≤ 0.05
      (n=8 tumors). The data that support the findings of our study are openly available at the
      functional genomics data Gene Expression Omnibus.
    
  