
    
      An estimated 265,000 individuals live with the consequences of SCI in the United States
      alone. Individuals with motor incomplete spinal cord injury (MISCI) commonly experience loss
      or impairment of lower extremity function. There are a limited number of options for
      restoration of walking function in individuals with motor-incomplete spinal cord injury
      (MISCI) who exhibit some ability to stand and walk but may be impeded by impaired voluntary
      control of the lower limb particularly, the ankle.

      In persons with spinal cord injury, walking function is often limited by poor ability to lift
      and advance the legs. Lower extremity orthotic devices may be employed to stabilize the ankle
      joint and provide toe clearance during walking. However, these devices are cumbersome, and
      may be aesthetically unappealing.

      Newer evidence indicates that non-invasive approaches to brain stimulation may provide a way
      to improve voluntary control of the legs and ankles in persons with neurologic disorders.

      Purpose of this research study:

      The overall goal of this study is to develop functional rehabilitation strategies that
      facilitate optimal restoration of leg and ankle motor control in individuals with MISCI.
      Individuals with MISCI exhibit some motor function below the level of lesion and include
      American Spinal Injury Association Impairment Scale (AIS) classifications AIS C and AIS D. We
      propose to test non-invasive cortical stimulation in combination with lower-extremity
      functional motor training for its ability to assist in improving fine motor control of the
      lower limbs in individuals with MISCI.

      Studies have shown that non-invasive transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) can
      increase activity in specific cortical areas associated with motor learning, and therefore
      improve on the cortical and functional effects associated with motor practice training in
      individuals with SCI. If brain stimulation in combination with motor training is found to
      enhance improvements in control more effectively than motor training alone, this would
      provide a basis for further examining stimulation combined with lower limb joint therapy in
      individuals with spinal cord injury.

      Objectives: To Assess improvements in lower extremity motor control that are associated with
      bilateral tDCS and functional motor training or sham tDCS and functional motor training in
      individuals with motor incomplete spinal cord injury.
    
  