
    
      Incisional negative pressure wound therapy (Prevena™) vs. conventional post-operative
      dressing after immediate breast reconstruction; a randomized controlled clinical trial.

      • Introduction

      Over the last 60 years, there has been a steady rise in the incidence of breast cancer in
      Denmark. Due to the Danish breast cancer screening program and the increasing use of genetic
      counseling, patients are diagnosed with breast cancer, pre-cursors hereof, or an increased
      lifetime risk of breast cancer at an earlier age than previously. In women with high
      estimated risk of breast cancer, current studies indicate a reduced lifetime risk of cancer,
      and thereby increased survival, when undergoing a risk reducing mastectomy. Therefore, Danish
      women may choose to undergo a risk reducing mastectomy, if they have a estimated lifetime
      risk of breast cancer at 30% or above.

      At the Department of Plastic and Breast Surgery, Aarhus University Hospital, Denmark, there
      has been a rise in the number of immediate breast reconstructions performed, currently
      counting approximately 200 per year. This increase is partly due to the increasing number of
      prophylactic risk reducing mastectomies, as well as an increasing number of women choosing
      immediate breast reconstruction when diagnosed with Ductal Carcinoma In-Situ (DCIS).

      As some of these women will need to undergo adjuvant cancer therapy after their breast
      surgery, fast recovery is essential in order for the adjuvant therapy to not be delayed.

      Women undergoing surgery at a younger age, will presumably live for a longer time, with
      possible complications of the immediate breast reconstruction. Therefore, a good result at
      the first surgery and fast rehabilitation, are of essential importance for these women's
      recovery and quality of life.

      The immediate breast reconstruction, holds several benefits compared to mastectomy and
      subsequent delayed breast reconstruction. Benefits such as rapid return to work, low
      complication rate, good aesthetic outcome, and the need for only one surgery, but the surgery
      is not free of complications. The complication rate in immediate breast reconstruction, is
      reported in the range of 3,9% to 14,8 %, with the most frequent complications being skin
      necrosis, surgical site infections (SSI), implant loss and haematoma/seroma.

      Incisional negative pressure wound therapy (iNPWT), is a new approach for surgical site
      closure using negative pressure wound therapy (NPWT). Recently, PrevenaTM have been approved
      as an iNPWT-system applied at the end of surgery, while still in a sterile environment.
      PrevenaTM consist of a sponge foam with a bactericidal silver lining, dressed with an
      adherent film, connected to a vacuum device, producing a vacuum of 125 mm Hg. The PrevenaTM
      foam and dressing is placed over the suture line, and is recommended to be kept in place for
      a continuous period lasting between 2 and 7 days.

      iNPWT is based on the principles behind NPWT, most known as vacuum assisted closure (V.A.C.),
      which is well described in the literature.

      NPWT has been shown to be an efficient way of treating chronic wounds, by increasing blood
      flow and formation of granulation tissue, stimulate cell proliferation and angiogenesis,
      decrease bacterial count, reduce oedema, improve wound closure rates, collagen organization
      and wound maturation in animal- and clinical-studies.

      Furthermore, recently iNPWT has shown promising results in lowering post-operative
      complications, with lower rate of surgical site infection, lower incidence of wound
      dehiscence, and lower loss of split thickness skin grafts.

      In an experimental porcine setup, indications of increased lymph clearance with lower
      production of seroma/hematoma has been shown when using iNPWT. Additionally, in a
      biomechanical analysis, Wilkes et al. found evidence of reduced lateral stress on wounds,
      which in theory, could lead to faster closure and improved scar aesthetics.

      Overall, iNPWT has been shown to reduce several of the most frequent complications that may
      occur following an immediate breast reconstruction. However, in an immediate breast
      reconstructive setting, iNPWT has not yet been studied, and in breast surgery in general,
      there is only limited data on the use of NPWT and iNPWT.

      The current study aims to investigate whether PrevenaTM provides a superior post-operative
      wound treatment, when compared to conventional treatment, for women undergoing a prophylactic
      or therapeutic mastectomy with an immediate breast reconstruction.

      • Hypothesis

      iNPWT, administrated by PrevenaTM, will reduce the post-operative complications in patients
      undergoing immediate breast reconstruction, compared to conventional post-operative dressing.

      • Aim

      The aim of the current study is to evaluate whether iNPWT provides superior wound treatment
      for patients undergoing an immediate breast reconstruction, compared to treatment with
      conventional post-operative dressing. The results from this study will possibly help to
      minimize the complication rate and increase the patient satisfaction, by finding the optimal
      wound treatment for immediate breast reconstructions and thereby contributing to a faster
      recovery, for women who undergo this procedure.

      • Methods

      The project is conducted as a randomized controlled trial. Patients included in the study
      will be randomized to either conventional post-operative dressing or PrevenaTM iNPWT
      treatment. Patients are allocated in a 1:1 ratio, with 30 patients treated with PrevenaTM and
      30 patients treated with conventional post-operative dressing.

        -  Study population

           60 patients admitted for immediate breast reconstruction at the Department of Plastic
           Surgery, Aarhus University Hospital, will upon informed consent be offered participation
           in this prospective, randomized study using two types of post-operation dressing after
           the breast reconstruction surgery

        -  Risks, side effects and disadvantages

      As with all surgery, there is a risk of wound infection, blood clots and altered sensation in
      the operated area. This can lead to antibiotic treatment, or where appropriate, a second
      surgery to stop bleeding or remove damaged tissue. These risks are, however, associated with
      the breast reconstruction itself, and not associated with participating in the research
      project.

      PrevenaTM have been approved and used internationally as a post-operative dressing since
      2010. PrevenaTM is well described in the medical literature, achieving good results compared
      to conventional post-operative dressing, showing fewer, or the same amount of complications.
      The risks for the patients choosing to participate in the project are thus solely related to
      the breast reconstruction itself, and not to the participation in the research project.

      • Economics

      Initiators of this project are the Department of Plastic and Brest Surgery, Aarhus University
      Hospital. All costs of the investigated post-surgical wound treatment (PrevenaTM or
      conventional post-operative treatment) are held by the Department of Plastic and Brest
      Surgery, Aarhus University Hospital. Participating patients are not given any reimbursement.
      Patients may, however, apply for reimbursement to cover documented travel expenses, in
      regards to the regulations of the Central Denmark Region.

      The salary for the scientific personnel, and cost of materials and conferences will be sought
      covered by external funding from private and/or governmental funds. Funding will solely be
      sought from foundations and scholarships, where the benefactors do not have a financial
      interest in the outcome of the study. Furthermore, funding will only be sought from sources,
      where the research project can remain independent from the contributor.

      • Publication

      Positive, negative, as well as inconclusive results are expected to be published in a
      peer-reviewed international journal with interest in the field. Furthermore, the results are
      expected to be presented at a national or international conference in plastic and
      reconstructive surgery.

      • Ethical considerations

      It is expected that the number of women seeking an immediate breast reconstruction will
      increase. The proposed study will aid in finding the most optimal wound dressing following
      this surgery. Conducting studies that help bring down the complication rates for these types
      of surgery is of utmost importance, both for the individual patient undergoing the surgery
      and in a socio-economic setting.

      All of the patients invited to participate in this study has been evaluated by experienced
      breast and plastic surgeons to be best suited with an immediate breast reconstruction with
      implant.

      PrevenaTM, or iNPWT, have shown good results in previous studies in other types of surgery,
      showing none or only minor complications. The general treatment, using steri strips, has been
      used for many years as the primary choice.

      As the investigators expect fewer or the same amount of complications when using PrevenaTM,
      there is no predictable disadvantage for the individual patient in regards to participating
      in the study.

      The patients' privacy, physical and mental integrity and the Danish law concerning the
      processing of personal data will be respected. Furthermore, the research project will be
      carried out in accordance with the Helsinki Declaration II.

      The project is approved by the Central Denmark Regional Committee on Health Research Ethics,
      see appendix 2 (in Danish) and registered at the Central Denmark Regions joint application
      for the Danish Data Protection Agency, see Appendix 3 (in Danish).

      • Perspectives

      The results from the current study will elucidate if iNPWT aids wound healing after immediate
      breast reconstruction, which would lead to fewer patients experiencing delays before their
      adjuvant therapy. Furthermore, the results from the aesthetic satisfaction will elucidate if
      iNPWT provides the patients with a better self-reported aesthetic result.

      Faster healing could potentially result in a shorter hospital stay. At the Department of
      Plastic and Breast Surgery, Aarhus University Hospital, the approximate cost per
      hospitalization day is 4000 Danish kroner (DKK). With a price of 975 DKK., the
      PrevenaTM-device could be a potential economical benefit, with an average reduction in
      hospitalization time by just a single day. Finally, the potential cost savings do to fewer
      post-operative complications, should be held in consideration.

      All in all, the results from the current study may provide the increasing number of women
      undergoing an immediate breast reconstruction with a shorter hospital stay, a better breast
      reconstructive result and faster adjuvant therapy.
    
  