
    
      Firearm injury and mortality is a major public health concern for American youth age 1-19.
      Only motor vehicle crashes kill more American youth than firearms. In 2018 alone, 1729
      American youth died from firearm injuries (50% firearm homicide, 42% firearm suicide) and
      over 6500 youth were treated in an emergency department for firearm injury; these injuries
      have major long-term consequences for youth and their families. Approximately one-third of
      American youth live in a home with a firearm. Risk factors for youth firearm injury and
      death, such as unsafe home storage of a firearm, prior victimization/aggression, substance
      use, and depressive symptoms, can be modified. Community partnerships are essential for
      developing and enacting effective change in injury risk factors, particularly for youth. Due
      to the fraught political landscape and lack of research funding, partnerships with firearm
      owners and firearm safety training programs to create and disseminate effective,
      non-policy-based preventive interventions for youth firearm injury are lacking.

      Bystander intervention (BI) is an intervention framework rooted in social psychological
      theories such as the Theory of Planned Behavior (TPB), with proven efficacy and effectiveness
      targeting both individual and community behavior change. "The Reframe" is a three-part,
      already-piloted intervention that uses the BI framework and TPB mechanisms to promote
      community norms change about firearm safety, BI, and harm reduction techniques (e.g., safe
      storage, reducing access to lethal means, conflict resolution). Recognizing that BI is most
      rigorous when led by credible messengers, The Reframe uses instructional, peer-to-peer, and
      social-media strategies in conjunction with community organizations that are deeply connected
      to firearm safety efforts. Pilot data supports The Reframe's acceptability and feasibility in
      changing firearm owners' norms and behaviors.

      The necessary next step in this intervention development is to evaluate its effectiveness
      using a randomized, controlled study design. Our community partner, the National 4-H Shooting
      Sports Program, is a national leader and trusted messenger for firearm safety. Across the
      United States, 20,000 trained adult Club Leaders, 5,000 Teen Ambassadors, and 450,000 youth
      Shooting Sports participants (age 8-18) learn marksmanship, and safe and responsible use of
      firearms, through its structured curriculum. Leaders from 4-H are excited to implement and
      study The Reframe among their Shooting Sports Clubs and communities to reduce youth firearm
      injury and mortality risk. Our research team will evaluate The Reframe's effectiveness,
      compared to usual 4-H training, in changing firearm injury prevention norms, attitudes,
      behavioral intention, and practice among a sample of fifty 4-H Shooting Sports Club
      communities, via a Type I Hybrid randomized, controlled effectiveness trial. Aims are:

      Refinement and Planning (Year 1): Adapt The Reframe for the 4-H Shooting Sports Club context
      Aim 1: Conduct a series of key informant interviews with an advisory panel of 20 key
      stakeholders (teen and adult 4-H Shooting Sports leaders representing a diverse group of
      communities and 4-H experience) to ensure The Reframe addresses 4-H-specific issues of
      acceptability, feasibility, and appropriateness.

      Intervention Delivery (Years 2-3): Conduct a hybrid Type I effectiveness-implementation trial
      of The Reframe with fifty 4-H Shooting Sports Clubs across the United States. For each
      intervention Club, we will engage one Adult Site Champion and one Teen Ambassador in a
      kickoff meeting; provide materials to incorporate into standard 4-H curricula; support
      community and social-media events; and provide ongoing technical support. Evaluations will be
      conducted at 0, 3, and 6 months and via social media analytics.

      Aim 2A: Evaluate The Reframe's effectiveness, compared to usual training, in changing
      individual- and community-level, proximal and distal behavioral outcomes related to firearm
      injury prevention.

      Aim 2B: Examine barriers and facilitators to implementation of The Reframe intervention using
      a mixed-methods (qualitative and quantitative) approach.

      Aim 2C: (Exploratory) Explore injury patterns among all 50 communities using population-level
      data.

      The study will advance the science of firearm injury prevention in youth in the context of a
      real-world partnership between well-established firearm injury, suicide, and violence
      prevention researchers and the national 4-H Shooting Sports Program to conduct a rigorous
      experimental evaluation of a promising universal primary prevention program. Our long-term
      goals, consistent with CDC priorities, are to build an evidence base for best practices for
      individual- and community-level interventions that are easy to implement; to promote safe
      behaviors around firearm use and injury prevention, thereby saving lives; to meld best
      scientific practice with deep community-based expertise; and to create a model that can be
      scaled across 4-H's network, which reaches nearly 6 million youth across the nation.
    
  