
    
      There are notable cardiovascular disease (CVD) disparities among people living in rural
      settings, particularly medically underserved rural areas. Complex factors such as
      socioeconomic disadvantage, social and cultural dynamics, geographic distances/barriers, and
      limited access to healthcare, healthy foods, and/or physical activity opportunities
      contribute to the issue. The objective of Strong Hearts, Healthy Communities (SHHC) is to
      reduce rural CVD disparities through civic engagement and implementation of a community-based
      intervention in 16 underserved rural towns. In Montana, SHHC builds upon a long-standing
      collaboration with National Institute of Food and Agriculture cooperative extension
      educators, who will implement the project. SHHC in New York will work with a health care
      system to implement the project. There is limited knowledge about how programs and services
      can move beyond commonly used individual-level approaches-which have limitations in terms of
      cost, impact, reach, and sustainability-to effectively reduce rural CVD health disparities
      using an integrated, multi-level, community-engaged approach. The objective of Strong Hearts,
      Healthy Communities (SHHC) is to address this gap in knowledge and practice by working with
      residents, practitioners, health educators, local leadership, and other stakeholders in 16
      medically underserved rural towns to develop and test a comprehensive program designed to: a)
      improve diet and physical activity behaviors, b) promote local built environment resources,
      and c) shift social norms about active living and healthy eating through civic engagement,
      capacity building, and community-based programming.

      FORMATIVE RESEARCH (STAGE1: Completed) The investigators conducted community audits, focus
      groups, and key informant interviews with members of the above key groups to gather in-depth
      data about a number of topics related to CVD awareness and risk factors. These topics
      included: economic, healthcare, and social/cultural factors, as well as, barriers and
      facilitators to healthy eating and active living. The community audit and qualitative data
      gathered during the formative research, as well as, feedback from extension educators and the
      National Advisory Board has informed and been incorporated in the development and refinement
      of the SHHC curriculum.

      RANDOMIZED CONTROLLED INTERVENTION (STAGE 2) In the second phase of the project, the
      investigators will evaluate the efficacy of the SHHC curriculum in a 24-week community based
      randomized controlled intervention trial. The investigators will compare changes in
      CVD-related anthropometric, physiologic, behavioral, and psychosocial parameters between
      subjects in 8 intervention and 8 control communities. In addition, the investigators will
      evaluate changes in behavior, attitudes, and knowledge among SHHC intervention subjects'
      "social network".
    
  