
    
      Lipoprotein lipase deficiency (LPLD) is an autosomal recessive inherited condition caused by
      homozygosity or compound heterozygosity for mutations within the LPL gene.

      The most severe clinical complication associated with LPLD is acute pancreatitis.
      Pancreatitis in an LPLD subject often leads to prolonged hospital admissions. Subjects who
      survive repeated episodes of acute pancreatitis may develop chronic pancreatitis, ultimately
      resulting in endocrine and exocrine pancreatic insufficiency.

      The clinical manifestations of acute pancreatitis episodes related to LPLD are largely
      indistinguishable from acute pancreatitis due to other causes. However, collection of data
      relating to hospital admissions, laboratory test results, scan images and adverse events
      occurring concomitantly to the acute pancreatic episode should allow elimination of other
      causes of pancreatitis (e.g. gallstones etc) and ultimately allow confirmation of
      LPLD-related acute pancreatitis. Characterisation of the presentation of symptoms which occur
      around the time of known episodes of LPLD-related acute pancreatitis should also permit
      identification of episodes of acute pancreatitis which have previously been considered as
      unrelated or even unrecognized.

      Alipogene tiparvovec (Glybera®) is in development for the therapy of LPLD. In summary,
      alipogene tiparvovec contains the human lipoprotein (LPL) gene variant LPLS447X in a
      non-replicating vector in solution administered in a one-time series of intramuscular
      injections in the arms/legs.

      Studies conducted to date with Glybera have evaluated total triglyceride levels as a
      surrogate marker for efficacy and have not evaluated a clinical endpoint such as acute
      pancreatitis episodes as a primary endpoint. Post-hoc analysis has suggested that there may
      be a reduction in the frequency of acute abdominal pancreatitis episodes reported following
      treatment compared to the frequency reported pre-treatment from past medical history records.
      The recorded episodes used in this post-hoc analysis were collected from medical history and
      adverse event data but no uniform criteria were used to classify these as episodes of acute
      pancreatitis. Review of the post hoc analysis has raised questions that the recorded past
      medical history of pancreatitis episodes may be inaccurate with respect to diagnosis and
      number of episodes.

      In this case record review study, data will be collected on pancreatitis episodes from
      subjects who previously enrolled in studies PREPARATION-02 (observational), CT-AMT-011-01 and
      CT-AMT-011-02. In studies CT-AMT-011-01 and CT-AMT-011-02 subjects received AMT-011 at either
      dose 3 x 1011 gc/kg or 1 x 1012 gc/kg. Data obtained from medical records, hospital
      admission/discharge charts, laboratory results and imaging scans will be evaluated for
      evidence of LPLD-related episodes of pancreatitis by an expert review panel. The evaluation
      will consider data collected from three time periods:

        -  subjects entire past medical history,

        -  the period after enrolment into study but prior to AMT-011 therapy,

        -  the period post-administration of AMT-011.

      Data from the subjects who did not progress to receive AMT-011 will be evaluated as a control
      group using data collected from past medical history and from the period after enrolment in
      the PREPARATION-02.
    
  