
    
      Taxane induced peripheral neuropathy (TIPN) affects many female breast cancer survivors
      treated with taxane chemotherapies. This condition can include symptoms ranging from minor
      loss of sensory function, numbness and mild paresthesia to frank pain including burning or
      tingling sensation or shooting neuropathic pain. Treating TIPN is difficult and at this time
      conventional treatment is primarily limited to the use of antidepressants and
      anticonvulsants, both of which have significant efficacy and safety issues with often little
      reduction in TIPN. The mechanisms of taxane induced peripheral tissue damage are becoming
      clearer allowing for the potential to develop specific interventions to resolve pain
      associated with this class of drug. Acupuncture treatment has been used for symptom
      improvement in patients with peripheral neuropathy caused by HIV and diabetes mellitus;
      however, few studies have evaluated acupuncture as a viable treatment for taxane induced
      peripheral neuropathy. Moreover, there has been little research considering the biological
      effect of acupuncture treatment related to the mechanisms of pain resolution. This study will
      enroll female breast cancer survivors at the Greenville Health System Cancer Institute Center
      for Integrative Oncology and Survivorship undergo an acupuncture protocol consisting of
      traditional acupuncture points used for neuropathic pain. This is a prospective, randomized,
      controlled trial that will consist of two arms. The two arms will consist of 1) acupuncture
      plus conventional therapy and 2) conventional therapy only (n= 9 participants in each arm).
      Arm 1 will receive a traditional manual acupuncture protocol twice a week for 6 weeks and
      once a week for 6 weeks in conjunction with standard of care treatment. Arm 2 will receive
      standard of care treatment only; acupuncture will be offered to these individuals after a 12
      week waitlist. The 18 participants will start an individualized 12 week study schedule and
      will be recruited over a 4 month time period. This study will assess severity of pain,
      inflammatory biomarkers, and circulating levels of mitochondrial DNA at baseline, 6 weeks,
      and 12 weeks for both arms through questionnaires and blood tests. Results of the study will
      further clarify acupuncture's role as a therapeutic modality for managing pain induced by
      TIPN while providing evidence that could help unlock a better understanding of its actions.
    
  