
    
      OBJECTIVES: The objectives are to 1) evaluate the effectiveness of exposure, cognitive, and
      skills (assertiveness/relaxation) therapies within a 16-session group; and 2) evaluate the
      relative contribution of each of three treatment components in a manualized treatment group
      in a sample of OIF/OEF female PTSD veterans. HYPOTHESES: Hypothesis 1. Female OIF/OEF PTSD
      veterans will show reductions in PTSD symptoms and improvement in general functioning after
      participation in a structured group treatment compared to a wait-list control group.
      Hypothesis 2. Exposure and cognitive components will show greater improvement in PTSD
      symptoms than the skills component. RESEARCH DESIGN/BACKGROUND: Based on studies with male
      combat veterans, female civilian rape victims, and female veterans, therapies most effective
      for Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) are exposure therapy (1,2,3) and cognitive
      restructuring (4), with less improvement found in other treatments, such as relaxation and
      assertiveness training (5). Most examinations of PTSD treatments have been conducted in an
      individual format, but most PTSD treatments offered in Veterans Administration (VA) hospital
      PTSD programs are conducted in a group format (6). It is critical to determine if these
      therapies work in a group setting, as only one study (7) found no differences in exposure
      therapy compared to a support group. In a comprehensive manualized group treatment protocol
      (8) exposure therapy provided in a group was found effective (9). The aim of the present
      study is to establish the effectiveness of exposure therapy, among other evidence-based
      therapies, in a well designed randomized study. METHODOLOGY: Castillo's (8) manualized group
      treatment protocol for female veterans with PTSD will be modified into a 16-week treatment
      group with a five-week exposure, five-week cognitive, and four-week skills treatment blocks.
      Seventy-two subjects will be assessed with structured interviews (SCID and CAPS) and
      questionnaires (Traumatic Life Events and Quality of Life Inventory) and randomized into one
      of two arms: 16-week immediate treatment, or a 16-week wait-list control, the latter of which
      will be reassessed and offered the study treatment. Oversampling will result in 72 subjects
      in the active treatment arm. Subjects will be reassessed upon completion of treatment or
      wait-list, at 3, and 6 months following treatment. All treatment groups will include three
      female OIF/OEF veterans positive for PTSD. The treatment blocks will be varied into six
      possible orders to control for order effects and the PTSD Symptom Checklist will be
      administered after each treatment block. Data will be collected for three years. CLINICAL
      RELATIONSHIPS: Significant results will contribute to the establishment of evidence-based
      treatments in a manualized treatment group for all veterans with a PTSD diagnosis. FINDINGS:
      Present findings from Dr. Castillo's lab suggest the effectiveness of exposure therapy in a
      group setting.
    
  