
    
      In this study, four versions of the suicide-specific implicit association tests (IAT-S) are
      carried out. Previous studies have shown that suicidal persons have stronger associations
      between the constructs "self" and "death". Furthermore, the strength of these implicit
      associations increases the risk of suicidal behavior in the follow-up period of six months by
      a factor of six. In these previous studies, the implicit "self-death association" (the
      so-called death-identity bias) was investigated. This study will additionally examine an
      implicit emotional evaluation (death-evaluation-bias). Therefore, two new versions of the
      IAT-S, which measure how death vs. life are emotionally evaluated, are being tested. In
      addition, a fourth version of the IAT-S was added and aims to clarify the implicit
      association between death / life and internal / external locus of control. Previous studies
      have shown that an internal locus of control is a protective factor and an external locus of
      control a risk factor for suicide attempts. In the present study, these four IAT-S versions
      are carried out with different groups of patients: patients with a suicide attempt (1),
      patients with suicide ideation (2) and patients with neither a suicide attempt nor suicide
      ideation (3). This cross sectional design allows us to test for group differences in regard
      to unconscious implicit associations. Hypothesis are described separately for each version of
      the IAT-S.

      Death association: patients in group 1 will have a higher implicit association between self
      and death than patients in group 2 and that patients in group 2 have a significantly higher
      implicit association between self and death than patients in group 3.

      Death evaluation: patients in group 1 will have more "positive" evaluations of "death" than
      patients in group 2 and patients in group 2 have a more "positive" evaluations of death than
      patients in group 3.

      Locus of control: patients in group 1 will have a stronger association between internal locus
      of control and death (a) and external locus of control and life (b) than patients in group 2,
      and that patients in group 2 have a significantly stronger association between internal locus
      of control and death (a) and external locus of control and life (b) than patients in group 3.
    
  