
    
      This will be a single-institution pilot study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of
      radiation therapy (RT) for the treatment of unresected keloids. The primary endpoint will be
      toxicity within 10 weeks of follow-up. Secondary endpoints will include cessation of growth
      or shrinkage of keloids, symptomatic response, and impact on quality of life.

      Primary Objective

      -evaluate feasibility and safety of radiation therapy only for the treatment of unresected
      keloids.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To evaluate toxicity of RT for the treatment of unresected keloids.

        -  To evaluate response of keloids, either stability or decrease in size, after primary RT.

        -  To evaluate symptomatic response of unresected keloids to primary RT.

        -  To assess the effect on quality of life of primary RT for unresected keloids After
           review of the literature on the use of RT for the treatment of keloids, both resected
           and unresected, as well as input of expert opinion and clinical experience by the
           study's radiation oncologists, the RT prescription dose for this study was selected to
           be 15 Gy, which will be divided into 5 Gy fractions delivered daily over on 3
           consecutive days.

      Patients will receive RT using external beam radiotherapy (EBRT), delivered via either
      electrons or megavoltage photons, or brachytherapy; RT modality will be based on the judgment
      of the treating radiation oncologist. We estimate we will be able to recruit 15- 20 patients
      in 6-12 months, thus we are aiming for a sample size of 15 patients. In successive intervals
      of enrollment and treatment of 5 patients (i.e. after 5, 10, and 15 patients have been
      enrolled), the study team will meet and perform interim analysis to evaluate the safety and
      efficacy of treatment. Investigators will discuss rates of toxicity and symptom management
      observed up to that point and determine if the study dose or protocol needs to be altered.

      Patients will be evaluated frequently (see study calendar) for treatment-related toxicities
      using CTCAE v5.0 up to 1 year after completion of RT. Any adverse event will be considered by
      the study investigators to evaluate the safety of the protocol and to determine whether
      changes to the dosing regimen are required.
    
  