
    
      Decisional autonomy is a foundational, nearly inviolable principle of contemporary human
      subjects research. "Autonomy" refers to a deliberative outcome reflecting an individual's
      choice, outside of controlling influences of other agents. From the perspective of research
      participation decision-making, autonomy incorporates five elements of consent: competence;
      disclosure; understanding; voluntariness; and, consent. Adequate research consent processes
      are thought to be challenged by group-level qualities that define a "vulnerable population"
      in need of protection from coercion or undue influence. Age (typically less than age 18 in
      the United States) is a widely accepted status-defining vulnerability. Sexual minority
      identity or same-sex behavior does not define a "vulnerable" population but 45 Code of
      Federal Regulations (CFR) 46 subpart A (Common Rule) allows appropriate protections for other
      vulnerable populations as determined by an individual Institutional Review Board (IRB).

      The specific aims of this study address issues within a larger domain of questions about the
      primacy of decisional autonomy, and associations of autonomous research consent and
      subsequent participation-associated outcomes. This mixed-methods study will enroll young men
      who have sex with men (YMSM) and transgender women who have sex with men who are currently or
      were previously enrolled in the ATN 110 or ATN 113 study.

      Data from the web-based survey will be used to test hypotheses about the relationships
      between participant age, elements of the consent process, and two key participation outcomes
      (early adherence to PrEP, HIV seroconversion) in the ATN 110 or ATN 113 study. Data from the
      qualitative interview will be used to explore in further depth age-related vulnerability and
      disclosure vulnerabilities manifested for participants and whether/how they influenced ATN
      110 and ATN 113 study outcomes. The interview will also assess decisional support and the
      benefits or harms associated with participation.
    
  