
    
      This will be a dose escalation study to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the
      overall safety and tolerability of a topical compound 31543 (Calcitriol) in patients with
      metastatic or recurrent cancer who are undergoing chemotherapy with a taxane-based regimen. A
      standard 3+3 dose escalation design will be employed with 3-6 patients at each dose level.
      Eligible patients ≥18 years of age and scheduled to receive a taxane-based regimen with
      treatment breaks as per physician's discretion, will start applying the topical solution
      twice a day at each cohort dose level two weeks or 7 days ± 2 days prior to initiation of
      chemotherapy and then continue twice daily for 3 months or until termination of chemotherapy
      treatment. If topical calcitriol is found to be effective in preventing and/or diminishing
      taxane chemotherapy-induced alopecia as determined by the photographic assessments and
      patient self-assessments, patients will be allowed to continue topical application for the
      duration of their chemotherapy treatment, assuming no dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) related
      to the topical agent or intolerable side effects are observed. Toxicity to the topical
      compound 31543 (calcitriol) will be assessed on a weekly basis during the first 28 days of
      topical treatment and subsequently every four weeks by a study clinician, either a physician
      or a nurse. For the purpose of pharmacokinetic studies (PKs), blood samples will be collected
      on Day 1 of topical treatment at the following time points: pre-dose, at 2 hrs (±30 minutes),
      4 hrs (±30 minutes), and 8 hrs (±1 hr post dose) after a single application on the morning of
      Day 1. The second application of drug product will be applied 10-14 hrs after the initial
      application and after the 8 hr PK sample. Thereafter, topical application frequency will be
      twice daily, morning and night. Subsequently, a PK sample will be taken 12 hrs (±2 hrs) after
      the last dose of each 28-day treatment, before the first application of Day 1 of the next
      28-day treatment cycle. This schedule will continue for three consecutive 28-day topical
      treatment cycles. (PKs will be drawn at Weeks 1, 5, 9, and 13. In addition, if patients are
      still on study, a PK will also be drawn at Week 54.) As a secondary objective, potential
      efficacy of the topical calcitriol will be evaluated by photographic assessment. Photographic
      assessment will be performed using a Canon digital camera system to ensure standardization
      and uniformity among all enrolled patients. The following five views will be obtained at each
      photographic assessment: bilateral sides of head/scalp view, front of head/face view, back of
      head/scalp view, and top of head/scalp view.Additionally, close-up photographs will be taken
      at the same time points. They will include the mid-pattern of the scalp from a superior view
      and a vertex view with hair parted in the center and combed away from the center part.
      Photographs will be standardized for lighting, camera angle, and position to the
      participant's head.These assessments will be performed at the following time points: at
      baseline, Weeks 7, 15, 27, and 54. Photographs for patients in each cohort representing
      baseline, and treatment Weeks 7 and 15 will be presented blind to the study PI and
      dermatologist, Mario Lacouture, after at least 3 patients have completed 15 weeks of
      treatment. Photographs will also be taken at Week 27 and Week 54 of the study but will be
      included in the final photographic assessment as secondary information. In addition, all
      patients will be asked to maintain an application log throughout treatment to ensure
      compliance.

      Additionally patients will maintain a medication application diary and a self-assessment
      diary. The medication application diary will collect daily application details of the
      medication. This will include application dates and times, chemotherapy cycle, and whether
      the medication was applied (or reason if the medication was not applied). The self-assessment
      diary will require assessment of hair thickness, hair fullness, hair breakage, and hair
      cosmetic qualities (ease of styling, etc.) on an analog 10 point scale to assess
      patient-reported efficacy. The PI clinical assessment of baseline, Weeks 7 and 15 photographs
      will be used, together with the patient diary information, for the primary assessment of
      alopecia. The study is expected to take place over a period of approximately 12 months,
      including the screening period.
    
  