
    
      Endogenous cell-surface galectins have recently gained interest as antigenic determinants of
      varied tumor tissue. They are also used as potential targets for antitumor therapy by
      coupling cytotoxic molecules or radioisotopes either with carbohydrate residues, or with
      antibodies antigalectines.

      In addition, the plasma level dosage of galectin 3 seems possible and provides a diagnostic
      help in thyroid lesions and in monitoring squamous cell head and neck.

      In a study on thyroid tumors, the sensitivity [Se] and specificity [Sp] of the plasma level
      was poor (just over 70%), but this study was conducted with a low and heterogeneous
      recruitment (70 patients). The inclusion of a greater number of patients with a better
      selection would better inform us about qualities of these diagnostic assays.

      An additional argument would be the dosage of galectins in the water rinse of the needle
      aspiration biopsy. This study has never been made so far and there is no evidence to predict
      its sensitivity and specificity. The advantage is that galectin will not be "diluted" as
      would be the case in an assay done in the blood. Moreover, it would select candidates for
      dosage nodules, ie those whose size would impose, if it was a cancer, to resort to surgical
      treatment more extensive than originally planned. Indeed, compared to preoperative already
      existing metering "interesting" dosage would diagnose:

        -  with a good reliability (Se and Sp > 80%)

        -  a cancer requiring additional treatment (i.e. surgical revision to achieve a total
           thyroidectomy, accompanied by lymph node dissection) resulting in a higher risk of
           morbidity if reoperation.

      The investigators therefore believe that preoperative galectin 3 dosage in plasma or in the
      puncture water rinse could have strong arguments pointing to a neoplastic to a full initial
      gesture in a single surgical step, a gesture much less risky and expensive.

      In this study, patients benefit from routine monitoring of thyroid nodules according to
      current recommendations. For surgical patients only, the information about the intervention
      will be collected to know the final histological diagnosis.

      Galectin 3 will be measured preoperatively in :

        -  plasma

        -  water rinse of FNA.

      The diagnostic characteristics of the assays, sensitivity and specificity will be established
      relative to the reference method which is the histological analysis of the specimen (report)
      asserting the existence of a vesicular lineage tumor, benign (adenoma) or malignant
      (papillary or follicular).
    
  