
    
      The data collected by the 2011 Bangladesh Demographic Health Survey (BDHS), conducted by the
      National Institute for Population Research and Training (Ministry of Health and Family
      Welfare, Bangladesh), will be used for the purpose of this study. in the BDHS 2011, A
      nationally representative household-based sample was created through a stratified, multistage
      cluster sampling strategy in which 600 primary sampling units were constructed (207 in urban
      areas and 393 in rural areas). The primary sampling units were derived from a sampling frame
      created for the 2001 Bangladeshi census from seven divisions of Bangladesh. Households were
      selected randomly from each primary sampling unit. The data pertaining to the socioeconomic
      and sociodemographic factors were collected using a structured open-ended interview. The
      questionnaire used for this purpose was modeled on the MEASURE DHS questionnaires. Prior to
      the use, these questionnaires were adapted for the use in Bangladesh through a series of
      meetings with a Technical Working Group (TWG) that comprised of representatives from the
      National Institute of Population Research and Training (NIPORT,) Mitra and Associates, the
      International Centre for Diarrheal Diseases and Control in Bangladesh (ICDDR, B),
      USAID/Bangladesh, and MEASURE DH. The questionnaires were drafted in English and then
      translated into Bangla which is the national language of Bangladesh. The translations were
      reviewed by the experts as well as by the volunteers and a pilot study was conducted to
      validate the same. Of the total of 17,964 selected households, face-to-face interviews were
      successfully completed for 17,141 corresponding to a household response rate of 98%. The
      subjects for the examination of anemia were 2320 children aged 6-59 months, were raised from
      every third household of the BDHS sample. After excluding subjects with missing data, a total
      of 2068 individuals were selected for this analysis.
    
  