
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the progression-free survival (PFS) of rituximab (R)-chemotherapy plus
      venetoclax versus R-chemotherapy alone in MYC/BCL2 double-hit and double expressing
      lymphomas.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the overall survival (OS) of R-chemotherapy plus venetoclax versus
      R-chemotherapy alone in MYC/BCL2 double-hit and double expressing lymphomas. (Key Secondary
      Objective) II. To compare the event-free survival (EFS) of R-chemotherapy plus venetoclax
      versus R-chemotherapy alone in MYC/BCL2 double-hit and double expressing lymphomas.

      III. To assess the toxicity profile of the experimental regimens in MYC/BCL2 double-hit and
      double expressing lymphomas using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) and
      patient reported outcomes (PRO)-CTCAE.

      IV. To compare response rates of R-chemotherapy plus venetoclax versus R-chemotherapy alone
      in MYC/BCL2 double-hit and double expressing lymphomas.

      V. To estimate differences in response rates, EFS, PFS, and OS of R-chemotherapy plus
      venetoclax versus R-chemotherapy alone within each of the disease subtypes (double hit
      lymphoma [DHL] and double expressing lymphoma [DEL]).

      VI. To determine whether cell of origin and intensity of the MYC and BCL2 protein expression
      correlate with PFS, EFS, and OS.

      VII. To determine whether local subtyping results for DHL and DEL are consistent with central
      analysis.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to Arm 1 or Arm 2.

      ARM 1 (DEL): Patients with DEL receive R-CHOP chemotherapy regimen consisting of rituximab
      intravenously (IV) on day 1, cyclophosphamide IV on day 1, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV on
      day 1, vincristine sulfate IV on day 1, and prednisone orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days
      1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM 1 (DHL): Patients with DHL receive dose-adjusted (DA)-EPOCH-R chemotherapy regimen
      consisting of rituximab IV on day 1, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV on days 1-4, etoposide IV
      on days 1-4, vincristine sulfate IV on days 1-4, prednisone PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-5,
      and cyclophosphamide IV on day 5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 cycles in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM 2 (DEL): Patients with DEL receive R-CHOP chemotherapy regimen as in Arm 1. Patients also
      receive venetoclax PO QD on days 4-8 of cycle 1 and days 1-5 for cycles 2-6. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM 2 (DHL): Patients with DHL receive DA-EPOCH-R chemotherapy regimen as in Arm 1. Patients
      also receive venetoclax PO QD on days 4-8 of cycle 1 and days 1-5 for cycles 2-6. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for 2 years,
      then every 24 weeks for up to 5 years, and then every 6 months for up to 10 years from
      registration.
    
  