
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine whether atezolizumab combined with oxaliplatin, leucovorin calcium, and
      fluorouracil (FOLFOX) and its continuation as monotherapy can significantly improve
      disease-free survival (DFS) compared to FOLFOX alone in patients with stage III colon cancers
      and deficient DNA mismatch repair (dMMR).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether atezolizumab combined with FOLFOX and its continuation as monotherapy
      can significantly improve overall survival compared to FOLFOX alone in patients with stage
      III colon cancers and dMMR.

      II. To assess the adverse events (AE) profile and safety of each treatment arm, using the
      Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) and patient related outcomes
      (PRO)-CTCAE.

      QUALITY OF LIFE OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the impact of the addition of atezolizumab to FOLFOX on patient-reported
      neuropathy, health-related quality of life (QOL), and functional domains of health-related
      QOL.

      POTENTIAL CORRELATIVE SCIENCE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if the "immunoscore" can predict the efficacy of atezolizumab for
      disease-free survival among patients with stage III colon cancer.

      II. To assess whether circulating immune cell populations can predict the efficacy of
      atezolizumab as adjuvant therapy for stage III colon cancer.

      III. To explore the associations of genomic alterations identified in cell-free (cf)DNA with
      DFS in patients treated with FOLFOX with or without atezolizumab.

      IV. To assess whether soluble markers of systemic inflammation in blood can predict the
      efficacy of atezolizumab as adjuvant therapy for stage III colon cancer.

      V. To assess the relationship between baseline plasma 25(OH) D levels, change in 25(OH)D
      levels, and DFS and overall survival (OS) in patients with stage III colon cancer receiving
      FOLFOX +/- atezolizumab.

      VI. To determine the ability of using fecal microbiota and their metabolic products to
      predict survival benefit from anti-PD-L1 antibody therapy in dMMR colon cancer patients.

      VII. To determine if hypermutation or hyper-indel status is associated with response to
      atezolizumab.

      VIII. To determine if unique messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression signatures are
      predictive of disease-free survival among patients receiving adjuvant chemotherapy for stage
      III colon cancer.

      IX. To determine if the efficacy of atezolizumab differs among dMMR cancers due to germline
      MMR mutation (MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, PMS2) versus those with MLH1 hypermethylation and CIMP in
      patients with stage III colon cancer.

      X. To identify overall mutational burden and number of putative tumor neoantigens in colon
      carcinoma specimens.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive oxaliplatin intravenously (IV) over 2 hours and leucovorin calcium IV
      over 2 hours on day 1, and fluorouracil IV as a bolus on day 1, then continuously over 46
      hours on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive atezolizumab IV over
      30-60 minutes starting on day 1 of cycle 1 or 2. Treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 25
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours and leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours
      on day 1, and fluorouracil IV as a bolus on day 1, then continuously over 46 hours on days
      1-3. Treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for recurrence every 6 months
      for 2 years, then annually for 3 years. Patients are also followed up for survival every 6
      months for up to 8 years.
    
  