
    
      Seasonal allergic conjunctivitis (SAC) is an inflammatory response of the conjunctiva
      triggered by exposure to seasonal allergens. SAC is the most common form of ocular allergy,
      with an estimated prevalence of approximately 15 to 20%. The distressing signs (redness,
      chemosis, eyelid swelling) and symptoms (itching, tearing, redness) of SAC may cause extreme
      discomfort, with a burden due to the frequency and duration of the disease more than to its
      seriousness.

      Olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 0.1% is a topical antiallergic agent that is
      both an antihistamine with high affinity and selectivity for the histamine H1 receptor and a
      mast cell stabilizer that inhibits the release of histamine and other proinflammatory
      mediators from human conjunctival mast cells. The efficacy and tolerability of olopatadine
      has been demonstrated by several comparative studies in adults and children with seasonal
      allergic conjunctivitis.

      Hylo-Dual eye drops is an approved treatment in Canada for children 6 years and older,
      containing 0.5mg/ml Sodium Hyaluronate, 20mg/ml Ectoine, a borate buffer and water. Ectoine
      is a natural substance formed by microorganisms to protect themselves from extreme
      environments (e.g.: salt lakes or hot geysers). They adapt to these conditions by so-called
      extremolytes, like ectoine, which are osmoprotective substances stabilizing biological
      membranes. Ectoine has a strong water-binding capacity, forming a physiologic barrier
      protecting cell membranes from contact with allergenic substances and against inflammatory
      responses to environmental stress (such as dehydration, e.g. by hyperosmolar tears, UV
      radiation or airborne allergens). Additionally, ectoine has a stabilizing effect on the lipid
      phase of the tear film by increasing its elasticity, which causes it to spread evenly over
      the eye surface and protects against the excessive evaporation of tears.

      To the knowledge of the investigators, no systematic interventional prospective study exists
      comparing the efficacy of Olopatadine and Hylo-Dual for the treatment of seasonal allergic
      conjunctivitis in the pediatric population. The research question is to determine if both
      treatment options are equally effective in this population, therefore providing further
      clinical pharmacologic data relevant to children.
    
  