
    
      The investigators' intention is to randomise all patients undergoing bilateral breast surgery
      into receiving a specific pec block in one breast and a standard infiltration of non targeted
      anaesthesia into the other breast. 10ml 0.25% Chirocaine will be used for each breast.

      All patients attending the plastic surgery clinic at BMI Edgbaston, BMI Priory, Spire Parkway
      and Spire Southbank and requesting bilateral breast surgery will be approached to take part
      in the study. They will be given information to take home and an opportunity to ask any
      questions about the study.

      All consenting patients who meet the inclusion criteria will have one breast randomised into
      a study group (pec block) and the other into a control group (standard local anaesthetic
      infiltration). Patients will be randomised by a computer generated code. The patient and
      researcher will be blinded. By necessity, the surgeon will be aware of the randomisation but
      will have no involvement in data collection or analysis of results.

      Both groups will receive standard post-operative care and follow up. A dose of morphine
      0.1mg/kg will be given intra-operatively. Thereafter morphine 0.1mg/kg will be given for
      breakthrough pain. Patients will be prescribed regular paracetamol and ibuprofen. The
      investigators will prospectively record post operative pain as rated by a verbal numerical
      rating scale at 0, 3, 6, 9 and 12 hours post-operatively and at 24 hours. In addition the
      investigators will record which breast the patient indicates is the most painful and any
      post-operative complications throughout the study period . The expected recruitment period is
      six months.

      If patients consent to inclusion in the study they will sign a consent form at a second
      appointment or on the day of surgery. The ward and recovery nurses already have experience in
      administering a VNRS for pain control.
    
  