
    
      The HealtheSteps™ (HeS) program was developed to improve the health of Canadians and reduce
      their risk for chronic disease (CD) and brings together emerging evidence from the areas of
      physical activity, nutrition, behaviour change, health technologies, and knowledge transfer,
      and moves knowledge into practice. HeS is an evidence-based, viable, and scalable healthy
      lifestyle solution to tackle the epidemic of CD in Canada. HeS goes beyond traditional health
      promotion messaging to give individuals a specific plan of action to improve their health and
      provides community settings with hands-on training, and resources from study knowledge
      brokers (KBs) to facilitate program uptake and sustainability. The investigators suggest that
      a widely available HeS program has the potential to impact the lives of Canadians at-risk for
      and living with CD; shift practice patterns within Family Health Teams (FHTs), Community
      Health Centres (CHCs) and clinics; reduce health care costs associated with CD; and inform
      policy decisions about health resource allocation and human resource planning. A scaled-up
      HeS program will offer at-risk Canadians an opportunity to actively participate in an
      evidence-based, community-focused, affordable (no cost to participant), healthy lifestyle
      program supported by point-of-care coaching and innovative electronic Health (eHealth)
      technologies.

      This study will use a two-arm, pilot pragmatic randomized controlled trial (RCT) design. It
      will take place within 5 clinic settings in Southwestern Ontario. Following assessment of
      eligibility and baseline measurements, participants will be individually randomized (1:1;
      stratified by clinical setting) to either the intervention group (receiving the HeS program)
      or to the comparison group (usual care wait-list control). The comparison group will be
      offered to start the HeS program after a 6 month delay. All participants (both intervention
      and comparison groups) will receive publicly available healthy eating and physical activity
      materials at baseline. Measurements will be taken at baseline and 6 months in both groups;
      additional follow-up measurements will be taken in the intervention group only at 12 months
      and again at 18 months (from baseline). Groups will be compared at 6-months in order to
      examine effectiveness of the HeS program; further, follow-up to 12 and 18 months will be used
      to look at maintenance of any changes in the intervention group only.
    
  