
    
      A totally implantable venous access device (TIVAD) provides reliable, long-term vascular
      access and improves cancer patients' quality of life. The use of TIVADs is associated with
      important complications as infection and venous thrombosis, and studies have shown that
      several factors are associated, such as cancer types, catheter types, and the location of the
      catheter tips. Whether subclavian vein(SCV)or internal jugular vein(IJV) is a better site for
      TIVAD percutaneous access were also widely studied, and there is no definite consensus
      generated yet.

      A meta-analysis published in 2016 by Wu et al reviewed 12 studies comparing the internal
      jugular vein (IJV) with the subclavian vein (SCV) as the percutaneous access site found no
      differences of TIVAD-related infection and catheter-related thrombotic rate. In the secondary
      outcome, IJV was associated with reduced risks of total major mechanical complications such
      as catheter dislocation and malfunction. Of 12 studies included, only 3 were randomized trial
      and there was no consistency between groups of using ultrasound guidance throughout TIVAD
      insertion. To be further, there is no description of how close to IJV-SCV junction does IJV
      group were inserted. Hence, a large well-designed RCT is warranted before the IJV site can be
      recommended.

      To compare IJV and SCV as the implantation site of TIVAD and its associated thrombotic or
      occlusion rate, our study plans to enroll 240 patients with cancer who require central line
      TIVADs and randomizes them with 1:1 ratio to receive the TIVAD implantation at SCV or IJV.
      After the implantation, the patients will be regularly followed through phone contact and
      chart review for 2 years, and any symptomatic thrombosis or occlusion will be found during
      chemotherapy injection or regular push-pull heparin saline flush every 6 weeks as our
      hospital care protocol. To detect any asymptomatic thrombosis, the patients will also receive
      screening vascular ultrasound at 2 weeks, 2 months, and 6 months postoperatively. The study
      primary endpoints include any infection, asymptomatic thrombosis found by screen ultrasound,
      and clinically symptomatic thrombosis or occlusion and major mechanical failure/dislocation
      of TIVAD.
    
  