
    
      Lung cancer is one of the commonest cancers around the world. The current prognosis for lung
      cancer is poor, with a 1-year survival rate of only 42%. Thus, lung cancer imposes a
      substantial health burden on patients and society both locally and world widely. On top of
      the classical clinical therapies, additional approaches that could result in survival benefit
      are needed.

      Previous studies, including our own, have shown that physical exercise, such as aerobic
      walking, improves lung cancer patient's physical fitness particularly cardiovascular fitness,
      circadian rhythm and immune function. Another popular mode of exercise in Chinese population
      is tai-chi. With emphasis on breathing and concentration, tai-chi exhibits extra benefits for
      stress-relieving and psychological well-being. Those benefits of exercise have long been
      implicated for better survival of cancer patients. The promising benefits of aerobic exercise
      or tai-chi, as non-pharmacological interventions, urge for need of rigorous evidence on the
      effectiveness of these interventions in improving survival outcomes. However, to date, there
      has been no report from a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to study the effect of aerobic
      exercise or tai-chi on survival of lung cancer patients.

      This proposed research is designed to conduct a three-arm RCT comparing aerobic exercise,
      tai-chi to usual care in non-small cell lung cancer patients. Recruited participants will be
      randomised into three groups: 1) a 12-week aerobic exercise group, 2) a 12-week tai-chi
      program group, and 3) a self-management control group. Aerobic exercise and tai-chi program
      will be conducted by certificated coaches. Life-long adherence to the practice in
      intervention groups is encouraged.

      Through this project we aim to evaluate if 1) aerobic exercise or 2) tai-chi intervention
      increases survival (measured by 1-year survival rate) in lung cancer patients compared to
      control, as the primary outcome of this study. We shall also examine if tai-chi practice can
      provide similar survival benefits compared with ordinary exercise. Using biomarkers including
      circadian rhythm, cardio-respiratory fitness, and immune function further provides objective
      measures for bio-physiological effectiveness of the interventions. The associations of those
      biological measures and psycho-social status with survival outcomes will be further explored.

      Findings of this study will provide crucial information on the evidence-based practice by
      physical exercise or tai-chi to improve survival of lung cancer patients. This study will
      also have far-reaching significance in providing important scientific evidence to
      policymakers to integrate physical activity into routine clinical management as an add-on
      treatment for lung cancer patients in Hong Kong.

      The pilot study aims to assess the feasibility and acceptability (such as attendance, drop
      out, satisfaction) of the trial so that the main study will have a higher chance of success.
    
  