
    
      STUDY 1

      HYPOTHESES

        1. A picture-based training programme aimed to link situations and emotions improves the
           cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT) skill of linking situations, beliefs and emotions.

        2. People with intellectual disabilities can understand and follow the procedures for
           computer based assessment and training tasks.

      DESIGN A 2 x (2 x S) mixed experimental design will be used with a between-subjects factor
      (Intervention: training group versus control group) and a within-subjects factor (Time:
      baseline assessment versus post-intervention assessment). Baseline and post-intervention
      assessment of CBT skills will be derived from the cognitive mediation task developed by
      Dagnan et al. (2000). Performance on the post-intervention assessment is considered the
      primary outcome variable of the study (Hypothesis 1).

      The intervention in the training group will be based on the Reed and Clements task (1989)
      which assesses the ability to link situations and emotions. The intervention in the control
      group will consist of the presentation of the same stimulus materials as the intervention
      group. The materials will be presented without specific training instructions and matched in
      time with the duration of the training group intervention. The control group intervention
      allows for an evaluation of training task efficacy rather than evaluating the confounding
      effects of presenting certain stimulus materials.

      Assessment and training tasks will all be conducted individually and they will be presented
      via a computer programme on a laptop computer with an external response box (Hypothesis 2).

      PROCEDURES

      Pre-study procedures. When consent has been obtained, the principal investigator assesses
      verbal ability (BPVS-2) and level of intellectual functioning (WASI-II). Participants who
      meet the inclusion criteria will then be invited to complete the baseline assessments.

      Baseline assessments. At baseline, the researcher will introduce the laptop computer and the
      external response box. The computer program will be introduced and one sample item of the
      assessment will be solved by the computer to illustrate how the task works. The sample item
      will then be repeated for the participant to solve and for the researcher to check if the
      participant understands the procedures of the task. The sample item will be repeated until
      the participant understands the procedures and will have learned how to operate the response
      box. The primary investigator will be present to assist the participant with the use of the
      response box and to explain the task procedures.

      The adapted cognitive mediation task consists of two blocks of twelve exercises. Exercises
      are randomised within each block and blocks are counterbalanced between participants. Block 1
      presents the six scenarios paired once with a positive and once with a negative thought
      resulting in twelve task items. Each task item presents two pictures of a situation followed
      by a picture of a positive or negative thought about this situation. Participants are then
      prompted to identify which of two pictured emotions (happy or sad) they would feel following
      the given situation and thought. Block 2 presents each scenario paired with a positive and
      negative emotional response to create twelve task items. Each item presents two pictures of a
      situation followed by a picture of an emotional response (happy or sad). Participants are
      then prompted to identify which of two thoughts (positive or negative) is most likely to
      cause the given emotion in the presented situation.

      Intervention in training group. Participants will be given a break between the baseline
      assessment and the intervention task. The primary investigator will be replaced by a second
      researcher who will be responsible for conducting the intervention task. The intervention in
      the training group is based on a task developed by Reed and Clements (1989). The training
      task consists of two blocks of six items presented randomly within each block and blocks
      being counterbalanced between participants. Block 1 follows the original task by presenting a
      situation and prompting participants to identify whether they would feel happy or sad in the
      given situation. Block 2 presents an emotion (happy or sad) and prompts the participant to
      identify which of two situations (positive or negative) most likely preceded this emotion.
      Each block contains three positive (positive situation or happy emotion given) and three
      negative items (negative situation or sad emotion given). The training task will begin with a
      sample exercise solved by the computer and a sample exercise for the participant, similarly
      to the procedures for the baseline assessment. Within each block there will be at least one
      and maximum three training rounds. In the first training round all six items within a block
      will be presented. The second and third training rounds will only consist of the items to
      which the participant responded incorrect in the previous round. Each item will now be
      followed by feedback and incorrect responses will be followed by the correct response.

      Intervention in control group. The intervention in the control group consists of a
      presentation of the stimuli used in the training task. Participants will see situations and
      listen to the simultaneous voice recordings. Unlike in the training task participants will
      not receive instructions to link situations and emotions. There is no task requirement, just
      a presentation of the situation stimuli to assure that potential training effects are due to
      the training programme and not merely to the presentation of scenarios. The duration of the
      presentation of stimulus materials in the control group will range between fifteen and thirty
      minutes. The variable duration is necessary so the primary investigator cannot assume a
      participant's intervention group based on the duration of the intervention task.

      Post-intervention assessment. Post-intervention assessments will take place fifteen minutes
      after the intervention task. The second researcher leaves the room as the primary
      investigator returns to conduct the post-intervention assessments. Participants will be
      reminded to not disclose any information concerning the intervention task with the
      researcher. The post-intervention assessment consists of the adapted cognitive mediation task
      of the baseline assessment. The same procedures of the baseline assessment apply to the
      post-intervention assessment. Within each block of six exercises, four exercises will be
      randomly chosen from the baseline items and two new items will be added.

      STUDY 2

      HYPOTHESES

        1. Photographs may have an advantage over standard line drawings to improve performance on
           tasks assessing the ability to link situations, beliefs and emotions. It is hypothesised
           that a photographic approach will increase effectiveness of the CBT skills training. It
           is assumed that the high reality value of photographs may enhance identification with
           the task materials and thereby improve performance.

        2. A photographic approach may, when compared to the standard verbal approach and a line
           drawings-based approach, reduce the impact of verbal ability on the assessment of CBT
           skills.

        3. A CBT training programme aimed to link situations and emotions may improve both emotion
           recognition skills and cognitive mediation skills (as assessed by the ability to link
           situation, beliefs and emotions).

      DESIGN

      Study 2 is based on a 2 x (2 x S) mixed experimental design with a between-subjects factors
      (Training group: line drawings group versus photographs group) and a within-subjects factor
      (Time: baseline assessment versus post-intervention assessments).

      Baseline and post-intervention assessment of CBT skills will consist of the adapted cognitive
      mediation task, as it is used and described in Study 1, and of an emotion recognition task.
      Both assessments will have line drawings and photographs as stimulus materials to investigate
      Hypotheses 1 and 3.

      The intervention in both training groups will be based on the Reed and Clements task (1989)
      as described in Study 1. Participants in the line drawings group will receive the adapted
      Reed and Clements task (1989) based on line drawings. Participants in the photographs group
      will be presented photographs as task stimuli. The content of the task items does not differ
      between the training groups, only the pictorial presentation of the items differs (Hypothesis
      1 and 2). There will be no separate control group.

      PROCEDURES

      Pre-study procedures. These procedures are identical to the pre-study procedures described in
      Study 1.

      Baseline assessments. The primary investigator will begin by reminding the participant that
      their participation is voluntary, that all data will be anonymous and that they have the
      right to withdraw from the study at any time. The researcher will then introduce the laptop
      computer and the external response box and will continue to explain the procedures for the
      task.

      Baseline assessment will consist of the counterbalanced presentation of the emotion
      recognition task and the adapted cognitive mediation task. The computer program will be
      introduced and one sample item of the first assessment will be solved by the computer to
      illustrate how the task works. The sample item will then be repeated for the participant to
      solve and for the researcher to check if the participant understands the procedures of the
      task. The sample item will be repeated until the participants understands the procedures and
      will have learned how to operate the response box. Baseline assessment will consist of the
      counterbalanced presentation of the emotion recognition task and the adapted cognitive
      mediation task. For each task half of the items will be presented in line drawings and half
      of the items in photographs. The procedures for the adapted cognitive mediation task have
      been described in Study 1.

      The emotion recognition task in Study 2 will consist of two blocks of six exercises,
      counterbalanced between participants. The exercises of block 1 are based on line drawings and
      the exercises of block 2 are based on photographs. All exercises, regardless of the block
      condition, will begin with a three second presentation of a happy face or a sad face. A voice
      recording will be played telling participants which emotion is pictured. This presentation
      will be followed by a one second blank screen. Following the blank screen, three new pictures
      of various emotions will be shown. A recorded voice will prompt the participants to identify
      which of the three presented emotions is similar to the initially presented emotion. The
      target emotions will be happy and sad, while the two distracter emotions may vary between
      neutral, annoyed, disgusted, grumpy, surprised and angry.

      Intervention. Participants will be given a break between the baseline assessments and the
      training task. The primary investigator will leave the room and will be replaced by the
      second researcher who will be responsible for conducting the training task. The training task
      is the adapted Reed and Clements (1989) task based on line drawings for the line drawings
      group and on photographs for the photographs group. The procedures follow the procedure of
      this training task in Study 1.

      Post-intervention assessments. After the training task participants will be given a short
      break and the principal investigator will return to conduct the post-intervention
      assessments. The researcher will remind participants to not disclose any information
      regarding the training task. Post-intervention assessment of the adapted cognitive mediation
      task and the emotion recognition task will follow the same procedures as for their baseline
      assessment. For the post-intervention assessment half of the baseline items within each task
      block will be replaced with new items to control for rehearsal effects and test for
      generalisation of training effects to new items.
    
  