
    
      Over 180,000 diagnoses of invasive breast cancer are made in the US each year. Over one-third
      of women with early stage and over half with late-stage breast cancer are treated with
      mastectomy (removal of the entire breast) due to tumor size, multiple cancers within the
      breast, genetic cancer predisposition, and/or patient preference. Following treatment with
      mastectomy, women who receive breast reconstructive surgery may experience better quality of
      life as they do not have to leave surgery with a bare chest wall. However, large randomized
      trials of post-mastectomy radiation therapy reveal a survival benefit with the addition of
      radiation after mastectomy in women who have cancer present in the axillary lymph nodes (6).
      The delivery of radiation therapy in the presence of a breast reconstruction is challenging
      and often leads to undesirable consequences including reconstruction loss, need for major
      surgical revision, or poor cosmetic outcomes. Therefore, oncologists and patients are forced
      to decide between the potential for improved oncologic outcomes with radiation therapy versus
      increased likelihood of complications and suboptimal cosmetic results. Because of this, some
      patients may be foregoing reconstruction if radiation therapy after mastectomy is needed; or
      foregoing radiation therapy if they have had breast reconstructive surgery (28).

      Hypofractionation enhances patient convenience and decreases treatment burden. This regimen
      has been shown in randomized trials largely in the breast-conservation setting to reduce
      acute radiation therapy side-effects, decrease fatigue at six months and improve cosmetic
      results (21, 22). Despite these results, adoption of hypofractionation has been slow among
      women with breast cancer treated with breast-conserving surgery (24, 25) likely due to
      familiarity and experience of conventional long-course radiation therapy.

      While hypofractionation is used commonly in the UK for patients with mastectomy, there are no
      randomized studies particularly studying outcomes following shorter course radiation therapy
      in women who undergo mastectomy with breast reconstruction. Therefore, there is an even
      greater barrier to the use of hypofractionation in this setting in the US. With improved
      cosmetic results found with hypofractionation, this shorter regimen may have the potential to
      improve reconstruction success rates which are unfortunately modest overall, for patients who
      require post-mastectomy radiation. Especially in contrast to financial disincentives to
      reduce number of radiation treatments, Level I randomized evidence is needed in this
      population to change practice patterns regarding radiation regimen.

      Our study of radiation fractionation regimens has the potential to increase use of
      hypofractionation among women treated with mastectomy, thereby decreasing treatment burden.
      Our team of patient stakeholders ensures that our outcomes measures encompass all domains of
      survivorship after breast cancer (physical and mental health as well as satisfaction with the
      decision-making process). Despite the large numbers of breast cancer survivors who undergo
      mastectomy, reconstruction and radiation therapy, little is known about which domains of
      quality of life are affected and their importance to these patients. This study uses
      previously validated tools for measuring patient outcomes, and have added questions for areas
      which are important to patients that may not have been captured adequately by previous tools.
      In concert with the increasing awareness of the importance of survivorship care to cancer
      care, identifying a comprehensive set of outcomes measurement tools following treatment with
      radiation therapy, mastectomy, and reconstruction is an important asset for future treatment
      evaluation in these women.
    
  