
    
      DYNAMICS STUDY (DNA as prognostic marker in ICU patients)

      Principal Investigator: Patricia Liaw, PhD (McMaster University) Coinvestigator: Alison
      Fox-Robichaud, MD (McMaster University) Funding source: CIHR, 2010-2015 Budget: $794,086

      One-page Protocol summary This is a new 5-year CIHR funded multi-centre prospective
      observational study. The overall objective is to gain insight into the pathophysiology of
      plasma DNA (ie. cell-free DNA) in severe sepsis patients and in other critically ill
      patients. In our pilot study of 80 severe sepsis patients, we found that plasma DNA had
      extremely high prognostic utility in this patient population. Using Receiver Operating
      Characteristic (ROC) curves in a multivariate logistic model, we demonstrated that the Area
      Under the Curve (AUC) for plasma DNA is 0.96 (95% CI 0.93-1.00). Furthermore, plasma DNA
      levels obtained at "day 1" (ie. within 24 hours of meeting the inclusion criteria for severe
      sepsis) did not differ significantly from the levels measured in subsequent days. In other
      words, plasma DNA levels in nonsurvivors were high at "day 1" and remained high; plasma DNA
      levels in survivors were low at "day 1" and remained low. These finding suggests that at
      study inclusion for severe sepsis, the nonsurvivor patients had already reached "a point of
      no return" (with the standard of care available at the time the patients in the pilot study
      were recruited).

      We plan to validate the prognostic utility of plasma DNA prospectively in an independent
      cohort of severe sepsis patients (n=400). We will also study a broad cohort of non-septic ICU
      patients (n=600) to determine if elevations in plasma DNA are specific to severe sepsis, or
      if it is more generally associated with high mortality risk. These non-septic ICU patients
      include the following: multiple trauma, shock on presentation, neurosurgery, aneurysm,
      intracranial hemorrhage, burns). The overall research coordinator for this study is Ellen
      McDonald. Participating centres include Hamilton (Patricia Liaw, Alison Fox-Robichaud,
      Deborah Cook), Ottawa (Laurlyn McIntyre), London (Claudio Martin, Doug Fraser), Vancouver
      (Peter Dodek), Toronto (John Marshall, Jennifer Tsang), Laval Quebec (Francois Lallouche),
      and Calgary (Brent Winston).

      Clinical data will be collected daily during the first week, then once a week thereafter for
      the duration of the patients' stay in the ICU. Blood sample will also be collected on the
      same schedule except that weekend blood samples will be skipped. Freezerworks Unlimited will
      be used for barcoding and tracking of all plasma samples. All samples will be shipped to
      Hamilton for biomarker analyses. Clinical data will be managed with the iDataFax software
      with statistical support from Janice Pogue at the Population Health and Research Institute
      (Hamilton). The primary outcome is ICU mortality. The secondary outcomes are (a) the temporal
      relationships between plasma DNA levels and other markers of inflammation and blood clotting,
      and (b) the temporal relationships between plasma DNA levels and clinical parameters (e.g.
      SOFA and MODS scores, interventions, use of blood products and plasma expanders).

      This study was approved by the Research Ethics Board at the Hamilton Health Sciences in
      November 2010. Deferred consent has been approved. Although we are not performing any DNA
      sequencing analyses on the patient samples (ie. we are simply quantifying how much DNA is in
      the plasma), we are also collecting Paxgene DNA tubes in the event that future
      as-yet-undetermined studies require DNA for gene sequencing studies. Our local Ethics Board
      has approved a separate Genetic Consent form to request and extra blood samples for Paxgene
      DNA tubes. As of May 2012 we have completed recruitment in the sepsis arm. We are starting to
      close some sites to enrolment as we near study completion
    
  