
    
      The Oncotype DX assay has been commercially available in the U.S. since 2004 as a tool to aid
      a physician's treatment recommendation for a breast cancer patient. While the Oncotype DX
      assay is currently reimbursed by the Ontario Health Ministry for node-negative EBC, it is not
      reimbursed for node-positive (N+) patients although the assay has been shown to be both
      prognostic and predictive of chemotherapy benefit for patients with N+ disease.

      The goal of this study is to characterize how the results of the Oncotype DX® assay impact
      the decision making processes of physicians and patients in a large academic medical center
      in Ontario by evaluating recommendations for adjuvant therapy within a population of ER+, N+
      EBC patients with 1 to 3 positive lymph nodes for whom the benefit of adjuvant chemotherapy
      is not certain.

      Upon consent, the patient will be assigned an ID number. The physician will discuss the
      patient's treatment alternatives prior to ordering the Oncotype DX assay. After discussion
      with the patient, the physician will complete a baseline questionnaire indicating the
      therapeutic strategy he/she would recommend to the patient based upon the available clinical
      and pathologic data. In addition, the patient will also complete a baseline questionnaire
      indicating her treatment preference, based on the previous discussion with the physician.

      The Oncotype DX assay will be ordered after receipt of the Registration and Confirmation of
      Eligibility Form and assignment of patient study number. Once the results of the Oncotype DX
      assay are available, the physician will discuss the results with the patient. Both the
      physician and the patient will complete separate follow-up post-assay questionnaires after
      the results of the Oncotype DX assay are known and shared with the patient.

      One last form completed by a study manager or coordinator after a treatment plan has been
      initiated will register the actual treatment administered to the patient.
    
  