
    
      PAST CLINICAL EXPERIENCE:

      The effect of the electric fields generated by the TTFields has been tested in two Ⅲ phase
      trials in humans(EF-11&EF-14). The data from these trials suggest TTFields may improve time
      to disease progression and overall survival of recurrent GBM patients. EF-11 is a randomized,
      controlled trial, designed to test the efficacy and safety of a new medical device.Although
      the number of patients in the trials is small, FDA has approved TTFields as a therapy for
      patients with recurrent GBM.

      DESCRIPTION OF THE TRIAL:

      Patients with GBM whose disease has recurred or progressed despite standard treatment
      (Surgery, radiation therapy, Temozolomide treatment) and meet all of the requirements for
      participation in the study will be included.Before receiving TTFields treatment, the patient
      can receive surgery again, and TTFields+BPC chemotherapy can be used after surgery;
      TTFields+BPC chemotherapy can also be used directly without surgery.

      During the trial, TTFields treatment is a cycle (treatment course) every four weeks, and
      patients are required to complete at least one cycle of treatment. Recommended average daily
      wearing time ≥18 hours, patients will need to return once every month the hospital outpatient
      clinics where they will be examined by a physician and undergo routine laboratory
      examinations. These routine visits will continue for as long as the patient's disease is not
      progressing. After progression, if such occurs, patients will need to return once per month
      for two more months to the outpatient clinic for similar follow up examinations.

      During the visits to the clinic patients will be examined physically and neurologically. A
      routine MRI of the head will be performed at baseline and after 2, 4 and 6 months. After this
      follow up plan, patients will be contacted once per month by telephone to answer basic
      questions about their health status. If the disease progresses, imaging tumor assessment or
      survival follow-up will be performed every 2 months thereafter, until 12 months of follow-up.

      The investigator will use the RANO evaluation criteria for tumor imaging assessment, and
      classify the objective tumor response as follows: The objective tumor response status based
      on the evaluation of the target lesion can be: complete response (CR), partial response (PR),
      stable disease ( SD), disease progression (PD).

      SCIENTIFIC BACKGROUND:

      Electric fields exert forces on electric charges similar to the way a magnet exerts forces on
      metallic particles within a magnetic field. These forces cause movement and rotation of
      electrically charged biological building blocks, much like the alignment of metallic
      particles seen along the lines of force radiating outwards from a magnet.

      Electric fields can also cause muscles to twitch and if strong enough may heat tissues.
      TTFields are alternating electric fields of low intensity. This means that they change their
      direction repetitively many times a second. Since they change direction very rapidly (200
      thousand times a second), they do not cause muscles to twitch, nor do they have any effects
      on other electrically activated tissues in the body (brain, nerves and heart). Since the
      intensities of TTFields in the body are very low, they do not cause heating.

      The breakthrough finding made by NovoCure was that finely tuned alternating fields of very
      low intensity, now termed TTFields (Tumor Treating Fields), cause a significant slowing in
      the growth of cancer cells. Due to the unique geometric shape of cancer cells when they are
      multiplying, TTFields cause the building blocks of these cells to move and pile up in such a
      way that the cells physically explode. In addition, cancer cells also contain miniature
      building blocks which act as tiny motors in moving essential parts of the cells from place to
      place. TTFields cause these tiny motors to fall apart since they have a special type of
      electric charge.
    
  