
    
      1. Induction chemotherapy 1) RCHOP: Before enrollments, patients receive comprising R-CHOP,
           as induction therapy, comprised rituximab (at a dose of 375 mg per square meter of
           body-surface area), cyclophosphamide (750 mg per square meter), doxorubicin (50 mg per
           square meter), vincristine (1.4mg per square meter) administered on days 1, and oral
           prednisone (100 mg per square meter) administered on days 1 to 5. Patients also receive
           pegylated granulocyte-colonly stimulating factor (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) on day 2 to
           day 5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

           VR-CAP: Before enrollments, patients receive comprising VR-CAP, as induction therapy,
           comprised bortezomib (1.3 mg per square meter of body-surface area) administered on days
           1, 4, 8, 11, rituximab (at a dose of 375 mg per square meter), cyclophosphamide (750 mg
           per square meter), doxorubicin (50 mg per square meter) administered on days 1, and oral
           prednisone (100 mg per square meter) administered on days 1 to 5. Patients also receive
           pegylated G-CSF SC on day 2 to day 5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6
           courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

           Patients who have received induction chemotherapy will be evaluated for responses and
           those who achieved more than PR(Partial response) or PR will be eligible for this study
           after receiving informed consents.

        2. Experimental step Maintenance ixazomib beginning at least 8 weeks after completion of
           induction chemotherapy, patients receive ixazomib per oral 3 mg on day 1, 8, and 15 for
           4 weeks. And the dose of ixazomib can be escalated to 4mg by response such as partial
           response or MTD(Maximum Tolerated Dose) positive. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up
           to 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are screened and sign the informed consent after completion induction chemotherapy
      (RCHOP or VR-CAP) with more than PR or PR confirmed. It is likely to take approximately 8
      weeks in performing above procedures.

      Patients start maintenance therapy at least 8 weeks and also can be allowed for the extension
      of 4 weeks because of delayed response evaluation, recovery toxicities of chemotherapy, and
      official process including agree with informed consent. Recently, ongoing studies about
      maintenance therapy in lymphoma have window periods of 8-12 weeks.

      Ixazomib maintenance should continue for 2 years.
    
  