
    
      This trial aims to investigate the efficacy of adding neoadjuvant induction and consolidation
      chemotherapy compared to standard chemoradiotherapy in locally advanced rectal cancer
      patients with circumferential resection margin involvement. This is a prospective multicenter
      open-label randomized phase III clinical trial. Patients will be randomized using an online
      randomization system to receive either 2 cycles of induction CapOx (oxaliplatin 130 mg/m2 iv
      day 1, capecitabine 2000 mg/m2 per os bid days 1-14) chemotherapy, followed by
      chemoradiotherapy (54 Gy in 2 Gy fractions with concomitant capecitabine 825 mg/m2 per os bid
      on radiation days), then 2 cycles of consolidation CapOx chemotherapy, surgery (10-12 weeks
      following chemoradiotherapy) and 2 cycles of adjuvant CapOx chemotherapy OR chemoradiotherapy
      (54 Gy in 2 Gy fractions with concomitant capecitabine 825 mg/m2 per os bid on radiation
      days), surgery (10-12 weeks following chemoradiotherapy) and 6 cycles of adjuvant CapOx
      chemotherapy. A stratification will be performed based on N stage, tumor location in the
      middle or low rectum and clinical center. Patients with middle or low rectal cancer without
      distant metastases, with involved circumferential resection margin (based on pretreatment
      MRI) will be included.

      The target accrual is 270 patients in each treatment arm (including 10% potential data loss)
      based on potential benefit of 12% 3-yr disease-free survival (60% vs 72%), α=0,05, power 80%
      in the experimental arm. An interim analysis is planned after 50% of the patients will reach
      a 3-year followup. Pelvic Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) is performed in all patients for
      staging before and after neoadjuvant chemotherapy and before surgery. Pelvic MRI is subject
      to central review. Conduction of this study and data collection are controlled by a local
      institutional board.
    
  