
    
      Significance:

      Complex surgery of the ascending thoracic aorta and the aortic arch requires use of
      cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) with moderate or profound total body hypothermia and circulatory
      arrest. As expected, coagulation disorder can be common and severe requiring multiple
      transfusions of blood product, which, in turn, is associated with increased risk of morbidity
      and mortality. Over the years, many techniques have been employed to ameliorate CPB- related
      bleeding with some agents such as aprotinin proving to be efficacious but centered in
      controversy either because of high cost or due to safety concerns.

      Aprotinin is a serine protease inhibitor, intended to limit blood loss in patients undergoing
      surgery, was approved for use 13 years ago, and now administered in more than 250,000 surgery
      patients per year. Although its mechanism of action is not entirely known, it is shown to
      interfere with contact activation, preserve platelet function, inhibit fibrinolysis, and
      having some anti-inflammatory effects. Multiple studies have shown its superiority for
      reducing blood loss over other antifibrinolytics while other studies showing safety concerns
      regarding early graft closure causing myocardial infarction (following coronary bypass
      surgery), renal failure, vascular thrombosis, and death. Of note, several other studies have
      addressed such safety concerns- finding that the risk of the aforementioned vascular
      complications are comparable to results utilizing placebo or other antifibrinolytics such as
      aminocaproic acid. For example, the associated renal dysfunction was attributed to a
      competitive excretion process involving creatinine. That is, aprotinin competes with
      creatinine for elimination by the kidneys such that the apparent renal dysfunction is
      transient and a false marker of renal injury. However, the issue of renal injury has recently
      re-emerged as a serious problem in a multicenter study on patients undergoing coronary
      revascularization, whereby more than two fold increase in postoperative renal dysfunction as
      well as a nearly two fold rise in postoperative stroke was reported.

      Much of the controversy and many of the conflicting results arise from either inadequate
      information (i.e., the definitive prospective study has not been done), from inadequately
      powered studies for the intended outcome, inclusion of multi-institution and multi-surgeon
      outcomes, or from studies involving patients with advanced ischemic heart disease whose
      ventricular function may have been compromised perioperatively. To overcome the mentioned
      limitations, and to better characterize to postoperative renal outcomes, we propose to
      investigate the safety of aprotinin in a single institution, single surgeon, and very large
      homogenous surgical cohort who underwent surgical repair of the ascending and aortic arch
      with use of hypothermic CPB.

      Methods:

      This will be a retrospective review of data collected between 1998 and present (nearly 900
      patients) on adult patients having had ascending aorta and or aortic arch surgery at the
      NewYork Presbyterian Hospital. Data on demographics, preoperative, intraoperative, and
      postoperative clinical events will be extracted from the patient's electronic record and
      recorded on a database (Variables to be collected are presented in Appendix 1). A renal event
      will be comprised of renal dysfunction; defined by a serum creatinine level of at least 2.0
      mg/dL (177 µmol/L), accompanied by an increase of at least 0.70 mg/dL (62 µmol/L) from
      baseline or renal failure; defined need for renal replacement therapy. Creatinine values and
      creatinine clearance will be recorded/calculated preoperatively and postoperatively until
      hospital discharge.

      Statistical Analysis Include analysis for association between potential preoperative,
      intraoperative, and early postoperative variables with postoperative renal dysfunction by
      univariate analysis (student's t test and Fisher's exact test). The variables identified by
      univariate testing (p< 0.15) will be entered into a multivariate logistic regression.
      Significance will be set a P < 0.05 and odds ratio will be calculated where applicable.
    
  