
    
      Background

      The Veterans Health Administration (VHA) provides care to 3.3 million Veterans living in
      rural areas, comprising 36% of all VHA enrollees. In 1995, VHA began expanding its system of
      Community Based Outpatient Clinics (CBOCs) in order to improve access for the geographically
      dispersed Veteran population. There are now approximately 900 CBOCs delivering a range of
      services to approximately 64% of VHA enrollees. While these CBOCs have dramatically improved
      access to first class primary care services, it has been more challenging to deliver
      specialty mental health care to rural Veterans. Evidence based specialty mental care
      practices developed for large VA Medical Centers are often not feasible to deploy in small
      CBOCs and thus not accessible to rural Veterans. Rural Veterans with posttraumatic stress
      disorder (PTSD) treated at CBOCs experience little to no improvement in their symptoms over
      time. A major contributor of poor PTSD outcomes is that trauma-focused evidence-based
      psychotherapy is not being provided to Veterans in the CBOC setting. Moreover, travel
      barriers prevent most rural Veterans from receiving trauma-focused evidence-based
      psychotherapy at large VHA Medical Centers (VAMC). Telemedicine Outreach for PTSD (TOP) is a
      technology-facilitated virtual care clinical intervention that is designed to enhance access
      to evidence based psychotherapy and pharmacotherapy. The VHA Office of Rural Health and
      Office of Connected Health and Telehealth Services intend to deploy the TOP intervention
      nationally. This project will lay the ground work for this national implementation
      initiative.

      Specific Aims

      Impact Goal - The goal of this proposed Type II Hybrid effectiveness-implementation project
      is to support the national deployment of the TOP intervention and evaluate its clinical
      effectiveness in routine care.

      To achieve this goal, the following three specific aims will be conducted.

      SPECIFIC AIM 1 - Compare the effectiveness of a standard VA implementation strategy to an
      enhanced implementation strategy in promoting uptake of TOP.

      Hypothesis 1 - For sites not meeting the TOP performance metric benchmark with a standard
      implementation strategy, those randomized to the enhanced implementation strategy will have
      better reach and engagement outcomes than those randomized to continued standard VA
      implementation. Reach is defined using two variables: 1) the likelihood of having a care
      manager encounter and 2) the likelihood of having an evidence based psychotherapy encounter.
      Engagement is defined using two variables: 1) the likelihood of having 8 care manager
      encounters and 2) the likelihood of having 8 evidence based psychotherapy encounters.

      SPECIFIC AIM 2 - Determine if implementation of TOP in routine care improves PTSD outcomes
      for rural Veterans.

      Hypothesis 2 -Clinical outcomes at sites with higher reach and engagement rates for care
      manager and evidence based psychotherapy encounters will have better PTSD outcomes and
      perceived access compared to sites with lower reach and engagement rates and compared to the
      pre-implementation period.

      Hypothesis 3 - Perceived access at sites implementing TOP successfully will be improved
      compared to sites not implementing TOP successfully and compared to the pre-implementation
      period.

      SPECIFIC AIM 3 - Calculate the cost of the standard and enhanced implementation strategies
      and estimate the population level cost effectiveness of the enhanced implementation.

      Methodological Approach

      Setting - The project will be conducted at 6 VAMCs. CBOCs served by these 6 VAMCs without
      on-site psychologists trained in trauma-focused evidence-based psychotherapy will be
      identified and a CBOC or combination of CBOCs with 300-400 eligible patients will be selected
      as the implementation site(s).

      Population (for evaluation) - Using administrative data from VHA's Clinical Data Warehouse
      (CDW), the investigators will identify all patients at participating CBOCs whose most recent
      PC-PTSD screen was positive, had a VHA encounter in the past 12 months with a PTSD diagnosis,
      and had no specialty mental health encounters at the VAMC in the past 6 months. Eligible
      patients will be sampled for the evaluation from the selected CBOCs and 100 will be recruited
      to participate from each VAMC via opt-out letters. The total anticipated sample size will be
      600. Participating patients will complete a baseline survey and 3 follow-up surveys every 9
      months. Local clinicians at implementation sites will have the flexibility to decide who is
      eligible to receive the TOP clinical intervention, but the investigators expect there will be
      considerable overlap between those who are eligible for the evaluation and those considered
      to be eligible for the TOP intervention by local clinicians.

      Telemedicine Outreach for PTSD (TOP) Intervention - TOP is delivered by a virtual care team
      comprising a CBOC provider, and a telephone care manager, telepsychologist and
      telepsychiatrist located at the VAMC. The telephone care manager activities include:
      education, activation, barrier assessment/resolution, medication adherence and side-effect
      monitoring, therapy/homework adherence monitoring and symptom monitoring. The
      telepsychologist activities include the delivery of trauma-focused evidence-based therapy
      (e.g., Cognitive Processing Therapy [CPT] or Prolonged Exposure Therapy [PE]). The
      telepsychiatrist activities include conducting case reviews and psychiatric consultations.
      The core element of the TOP intervention is a case review by the virtual care team (telephone
      care manager, telepsychologist and telepsychiatrist) of all patients newly enrolled in care
      management and all those not responding to treatment, along with documentation of the case
      review in the Electronic Health Record. Given the dynamic nature of technology and the high
      degree of variability in context across clinics, the investigators will employ methods that
      enable the new clinical intervention to be adapted from setting to setting and to be refined
      over time rather than focusing on fidelity to a manualized protocol. The telepsychiatry and
      telepsychology can either be delivered via interactive video to the CBOC or via clinical
      video telehealth to home. The Veteran and the telepsychologist can choose to use smartphone
      apps (CPT Coach or PE Coach) designed to augment these two trauma-focused evidence-based
      therapies. Care managers can also use secure messaging with patients in addition to telephone
      calls.

      Standard VA Implementation Strategy - Standard VA implementation strategies will include
      disseminating a TOP clinical intervention manual, a TOP local champion guide, care manager
      training materials, PTSD case-finder tool (with the same inclusion/exclusion criteria used
      for evaluation sample), and technical support from the facility level telehealth technician.
      Internal facilitation will be conducted by the designated local champion. In addition, each
      VAMC will receive funds from the Office of Rural Health to hire a full time telephone care
      manager for three years devoted to managing CBOC patients with mental health disorders
      including PTSD.

      Enhanced VA Implementation Strategy - The enhanced implementation strategy will add external
      facilitation to the standard VA implementation strategies. External facilitation will begin
      with an assessment of the current workflow at the VHA Medical Center and the affiliated CBOCs
      using System Redesign methods. A member of the external facilitation team will conduct site
      visits at each VAMC and conduct telephone interviews with CBOC staff. The member of the
      external facilitation team will also collaborate with the local System Redesign staff member.
      To assess clinical workflow, the investigators will examine the administrative structure of
      the clinical units, staffing patterns, scopes of practice, service mix, standard operating
      procedures (e.g., patient check-in, screening, referrals, coding), job descriptions and
      annual evaluation criteria, and use of technology including telehealth, eHealth, mHealth, and
      the electronic health record. For the TOP intervention, key clinical workflow elements
      include: 1) how patients are referred to the care managers, 2) whether care managers are
      located at the VISN, VAMC or CBOC and in what administrative unit they are housed, 3) what
      type of psychotherapy is provided at the CBOC (e.g., anger management, PTSD groups, etc.), 4)
      formulary restrictions and prescribing patterns, 5) how psychiatric consultations are
      arranged, 6) how frequently patients are seen in mental health and primary care, caseloads,
      and wait times, 7) appointment scheduling procedures for mental health and primary care, 8)
      no show rates, 9) care manager software availability, 10) use of interactive video, clinical
      video telehealth to home, SmartPhone apps, 10) use of psychiatric rating scales, and 11) how
      workload credit is distributed. The external facilitation team will then generate a clinical
      workflow chart that describes the current process of care. With advice from the external
      facilitation team, the local champion will then incorporate the clinical process of the TOP
      intervention (including use of technology) into the current clinical workflow chart, making
      changes to the TOP intervention and/or current clinical workflow as needed. The local
      champion will also meet monthly with external facilitators to troubleshoot and make
      refinements.

      Project Design - A stepped wedge Sequential Multiple Assignment Randomized Trial (SMART)
      design will be used for this Type II Hybrid Effectiveness-Implementation project. The project
      will compare implementation outcomes (patient reach) of the standard VA implementation
      strategy to the implementation outcomes of the enhanced implementation strategy. This design
      will also allow us to document improvements in perceived access and PTSD outcomes for
      patients at sites that successfully implement the TOP intervention. The investigators will
      begin by collecting pre-implementation access and outcomes data from a sample of patients. In
      the first implementation step, all six VAMCs will conduct the standard VA implementation
      strategy at the selected CBOCs for nine months. At the end of the first implementation step,
      will collect follow-up data from the sample of patients to assess perceived access,
      intervention reach, and clinical effectiveness. To conduct the SMART trial design it will be
      necessary to specify a performance measure benchmark (i.e., tailoring variable) that will be
      used to determine whether the standard implementation effort is successful. The investigators
      will define implementation success based on the capacity of the full time care manager to
      enroll a prespecified number of patients. Specifically, the care manager will report the
      number of patients enrolled in the care management protocol to the evaluation team and
      implementation success will be defined as 50 enrolled patients over the 9 month period. If
      this performance measure benchmark is attained, the VAMC will discontinue the standard VA
      implementation efforts, but the investigators will continue to collect evaluation data. If
      the performance measure benchmark is not attained, the VAMC will be randomized to either
      continued standard VA implementation strategy or the enhanced implementation strategy in the
      next step. In the second implementation step, these VAMCs will conduct either the standard or
      enhanced implementation strategy at selected CBOCs for nine months. At the end of the second
      implementation step, the investigators will again collect follow-up data from the sample of
      patients to assess perceived access, intervention reach, and clinical effectiveness. If the
      performance measure benchmark is attained in the second step at standard or enhanced
      implementation sites, the VAMC will discontinue implementation efforts. If the performance
      measure benchmark is not attained at standard implementation sites, the VAMC will receive the
      enhanced implementation strategy in the next step. If the performance measure benchmark is
      not attained at enhanced implementation sites, the VAMC will continue to receive enhanced
      implementation. At the end of the third implementation step, the investigators will again
      collect follow-up data from the sample of patients to assess perceived access, intervention
      reach, and clinical effectiveness.

      Outcome Measures - The evaluation of the implementation strategies will be based on the
      RE-AIM framework. Data will be collected from patient survey and chart review for all
      patients sampled for the evaluation. The reach implementation outcome measure will be
      specified as the proportion of sampled patients who received the core element of the TOP
      intervention (documentation in the electronic health record of a case review of the patient
      by the virtual care team). This will be assessed by chart review at three time points: 1) 9
      month follow-up, 2) 20 month follow-up, and 3) 31 month follow-up. For each patient sampled,
      perceived access and clinical effectiveness data will be collected at four different time
      points: 1) pre-implementation baseline, 2) 9 month follow-up, 3) 20 month follow-up, and 4)
      31 month follow-up. PTSD outcomes will be specified as a continuous change in the PCL-5 score
      between baseline and follow-up. Perceived access will be measured using items specifically
      developed for the project. Provider adoption will be assessed with qualitative interviews of
      all CBOC clinicians treating a sampled patient as well as members of the TOP intervention
      team (i.e., care manager, telepsychiatrists and telepsychologists) and the local champion.
      During the qualitative interviews with these CBOC and VAMC providers, the investigators will
      also assess barriers and facilitators to adoption, including their perceived benefits and
      weaknesses of the TOP intervention.

      Costs - The investigators will measure the cost of both implementation strategies both
      prospectively and retrospectively. The investigators will collect data on implementation
      activities during both the standard VA and enhanced implementation strategies. These costs
      and activities will be assessed for the investigators' operational partners, local champions,
      and external facilitators, as well as personnel from the implementation sites at the VISN,
      VAMC, and CBOCs. The investigators will first examine the components of each implementation
      strategy and then identify activities for each component. These activities will include
      clinical workflow mapping, development of training materials, training sessions, meetings,
      and conference calls. The investigators will develop project logs to document these
      activities and time spent on each activity. The external facilitators, local champions and
      frontline providers on the implementation team will record the logs on a regular basis. The
      investigators will review meeting and conference call minutes to document time spent and
      attendance by the facilitation team, operational partners and clinical leaders and frontline
      providers. TOP intervention costs will be assessed from CDW (using provider IDs to identify
      TOP encounters).

      Data Analysis - The stepped wedge SMART design allows us to estimate the effectiveness of the
      implementation strategy by comparing patient reach between groups of VAMCs randomized to
      standard or enhanced implementation and by comparing reach outcomes over time within the same
      VAMC as it is transitioned from standard implementation to enhanced implementation. Likewise,
      by collecting PCL-5 scores pre-baseline and again throughout each implementation step, the
      investigators will be able to compare access and PTSD outcomes of patients between VAMCs
      successfully implementing TOP to those not successfully implementing TOP and by comparing
      access and PTSD outcomes over time within the same VAMC as it is transitions from
      pre-implementation to successful implementation. This will allow us to estimate the clinical
      effectiveness of the TOP promising practices as implemented in routine care. Following intent
      to treat principals, the investigators will estimate the clinical effectiveness of TOP for
      the entire sample regardless of whether they were reached to generate a measure of population
      level effectiveness. Generalized linear models will be used to account for the clustering of
      patients and providers within VAMCs and CBOCs. VAMCs and CBOCs will specified as random
      effects and time period will be specified as a fixed effect. The reach, access and PTSD
      outcome regressions will be estimated using patients as the unit of analysis and data from
      all VAMCs will be included regardless of whether the VAMC attained the performance measure
      benchmark. For hypothesis 1 (reach regression), the explanatory variable will be whether the
      VAMC was randomized to standard VA implementation or enhanced implementation during each
      step. For hypothesis 2 (PTSD outcomes regression) and 3 (access regression), the explanatory
      variable will be whether the VAMC attained the performance measure benchmark during each time
      period. Using implementation and intervention cost data, the investigators will also
      calculate the population level cost-effectiveness of using the enhanced implementation
      strategy to deploy the TOP promising practice relative to the standard VA implementation
      strategy.
    
  