
    
      Familiar hypercholesterolemia (FH) is the most common genetic disorder associated with the
      development of severe and premature coronary artery disease (CAD). The disorder is caused by
      mutations in the gene that encodes the low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDL-r), resulting in
      a lower expression of functional LDL-r in the liver. FH has autosomal dominant transmission
      with high penetrance and the prevalence of heterozygous individuals is one in 400 to 500 in
      the general population. To date, more than 800 different functional mutations of the LDL-r
      gene have been described worldwide, and more than 200 have been documented in Spain. In
      addition, a much less common disorder that resemble FH is familial defective apoB 100
      disorder (FDB) produced by a mutation in the Apo B 100 gene. FDB accounts for a significant
      proportion of FH in some localized regions of Spain.

      Life expectancy is shortened by 20 to 30 years in FH patients, and sudden death and
      myocardial infarction are the principal causes of death. The Simon Broome Register of FH in
      Great Britain, has shown that FH has a 100-fold increase in coronary mortality and a nearly
      10-fold increase in total mortality, especially in young adults.

      Since the 1990's, coronary mortality and total mortality in FH patients have decreased
      remarkably in part due to the use of more effective lipid-lowering therapy such as statins.
      The analysis of the Dutch FH cohort showed that an early treatment with statins after the
      diagnosis of the disorder leads to near normalisation of coronary heart disease risk
      comparable to the general population. Therefore, most of patients require an early,
      continuous and more intensive lipid-lowering therapy.

      Despite the use of statins, this population still have a high risk for the development of
      premature CAD. Therefore, the need to study the relatives of a known FH case, know as cascade
      screening, is essential to detect those cases that are younger, probably with a less severe
      form of FH and are not receiving treatment to prevent cardiovascular disease development.

      Although the genetic defect is probably the most important factor in the clinical expression
      of FH, other genetic (gene-gene interactions), environmental (particularly those relating to
      diet, tobacco consumption and physical activity) and metabolic factors could play an
      important role in modulating the atherosclerotic burden in this population.

      To gain insight into the prognostic factors and mechanisms that influence the development of
      CAD and mortality in FH, a long-term prospective follow-up of a molecularly well-defined FH
      cohort using a multidisciplinary approach is necessary. This cohort is an excellent tool of
      translational research to evaluate and determine the principal prognostic factors related to
      CAD morbidity and mortality.
    
  