
    
      This is an open-label prospective, multicenter (centralized procedure), single arm,
      sequentially enrolling study. Twenty subjects will be enrolled in the study.

      Patient will be referred by the attending urologists after failure of the currently
      recommended approach of Trial WithOut Catheter (TWOC) and alpha-adrenergic receptor (AR)
      blockers.

      It is expected that all AUR cases referred to the local urological clinic will be considered
      for inclusion in the trial. A trial log book will be completed by the referring local
      urologist in order to obtain preliminary data on the applicability of the trial to all AUR
      comers in the institution. This log book will be limited to a very simple questionnaire to
      ensure high rate of completion by the attending resident/fellow (Patients age, size of
      prostate, previous Benign Prostate Hypertrophy symptoms, renal function). It will be used in
      order to assess the external validity of this first phase trial and will be a help to design
      the potential next step trial.

      When a patient will present with AUR in the corresponding urological clinic, the PI and
      Clinical research coordinator will be informed by a short text message, fax or e-mail in
      order to prepare the following process.

      Patient will be informed by the urologist of the ongoing research project. In summary, this
      will consist in informing the patient that the first step is TWOC and in case of failure of
      TWOC several options are offered including PAE in the trial setting. Inclusion of the patient
      will considered only in case of failure of TWOC.

      If the patient is willing to participate, patient will be seen in clinic by the Principal
      Investigator or co-investigator in order to inform him of the protocol and obtain signed
      informed consent.

      PAE will be scheduled upon the first contact to make sure that PAE is performed in a short
      delay following failure of TWOC. The goal is to perform PAE in the week following
      recatheterization. For practical reasons this delay might be extended and will be recorded in
      the Case Report Form.
    
  