
    
      Novel, validated methods to monitor adherence to HIV treatment in real time are urgently
      needed given the well-known limitations of self-reported adherence, pill counts, and MEMS
      caps. In order to be scalable and sustainable in both resource-rich and resource limited
      settings, such devices need to be low-cost and designed in a way that does not increase the
      risk of accidental HIV disclosure and subsequent stigma. Devices which both monitor adherence
      in real time and provide tailored reminders to patients for medication-taking have the
      potential to greatly improve adherence to HIV treatment as well as to treatment for other
      chronic diseases. Our Indo-US collaborative team has been conducting research on HIV stigma,
      ARV adherence patterns and barriers, treatment outcome, and drug resistance for over a
      decade. The study investigators have also pioneered the use of ARV concentrations in small
      hair samples to measure long-term ARV adherence in resource-rich and limited settings (RLS).
      In response to the need for novel adherence measures, our team has recently developed
      Tel-Me-Box, a small, low-cost adherence device that monitors adherence in real time, by
      transmitting a wireless signal to a server when opened. The investigators now propose to add
      hardware that will enable the server software to wirelessly program the device to activate
      tailored medication-taking reminders (via a beep, vibration, or LED light) after a period of
      inactivity. The device fits in a pocket, can hold 1-2 weeks' worth of medications, has a long
      battery life, simple charging capability, and has been found acceptable to Indian patients
      with adherence challenges in pilot studies. Since HIV stigma serves as a profound barrier to
      ARV adherence in many settings, including India, the small, inconspicuous nature of
      Tel-Me-Box, along with its ability to deliver tailored reminder features honors participants'
      privacy concerns. Since this electronic device monitoring cannot assess actual drug
      ingestion, validating it against a biological measure of adherence, such as ARV hair
      concentrations, is crucial.

      This study includes a pilot randomized control trial (RCT) to examine acceptability and
      feasibility and to estimate the effect size of automated tailored real-time adherence
      reminders on hair ARV concentrations, device- monitored adherence, and viral load suppression
      in adherence-challenged patients.

      The aim of this study is to validate TMB as an innovative tool to assess adherence and
      predict treatment outcomes, and demonstrate the feasibility of hair analyses in RLS. If
      successful, pilot data will be available on the efficacy of the Tel-Me-Box automated,
      tailored reminders for a future large scale RCT.
    
  