
    
      In this pilot trial, the feasibility of the trial protocol will be established in two centres
      in Canada. Patients at high risk of malnutrition will be identified within 48 hours of
      hospital admission using Subjective Global Assessment criteria. Patients will be randomized
      in a factorial design fashion via a centralized, internet-based randomization protocol to one
      of the following arms:

        1. Peripheral parenteral nutrition and enhanced oral supplementation;

        2. Peripheral parenteral nutrition and standard care for oral supplementation;

        3. Standard care for parenteral fluid administration and enhanced oral supplementation;

        4. Standard care for parenteral fluid administration and standard of care for oral
           supplementation.

      Peripheral parenteral nutrition (PPN) is intravenous nutrition consisting of dextrose, amino
      acids, fat, and electrolytes through a peripheral vein. Peri-OLIMEL 2.5% E, parenteral
      solution (Baxter) will be administered in this study. Patients will be randomized to PPN vs.
      standard care intravenous maintenance fluid administration for up to 5 days of
      hospitalization or until discharge, whichever is sooner. The PPN will be administered in
      place of their maintenance crystalloid solution, and will be adjusted or stopped as
      clinically indicated by the attending medical team.

      If there is no maintenance crystalloid fluid administration, the parenteral nutrition
      solution will be administered at a rate of 0.85mL/kg/hour.

      The minimum infusion rate will be 45 mL per hour (for participants who weigh 53 kg or less).
      The minimum infusion rate would provide a supplementation of 1,080 kcal/day.

      The maximum infusion rate will be 85 mL/hour (for participants who weigh 100 kg or more). The
      maximum infusion rate would provide a supplementation of 2,040 kcal/day.

      The PPN solution has a low osmolarity (< 900 mOsm) to reduce risk of phlebitis (Peri-OLIMEL
      2.5% E is760mOsm). The use of PPN, compared to total parenteral nutrition (TPN) offers safety
      advantages. PPN avoids cost and complication of central line placement, avoids line sepsis
      and reduces the likelihood re-feeding syndrome [30-32]. Peri-OLIMEL 2.5% E contains lipids
      and electrolytes further reducing the likelihood of vein irritation and refeeding syndrome.
      All patients will be monitored closely and patients with uncontrolled blood sugars will be
      excluded.

      Patients randomized to Oral Nutritional Supplementation (ONS) will receive standard menu or
      standard menu plus oral nutritional supplements. The investigators will provide patients with
      one package of ONS (Resource 2.0 - 237 mL, 474 calories; or similar product) two times daily
      in hospital. Although the patient will be encouraged, they will not be required to consume
      all of the oral supplementation product. Upon discharge, patients will be provided with ONS
      product to take home.

      All participants will be monitored daily in hospital. After discharge, the investigators will
      follow up with the participant at a 30-day follow-up clinic visit, to collect data regarding
      clinical outcomes, quality of life, physical function, and nutrition-related variables.

      This pilot study will establish the feasibility of a paradigm-changing protocol that will
      rapidly identify and aggressively treat malnutrition in hospitalized patients, with the goal
      of improving function, quality of life, healthcare utilization, and reducing the risk of
      adverse clinical events.
    
  