
    
      Rationale: The prevalence of migraine is three times higher in women than in men. Clinical
      and epidemiological studies suggest a prominent role for sex hormones in female migraine
      patients. Menstruation is an important factor increasing the susceptibility for an upcoming
      attack. Perimenstrual migraine attacks are also more disabling, longer lasting, and more
      difficult to treat than other attacks. Hormonal fluctuations during menopausal transition are
      associated with increased susceptibility for migraine as well, whereas hormonal changes in
      migraine during pregnancy seem to be associated with decreased attack frequency. Thus, sex
      hormonal conditions seem to affect the susceptibility for migraine attacks in women, but
      there is a lack of understanding the underlying pathophysiological mechanism. Currently,
      there is no clear evidence-based hormonal intervention for the treatment of migraine in
      women. The investigators hypothesize that continuous daily use of an oral contraceptive pill
      will be an effective, well-tolerated preventive treatment for 1) menstrually-related migraine
      and 2) perimenopausal migraine.

      Objective: To study the efficacy of continuous daily use of ethinylestradiol/levonorgestrel
      (30/150 µg/day) compared with vitamin E (400 IU/day) in the treatment of menstrually-related
      and perimenopausal migraine.

      Study design: Open-label randomized controlled trial. Study population: Women with
      menstrually-related or pure menstrual migraine and women with perimenopausal migraine.

      Intervention: Continuous daily use of ethinylestradiol/levonorgestrel (30/150 µg/day)
      compared with vitamin E (400 IU/day).

      Primary endpoint: Change in monthly migraine days from baseline to the last 4 weeks of
      treatment (weeks 9-12).

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: The study will encompass a period of 4 months (1 baseline month and 3 treatment
      months). Patients have to fill out daily headache diaries throughout the study using a
      web-based app (≈ 5 min). Patients visit the headache clinic thrice, once for inclusion, once
      during the baseline period and once after 3 months of therapy (duration ≈ 1 hour). During the
      first and last visit blood samples will be taken. Patients will be contacted twice during
      follow-up to evaluate (S)AE's. Treatment with the oral contraceptive pill is accompanied by a
      very low risk of developing thromboembolisms. Participation might benefit participants by
      reducing their migraine attack frequency or intensity.
    
  