
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled study that investigates the use of NAC
      during and after OLT. A total of 100 patients will be recruited. Fifty will receive a placebo
      (normal saline) and the other fifty will receive NAC. The patients in the NAC group will
      receive a loading dose of 140 mg/kg IV of NAC over one hour at the start of the surgery.
      Thereafter, NAC will be repeated every 4 hours at a dose of 70 mg/kg IV, for a total of 13
      doses. The placebo group will receive an equal volume of a normal saline infusion for 13
      doses. Both groups will be followed for one year after their OLT. The following data will be
      recorded and collected: liver function tests, renal function tests, liver graft survival
      rate, patient survival, serum level of glutathione (GSH-PX/GR), duration of hospital and ICU
      stay. To evaluate the accuracy of calculated serum creatinine clearance (CSCC) in predicating
      the renal performance in OLT patients, another two serum markers will be estimated. The 1st
      one is Cystatin-C and the 2nd is Beta-trace. The data from CSCC, cystatin-C and beta-trace
      will be compared to find out which is the best marker in between these three tests to
      predicate the renal function. The data will be recorded daily for the first week after the
      surgery, then on days 14, 21, 30, 90, 180 and finely at the end of the first year after the
      OLT. Statistical analysis of the data will be performed at the conclusion of the study period
      to determine the difference in the outcome and morbidity and mortality between the two
      groups.

      Objective and Specific Aims

      Objectives:

        -  Assess the efficacy of NAC to preserve liver graft function and to improve patient/graft
           survival following orthotopic liver transplantation.

        -  Assess the efficacy of NAC to preserve kidney function in the patients undergoing OLT.

      Primary Aims:

        -  Severity of the post reperfusion syndrome (PRS) will be compared in both groups by
           assessing hemodynamic parameters and the need for vasopressor support in the neohepatic
           stage.

        -  Liver graft function, the incidence of primary non-function and delayed function in both
           the treatment and placebo groups, will be assessed with post-operative liver function
           tests (ALT, AST, serum bilirubin, PT/INR, APTT, lactate, etc). Liver function tests will
           be assessed at one month, three month, six month and at one year following the OLT.

        -  The duration of ICU and hospital stays will be compared between the two groups.

        -  Survival rate (patient/graft) between the treatment and placebo groups will be compared
           at 1 month, 3 months, 6 months and 1 year.

        -  Renal function will be compared in the treatment and placebo groups by assessing the
           following parameters during and after liver transplantation: urine output (ml/24 hours),
           serum creatinine and BUN, calculated creatinine clearance.

        -  The incidence of postoperative acute renal failure (ARF) and the extent and duration of
           renal dysfunction will be compared between the treatment and the placebo groups.

      Secondary Aims:

        -  Investigating the effect of NAC on the endogenous glutathione peroxides/glutathione
           reductase (GSH-PX/GR) body stores in patients undergoing OLT.

        -  Investigating the effect of NAC on FK506 induced toxicity.

        -  Investigating the accuracy of two new markers for evaluating the renal function and
           glomerular filtration rate and compare them to CSCC.
    
  