
    
      Neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD) is a rare autoimmune disease of the central
      nervous system that disproportionately affects non-Caucasians and females,1,2 and has a
      worldwide prevalence estimated to be 0.52 to 4.4/100,000.3 NMOSD preferentially causes
      recurrent inflammatory attacks in the optic nerves and spinal cord, leading to blindness,
      paralysis and death. Despite these devastating consequences of the disease, patients have
      reported that pain is among the most prevalent and debilitating symptom, and impacts mood,
      mobility and quality of life (QoL). In particular, central neuropathic pain (CNP) is
      pervasive, severe, intractable to treatment, and affects 62-91% of patients with NMOSD. CNP
      is described as agonizing burning, stabbing, shooting, tingling or squeezing sensation that
      is distressing, persistent and incapacitating.13,14 The presence of CNP in NMOSD is a direct
      consequence of targeted immune-mediated destruction of the spinal cord and may be influenced
      by lesion span and location: NMOSD lesions are generally transverse, involving both the
      central gray matter and dorsal horns. The dorsal horns are innervated by primary ascending
      fibers that convey sensory information to the brain. Damage to the central gray matter in
      NMOSD leads to astrocytic damage and tissue necrosis, thus disrupting sensory pain tracts
      going to and from the brain. As a consequence of ongoing spontaneous activity arising in the
      periphery, surviving neurons develop increased background activity and increased responses to
      ascending nerve impulses, including normally harmless tactile stimulation. An additional
      mechanism of CNP involves peripheral sensitization of non-myelinated ascending C fibers
      interpreted by the brain as persistent pain, a characteristic sign of an inflammatory process
      in the spinal cord.

      Spinal CNP typically presents weeks to months after the cord damage has occurred, long after
      the acute injury, and may be the result of secondary changes due to reorganization of damaged
      circuits of the somatosensory system. CNP occurs at and below the spinal cord lesion level,
      and can persist for years, decades or throughout the patient's life. As with neuropathic pain
      from other etiologies, the most frequently-used medications for its treatment in NMOSD are
      anti-epileptics, antidepressants and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents. Descriptive
      studies in NMOSD recognized the inadequate effect of these medications, resulting in frequent
      breakthrough opioid use. Furthermore, side effects from these medications, particularly at
      higher doses, are independently associated with fatigue.

      Scrambler is a type of transcutaneous electrostimulation (TENS) that uses peripheral nerve
      stimulation to modify ascending sensory responses in the spinal cord. Electrical impulses are
      transmitted via surface electrodes placed surrounding the pain area. Traditional TENS units
      take advantage of the Gate Control Theory in which stimulation of surrounding A-delta fibers
      dampens incoming pain signals. Scrambler therapy provides additional stimulation of ascending
      sensory C fibers that imitate normal nerve action potentials with the intent of re-organizing
      maladaptive signaling pathways. The theory behind Scrambler treatment is that "scrambled"
      waveforms - instead of repetitive identical waveforms in traditional TENS - are dynamically
      assembled into strings of information that are interpreted by the brain to replace pain with
      "no-pain" information. In contrast to traditional TENS therapy that provides only short term
      pain relief, studies with Scrambler therapy in peripheral neuropathy suggest that patients
      can have significantly reduced pain or be pain-free for up to 3 months following a series of
      treatments, and that follow-up treatments may require fewer sessions for continued relief.

      This study is a randomized single blinded, sham-controlled trial of patients with
      Neuromyelitis Optica Spectrum Disorder who have central neuropathic pain using Scrambler
      Therapy added to standardized empiric medications using patient reported outcomes to
      determine if Scrambler Therapy is a feasible and effective add-on treatment of chronic
      neuropathic pain.

      This trial will recruit twenty-two adult patients diagnosed with NMOSD who have chronic
      neuropathic pain despite empiric treatment with an anti-epileptic, antidepressant, opioid
      and/or an NSAID medication. Patients will be randomized 1:1 to undergo Scrambler Therapy or
      blinded sham daily for 10 days. The primary outcomes will be acceptability and feasibility.
      The secondary outcome will be efficacy measured as a change in pain scores of more than two
      points recorded daily by the patient using an 11-point visual analog scale; quality of life
      (QoL), neurologic function, anxiety, depression, sleep disturbance and pain will also be
      evaluated at baseline, at the end of therapy, and at 4 & 8 weeks following completion of
      treatment. Investigators hypothesize that Scrambler Therapy will be an acceptable, feasible
      and efficacious intervention that significantly reduces pain in patients with neuromyelitis
      optica spectrum disorder.
    
  