
    
      Background: SD is a non-psychotic disorder within the Schizophrenia Spectrum (in ICD-10), and
      has a prevalence of 3.9 % in adult samples. Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD), a pervasive
      developmental disorder (including AS), has a prevalence of 1 %.

      SD is typically diagnosed in young adults, whereas AS typically is diagnosed in childhood.
      Sometimes however, the AS symptoms first become invalidating in young adulthood, where social
      demands exceed the individual's capacity. In these cases, patients with symptoms
      corresponding to AS, might first be diagnosed as young adults. In Adult Psychiatry though,
      experience with diagnosing ASD is scarce, and studies suggest that adult patients presenting
      with symptoms corresponding to AS, are either overlooked, or diagnosed within the
      schizophrenia spectrum.

      Psychiatric diagnosis: Description of present psychopathology is the only way to diagnose
      psychiatric illness. An accurate diagnosis is crucial for a relevant treatment and
      rehabilitation plan for the individual patient, as the diagnosis guides the help and support
      offered. Further, to properly guide neuro-psychiatric research, high diagnostic accuracy is
      imperative. This study will refer to the diagnostic criteria defined in ICD-10, when
      including participants, as ICD-10 is the principal diagnostic system in Denmark.

      Altered self-experience: Alterations in self-experience are considered highly specific for
      the schizophrenia spectrum, and are therefore not thought to be present in equal amounts
      and/or distribution in ASD. If this is true, an examination of anomalous self-experiences
      would be valuable to aid clinical differentiation between SD and AS. For patients with
      altered self-experience, the experience of him-/herself as a subject is disturbed. This means
      that the form and structure (rather than content) of the patients' thoughts and experiences
      is altered.

      Aim, objectives and hypotheses: The aim is to do an in depth exploration of differences in
      present psychopathology (psychiatric symptoms) in young adults with SD and AS. This will
      elaborate and refine our understanding of SD and AS specifically, and ASD and schizophrenia
      spectrum disorders in general.

      The objectives are to; 1. Explore differences in psychopathology between young adults with SD
      and AS and, 2. Contribute to both the general and the specific (in SD and AS respectively)
      description of the autism concept.

      The hypotheses are that; 1. The total level of altered experiences (EASE total score) is
      higher in SD than in AS and, 2. The pattern of most occurring altered experiences (individual
      EASE items) is different in AS, compared to SD.

      Material and methods: The study is observational and comparative in design, and will include
      100 participants; 50 diagnosed with SD, and 50 with AS. The included subjects medical history
      will be revised by two senior psychiatric consultants, ensuring identification of
      participants with typical symptoms. Further, all included participants will be assessed with
      three semi-structured psychopathological interviews, general symptom and functional scores
      and self-reports.

      Co-ratings: All study interviews will be videotaped, and a subset of the taped SCAN and EASE
      interviews will be co-rated within the research group. Co-ratings will also routinely be
      performed amongst psychologists at The Danish Autism Centre, who conducts the ADOS
      interviews.

      Statistical analyses: To investigate between group differences, group wise comparisons
      between SCAN algorithms, ADOS algorithms and EASE outcomes will be applied. Further,
      secondary correlations across psychopathological domains will be explored, and explorative
      cross-diagnostic factor analysis will be performed.

      Ethical considerations: Prior to inclusion a differentiated informed consent will be obtained
      from all participants.
    
  