
    
      We plan to expand a completed pilot study that evaluated the prevalence of thyroid
      abnormalities in relation to childhood exposure to atmospheric emissions of radioactive
      iodines from the Mayak Nuclear Weapons Plant in Ozyorsk, Russia. The pilot study population
      was composed of a defined cohort of approximately 900 Ozyorsk residents who were born between
      January 1, 1952 and December 31, 1953. The exposed population was comprised of persons who
      lived in Ozyorsk during the years of heavy atmospheric releases (1952-1953). Members of the
      nonexposed group moved to Ozyorsk between 1967 and 1991, i.e. when there were almost no
      radioactive releases. Results from the pilot study suggest an elevated prevalence of thyroid
      nodules in the exposed population. Given the positive results from the pilot study and the US
      Department of Energy's (DOE) decision to fund a dose reconstruction project for the Ozyorsk
      population, we intend to expand the study to include an additional 350 people born and living
      in Ozyorsk between 1954 and 1955, i.e. exposed to moderate levels of radiation .

      Methods similar to those used in the pilot study will be used in the expanded study. Members
      of the study population will be invited to participate in a special thyroid screening
      protocol when they come for their annual routine medical examination at the Ozyorsk automated
      dispensary system (ASDOC). The thyroid gland is clinically examined by two ASDOC physicians
      specifically trained in thyroid palpation. Thyroid abnormalities will be detected based on
      physical examinations, assessment of TSH levels, and ultrasound imaging. Biochemical
      laboratory tests, including Free T(4), and anti-thyroperoxidase antibodies will be assayed as
      necessary. Patients are sent to a consulting endocrinologist if the palpation, ultrasound or
      laboratory findings suggest a thyroid disorder. Fine needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy is
      performed when a tumor is suspected. Although the FNA is not be done as part of the study
      research, but rather as part of the regular Ozyorsk medical system, the results will be given
      to the study staff to help make diagnostic decisions. Patients with complicated thyroid
      disease will be referred to an experienced consulting thyroid specialist. Patients with
      diagnosed thyroid disease are treated within the regular medical system in Ozyorsk.
    
  