
    
      The subjects in the study will be 144 men and women with HIV infection who report
      experiencing 3 or more episodes of diarrhea (non-pathogen related) per 24 hour period for 3
      weeks or more. Subjects will be randomized to one of four experimental intervention
      conditions: Condition 1 subjects receive true acupuncture and true moxibustion; Condition 2
      subjects receive true acupuncture and placebo moxibustion; Condition 3, subjects receive true
      moxibustion and sham acupuncture; Condition 4( Control Group), subjects receive sham
      acupuncture and placebo moxibustion. Subjects in Conditions 1,2,3,& 4 will attend 20
      scheduled sessions over 24 weeks. Week 1 is a baseline session followed by two sessions per
      week for weeks 2-8 (sessions 2-15), one session per week for weeks 9, 10, 11 and 12 (sessions
      16, 17, 18 & 19) and a final follow-up session at week 24. All subjects will complete daily
      bowel movement and medication data collection diaries for the duration of the study.
      Measurement of quality of life and level of functioning will be taken pre-intervention
      (session 1), week 6 (session 10), week 12 (session 19) and week 24 (session 20). All
      interventions will be implemented by licensed acupuncturists trained in traditional Chinese
      medicine. This study is designed to assess the efficacy of two alternative medicine
      treatments for chronic diarrhea associated with HIV in a prospective, randomized, controlled,
      blinded, parallel groups study under the intent-to-treat principle. True acupuncture,
      moxibustion, and combination therapy, in which specific meridian points are stimulated
      according to protocol, will be compared to each other and with the control group, with
      one-way ANOVA models for pre-treatment minus post-treatment difference scores for diarrhea
      frequency and stool consistency as the dependent measures and treatment group assignment
      (Conditions 1 - 4) as the independent variable. Average pretreatment diarrhea frequency and
      stool consistency scores will be entered as covariates into these models. Sample size
      determination for the above analysis, based on preliminary data, with 80% power and a
      two-tailed type I error rate of .05% by the method of Holm (1979) and a 20% attrition factor
      indicates the need for 36 subjects assigned to each condition to detect a 0.95-standardized
      difference between the most extreme experimental conditions.
    
  