
    
      The main objective of this study is to show that metformin, in patients with type 1 diabetes
      but without chronic kidney disease, is able to slow below- knee arterial calcification
      evaluated by the difference between below-knee arterial calcification score evaluated by
      CT-scan at T0 and T2years in type 1 diabetic patients treated or not with metformin. This
      research is a phase III double blind randomized controlled trial consiting of 2 years
      treatment phase (patients randomized to metformin or placebo).The participants and the
      investigators will be blinded to the study medications taken during the treatment period. The
      treatment delivered will be metformin vs placebo started at 500 mg per day per os and
      titrated up to 2000 mg (increase of 500 mg every two weeks). The duration of the treatment
      will be two years. The main inclusion criteria are: Type 1 diabetes / Women and Men ≥ 18
      years old and ≤ 80 years old with complications: diabetic retinopathy and/or nephropathy
      (with creatinine clearance ≥ 60 mL/mn) and/or neuropathy and/or peripheral arterial occlusive
      disease and/or cardiopathy and/or stroke and/orcardiovascular risk factors (hypertension
      and/or dyslipidemia (HDL < 0.35g/L or LDL > 1.9g/L or treated dyslipidemia) and/or tobacco
      use (old or active smoking greater than 5 pack years))and/or Diabetes duration >20 years.

      The secondary objectives and endpoints are: 1. To show that metformin, in patients with type
      1 diabetes but without CKD, is able to slow below-knee arterial occlusive disease evaluated
      by the difference between below-knee arterial ultrasonographic occlusion score at T0 and
      T2years in type 1 diabetic patients supplemented or not with metformin, 2. To show that
      metformin, in patients with type 1 diabetes but without CKD, is able to improve ankle and toe
      brachial indexes evaluated by the difference between ankle and toe brachial indexes at T0 and
      T2years in type 1 diabetic patients supplemented or not with metformin, 3. To show that
      metformin, in patients with type 1 diabetes but without CKD, is able to improve pulse wave
      velocity evaluated by the difference between pulse wave velocity at T0 and T2 years in type 1
      diabetic patients supplemented or not with metformin, 4. To show that metformin, in patients
      with type 1 diabetes but without chronic kidney disease, is able to slow coronary arterial
      calcification evaluated by the difference between coronary calcification score evaluated by
      CT-scan at T0 and T2years in type 1 diabetic patients treated or not with metformin, 5. To
      conduct a subgroup analysis for the primary outcome to evaluate whether the effect of
      metformin on the difference of below-knee arterial calcification score evaluated by CT-scan
      at T0 and T2years varies according to initial below-knee arterial calcification score (≤
      versus >400) evaluated by the difference between below-knee arterial calcification score
      progression between T0 and T2years in type 1 diabetic patients treated or not with metformin
      and with initial below-knee arterial calcification score ≤ and >400.
    
  