
    
      This study is a randomized controlled trial of Still Climbin', an 8-session cognitive
      behavior therapy (CBT) group intervention that addresses coping with discrimination and
      medical mistrust among Black sexual minority men (SMM). Designed to be flexible for use in
      community settings, this intervention was developed in partnership with community
      stakeholders who emphasized the need for a community-based program outside of the health care
      system, and without a specific disease focus. It intends to give Black SMM a safe space to
      receive support for the whole of their identity and to openly discuss barriers to health
      care. Participants will be followed for 12 months. The effectiveness of the Still Climbin'
      intervention will be assessed on health care engagement and receipt of evidence-based
      preventive care, through surveys administered at multiple points throughout the intervention
      period. These outcomes will be confirmed with information from medical records. A total of
      300 Black participants will be recruited and randomly assign 150 to receive the coping
      intervention and 150 to a no-treatment control. There will be about 10 groups of about 15
      participants each for both intervention and control. Participants will be randomized to an
      intervention or control group after they complete the baseline survey. Participants will
      complete four surveys, starting with the baseline survey, and followed by 4-, 8-, and
      12-month post-baseline follow-up surveys to assess health care engagement and receipt of
      evidence-based preventive care (e.g., cancer and diabetes screening, cardiovascular disease
      prevention, influenza vaccination, HIV prevention), and other topics such as coping
      strategies, stigma, and discrimination. The intervention is hypothesized to show increased
      health care engagement and receipt of evidence-based preventive care, in addition to better
      coping and reduced medical mistrust than the control group.
    
  