
    
      26 (approximately 13 per site) extremely obese (Body mass index [BMI] > or = 1.2 times the
      95th percentile or BMI > or = 35 kg/m2) adolescents (age 12-19 years old) will be enrolled in
      a six-month study consisting of a three-month, randomized, double-blind (participants and
      investigators), placebo-controlled pilot clinical trial phase followed by a three-month
      open-label extension during which all participants will receive exenatide. For the initial
      three-month phase, participants will be equally (by site) and randomly assigned to one of two
      groups: 1) exenatide plus lifestyle modification, or 2) placebo plus lifestyle modification.
      Following baseline testing, subjects will be randomly assigned to study group. Participants
      will return at one-month for titration and assessment of safety (blood draw and adverse event
      assessment) and injection/lifestyle modification compliance and at three-months for
      reassessment of baseline variables and injection/lifestyle modification compliance and
      allocation to study drug for the three-month open-label extension. Participants will return
      at four-months for assessment of safety (blood draw and adverse event assessment) and
      injection/lifestyle modification compliance and at six-months for reassessment of baseline
      variables and injection/lifestyle modification compliance.

      All subjects, regardless of group assignment, will participate in the clinical lifestyle
      modification program offered through either the University of Minnesota or Children's
      Hospitals and Clinics weight management programs. Participants and their families receive
      regular (approximately bi-monthly) face-to-face and/or phone behavioral-, dietary-, and
      physical activity-counseling from a multi-disciplinary team of health care professionals
      including physicians, dieticians, registered nurses, psychologists, and exercise
      physiologists.

      Screening will include review of medical records for previous clinical and laboratory data.
      The following measures will be collected at baseline, 3 months, and 6 months. Subject will be
      asked to fast for a minimum of 12 hours.
    
  