
    
      Study Design

      The investigators propose a prospective single-site, parallel, two-arm, randomized
      investigation to assess catheter-related symptomatic upper extremity venous thrombosis
      (CR-UEVT), catheter-related bloodstream infection, and functionality of two single lumen
      midline catheters: AngioDynamics BioFlo 4 F and Teleflex Arrowg+ard Blue Advance 4.5 F.

      Research staff of Beaumont Health Institute will allocate two midline catheters to eligible
      participants according to a pre-generated randomized list at a 1:1 ratio in block
      randomization to AngioDynamics BioFlo or Tele-flex Arrowg+ard Blue Advanced midline
      catheters. Participant enrollment will take place from November 2018 until recruitment of 250
      participants, 125 in each group, is complete. Demographic and health-related information will
      be obtained from electronic medical records during enrolled period at William Beaumont
      Hospital.

      Practitioner Participation/Training

      Advanced Practice Providers within the bedside PICC/Midline service at the Royal Oak campus
      are eligible to place catheters for this study. All investigators are credentialed in placing
      PICCs and midlines by institutional policy and have greater than one year of experience in
      these procedures.

      Initial Assessment

      Post-cannulation and post securement, functionality is confirmed with blood sampling (10 cc)
      and flush without resistance.

      The research team also will document practitioner details, the vascular access device (VAD)
      used, the time of VAD placement, number of attempts, need for a rescue inserter, the vein
      that was cannulated, depth and diameter of the vein, and the indication for VAD placement. An
      attempt is defined as each time the needle punctures the skin. Data will be collected from
      the electronic medical record and includes: age, gender, body mass index (BMI), vital signs,
      relevant past medical history. Indication for catheter placement will also be recorded.

      Follow-up Assessment

      Investigators will perform a follow-up assessment on all catheters within 24 hours of
      insertion and then daily for the life of the VAD. At each follow-up interval, the researcher
      will document the time of evaluation and assessment of functionality as well as review the
      patient chart for signs and symptoms of catheter-related bloodstream infection. If the
      catheter was identified to have failed during follow-up assessment the date and time of
      failure and the reason for failure will be documented. For all failed catheters, re-insertion
      attempt data will be tracked through the medical record.

      Superficial venous thrombosis (SVT) and deep venous thrombosis (DVT) rates will be calculated
      based on upper extremity proven diagnosis of SVT and/or DVT in symptomatic cases. Radiology
      interpretations will be reviewed for findings consistent with CR-UEVT.

      Infection rate will be tracked using confirmed catheter-related blood stream infection data
      from the surveillance team within the epidemiology department. The team utilizes the CDC
      definition of laboratory-confirmed blood-stream infection (LCBSI).

      The medication administration record will be queried for all medications given through each
      catheter.
    
  