
    
      On a global scale tuberculosis (TB) is the single most important infectious cause of
      morbidity and mortality in individuals aged 15-49. The World Health Organization has
      estimated that one third of the entire population of the world carries dormant or latent TB
      infection (LTBI). Of these, 9 million develop active disease and 2 million die from TB each
      year. In Canada and other industrialized countries, TB continues to cause significant
      morbidity and mortality, particularly in minorities, immigrants and other disadvantaged
      populations.

      A key TB control strategy is therapy of LTBI. The current standard regimen is 9 months of
      daily Isoniazid (9INH). This has excellent efficacy if taken regularly, but the long duration
      of treatment as well as potential for serious side effects, substantially reduces provider
      prescription, patient acceptance, and completion. A shorter alternative of 4 months of daily
      Rifampin (4RIF) has been recommended based on limited evidence in LTBI, but extensive
      experience using Rifampin for treatment of active TB. However the efficacy of 4RIF in
      preventing active TB is not known, especially in children.

      The investigators have initiated a research program to evaluate 4RIF for the treatment of
      LTBI. In a first study, 4RIF was associated with significant higher completion rates than
      9INH. In a second study, all suspected adverse events were judged by an independent 3-member
      review panel, who were blinded to study drug. Incidence of Grade 3-4 serious adverse events
      was significantly lower among the 420 subjects randomized to 4RIF then among the 427
      randomized to 9INH (2.4 % vs. 5.6%, P=.02). Grade 3-4 hepatotoxicity was also significantly
      lower with 4RIF than 9INH (0.7% vs. 3.8%, P=.003), and completion rates were significantly
      higher with 4RIF.

      Therefore, a large scale multi-center trial was launched, with CIHR funding, to compare the
      efficacy and effectiveness in preventing active TB of 4RIF and 9INH in adults (see
      NCT00931736). In total 5,850 adults will be randomized at 4 sites in Canada as well as sites
      in Australia, Brazil, Benin, Ghana, Indonesia, Korea and Saudi Arabia. The primary outcome of
      this trial is the occurrence of microbiologically confirmed active TB within 28 months after
      randomization.

      As an addition to this ongoing study, the investigators are conducting an open label
      randomized trial in children at some of these same sites with the primary objectives of
      comparing tolerability and safety. Secondary outcomes will be completion of therapy (defined
      as taking more than 80% of planned doses), and active TB. Eligible children will be HIV
      infected, household contacts of active pulmonary TB cases, or other high risk group, with a
      positive Tuberculin skin test (TST) reaction. Active TB must be excluded before enrollment.

      A total of 822 children will be randomized in equal numbers to receive daily and
      self-administered 9INH or 4RIF. Children will be followed by their usual providers during
      therapy.

      Intolerability and adverse events during therapy will be investigated according to a
      standardized protocol, and reported in non-nominal fashion, using a web-based system. These
      reports will be reviewed by an independent 3-member panel, blinded to study drug, to judge
      severity and likely relationship to study drug. Completion of therapy will be ascertained by
      dosage counts (of pills or suspension) at each follow-up visit, and defined as taking > 80%
      of doses within a defined maximum time.

      After therapy, children will be followed every 3 months up to 16 months post-randomization
      for the occurrence of clinically diagnosed active TB; this will also be detected and
      investigated following a standardized protocol. The final diagnosis of active TB will be
      based on the judgment of an independent panel of two expert pediatricians who will review all
      clinical radiographic and microbiologic information while remaining blinded to study drug.

      The primary analysis will compare rates of Grade 1-5 adverse events judged probably due to
      study drug. Planned secondary analysis will compare rates of study drug completion as well as
      rates of clinically diagnosed active TB in all children randomized to the two regimens
      (intention to treat=effectiveness) and rates of clinical active TB in children who take more
      than 80% of planned doses (per protocol-efficacy analysis).
    
  