
    
      The purpose of this study is to compare the efficacy and safety of Denosumab 60 mg produced
      by AryoGen Pharmed and Amgen Denosumab 60 mg among osteoporotic postmenopausal women.
      Postmenopausal women diagnosed with osteoporosis according to their Bone mineral density
      result (BMD) and aged between 45 to 75 are included in this trial. This is a Phase III,
      randomized, two armed, double-blind, parallel, active-controlled,non-inferiority clinical
      trial. Visits are going to be conducted at screening, 0, 1, 3, 6, 9, 12, 15 and 18 months.

      After signing the written informed consent, patients are randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive
      Arylia or Prolia® subcutaneous injections, at the beginning of the trial and every 6 months
      at month 6 and 12, in an 18-month study period. Along with, all women will receive daily
      supplements containing at least 1000 mg of elemental calcium (divided into two doses) and at
      least 400 IU vitamin D daily during 18 months of the study.

      The primary objective of this study is to assess percentage change from baseline in BMD at
      the lumbar spine (L1-L4), femoral neck and total hip by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry to
      18 months of the study, and compare it between two treatment groups.

      The second objectives of this study are to assess the followings between treatment groups:

        -  The incidence of new vertebral fracture;

        -  Evolution of biochemical markers of bone metabolism at baseline, first month and
           afterward every 3 months from baseline.

        -  Comparing adverse events;

        -  Comparing immunogenicity of two products.

      Before initiation, the trial is reviewed by food and drug administration of Iran. The
      protocol, electronic case report form (eCRF), information for patients and informed consent
      forms are submitted to the ethics committees responsible for review and approval purposes,
      according to national regulatory guidelines.

      Sample size:

      172 patients will be equally (1:1) divided into intervention arms for achieving 80% power in
      order to determine non-inferiority using a one-sided, independent sample t-test. Efficacy of
      Prolia® in comparison with placebo for lumbar spine BMD improvement in previous studies is
      reported 7.1%. The margin of non-inferiority is 1.78. The true difference between the means
      is assumed to be 0.000. The significance level (alpha) of the test is 0.025. The data are
      drawn from populations with standard deviations of 4.116 and 4.116. However, we have
      calculated that 190 patients should enter the study, by considering that there might be 10%
      drop-outs of participants during the trial.

      Blinding:

      To prevent the influence of knowing intervention group on study conclusion, the subjects and
      those who assess the study outcomes will be unaware of the state of the patient with regard
      to receiving the test drug or reference drug.

      For this purpose, subjects and administrator of the drug will be blinded by using a similar
      masked prefilled syringes. All drugs packages will be identified by unique numbers.
    
  