
    
      Study design and patient Selection One hundred and forty patients with the diagnosis of Non
      ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction (NSTEMI) will be enrolled to a prospective randomized
      double-blind placebo controlled study in Tel Aviv Medical Center, Tel Aviv, Israel. Patients
      will be recruited during their hospitalization before cardiac catheterization. All patients
      will sign an inform consent. Study will be published on NIH clinicaltrials.com database.

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria are presented in Table 1 Table 1: Patient Selection
      Inclusion criteria

      1. NSTEMI Diagnosis 2. Patients above the age of 18 3. Informed consent Exclusion criteria

        1. Hemodynamic instability

        2. Pregnant women

        3. Peripheral vascular disease with feeble or absent peripheral pulses

        4. Restlessness and/or chaotic breathing

        5. Renal dialysis

        6. Severe aortic valve insufficiency/Stenosis

        7. Severe mitral valve insufficiency

        8. Congenital cardiac malformations (structural heart diseases)

        9. Known extra-cardiac shunts

       10. Major surgery within 30 days

       11. Any medical condition that would impair participation (e.g. progressive neurological
           disorders, mental illness)

       12. Known intolerance to colchicine

       13. Ejection fraction less than 35% or past admission for CHF exacerbation in the last 30
           days.

       14. Inflammatory diseases

       15. Current treatment with steroids, NSAID, chemotherapy or biologic medications

      Pre Study exam

      After enrollment, patients will undergo the following baseline procedure:

        1. Physical examination and medical interview

        2. Endothelial function using the EndoPat® before planned cardiac catheterization

        3. Blood tests- see below for description

      Blood sampling An 18-gauge cannula will be placed in an antecubital vein for blood sampling.
      Blood sample analyses will be performed using reagents, calibrators and control materials
      from Bayer Diagnostics (Berkshire, England) on the ADVIA 1650. A 40 ml blood sample will be
      obtained as described below. Blood tests timing is detailed at the end in the flow chart.

      Each Patient will provide 40ml of blood for the following blood tests

        1. Full chemistry including: lipid levels, thyroid function, liver enzymes function,
           Troponin, CPK, HbA1c, uric acid, and glucose levels.

        2. Blood count

        3. Inflammatory biomarker (hs-CRP, fibrinogen, IL-6, IL-1B, IL-18, MMP, Lp-PLA2,
           procalcitonin, IL-10, IL-35, TNFa, AchE, , PAI-1, MPO, cholinergic status. etc.)

        4. Endothelial function markers: Endothelin-1, I-CAM, V-CAM, superoxide dismutase ADMA, and
           oxidized LDL

        5. Serum Samples will be stored for future testing.

      PAT score:

      Peripheral arterial tonometry signals will be obtained using the EndoPAT 2000 device (Itamar
      Medical Inc., Caesarea, Israel), which has been validated and used previously to assess
      peripheral arterial tone in other populations. 14-17 Briefly, EndoPAT bio-sensors are placed
      on the index fingers of both arms. EndoPAT quantifies the endothelium-mediated changes in
      vascular tone, elicited by a 5-minute occlusion of the brachial artery (using a standard
      blood pressure cuff). When the cuff is released, the surge of blood flow causes an
      endothelium-dependent Flow Mediated Dilatation (FMD). The dilatation, manifested as reactive
      hyperemia, is captured by EndoPAT as an increase in the PAT Signal amplitude. A
      post-occlusion to pre-occlusion ratio is calculated by the EndoPAT software, providing the
      EndoPAT index. In addition, the EndoPAT system will measure heart rate variability.
    
  