
    
      Background:

      New designs of 6-year undergraduate medical education (UME) mainly include (1) integral
      curricula of body organ system, (2) multiple methods of clinical teaching and assessment, and
      (3) generalism in UME. UME is meant to enable graduates to become undifferentiated general
      physicians. Accompany with decreasing educational hours in the classrooms and hospital,
      essential but minor components of primary healthcare such as ophthalmology and
      otolaryngology-head and neck surgery (ORL-HNS) is disproportionately under-represented in
      UME. In Canada, substantial downstream effects on managing ORL-HNS problems have been noted
      in family medicine residents. In order to improve learning insufficiency and enhance clinical
      competency without increasing extra-hours in the classrooms and hospitals, novel medical
      education stresses on enabling self-directory learning and increasing learning hours outside
      the classrooms. Accordingly, we hypothesize that innovations in educational technology can
      enhance the learning outcomes of ORL-HNS.

      Purposes: This study is aimed to determine whether mobile technology in e-learning (M-TEL) is
      an effective tool for the instruction of ORL-HNS and to compare effects of different
      cognitive styles on learning outcomes of M-TEL with various modules of medical education.

      Material and Methods:

      This is a randomized controlled trial. Firstly, we have been setup a e-learning platform of
      the Top 10 emergent ORL-HNS disorders with translating into an application (APP) function
      that can execute in mobile devices. Secondly, we will recruit 60 UME students without
      previous training in ORL-HNS to undergo the Group Embedded Figures Test to determine their
      cognitive styles such as field dependence or field-independence. After blinded randomization,
      students are instructed on two modules of emergent ORL-HNS disorders, using either a standard
      e-learning of text-figure Power Point show or an interactive multimedia module. Subjects are
      evaluated on emergent ORL-HNS disorders using a text-based assessment and a multimedia
      assessment take place prior to and following instruction.

      Anticipating Outcome:

      This study can (1) establish a M-TEL of ORL-HNS that can deliver an innovatively mobile
      e-learning to supplement the deficiency of the classroom hours, (2) confirm M-TEL can enhance
      the efficiency of the instruction of ORL-HNS, and (3) understand differences in learning
      outcomes of M-TEL with various modules of medical education between field dependence and
      filed independence using this platform.
    
  