
    
      The trial is designed to evaluate the role of Parp inhibitor based therapy, combining the
      most well studied and potent Parp inhibitor currently available with a low-dose combination
      of DNA damaging agents to optimize the effects of Parp inhibition. To ensure optimal response
      rates in the trial, to enrich our population for patients likely to achieve the best clinical
      response to Parp inhibitor based therapy, we will recruit and enroll patients with known BRCA
      mutations, patients of Jewish ancestry, patients with familial pancreatic cancer, as well as
      with sporadic pancreatic cancer. We will test patients and their cancers for other inherited
      or acquired defects in homologous DNA repair. For the phase 1 study, we will enroll up to 30
      patients. For the phase 2 component of the study, 100 patients with locally, advanced,
      unresectable or metastatic pancreatic cancer will be enrolled. An initial phase I analysis
      will be performed to test the safety of the ICM with Olaparib regimen at the doses we predict
      will be effective for the phase 2 and ensure that these doses are below the maximum tolerated
      dose. For this phase 1 we will use a standard 3+3 design and will test the following dose
      regimens in a 28 day cycle:

      Dose level 1: Cisplatin/Irinotecan i.v.(day 1, 8) and Olaparib (100 mg bid p.o., Day 1 & Day
      8) Dose level 2: Cisplatin/Irinotecan i.v.(day 1, 8) and Olaparib 100 bid p.o. day 1-3, day
      8-10 (if this dose is not tolerated, go to Dose 5: Mitomycin + Olaparib Dose level 1) Dose
      level 3: Cisplatin/Irinotecan i.v.(day 1, 8) and Olaparib 200 bid p.o.day 1-3, day 8-10 (if
      this dose is not tolerated, go to Dose 5: Mitomycin + Olaparib Dose level 2) Dose level 4:
      Cisplatin/Irinotecan i.v.(day 1, 8) and Olaparib 200 bid p.o. day 1-12 (if this dose is not
      tolerated, go to Dose 5: Mitomycin + Olaparib Dose level 3)) Dose level 5:
      Cisplatin/Irinotecan i.v.(day 1, 8), Mitomycin Day 1 (5 mg/m2 IV), along with the established
      tolerated dose level of Olaparib.

      Other intermediate dose schedules of Olaparib may be considered to achieve the most optimal
      tolerable regimen" If there are DLTs at Dose 1, we will reduce the duration of Olaparib

      Note: The Principal Investigator and Astrazeneca decided not to move forward with the Phase
      II part of the study. Therefore the arms of Irinotecan, Cisplatin, Mitomycin C with Olaparib
      versus Irinotecan, Cisplatin, Mitomycin C without Olaparib will not be compared.
    
  