
    
      To investigate the clinical efficacy and tolerability of lupeol for the treatment of facial
      acne, we conducted a small-scale, randomized, double-blinded, split-face clinical trial over
      the course of 4 weeks. Fifteen of 16 enrolled patients completed the study, in which affected
      areas on half each patient's face were treated with 2% lupeol twice daily while the other
      side of the face was treated with a vehicle control. Clinical visits were scheduled at
      baseline and at 2 and 4 weeks. The primary outcome of the study was the percent change in
      inflammatory lesions (papules, pustules, and nodules) at 4 weeks. The secondary outcomes were
      the percent change in non-inflammatory lesions (open and closed comedones) and the change in
      the Leeds revised acne grading system score at 4 weeks. Adverse events (AEs) were defined as
      all unintended and harmful signs or symptoms; these were assessed by both patients'
      self-reporting and physicians' skin examination at each visit. Results were analyzed using
      intent to treat (ITT) groups. The per-protocol (PP) population consisted of the 15 patients
      who did not have any major protocol deviations. Last observation carried forward (LOCF)
      analysis was used to evaluate the primary and secondary outcomes.

      ** Randomization and blindness process **

      At the time of initial presentation, an evaluation of acne severity was performed using both
      individual counts of inflammatory and non-inflammatory acne lesions and an assessment of the
      Leeds revised acne grading system score. Then, patients were randomly assigned to either
      left- or right-sided lupeol application, with the other side of the face assigned to
      vehicle-control application. A simple random allocation sequence was created using
      computer-based random number generators with a block size of 4. All dermatologists
      participating in outcome assessments, a physician assistant managing trial enrollment and
      administration, medical statisticians analyzing the data, and patients were blinded to the
      assignments. Randomization codes were strictly secured in a safe in the administration office
      of the clinical research center until data entry was complete. The integrity of the blinding
      was ensured by packaging the study- and control products in identical tubes and by requiring
      a third party (other than the investigator/evaluator) to dispense the medication. In
      addition, both topical agents were identical in color and odor.
    
  