
    
      In the 1980's, it was recognized that long-term survival was enhanced in patients undergoing
      coronary surgery when the left anterior descending (LAD) was grafted with a left internal
      thoracic artery (ITA) rather than a saphenous vein (1). This difference was predicated, at
      least in part, due to greater and more durable patency of the left ITA compared to an
      increased early occlusion rate and later progressive atherosclerosis of saphenous vein grafts
      (SVG) (2).

      For more than 20 years it has generally been accepted that patients who receive multiple
      arterial grafts (AGs) at the time of coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG) have increased
      postoperative survival compared to those who receive only one AG, especially over the long
      term (3-5). The current United States and European Guidelines encourage the use of AGs in
      patients with a long life expectancy (6, 7). Last year, a position paper from the Society of
      Thoracic Surgeons strongly recommended a wider use of AGs (8).

      The putative mechanism underlying the AG hypothesis is greater patency. In line with the
      original findings of improved LAD graft patency with ITA vs. SVG, data from randomized
      control trials (RCTs) as well as observational studies and a network meta-analysis (9) have
      demonstrated that the patency of the RA, as well as the right ITA, exceed that of a SVG,
      providing mechanistic basis to support the AG hypothesis.

      ROMA is a two arm event driven randomized multi-centre trial aimed at evaluating the impact
      of the use of one ITA vs two or more AGs for CABG on a composite of death from any cause, any
      stroke, post discharge myocardial infarction and/or repeat revascularization. The trial is
      powered to detect a 20% relative reduction in the primary outcome with 90% power at 5% alpha.

      The primary aim is to conduct a multicenter international randomized control trial to test
      the hypothesis that the use of a two or more AGs compared to a single arterial graft is
      associated with a reduction in the composite outcome of death from any cause, any stroke,
      post discharge myocardial infarction and/or repeat revascularization.

      The secondary aim is to conduct a multicenter international randomized control trial to test
      the hypothesis that the use of two or more AGs compared to a single arterial graft is
      associated with improved survival.
    
  