
    
      Acute adhesion-related small bowel obstruction (ASBO) is a common digestive emergency
      accounting for 1% to 3% of all digestive emergencies. It is associated with a mortality rate
      of between 2% and 8%, although this figure may be as high as 25% when surgical treatment is
      delayed. In 2013, the World Society of Emergency Surgery's working group on ASBO suggested
      two distinct approaches for the management of acute ASBO. Conservative management includes
      the use of a nasogastric tube (NGT), intravenous administration of fluids, and clinical and
      biochemical monitoring for 24 to 72 hours or surgical management. However, the efficacy of
      conservative management in this setting is a subject of debate, as it might delay the
      decision to perform surgery and increase the frequency of bowel resection (e.g. in the
      presence of bowel necrosis) or, in contrast, prompt an excessive number of unnecessary
      laparotomies. The efficacy of water-soluble contrast medium in this setting is also subject
      to debate, as data from a recent randomized clinical trial including 242 patients (ABOD
      study) combined with a meta-analysis in 2015 including 990 patients failed to demonstrate any
      value of gastrografin to reduce the surgery rate and length of stay. Three years ago, our
      team proposed the use of a marker of bacterial infection and bowel ischemia, procalcitonin
      (PCT), to help distinguish patients in whom conservative management is likely to be
      successful from those in whom surgical management was mandatory. Cutoffs of 0.2 µg/L (for
      failure of conservative management ) and 0.6 µg/L (for need for surgery) accurately
      identified more than 80% of patients. These cutoffs and data were confirmed in a second
      independent cohort, and were then used to propose an algorithm for the management of patients
      with ASBO. In this single-center, retrospective , case-control study, the investigators
      showed that introduction of this algorithm into patient management reduced i/ the time to
      surgery with no increase of the surgical management rate; ii/ the length of stay (with a
      2-day difference). The investigators propose the hypothesis that introduction of the
      PCT-based algorithm improves the quality of management of patients with ASBO.
    
  