
    
      In fertile, premenopausal healthy women, the vaginal ecosystem is dominated by Lactobacillus
      spp., but a diverse array of other bacteria can be present in much lower numbers. Over 120
      species of Lactobacillus have been identified and more than 20 species have been detected in
      the vagina. Molecular-based techniques have demonstrated that healthy vaginal microflora does
      not contain high numbers of many different species of Lactobacillus. Rather, one or two
      lactobacilli from a range of three or four species (mainly L. crispatus and L. iners but also
      L. jensenii and L. gasseri) are dominant, whereas other species are rare, lower in titer and
      tend to be novel phylotypes.

      Vaginitis is defined as a spectrum of conditions that cause vaginal and sometimes vulvar
      symptoms such as itching, burning, irritation, odor and vaginal discharge. Infection is the
      most common cause of vaginitis, including bacterial vaginosis (BV), vulvovaginal candidiasis
      and trichomoniasis. Bacterial vaginosis is a very common microbiological disturbance of the
      vaginal environment in adult women and is characterized by a depletion of lactobacilli in
      favor of an overgrowth of anaerobic bacteria. Colonization by L. crispatus or L. jensenii is
      associated with a lower frequency of bacterial vaginosis, and L. crispatus is strongly
      correlated with the absence of BV, low pH, negative whiff test, absence of clue cells and
      normal vaginal discharge.

      Although antibiotic treatment of BV is strongly recommended, attempts at improving the
      efficacy of therapy are still a matter of debate. In fact, antimicrobial treatment of
      urogenital infections is not always effective, and problems remain due to bacterial and yeast
      resistance, recurrent infections and side effects. Alternative remedies are thus of interest
      and many studies have provided evidence of the beneficial functions of the human microbiota
      and prompted the selection of bacterial strains with health-promoting capacities for the
      treatment of conditions in which the microbiota, or its optimal functioning, is altered. The
      rationale for the use of probiotics in women is based on the genitourinary regulatory role
      played by the healthy vaginal microbiota and the need for restoration of this microbial
      ecosystem after insult.

      Until today, the most common way of delivering probiotic lactobacilli was the administration
      of vaginal suppositories.However, this route will no longer be acceptable as products
      containing probiotics (live microorganisms) are not admissible as medical devices as per
      European Medical Device Regulation (EU) 2017/245. Oral administration therefore represents an
      alternative and more patient-friendly concept for the restitution of the normal vaginal
      microbiota. Indeed, several studies demonstrated the ability of rectal bacteria to move from
      the intestinal tract to the vagina. Moreover, it was recently demonstrated that the
      administration of a yoghurt containing Lactobacillus spp. including L.. crispatus in addition
      to antibiotic treatment may improve recovery rate and symptoms of BV and is well tolerated.

      It is therefore reasonable to suppose that the oral administration of a food supplement
      containing an adequate concentration of a strain of L. crispatus, one of the predominant
      species, in the vaginal microbiota in asymptomatic women, may promote the re-colonization of
      the vaginal environment. Since this species is so representative and crucial in maintaining a
      healthy vaginal environment, we believe that it is of utter importance to understand its
      activity to fully disclose its potential.

      The aim of this pilot study is to investigate the presence of Lactobacillus crispatus
      NTCVAG04 in the vagina after oral administration of BIOVAGINIL, a food supplement, as a
      precondition for the subsequent evaluation of the ability of NTCVAG04 to rebalance the local
      microbiota and promote healing and/or prevention of recurrences of vaginitis/vaginosis.
    
  