
    
      GVHD occurs when the donor's immune system recognizes a patient's body as foreign and reacts
      against it. GVHD may result in skin rashes and blistering, liver inflammation and
      gastrointestinal problems including nausea, vomiting, diarrhea and bleeding. Mild GVHD may be
      treated with topical medications applied to the skin. More severe GVHD requires medications
      given intravenously (by vein) or taken by mouth. Steroids are usually given first to treat
      GVHD but only 40% of people respond to this alone.

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare response to treatment in patients with acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD)
           treated with methylprednisolone with or without daclizumab.

        -  Compare differences in total methylprednisolone dose and complications in patients
           treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare mortality, days of antibiotics and antifungal therapy, and required hospital
           days within the first 100 days for patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare overall survival and incidence of chronic GVHD at 1 year in patients treated
           with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to prior graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis
      (immunosuppressive therapy vs T-cell depletion), GVHD organ manifestation (skin only vs
      other), donor type (6/6 matched sibling vs other), and participating center. Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive methylprednisolone or equivalent corticosteroid IV or orally and
           daclizumab IV over 15 minutes on days 0, 3, 7, 14, and then weekly as indicated until
           day 100.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive methylprednisolone or equivalent corticosteroid as in arm I and
           placebo.

      Patients are followed at 1 year and then annually thereafter.
    
  