
    
      The incidence of opportunistic, invasive fungal infections has dramatically increased over
      the past two decades and they cause high morbidity and mortality in a variety of patient
      populations. Voriconazole, a triazole antifungal agent, has shown in vitro activity against
      many yeasts and a variety of mold and dermatophyte isolates. Voriconazole can be administered
      either orally or parenterally. It exhibits good oral bioavailability and wide tissue
      distribution. Voriconazole is extensively metabolized by the hepatic cytochrome P450
      isoenzymes, CYP 2C19, CYP 2C9 and CYP 3A4. The affinity of voriconazole is greatest for
      isoenzyme CYP 2C19 which exhibits genetic polymorphism with 15-20% of Asian populations being
      poor/slow metabolizers, whereas the prevalence is much lower (3-5%) amongst Caucasians and
      African Americans. Studies conducted in Caucasian and Japanese healthy subjects have
      demonstrated that poor metabolizers have, on average, four times higher voriconazole AUC than
      homozygous extensive metabolisers, while the AUC of heterozygous extensive metabolizers is
      two times higher than that of homozygous extensive metabolizers. The most commonly reported
      adverse events associated with voriconazole use include visual disturbances, liver function
      test abnormalities, and neurological complications. All of them have been reported to be
      associated with higher plasma concentrations and / or doses. In term of efficacy, an analysis
      showed a trend toward worse outcomes in patients with voriconazole plasma concentrations <
      0.5 μg/mL although this remains controversial. Since Asians have more CYP 2C19 polymorphism,
      we expect to see more patients with a wider range of voriconazole plasma concentrations than
      in previous studies in Caucasian patients. Our study will likely provide stronger evidence in
      explanation of the relationship between voriconazole plasma concentrations and clinical
      observations.

      We plan to enroll patient who take voriconazole and examine their CYP 2C19 genotypes and
      plasma samples for peak and trough concentrations. We will collect potential confounding
      factors affecting voriconazole plasma concentrations, and correlate the concentrations with
      the dosing regimen, presence or absence of CYP 2C19 polymorphism, occurrence of adverse
      events, and treatment outcomes. The result of this study will be beneficial in clarify the
      international debate on controversial issue in the voriconazole plasma concentration
      monitoring. The ultimate goals of this study is to determine if monitoring of voriconazole
      plasma concentrations is desired in select patient populations or under certain circumstances
      in Taiwan.
    
  