
    
      Infection and sepsis are the major causes of morbidity and mortality in burn patients.
      Several observational studies have shown that HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, known as statins,
      before or after illness or injury results in decreased mortality and incidence of sepsis.

      We performed a pilot retrospective chart review of 223 patients admitted to the Vanderbilt
      University Burn Service from 2006-2008 who were ≥55 years of age. Patients were identified as
      using statin drugs prior to burn, and compared to those who were not. There was a significant
      decrease in mortality of 83% (P=.004) in the statin group and a 50% reduction in septic shock
      (p=.155) that was not significant likely due to the low numbers of patients with septic shock
      (n=30). These effects were unchanged after controlling for cardiovascular comorbidities.

      Animal studies have also shown decreased mortality and sepsis with pre-injury statin
      administration. Mechanisms of statin effect on mortality and septic shock are attributed to
      the so-called pleiotropic effects.

      If the use of statins is potentially expected to reduce mortality, it is even more relevant
      to understand the long-term cognitive and functional outcomes of the survivors. In the last
      years researchers highlighted how survivors from acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)
      largely experience cognitive and functional decline after their acute illness. More recently
      Jackson et al. advocated a relationship between delirium in intensive care unit (ICU)
      patients and cognitive impairment; more specifically 1 of 3 survivors of critically illness
      with delirium developed cognitive impairment. Though every year several patients are admitted
      to burn units in the United States, to date only one small report has been published
      addressing the long-term cognitive outcomes of burn ICU patients. In these preliminary data,
      Varney et al. found that of the eight patients all were found to have significant problems as
      evidenced in neuropsychological tests, activities of daily living, and from relatives'
      reports.

      The causes of development of a de-novo cognitive impairment in this population are probably
      multifactorial and could be linked to the development of and duration of delirium or to the
      exposure to large amount of sedatives-analgesics used to assure the comfort of the patients
      on the ventilator and to control pain secondary to the burn. ICU delirium is a common acute
      brain dysfunction with a prevalence as high as 80% in critically ill surgical and medical ICU
      patients depending on the severity of illness and the instrument used to diagnose delirium.
      Different risk factors have been called to cause delirium including exposure to drugs. In
      particular, previous studies have shown how exposure to benzodiazepines (i.e. lorazepam and
      midazolam) and opiates have been associated to transition to delirium in medical and surgical
      ICU patients. If sedatives and analgesics are widely used in the medical and surgical ICUs,
      this is even more striking for the burn units where large amounts of drugs are infused for
      patient comfort and pain control. Therefore a large exposure to these drugs in burn patients
      has the potential to influence the prevalence of delirium even more.

      Creatine kinase (CK) levels are known to be increased in the serum of burn patients.
      C-Reactive Protein (CRP) is an hepatically derived acute phase reactant, elevated in burn
      patients within the first 3 days, and decreases over time. Statins are known to decrease CRP
      and possibly mitigate the inflammatory response due to CRP.

      Rosuvastatin (Crestor) was chosen as the study drug over others for pharmacokinetic and side
      effect profile.

        1. Rosuvastatin has an elimination half-life of 19 hours, making it suitable for once a day
           dosing.

        2. Rosuvastatin is excreted 90% unchanged in the stool, and the other 10% by the liver.
           (Rosuvastatin drug information, package insert).

        3. Rosuvastatin, a hydrophilic statin, seems to be associated with fewer side effects than
           lipophilic statins and has fewer drug-drug interactions.

      Rosuvastatin dose will be 40 mg loading dose first day, then 20mg by mouth or feeding tube
      daily.

      Patients with thermal burn will be recruited on admission to the Vanderbilt University Burn
      Service within 96 hours from the time of the burn.

      The trial will accrue 40 patients admitted to the Burn Service.

      Sample size calculation:

      alpha = 0.05 power = .80 delta= 200-(.64 * 200) =72(expected difference statin and non-statin
      subjects) sigma = 80 (95% CI CRP burn patients at 3 days) m = 1 (ratio controls/experimental)
      Sample size=20

      Informed consent will be obtained from the patient or surrogate prior to enrollment in the
      trial. No study procedures will be done without first obtaining informed consent.

      After informed consent is obtained, patients will be assigned to Rosuvastatin or placebo
      group on a random 1:1 basis. The study will be double blind, with neither the participant,
      research staff nor clinical staff having knowledge of the treatment assignment until after
      the database has been locked. Assignment will be made by computer-generated randomization.
      Placebo will be an inactive tablet provided by the Vanderbilt Investigational Pharmacy that
      is not distinguishable in appearance from Rosuvastatin.

      Patients will be considered to have completed the administration of the study drug when any
      of the following conditions is met:

        1. 28 days after randomization

        2. Discharge from the hospital

        3. Death

      Because CPK is routinely elevated in burn patients and myopathy from statins is very rare and
      is a delayed side effect, CKs before day 7 of treatment will not be used to trigger the rule
      for withholding/discontinuing study drug. Values greater than 10 times normal obtained after
      day 7 will trigger cessation of study drug. Study drug will also be discontinued if the
      patient develops ALT > 8 times upper limit of normal after study day 1, or if the patient
      begins treatment with niacin, fenofibrate, cyclosporine, gemfibrozil, lopinavir, ritonavir or
      oral contraceptives. Data collection will continue as though therapy continued through study
      day 90.

        1. Demographic data (age, sex, race)

        2. Medical history, including cardiovascular comorbidities MI, CVA, arrhythmia, PVD, CHF,
           HTN, DM, COPD

        3. Time of burn injury

        4. Time of admission to the Burn Service

        5. Injury type: burn only, burn plus smoke inhalation

        6. Mechanism of burn

             1. structure fire

             2. trauma (i.e., MVA)

             3. scald/steam

             4. grease

             5. contact

             6. home oxygen

             7. flammable liquid

             8. cooking fire

             9. brush fire

            10. other (describe)

        7. Extent of burn (% of BSA involved)

        8. Physical assessment

        9. Sedative drugs during admission, data collected daily.

       10. Ventilator days.

       11. Activities of Daily Living (ADLs), Instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs)

       12. Informant Questionnaire on Cognitive Decline in the Elderly (IQCODE)

      Baseline (Day 0) Assessments

      The following information will be recorded prior to dosing. If more than one value is
      available, the closest value prior to the time of dosing will be recorded: serum creatinine,
      bilirubin, glucose, CK, CRP, PT/PTT/INR and pre-albumin.

      4.14 Follow-up Assessments

      The following lab results will be recorded at the following timepoints:

        1. Serum CK will be collected on days 3, 7, 14, 21, 28.

        2. Serum ALT will be collected days 1, 7, 14, 21, 28.

        3. Serum CRP will be collected on days 3, 7, 14.

      RASS scoring will be assessed and documented at 0800 each day +/- 8 hours. (Appendix B)

      Delirium will be evaluated daily with the Confusion Assessment Method in the ICU (CAM- ICU)
      up to 28 days. (Appendix C)

      Type and total amount of sedatives and analgesic drugs will be collected daily up to 28 days.

      The ADL 41 and the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) will be evaluated at hospital
      discharge. (Appendix D)

      At a 3-month follow-up patients will be evaluated with the ADL, IADL, MMSE, Hospital Anxiety
      and Depression Scale (HADS), and the EuroQol.(Appendix E, F, G) The use of analgesics will
      also be collected.

      Data will be analyzed using STATA 9 statistical program. Demographics, characteristics of
      burn, primary and secondary endpoints will be tabulated and compared across Rosuvastatin and
      placebo groups. CRP levels by Rosuvastatin use and occurrence of septic shock will be
      analyzed using area under the curve (AUC). Mortality and occurrence of septic shock adjusted
      for cardiovascular co-morbidities will be examined using multivariate logistic regression.

      Potential risks of study drug include:

        1. Myopathy, defined as CK > 10 times ULN, which has been reported in < .01% of patients,
           is usually reversible with discontinuation of the statin. Rhabdomyolysis, severe
           myopathy, defined as CK > 40 times ULN, can be expected in about a third of those, can
           lead to renal failure from myoglobin release, requires stopping the study drug,
           hydration and medical treatment.

        2. Increase in liver enzymes (in our study ALT > 8 times ULN) after day 1, reported in .08%
           after 4 months of statin use, and drug interactions. Simple discontinuation of the drug
           is sufficient as there is no evidence that liver failure will ensue.23

        3. Additional uncommon risks of study drug include: headache, nausea, myalgia, asthenia,
           abdominal pain, dizziness, and constipation, from the package insert.

      We will monitor CK and ALT levels and discontinue study drug if defined toxicity levels are
      reached. CK and ALT levels that meet toxicity levels will be reported as adverse events.
      Myopathy will be noted as an adverse event, but will not by itself stop study drug unless
      associated with CK levels as defined.

      Adverse Event Recording Each adverse event occurring to a subject / patient, either
      spontaneously revealed by the patient / subject or observed by the Investigator, whether
      believed by the Investigator to be related or unrelated to the study drug, must be recorded
      on the adverse event information page of the CRF and on the patient / subject's
      hospital/center notes.

      The Investigator will also determine the relationship of any adverse event to study drug and
      record it on the appropriate section of the CRF as well as their intensity, time of onset,
      duration, and the precautions carried out. The Investigator must record all adverse events,
      which occur during the study, regardless of their relationship to study drug and if they
      occur during a period without administration of study medication.

      Adverse Event Reporting Investigators will assess the subject and medical record to determine
      if adverse experiences occur during the 60 day study or to hospital discharge, whichever
      occurs first. The investigator will determine if any changes in laboratory values or clinical
      signs are those expected in the course of a patient with burn injuries.

      Always reported as adverse events:

      CK> 10 times ULN after study day 7 ALT> 8 times ULN after study day 1

      Serious Adverse Events will have to be reported according to the following special procedure:

      The Investigator will report SAE's to the Vanderbilt Institutional Review Board per policy.
      All serious adverse events that occur in association with the study will be reviewed by study
      personnel and reported to the Vanderbilt Institutional Review Board (IRB) within 10 days of
      the Investigator's awareness of the event. Any new information that comes to light which may
      affect the subject or their caregiver's decision to continue to participate in the study will
      be passed on to them as soon as possible. This may also result in a change to the consent
      form and review by the IRB. Serious adverse events will also be reported to and reviewed by
      the data safety monitor.

      8.0 Privacy/Confidentiality Issues

      The Principal investigator will collect data and enter it into password protected computer in
      a locked office. Each patient will have a unique identifier number, with the key to the
      patient's medical record number kept in a locked cabinet in the office. Only research
      associates or those individuals directly involved with the study will have access to data.
      Information is for research purposes only and when used for publication purposes, all
      participants will have their names concealed. Access to identified patient information will
      be limited to the investigators listed within the IRB application. De-identified information
      with HIPAA identifiers removed will be available to other investigators following IRB
      approval. Confidentiality and security will be maintained for the database. The database is
      stored behind a firewall (in addition to the institutional firewall) with the highest level
      of protection, i.e. the same level of protection as the on-line hospital information system
      at Vanderbilt. This means that users must logon to a web server that sits between the
      institutional firewall and the firewall to the database, and only this application server is
      allowed to query the database. Only users approved through our institutional review board
      will be allowed access to patient identifiers. Other levels of authorization may exist for
      future approved users following IRB approval, e.g. access to de-identified data.

      Data is initially collected in the medical record for each individual study participant. The
      information will be extracted from the patient's medical record and then transferred into the
      Case Report Form (CRF). The study data will be kept on site and in a securely locked room to
      protect patient confidentiality.

      The CRFs do not include personal identifiers for any participant. Numbers and initials are
      assigned for each participant and these become the identifying information for each study
      participant. A master list is kept separately that identifies which names go with which
      numbers and initials.

      Study personnel (PI and co-investigators) and government regulatory agencies have access to
      all research records as required by law. Others (such as law enforcement agencies) may have
      access to records as defined by law.

      Follow-up and Record Retention

      The study records will be stored for investigation for at least six years and may be retained
      indefinitely.
    
  