
    
      Addressing the adverse effects of caregiving on dementia CGs has been an increasing concern
      of mental and social health scholars in recent decades. Many single and multi-component
      programs have been developed but evidence for the effectiveness of interventions varies.
      Single component interventions for CGs like education, psychotherapy, or skills training are
      effective on various outcome measures but multicomponent programs appear to be preferred for
      overall reduction of caregiver burden. Broad development and system-wide adoption of
      interventions lags behind and there remains a need for evidence-based interventions that can
      be scaled widely in systems of dementia care.

      This study aimed to compare the effectiveness of the Reitman Centre CARERS group intervention
      on measures of CG's health and well-being with a usual-care intervention control group. We
      hypothesized that the integrated, multicomponent CARERS program would produce robust positive
      effects on key outcome measures compared to waiting list controls. This was a
      quasi-experimental design with a convenience sample and a non-randomized wait-list control
      group implemented between 2013 and 2017. The control group received usual care before
      starting the CARERS intervention.The waiting list control group was derived from all CGs who
      were clinically assessed for the CARERS program, consented to enter the study and completed
      initial study assessments before being put on the waiting list for a CARERS group. A waiting
      list control was employed for practical recruitment purposes. This study was approved by the
      Sinai Health System (SHS) Research Ethics Board. Every participant provided informed signed
      written consent for all study components.Referrals to the study came from community agencies
      serving older adults, self-referrals, and primary care, memory, general psychiatry and
      geriatric medicine clinics. The intervention sites were located at Reitman Centre (CR) and
      Wellness Centre at Mount Sinai Hospital, Bridgepoint Active Health, Ceridian LifeWorks® EAP,
      Canadian Alzheimer Society chapters and community agencies serving older adults.

      The intervention, called Carers, is a multicomponent, group psychotherapeutic,
      skills-training intervention for family CGs comprised of 8 weekly 2 hour closed groups
      sessions. of 4-6 CGs co-led by 2 mental health clinicians who follow a protocol that includes
      predetermined agendas that structure the outline of each group. The group leaders are trained
      to elicit and address the specific concerns of each CG during each session. The content of
      each group is determined by the CGs based on an initial go-round check-in to elicit current
      caregiving problems and challenges, emotional reactions and foster group cohesion. In
      sessions 1-4, CGs are formally taught a form of problem-solving therapy (PST) adapted for
      dementia CGs. Sessions 5-8 utilize simulation to train CGs to effectively communicate with
      the person they are caring for and learn how to engage with them to manage dementia induced
      behaviours such as resistance or demandingness. Communication training is done with live
      therapeutic simulation a hands-on training method that employs specially trained standardized
      patients (SP) in a tightly controlled intervention developed for the CARERS program. All
      group leaders were trained in a standardized training protocol at the Reitman Centre. CGs
      completed self-administered questionnaires at entry to the study, just prior to starting the
      first group and, immediately after session 8 of the group therapy. Care recipient
      (CR)function and demographic and socioeconomic information was gathered for each CG/CR at
      entry into the study. Statistical analysis employed IBM SPSS 26 and univariate general linear
      model (UNIANOVA) analysis and parametric tests.
    
  