
    
      Description of the Procedure:

      Instruments: 5-mm trocar and 5-mm 30° telescope, single 2-mm reusable port, two 14-G (1.6-mm)
      suture grasper devices [SGD] [Mediflex Company, Islandia, New York, USA], Home made isolated
      diathermy probe and an endoscopic polypectomy snare [SN]. SN is modified by shortening from
      2-m to 70-cm. It fits directly in 2-mm port.

      Operative details: Patient lies in supine position at upper part of OR table towards right
      edge. OR table tilted to opposite side of hernia with 30- degree Trendelenburg position.
      Operator stands on patient's right side during either uni-or bi-lateral hernia. Camera man
      stands at table head and monitor facing patient's feet.

      Povidone Iodine solution was applied from nipple to mid-thigh and child is then draped.
      Vertical trans umbilical 5-mm incision is made and 5mm trocar passed under vision using open
      technique. Pneumoperitoneum is then established with CO2 flow of 1.5-2.5 L/min keeping
      intraabdominal pressure between 8-12 mmHg according to age and weight. Two-mm incision at
      point (A) located at junction of upper 1/3 and lower 2/3 of line extending between umbilicus
      and symphysis pubis for 2mm port passed under direct vision. A 1.6-mm 11-blade scalpel
      puncture 2- cm. above the corresponding Mc-Burney's Point (B) for SGD. Abdomen is explored to
      confirm the diagnosis and detect bilateral hernia if present.

      One SGD was introduced through point A (SGD-A) and another] one through point B (SGD-B). Both
      SGDs were used to invert the hernia sac by gradual sustained alternating traction on the
      round ligament. Each SGD hands to the other one till complete inversion occurs, this is known
      by the sac hanging from internal ring without retracting-back inside the inguinal canal. At
      this point, snare (SN) is passed from the trocar at point A in the place of SGD-A and opened
      inside the abdomen. SGD-B passes inside the loop of SN and re-catches the hernia sac, which
      is then twisted around its neck several time. SN is closed tightly and diathermy current is
      applied to it leading to separation of hernia sac at the proper neck. [2-4]Detached sac
      (grasped by SGD-B) is then pushed antigradely out through the umbilical port. Deflation of
      the abdomen is done and umbilical fascial incision was closed using 2/0 or 3/0 Vicryl and
      umbilical skin layers were closed using 4/0 Vicryl.

      Group B; The above operative details will be applied but the inverted twisted sac will be
      ligated by a home made 3/0 Vicry suture endoloop befor excision and extraction [5].
    
  