
    
      Evaluation of myocardial mass, volumes and function is essential in the management of
      cardiovascular diseases. While 2D and 3D echocardiography play a major role in determining
      these parameters cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) has become a widely accepted gold
      standard for these measurements due to its high accuracy and reproducibility.

      However, determining normal reference standards for CMR is crucial for proper use of the
      method. Previous reports have established normal ranges for both fast low angle shot
      techniques6 and the more commonly used steady state free precession methods including values
      normalized not only to body surface area but to age and gender as well. Despite these general
      references, variability in normal ranges have been reported previously when ethnicity is
      taken into account. The ongoing Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA) trial has
      measured cardiovascular function in participants with different ethnical backgrounds,
      reporting differences in the African-American and Asian-American groups.

      Latin-American populations have generally been underrepresented in most clinical
      cardiovascular trials despite representing a growing percentage of heart disease patients in
      the world and, particularly, in the USA12-15. While the MESA trial evaluated cardiac function
      by CMR in Hispanics, data was limited to participants living in USA, within a restricted age
      group and representing only a small fraction of their entire cohort. It is thus essential to
      acquire specific data for this population regarding normal CMR values in order to permit not
      only precise clinical evaluation of Hispanic patients but also accurate assessment of
      ventricular function figures from Latin American countries in future CMR and drug trials.

      To accomplish this goal, we propose a multicenter study to collect CMR data from countries in
      Latin America in normal participants with 20-80 years of age.
    
  