
    
      The participants were recruited in two settings:

        -  Patients discharged with a first diagnosis of heart failure from the Geriatric Acute
           Care ward of a teaching hospital ("Policlinico Campus Bio-Medico", Rome, Italy);

        -  Patients with a principal diagnosis of heart failure attending the outpatients clinic of
           the same hospital.

      All the participants were evaluated at baseline and at the end of the study using a
      multi-dimensional assessment including well validated and routinely used tools to screen
      geriatric patients in order to detect global, physical and instrumental autonomy and
      consequent degree of dependence, as well as cognitive status. The assessment tool included:
      Activities of daily living scale (ADL) and Instrumental activities of daily living scale
      (IADL); Abbreviated mental Test; Geriatric Depression Scale; Physical Activity Scale for the
      Elderly; Six-minute walking test; The Short Form Health Survey (SF-12); Cumulative Illness
      Rating Scale (CIRS); complete list of drugs.

      Once written consent form was obtained, participants were allocated to the study groups in a
      1:1 ratio using a computer-generated random list of number.

      Participants were followed up for six months. Patients in the intervention group were
      monitored via a system called PHEBO (Platform for High tech Evaluation of Biometrics
      Observation) that consisted of a commercial Android-based smartphone and a kit of measurement
      instruments (sphygmomanometer, pulse oximeter and an electronic scale) with a bluetooth
      transmitter.

      The smartphone received via bluetooth the readings from the measurement instruments,
      communicated in real-time the readings to the central component of the system and issued
      reminders for the patient when measurement was scheduled.

      Patients in the telemonitoring group received a training session during which they were
      instructed on how to use the monitoring system and how to perform measurements in case of
      symptoms. At the end of the session correct comprehension of the system functioning was
      tested for each patient. A study physician was available on call during office hours to
      assist patients needing further instructions. A technician was also available in order to
      solve ingoing hardware malfunctioning. Participants unable to properly use the kit were
      excluded from the study.

      The kit was able to record peripheral oxygen saturation, heart rate, systolic, diastolic and
      average blood pressure, body weight, average physical activity. We set a specific schedule of
      the measurements:

        -  Blood pressure and heart rate: three times a day

        -  Peripheral oxygen saturation: three times a day

        -  Body weight: once a day

        -  Physical activity: recorded continuously.

      The data received were evaluated every day by a geriatrician. The monitor system displayed an
      alert when a measurement was outside a predetermined range. In case of abnormal readings, the
      physician contacted the patient to verify whether their symptoms had worsened or new symptoms
      had arose. In this event, the patient's adherence to therapy was checked and, if
      unsatisfactory, individually tailored interventions promoting adherence were carried up.
      Otherwise, an once appointment (for patients with milder abnormalities or symptoms) or a
      hospital admission was scheduled.

      Participants not included in the intervention group received standard care. In particular,
      patients discharged from the acute care ward received detailed instruction about medical
      therapy and lifestyle counselling. A follow-up visit was scheduled at 1 month after the
      discharge. A geriatrician was available for telephonic support from Monday to Friday, two
      hours/day. Patients enrolled in the ambulatory setting were followed by planned visits and by
      their general practitioner.
    
  