
    
      Background: Inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathies are rare disabling autoimmune
      diseases affecting the peripheral nervous system. These neuropathies can be acute, when signs
      and symptoms raise in less than 1 month (Guillain-Barré syndrome, GBS), or chronic, when
      deteriorations continue over more than 2 months from onset (CIDP). About half of GBS patients
      present with IgG1 or IgG3 anti-gangliosides antibodies. Gangliosides are glycolipidic
      structures mainly localized at the node and paranode areas. In CIDP patients, IgG4
      auto-antibodies directed against nodal (Nfasc-186) or paranodal (Nfasc-155, CNTN1, Caspr-1)
      proteins are found in 5 to 10 %. In most GBS and CIDP patients, the antigenic target are
      unknown and clinical biomarkers are critically lacking to help diagnosis and treatment
      orientation. The aim of the present study is to identify new biomarkers in AIDP and CIDP
      patients.

      Methods : The investigators conduct a national retrospective and prospective study to
      identify new antigenic targets in GBS and CIDP patients. Since 2015, the Institute for
      Neurosciences of Montpellier and the University Hospitals of Montpellier collect clinical,
      immulogical, electrophysiological, and histological data of GBS and CIDP patients. Each
      patient whose serum has already been collected gave written informed consent. GBS and CIDP
      are diagnosed according to the current criteria. Anti-gangliosides antibodies (by
      immunodot-blot) and anti-Nfasc155, -CNTN1, -Nfasc186, and -Caspr-1 antibodies (by ELISA and
      cell-binding assay) are assessed in GBS and CIDP patients, respectively. Among CIDP patients
      with monoclonal gammapathy, those presenting with anti-MAG antibodies, increasing VEGF, AL
      amyloidosis, and neurolymphomatosis are excluded. Patients' serum are also tested by
      immunohistochemical staining on wild-type and GalNacT -/- mouse sciatic nerve fibres.

      Clinical and electrophysiological phenotypes are compared between patients with positive and
      negative immunostaining. Localization of the staining (i.e. node of Ranvier, paranodal
      region, and/or myelin sheath) as the subclass and isotype of the autoantibody are specified.

      The search for a new antigenic target is performed in GBS and CIDP patients which are i)
      seronegatives for antiganglioside and anti-Nfasc155, -CNTN1, -Nfasc186, and -Caspr-1
      antibodies, and presenting with ii) a postive immunostaining on wild-type and GalNacT-/-
      mouse sciatic nerve fibres. Then, serums of these selected patients are incubated with
      neuronal and glial cells in culture (spinal dorsal ganglia, motoneurons, Schwann cells,
      oligodendrocytes and neocortical neurons). In the case of positivity against cell culture, an
      immunoprecipitation is performed and the antigen/antibody complex is separated on SDS-PAGE
      4-12% gel and electrophoretic bands are analyzed by mass spectrometry.

      The aim of this study is to identify new antigenic targets in seronegative GBS and CIDP
      patients displaying immunoreactivity. The knowledge of these new targets may improve our
      diagnostic tools and could help to develop targeted therapies.
    
  