
    
      Mechanical ventilation may give rise to complications with an incidence that increases with
      the duration of respiratory support. The purpose of the weaning procedure is to reduce the
      duration of mechanical ventilation without incurring a substantial risk of failure. Several
      clinical findings and clinical trials have suggested that the prognosis of ICU patients may
      be improved by minimizing the positive fluid balance. In particular, a global vascular
      overload could lead to weaning failure. B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) is a hormone
      secreted by the ventricular cardiomyocytes in response to increased wall stretch, and its
      plasma levels are correlated with left ventricular filling pressure. In a preliminary study
      on 102 patients undergoing weaning from mechanical ventilation, the baseline BNP levels
      before weaning were found to be an independent risk factor for weaning failure. In surviving
      patients, BNP levels were significantly correlated with the duration of weaning procedure.
      The purpose of this international, multicenter, controlled, randomized trial is to test if
      the incorporation of a BNP assay in a mechanical ventilation weaning protocol helps optimize
      the weaning process and reduce the duration of ventilatory weaning period. Patients on
      mechanical ventilation presenting weaning criteria will be randomly assigned to two groups
      (standard physician-directed weaning or weaning guided by BNP assay). In order to standardize
      the weaning process, patients will be ventilated with an automatic computer-driven weaning
      system in the two groups (EVITA Smart Care System, Drager Medical). A blood sample will be
      collected from all patients every morning for BNP assay by the rapid immunofluorescence test
      (Triage BNP Test, BIOSITE). In the control group, the clinician will not be informed about
      the assay results and weaning will be carried out according to usual practices. Patients in
      the intervention group will receive diuretics according to a clinical practice algorithm
      based on plasma BNP levels and a fluid intake restriction. The primary endpoint for the two
      groups will be duration of weaning from mechanical ventilation.
    
  