
    
      This study will compare articaine to lidocaine with overall quality of anesthesia. When
      administering lidocaine, the investigator will follow standard of care by administering a
      buccal infiltration injection followed by 2-3 interpapillary injections, one at each gingival
      papilla where the rubber dam clamp will be placed and possibly more if needed in areas where
      dental treatment will be provided. A single buccal infiltration injection of articaine will
      be administered, with the hypothesis that articaine is a stronger anesthestic and will
      deliver palatal anesthesia with a single injection, eliminating the interpapillary injections
      required for lidocaine to achieve adequate soft tissue anesthesia. The comfort of the patient
      during multiple steps of the dental treatment will be recorded. A randomized, cross-over
      methodology will be used. This study seeks to find whether adequate anesthesia in the
      mandible can be achieved with a single injection of articaine in the buccal aspect of the jaw
      instead of having to administer multiple injections of lidocaine, which can increase patient
      anxiety and discomfort. By decreasing the number of injections needed for children during
      dental treatment while providing adequate local anesthesia, dentists can provide more
      comfortable care to their pediatric patients.

      Specific Aims/ Hypothesis

      -Specific Aim 1: To compare articaine to lidocaine with achieving effective local anesthesia
      in the mandible and upper arch of pediatric dental patients.

      Hypothesis: The solubility of articaine will provide more effective anesthetic delivery
      through the soft and hard tissue of the mandible following buccal infiltration, eliminating
      the need for multiple injections.

      -Specific Aim 2: To identify which type of anesthetic provides the best patient experience by
      way of measuring patient comfort at various stages of the dental procedure.

      Hypothesis: The patient will have an equally comfortable experience during the dental
      procedure when articaine or lidocaine is used.
    
  