
    
      The study will begin simultaneously in all the centers, in September, at the beginning of the
      university year. When patients will be admitted in the ED for alcohol intoxication, they will
      first meet the entry nurse, who will make the orientation as usual. Participants will be
      marked as eligible for the study, and a breath test or a blood alcohol test will be
      performed. On the following morning, a psychologist will evaluate all potential patients, and
      check the inclusion criteria. In case of eligibility, the study procedure will be explained
      and the patient and a medical doctor present in the ED will sign an informed consent. The
      patient will be included and a baseline assessment will be performed using a web-based
      questionnaire implemented on a digital tablet. These inputs will automatically generate an
      identification number and a personal dashboard on a centralized server. Individual codes will
      be also given to each patient for accessing their personal dashboard on the server from a
      home computer. The patient will then be randomized, with stratification on center, sex, and
      absence or presence of a daily consumption of cannabis, between the intervention and the
      control groups. The psychologist will then perform a brief therapeutic intervention for both
      groups. Investigators plan to train all psychologists all together to the brief intervention.
      Then a smartphone application will be installed on the patient's smartphone. Follow-up
      assessments will be conducted 6 and 12 months after baseline using the same questionnaire,
      through the smartphone application or on the server website. The application will recall the
      patient by the means of automatic notifications at 6 and 12 months. Data will be push to the
      server with the identification number, without any other nominal information. In case
      patients do not perform the evaluation one week after the expected date, they will be
      contacted by any means (telephone, postal mail, email or SMS with a link to the software) by
      a research assistant to recall them to do the evaluation. Participants will be compensated
      using gift vouchers for the time lost for the interview.

      Experimental group :

      A personalized normative feedback using a tablet application will be performed after the BTI
      at ED. The application installed on the patient's smartphone will automatically repeat the
      PNF, using a local algorithm, once a month over a 6-months period after discharge, and once
      every two months in the following 6-month period. It will be also possible to perform the PNF
      on the server website.

      Control group :

      Patients in the control group will receive the BTI at the ED. The application installed on
      this group will only realize the evaluation questionnaire.
    
  