
    
      Background and Significance: Asthma is a serious, complex, and highly prevalent childhood
      respiratory disorder leading to inflammation and narrowing of the airways. If uncontrolled it
      negatively impacts long-term lung function. An estimated 6.2 million, 1 in 12, U.S. children
      have asthma and asthma outcome disparities are pervasive. An important contributor to asthma
      disparities is greater exposure to asthma triggering allergens. The proposed study addresses
      an evidence gap related to the most effective way to reduce exposure to asthma triggers in
      the home.

      Study Aims: There are three specific aims. First to compare the effectiveness of a
      multicomponent intervention to reduce asthma triggers to a single intervention to reduce
      cockroach exposure in the home testing the hypothesis that among children with asthma exposed
      to cockroaches, a single intervention targeting cockroach remediation is as effective one
      with multiple components that targets multiple allergens. Specific Aim 2 compares the
      effectiveness of the different interventions on the number of cockroaches in the home testing
      the hypothesis that insecticidal bait is as effective at reducing cockroaches as a
      multi-component approach. Specific Aim 3 examines whether the effect of insecticidal control
      on asthma outcomes differs by the allergen profile of the child. The investigators
      hypothesize that cockroach eradication results in improved outcomes independent of cockroach
      sensitization status and the number of other allergens to which a child is sensitized. The
      long term objective is to provide evidence for the NHLBI Expert Panel currently reviewing the
      Guidelines for the Diagnosis and Management of Asthma (EPR-3) and specifically the
      effectiveness of indoor allergen reduction strategies on asthma management.

      Study Description: A 12-month, two group randomized clinical trial of 290 children ages 5 -17
      with doctor diagnosed asthma recruited from clinics in the Greater New Orleans area.
      Comparator Group 1 targets dust mites, mold, cockroach, animal dander and smoke exposure.
      Interventions include asthma education, cleaning techniques, impermeable bed covers, HEPA
      vacuum cleaners, air purification, and insecticidal baiting. Comparator Group 2 targets
      cockroaches and the intervention is targeted insecticidal baiting.

      Primary outcomes include asthma symptom days, asthma-related health care utilization
      (emergency room visits, hospitalization, unscheduled clinic visits), quality of life, asthma
      control, medication use, and cockroach burden. Pulmonary function will be measured as a
      secondary outcome. Asthma outcome data will be collected monthly. Other data will be
      collected during home visits at baseline, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months.

      Each outcome will be modeled separately. Two sets of analyses will be conducted. First, a
      generalized linear regression model will be employed to model the change score from baseline
      to 12-months with Comparator group 2 as the predictor and other potential confounders as
      covariates. In the second approach, intervention effects will be assessed longitudinally by
      modelling the outcomes at each assessment time (excluding baseline) using models for repeated
      outcomes such as linear mixed model or generalized estimating equations depending on the
      distribution of the outcome. Sensitivity analyses will be performed to verify the stability
      of multiple imputation assumptions using different multiple imputation procedures and
      consistency of the final results.
    
  