
    
      BACKGROUND:

      In addition to family, school, and community, primary care is a promising setting for
      childhood obesity prevention. However, most pediatric primary care providers are not trained
      to deliver behavior modification interventions and, according to preliminary data, are less
      likely to address obesity prevention when they perceive insufficient time during well-care
      visits.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This is a controlled study of obesity prevention, with group randomization of two
      standardized 12-month intervention strategies at the practice level. The intervention
      strategies are based on the behavioral economics theory and will be delivered by primary care
      providers after training in behavior modification. The first strategy will target change in
      multiple behaviors, while the second strategy will target only one behavior (beverage
      consumption). These two interventions will be compared to an active control intervention that
      is unrelated to weight (bullying prevention). Six to seven primary care practices will be
      randomized to each arm with 21 patients per practice, for a total of 17 practices and 350
      patients. The primary aim is to demonstrate that either obesity prevention intervention will
      result in less body mass index (BMI) increase (adjusted using z-score) in children age 8 to
      12 years who are at risk for overweight (BMI 50th-95th percentile), as compared to a control
      intervention. The study also hypothesizes that the multiple-behavior intervention, the
      single-behavior intervention, or both will result in less adjusted BMI increase than the
      control intervention at 24 months post-randomization, with no a priori assumption in
      differences between the two obesity prevention strategies. Blood pressure, insulin
      resistance, dyslipidemia, and oral health status will be secondary outcomes. Intermediate
      behavioral outcomes and process data will be collected.
    
  