
    
      This study is a randomized trial in which women with stress incontinence will be allocated to
      receive either TOT or TVT procedures. Women who elect surgical management of their type II
      stress incontinence are eligible to participate in the trial. Baseline data, including a
      patient questionnaire, will be collected. Hospital outcomes, including length of stay and
      surgical complications will be documented from hospital charts. All women attend a 6-week
      follow-up visit as standard of care: a structured data collection form will be used by
      surgeons to collect information and another patient questionnaire will be administered. At 12
      months postoperatively women will attend the clinic for objective measurement of
      incontinence, a full exam and to complete a questionnaire. The main outcome is effectiveness
      of the procedure determined using a 1-hour pad test. Secondary research questions include:

      How effective is TOT compared to TVT in terms of:

      Subjective cure at 12 months postoperatively? Incontinence-specific quality of life at 6
      weeks and 12 months postoperatively? Satisfaction with surgery at 12 months postoperatively?
      Return to usual activities and usual sex life after surgery? The prevalence of voiding
      dysfunction at 12 months postoperatively? Surgical complications, both short term and long
      term? Utility and cost? (an economic evaluation) The study will be carried out according to
      the ICH Good Clinical Practice Guidelines.

      At 5 years postoperatively women will attend the clinic for a further follow-up. The primary
      research question of the 5-year follow-up is:

      Safety - What is the incidence of vaginal erosion or other serious adverse outcomes of
      surgery among women who had a surgical procedure for stress urinary incontinence utilizing a
      TOT device, versus a TVT device, over the 5 years following surgery?

      Secondary questions are as follows:

      Effectiveness - What are the objective and subjective outcomes of TOT compared with TVT at 5
      years following surgery for SUI? Health economics - What are the disease-specific rates of
      health service utilization related to repeat surgical intervention, as well as surgery and
      other treatment related to adverse events for women who had a TOT procedure, versus those who
      had a TVT procedure, over the 5 years after surgery? Using economic modelling and cost
      utility analysis, is TOT cost-effective compared with TVT over the 5 years after surgery?

      Other question:

      Do women with tape found to be palpable in the vagina at 12 months postoperatively, go on to
      develop vaginal erosion by 5 years following surgery?
    
  