
    
      Bronchiolitis Obliterans (BO) is an obstructive lung disease that can affect individuals that
      have undergone a lung or hematopoietic stem cell transplant. BO has been studied most
      extensively in lung transplant recipients, where it is considered to represent chronic lung
      rejection. It is the leading cause of death after lung transplant, with mortality rates up to
      55%. In hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, BO is thought to be a manifestation of
      chronic graft-vs-host disease (GVHD). Up to 45% of patients undergoing hematopoietic stem
      cell transplantation at the NHLBI develop a decline in pulmonary function. Conventional
      therapy for patients who develop BO consists of augmentation of systemic immunosuppressants.
      Systemic immunosuppression has limited efficacy for BO and is associated with deleterious
      consequences including increased risk of infections and decreased graft-versus tumor/leukemia
      effects.

      Recently, cyclosporine inhalation solution (CIS) in solution with propylene glycol has been
      shown to improve overall survival and chronic rejection-free survival in lung transplant
      patients. These findings suggest targeted delivery of immunosuppressive therapy to the
      diseased organ warrants further investigation as this may minimize the morbidity associated
      with systemic immunosuppression. However, there currently exists limited data regarding the
      overall efficacy of inhaled cyclosporine to treat established BO following lung
      transplantation. Furthermore, inhaled cyclosporine has not been studied in the treatment of
      BO following hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

      Here, we propose to evaluate the safety, efficacy, and pharmacodynamics of inhaled
      cyclosporine for the treatment of BO. Two distinct patient populations will be offered
      enrollment in this protocol: hematopoietic transplant recipients with BO (group A) and lung
      transplant recipients with BO (group B). Study participants will receive CIS at an initial
      dose of 150mg, three times weekly. Patients will undergo dose titration to a maximum dose of
      300mg, three times weekly. Drug deposition and pharmacokinetic analyses will be performed at
      the initiation of treatment. Clinical parameters, including pulmonary function tests, will be
      measured in addition to laboratory markers of the anti-inflammatory response to CIS. Adverse
      events associated with treatment will be recorded.

      The primary objective is to 1) assess the safety and efficacy of inhaled cyclosporine as a
      new therapy in hematopoietic transplant patients and lung transplant patients with
      established BO. Additionally, we seek to promote a better understanding of the pathogenesis
      of BO in these two transplant groups and to assess the anti-inflammatory effects of inhaled
      cyclosporine in patients that develop this complication.

      The primary endpoint of each study group is the best response, FEV1 improvement or
      stabilization from study baseline at week 18 for two successive measures, at least 1 week
      apart, no more than 2 weeks apart. Secondary endpoints include the toxicity profile as
      measured by CTCAE criteria (safety), the study of pharmacokinetics and lung deposition
      characteristics of inhaled cyclosporine, improvement in high resolution chest CT images,
      results of peripheral blood and bronchoalveolar cytokine arrays to assess secondary markers
      of inflammation, and functional capacity measurements using a six-minute walk test.
    
  