
    
      Despite numerous interventions, there remains a need to develop new ways to prevent
      microvascular obstruction (MVO). The investigators aim to select patients with persistent
      S-T-elevation on the ECG and an occluded artery and heavy thrombus burden at initial
      angiography. These characteristics are causally linked to MVO. Patients with a thrombotic
      culprit coronary artery have reduced myocardial perfusion compared to those without and the
      presence of coronary thrombus is an independent predictor of adverse ischaemic outcomes
      post-MI. Intra-luminal thrombus, as revealed by intra vascular imaging with optical coherence
      tomography (OCT) in STEMI patients, has shown that thrombus commonly persists in the culprit
      coronary artery, including within the stent post-implantation, even when the thrombus is
      invisible with conventional angiography. The amount of persistent thrombus predicted the
      likelihood of persistent S-T-segment elevation, a marker of microvascular injury, and
      impaired perfusion.Therefore, coronary thrombus represents a therapeutic target in primary
      PCI. The pathophysiology of MVO and microvascular thrombosis has elucidated in MRI studies of
      reperfused MI in swine. The investigators demonstrated that LATE MVO corresponds closely with
      infarct zone haemorrhage as revealed by T2-weighted MRI and pathology. The investigators
      observations were validated by Robbers et al who showed that in swine 7 days post-MI, when
      LATE MVO and haemorrhage correspond (which is usually the case), there is severe capillary
      loss and disruption coupled with thrombosis and inflammation. They concluded that following
      reperfusion, acute inflammation and microvessel thrombosis result in degradation of
      endothelial integrity and capillary breakdown. Very interestingly, their histology also
      demonstrated diffuse microvascular thrombosis within the area of late gadolinium enhancement
      surrounding the haemorrhagic core which explains reduced perfusion (or wash during first pass
      of gadolinium contrast MRI) within the ischaemic area-at-risk. This observation points to the
      therapeutic potential of local thrombolysis within the culprit artery circulation.The study
      addresses the question of whether a pharmacological strategy involving reduced dose alteplase
      given early during the primary PCI procedure will both prevent and treat distal microvascular
      thrombosis and MVO and, subsequently, reduce infarct size.Current evidence around the
      potential safety and efficacy of reduced dose fibrinolysis in primary PCI is limited. These
      limitations set-the-scene and support the rationale for the clinical trial: Full systemic
      dose intravenous fibrinolysis to facilitate primary PCI is potentially harmful and increases
      the risk of off-target bleeding complications; therefore, the investigators will use
      reduced-dose fibrinolysis. They will directly infuse alteplase into the culprit artery to
      achieve effective and sustained local plasma concentrations and much lower systemic
      concentrations of unbound drug. It is anticipated that bleeding rates may be low; therefore,
      the investigators will measure fibrinogen in all patients. Fibrinogen and other haemostasis
      parameters will serve as a surrogate measure of bleeding (and safety). In line with
      contemporary practice, investigators advise that patients have radial artery access whenever
      possible. Previous trials have used streptokinase (non-fibrin specific and immunogenic); this
      study will use the fibrin-specific non-immunogenic second generation thrombolytic, alteplase
      The only previous trial involved thrombolysis at the end of primary PCI (when microvascular
      thrombosis may already be established after reperfusion); the efficacy of thrombolysis may be
      greatest when thrombus is most abundant at the beginning of primary PCI; persistent residual
      fibrin strands adherent within the culprit territory will be selectively targeted by
      fibrinolytic therapy during primary PCI; thrombus which forms during the primary PCI
      procedure could be treated by the sustained 'deep tissue' thrombolytic effects of locally
      administered intra-coronary alteplase; in terms of ease-of-use and feasibility, there may be
      advantages to giving alteplase as a single dose.T-TIME is a Phase II evaluation of two
      reduced doses of alteplase, delivered locally, compared to placebo in STEMI patients
      receiving PCI in a double-blind, randomised, parallel group, placebo-controlled dose-ranging
      clinical trial. The investigators believe the strategy with intracoronary fibrinolysis
      complements other therapeutic approaches which are currently being tested. Should the trial
      demonstrate EFFICACY then a future trial might involve a factorial design with placebo,
      alteplase and any other intervention that might also be shown to be effective in the
      intervening time in order to test the comparative EFFICACY of each (alone or in combination)
      on surrogate and/or clinical outcomes.
    
  