
    
      Despite improvements made to the traditional laryngoscope blade since its invention,
      occasionally intubation of the trachea cannot be accomplished with facility, even in patients
      with anatomy that does not predict difficult intubation. It is estimated that endotracheal
      intubation is performed on some 8 million patients per year in the United States. Of these
      endotracheal intubations, approximately 80% are performed by direct laryngoscopy with
      transoral placement of the endotracheal tube (ET) into the trachea. There is fairly uniform
      reporting of the incidence of failed intubation in the literature; it occurs in approximately
      0.05% or 1:2230 of surgical patients and in approximately 0.13% to 0.35%, or 1:750 to 1:280,
      of the obstetric patients. The incidence of unsuspected difficult intubation is estimated to
      be higher at 3%. One factor that contributes to difficult intubation is poor visualization.

      The VL is designed to optimize visualization by presenting to the operator an enlarged video
      image of airway structures. In contrast, using conventional laryngoscopy, anesthesiologists
      have only a "keyhole" view of the airway structures; a view that may be further obscured
      during attempts to pass the ET.

      The VL consists of a laryngoscope handle and Macintosh blade that have been modified to
      provide a video image of airway structures on a screen, which can be conveniently located
      directly in front of the anesthesiologist. A micro video module is contained in the modified
      handle. An image/light bundle is introduced into the standard blade. This system has been
      previously tested in which the consensus was that the device is extremely easy to learn to
      use because most anesthesiologists are familiar with the use of the Macintosh blade. It has
      also been useful in the instruction of laryngoscopy by non-anesthesiologists.

      There are several potential advantages of a video image in the context of direct
      laryngoscopy. The system provides high quality video images that are enlarged on the video
      monitor for easier visualization. If laryngeal manipulation is required to improve
      visualization of laryngeal structures, the intubator and the person assisting can coordinate
      movements as they observe, simultaneously, the image on the video monitor. With the video
      image projected from the distal end of the laryngoscope blade, laryngeal structures are kept
      in view as the ET is passed through the oropharynx into the trachea.

      Comparison: Video Laryngoscope as a conduit for possible difficult intubation compared to the
      traditional Macintosh blade.
    
  