
    
      Obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) are major global health concerns as they commonly
      co-occur and are associated with significant morbidity, mortality, and health care
      expenditures. The Indigenous population bears a disproportionate burden of T2DM in Canada.
      The 2007/2008 Canadian Community Health Survey (Statistics Canada) reported the prevalence of
      obesity among Indigenous individuals is approximately 31.2% compared to 18.6% for the
      non-Indigenous population. In 2011, 16.7% of Manitoba's population, or four times the
      Canadian average, identified as Indigenous (Statistics Canada). At the same time, prevalence
      of T2DM in Manitoba is on the rise. Bariatric surgery is an effective treatment modality for
      the improvement and resolution of T2DM in patients who are obese. To date, there are no
      published studies comparing the effectiveness of bariatric surgery with conventional medical
      treatment in treating metabolic diseases in Indigenous people.

      Our objective is to determine whether Manitoba's urban Indigenous population will achieve
      better diabetic control and improved rates of remission of T2DM with bariatric surgery
      compared to best diabetic medical care (Manitoba Diabetes Care Recommendations, 2010;
      consistent with the Diabetes Canada and Clinical Practice Guidelines). Our primary outcome is
      best diabetic control at one-year post-intervention, as measured by fasting plasma glucose
      and hemaglobin A1c (HbA1c). Secondary outcomes will include changes in diabetic medication
      use, mean weight loss, and percentage changes in blood pressure, waist circumference
      measurement changes, and levels of fasting blood lipids (total cholesterol, HDL, LDL, and
      triglycerides). Additional funding to extend the study to include follow-up of study
      participants at five years post-treatment through accessing their medical charts and
      anonymized administrative data will be sought.
    
  