
    
      Neuroblastoma is the second most frequent solid tumour (7.6%) and the second cause of cancer
      related death (11%) in childhood. In particular the large high risk (HR) group has remained a
      challenge to Paediatric Oncologists. Although the 5 year survival rates of children with HR
      disease have increased over the last 3 decades from 4 to 44.4%, the vast majority of those
      children will finally succumb to disease [1]. Most patients show good initial responses to
      chemotherapy (CR + PR-rate 95 %), but a majority experiences a highly treatment resistant
      tumour progression (55%). Therefore new therapeutic modalities are urgently needed.

      Recently, a randomized trial demonstrated that an immunotherapeutic concept using the
      anti-GD2 antibody ch14.18 together with interleukin 2, GM-CSF and retinoic acid improved the
      outcome of neuroblastoma patients which achieved CR or very good partial remission (VGPR)
      response to the preceding therapy. This treatment was associated with a high rate of toxic
      effects (neuropathic pain 52% of patients, capillary leak syndrome 23%). An earlier study
      using the antibody ch14.18 alone made comparable observations: pain despite of analgesia was
      seen in 33% of patients and severe capillary leak syndromes in 3 of 151 children. Differences
      of the reported frequencies are due to the different definitions of side effects.

      The investigators therefore propose a randomized clinical trial comparing the COG
      immunotherapy concept with newly designed hopefully equally effective but less toxic concept.
      This modifies the application route of IL-2 from i.v. to s.c. and increases the IL-2 dose to
      6.0 mio/m²xd (from 3.0 first week and 4.5 mio second week i.v.). Oral retinoic acid is used
      in both arms. The proposed randomized trial will answer the following questions:

      (i) Confirmation of the feasibility to apply the COG immunotherapy as consolidation treatment
      after a different remission induction therapy in patients with recurrent and de novo high
      risk neuroblastoma (ii) Investigation of the feasibility to apply the new immunotherapy
      concept in patients with recurrent high risk neuroblastoma (iii) Comparison of the toxicity
      of both immunotherapy regimens with the aim to reduce grade 2 - 4 toxicities in the
      experimental arm.

      (iv) Comparison of the immune response (antiidiotype antibodies, immune cell phenotypes,
      immune mediators, functional assays as antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) and
      complement dependent cytotoxicity (CDC) between treatment cycles (intraindividual), treatment
      arms (interindividual) and between recurrent and newly diagnosed patients (v) Comparison of
      pharmacokinetics of antibody ch14.18 in both arms (12.10.) (vi) Comparison of therapeutic
      efficacy by response evaluation at the end of the 25 week treatment (descriptive).

      (vii) Comparison of patients´ QoL experienced in both immunotherapy regimens as indicated by
      parents rating in appropriate questionnaires.
    
  