
    
      Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a sporadic progressive neurodegenerative disorder caused by
      oligodendroglial aggregation of α-synuclein affecting predominantly the nigrostriatal,
      olivo-ponto-cerebellar, and autonomic systems,resulting in a clinical presentation of
      dysautonomia combined with either predominantly parkinsonian (MSA-P) or cerebellar (MSA-C)
      symptoms of varying severity.In its early stage, the diagnosis of MSA according to the second
      consensus criteria can be challenging. Therefore, the Movement Disorders Society MSA study
      group recently addressed the importance of developing valuable diagnostic tools for securing
      an early diagnosis in patients with MSA not only to estimate disease prognosis but also to
      early initiate novel, potentially disease-modifying treatments in clinical trials. Despite
      laryngopharyngeal dysfunction being associated with decreased life expectancy and quality of
      life, systematic assessment of these functions in MSA is scarce. Previously, an
      easy-to-implement MSA-FEES task-protocol was suggested to systematically assess
      laryngopharyngeal function.

      A pilot study on 8 patients with MSA not only showed that the task protocol was feasible and
      well tolerated, but also that laryngopharyngeal symptoms where highly prevalent despite the
      lack of clinical presentation (Warnecke et. al 2019). Moreover, irregular arytenoid
      cartilages movements where present in all MSA-patients when performing this task protocol,
      suggesting this symptom could serve as a clinical marker to identify MSA-patients.

      Following this pilot study, an observational two center study assessed 57 MSA patients with
      this protocol and compared findings to an age-matched cohort of PD-patients (Gandor et al.
      2020). While only 43.9% of MSA patients had clinical symptoms of laryngeal dysfunction, 93%
      showed laryngeal abnormalities during FEES performing the task-protocol. 91.2% of
      MSA-patients showed irregular arytenoid cartilages movements. In contrast, only one PD
      patient showed laryngeal abnormalities with vocal fold motion impairment, but not irregular
      arytenoid cartilages movements. This study suggests that irregular arytenoid cartilages
      movements allow differentiating MSA from PD with a sensitivity of 0.9 and a specificity of
      1.0.

      The aim of this FEEMSA trial is to continue recruitment of patients with MSA and PD and
      systematically assess laryngopharyngeal function in an even larger cohort. Moreover, patients
      with PSP and related 4repeat tauopathies will also be recruited at eligible sites to compare
      results from this cohort to results in MSA and PD. If available, laryngeal EMG will also be
      recorded.
    
  