
    
      IMU-131 is a single peptide structure composed of 3 individual B-cell epitope peptide
      sequences selected from HER2/neu structure. Polyclonal antibodies against IMU-131 peptides
      bind three separate regions of the HER2 receptor and also to the dimerization loop of the
      HER2 receptor, preventing dimerization, which in turn inhibits intracellular signaling. This
      blockade of the HER2 signaling pathways is thought to be substantially greater than that with
      trastuzumab alone. Safety and immunogenicity of the 3 peptides have been shown in Phase 1a
      testing of an earlier formulation of IMU-131. The shelf stability of the Phase 1a vaccine was
      not optimal and hence the formulation was adjusted for IMU-131. The three B-cell epitope
      peptides (P4, P6 and P7) were combined in a specific order resulting in a single fusion
      peptide of 49 amino acids in length (P467). This new formulation of IMU-131 has extended
      stability and improved immunogenicity compared to the formulation used previously. The new
      vaccine IMU-131 produces a stronger and more rapid polyclonal antibody response and is
      efficient to manufacture compared with previous formulations. Based on these three known
      epitopes (P4, P6 and P7), the investigators developed a single peptide antigen (P467), which
      allows simplification of the manufacturing process.

      It is hypothesized that administration of IMU-131 in addition to chemotherapy will prolong
      survival and may delay tumor progression and/or reduce tumor burden in patients with HER2/neu
      overexpressing gastric or gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) adenocarcinoma (otherwise known as
      Advanced Cancer of the Stomach (ASC)).

      The Phase 1b study aims to determine the safety and tolerability of IMU-131 and identify the
      Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) of IMU-131 in combination with chemotherapy in HER2/neu
      overexpressing ACS to carry into the Phase 2 dose expansion study. The Phase 2 component will
      be submitted as an amendment and will be initiated following completion of Phase 1b. Phase 2
      will be designed to further characterize the safety and to explore clinical activity of
      IMU-131 in combination with chemotherapy in HER2/neu overexpressing ACS.The Phase 2 study is
      a randomized, open label comparison of IMU-131 plus standard of care chemotherapy versus
      standard of care chemotherapy alone.
    
  