
    
      Needle sticks are part of many standard treatments in the pediatric emergency department (ED)
      and are frequently a source of pain and anxiety for children. Intravenous catheters (IVs)
      have been shown to be among the leading causes of pain in hospitalized children 1 and
      venipucture is commonly seen as one of the most painful and frequently performed invasive
      procedures by nurses. 2 (Jacobson et al.) Children recording VAS pain scores in response to
      IV catheter placement in the Emergency Department rated the pain as 3.23/5.0 and their parent
      rated their children's pain as 3.4/5.0. 3 (Skarbek et al.) The placement of intravenous
      catheters would be more efficient and less stressful if the clinician had a clear roadmap or
      picture highlighting the location of the vein. The lack a clear visual guide to IV placement
      often leads to multiple painful attempts at catheter placement as well as delays urgent in
      treatment ( I.V. fluid and medication administration) and increased use of human resources.
      The current average number of catheter punctures needed in order to achieve successful
      catheter placement is 2.4 with a range of 1-14. 4 ( Larue, GD ) The VeinViewer by Luminetx™
      allows the clinician to clearly see the child's accessible vasculature or the lack thereof in
      real time, directly on the surface of the skin. The clinician can be trained to operate the
      VeinViewer in minutes and use does not require any additional job or skills certification.
      The VeinViewer is free standing and hands-free allowing the clinician the freedom to use both
      hands to carry out the work of placing the catheter (unlike ultrasound which requires one
      hand to hold the probe and the other hand to place the catheter, unless two people are
      available and able to coordinate their work efforts thus doubling the resources necessary for
      I.V. placement. The VeinViewer is non-invasive and causes no tissue damage. There is no
      patient contact with the device and therefore no risk of infectious disease contamination
      with blood products. The VeinViewer uses near-infrared light to locate subcutaneous veins and
      project their location onto the surface of the skin thus creating a visible roadmap for I.V
      catheter placement. This protocol describes a prospective, randomized, study, evaluating the
      effectiveness of VeinViewer in increasing the ease of intravenous cannulation in children
      receiving intravenous cannulation in the pediatric emergency department. The investigators
      hypothesize that cannulation using VeinViewerâ will require fewer sticks and will result in
      fewer missed or repeated IV starts, fewer extravasating ("blown vein") IV placements,
      increased perceived ease of placement by the operator, and decreased pain associated with the
      IV placement as perceived by the child, the parent, and the operator.

      2. Background Intravenous cannulation is a routine and common part of treatment for children
      receiving care in the Pediatric Emergency Department. Intravenous cannulation is painful and
      often challenging in children. Peripheral IV's are generally placed using visual and/or
      tactile cues. These may be minimal or deceptive in children who often have small peripheral
      veins and increased subcutaneous fat with opaque, elastic skin. Health care workers often
      struggle to place these IV's successfully making multiple sticks, infiltrating subcutaneous
      tissues, requiring extensive operator time, and, most importantly, causing the patient and
      the parent distress. A number of approaches have been tried, attempting to decrease the pain
      of these cannulations. Most of these involve the cutaneous application of lidocaine in an
      attempt to numb the skin and decrease the pain of the stick.

      EMLA and more recently, LMX (lidocaine in liposomal delivery system) are effective topical
      agents but there is a 30 minute dwell time - inappropriate in the Emergency Medicine setting.
      A number of devices have been tested which decrease the barrier of the stratum corneum thus
      allowing the lidocaine to anesthetize the skin in 3-5 minutes. These include a hand held
      laser (effective but burns and pigments the skin), a small ultrasound (effective but bulky
      and difficult to use), and gas pressure driven powdered lidocaine (effective but not approved
      by the FDA yet for general sales and distribution). These devices depend on identifying the
      vein and then successfully cannulating the identified vein through the anestethized skin.
      Missed sticks force the operator to begin the anesthesia process all over again in a
      different site. This process is time consuming and ineffective in the ED setting.

      Other centers have begun to employ ultrasound to identify the veins for peripheral
      cannulation to cannulate under indirect visualization. This process is difficult for small
      mobile pediatric veins and requires extensive operator training and practice. It also
      requires an extra set of operator hands when children, often less than cooperative, are
      involved. It is unclear that this approach will be effective in the Pediatric ED.

      Vein Viewerâ is a hands off device that projects a map of the subcutaneous veins onto the
      surface of the skin. It allows the operator to insert the IV catheter under direct
      visualization. It can be used by one operator who can insert the catheter and restrain the
      child's arm while using the device. Direct visualization is accurate and decreases the blind
      sticks, missed "fishing expeditions", and extravasations of IV fluid and medication (often
      not benign) that can occur with IV cannulation, especially in children. Decreasing the number
      of sticks and the time to successful catheterization will decrease the child's and the
      parents perceived pain of the procedure and the operator time to effective catheterization
      thus increasing the efficiency of the operator and the ED in general, and speeding the
      initiation of therapy (IV hydration or medication). The Vein Viewer has no side effects and
      is visually interesting to children and parents. It has the potential to revolutionize the
      effectiveness and efficiency, of IV cannulation in the Pediatric Emergency Department and
      decrease substantially the child's and the parent's perceived pain from the procedure and
      fear of the procedure.
    
  