
    
      Patients treated in the intensive care unit (ICU) are treated with a variety of sedative and
      analgesic drugs to be able to undergo intensive care. The amount of drugs that each patient
      receives is based on standard dosages where the dose regimen is based on clinical studies
      with a limited number of patients included. Most patients treated in the intensive care unit
      have a varying degree of cardiac, renal or liver failure which affects the metabolism of the
      drugs administered. Possibly, the drug concentrations achieved with the standard dosages
      administered to these patients can vary significantly between patients. This may possibly
      lead to an extended stay at the ICU which gives the patient an unnecessary suffering, affects
      the patient's family and increases the cost of health care.

      Intoxications due to suicidal purposes is common and usually results in intensive care for
      those who survive. It is often unknown what type of medication or drugs these patients have
      been taken and what serum concentration it may result in. Screening methods are available but
      the information it gives us today may not be enough for the initial acute care of the
      patient. Also, there are no previous studies with reliable documentation regarding the drug
      concentrations in the blood of patents that die in the intensive care unit. It is also
      unknown what kind of drugs and amount of doses given before the death of these patients. It
      is of significant importance to increase the knowledge in this area to be able to evaluate if
      the medicines administered before death of patients in intensive care could affect the
      outcome.

      Blood samples will be taken according to routine procedures upon the patients arrival at the
      ICU and then 2 times per day.

      The drug analysis includes drugs used for sedation and analgesia. These samples will be
      analysed at the national board of forensic medicine (Rättsmedicinalverket) in Linköping.
      There will also be a screening of unknown or suspected drugs taken by self- intoxicated
      patients. Sedation ratio by the Richmond agitation sedation scale (RASS) will be evaluated
      and recorded 3 times per day. An assessment of the visual analogy scale (VAS) will be done
      for the patients who are awake and are able to cooperate. All physiological measurements will
      be measured and documented according to local routines. For patients who die at the ICU and
      undergo autopsy, blood samples will be taken after death for analysis of routine drugs.
    
  