
    
      At the request of our funder (The Children's Hospital Charity), we have been asked to split
      the research methodology into two phases to secure the full amount of our funding. The
      differences between the two phases relates to the length of aEEG recording and whether the
      babies get the follow-up at discharge from the neonatal unit. The reason for developing two
      phases is that the funder wishes us to prove the concept that we can recruit premature babies
      to have aEEG using one machine before they pay for a second monitor to allow for the full
      study to run. The inclusion and exclusion criteria will be the same for both phases of the
      study.

      PHASE ONE:

      Methodology:

      The baby of any family who consent to be involved in the study will have their head cleaned
      using a sterile solution. The 5 sticky EEG leads placed on the head and connected to the
      monitor. We will not use needle electrodes because of the risk of infection and scarring. The
      screen of the monitor will be covered with a black piece of card so it is not visible to
      staff or families. This is because the staff do not know what is a normal or abnormal aEEG in
      a premature baby, and we do not want them making treatment decisions based on a test result
      they do not understand. However, we will ask the nurses to check the screen at the time of
      usual observations to check that the monitor is still recording and the leads have not fallen
      off. This can be done by looking at the "impedance" on the screen, as would happen for babies
      born at term who have aEEG. Nursing staff will also be asked to review the skin regularly at
      the time of usual cares to make sure it remains healthy.

      The aEEG will be recorded continuously for one week, and will then stop. No further follow-up
      or intervention is planned.

      The funders require us to show proof of concept in 6 premature babies before releasing the
      remainder of our money for additional monitors, nursing time and equipment.

      Staff will review the aEEG monitor at the time of usual observations to ensure that the
      machine is recording, the impedence is within normal levels, a trace is recorded, the EEG
      leads remain attached, and the skin condition is good.

      PHASE TWO:

      Babies whose families consent to involvement will have their head cleaned, EEG leads
      attached, the monitor set up, and observations as described in phase one. The main difference
      in the two phases is the timing of recording.

      In phase two, babies will be recorded continuously for the entire duration of their time on
      the intensive care unit.

      Once the child is receiving high dependency or special care, we will record aEEG for 4 hours
      once a week until the baby is discharged home. If a participant is moved back to intensive
      care, the aEEG will be started again if the aEEG monitor is not being used on another baby.

      Before being discharged home, the babies in phase two will have additional follow-up. They
      will receive magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain on either a 1.5T or dedicated 3T
      (Firefly) scanner at the University of Sheffield. They will also have a standardised
      examination of their neurological system performed by a physiotherapist (The Hammersmith
      Neonatal Neurological Examination).

      We will collect clinical details retrospectively from the observation charts and medical
      notes, including:

        -  The gestation age of the baby

        -  How long they received ventilation or other forms of respiratory support for

        -  How long they needed oxygen for and, and maximum oxygen requirement each day

        -  How many infections (sepsis) they had and which organisms were found

        -  Whether they had a heart defect called a patent ductus arteriosus and whether treatment
           was needed for this

        -  What the results of their ultrasound scans of the brain were, which are performed
           routinely in premature babies

        -  Whether they had a gut problem called necrotising enterocolitis and whether surgery was
           needed

        -  Whether they developed post-haemorrhagic ventricular dilation, and need for intervention

        -  Survival to discharge

      We will ask the families for consent to examine any future medical notes / clinic letters to
      see what the baby's development was like later in life. We will also ask the families for
      their permission to contact them in the future in the event that we obtain funding for a
      follow-on study, such as to examine their child's development in more detail in the future.

      We will ask parents to complete a short questionnaire about their experience of the
      monitoring.

      We will ask the neonatal nurses to complete a short questionnaire about their experience of
      the monitoring and whether they have ideas for improving the process, or any training they
      would like to have.
    
  