
    
      Aims: Assess accuracy of histological diagnosis using ultrasound guided biopsy for women with
      suspected endometrial cancer (as an alternative to hysteroscopy guided biopsy).

      Background:

      Endometrial cancer is a tumour originating in the endometrium (womb lining); it is the most
      common gynaecological cancer in the UK. Although routine management for these women does
      vary, in general a screening test is performed, typically a pelvic (internal) ultrasound to
      assess the endometrium (womb lining). In cases where the endometrial thickness is above the
      threshold for investigation - an endometrial biopsy (sampling cells from the womb lining) is
      indicated. The biopsy can be taken blindly or under scan or hysteroscopic guidance.
      Hysteroscopy, the insertion of a small camera into the womb to visualise the womb lining
      allows direct visualization of the cavity. This usually occurs at a separate consultation in
      an outpatient setting or under general anaesthesia.

      In theory an ultrasound-guided biopsy using a very fine Bettocchi forceps could be used
      instead of hysteroscopy- guided biopsies of the endometrium. The technique of
      ultrasound-guided biopsy is ubiquitous when used elsewhere in the body. It is frequently used
      to provide histological diagnosis of pelvic masses, (presumed ovarian origin), both
      abdominally (scanning of the tummy) and transvaginally (internally). Potentially ultrasound
      guided biopsies could be used as a cheaper, faster and less painful alternative to a
      hysteroscopy directed biopsies. This pilot study will be the first to assess the diagnostic
      ability of ultrasound guided biopsy in the assessment of women with suspected endometrial
      cancer.

      The study:

      All women will receive a pelvic (internal) ultrasound as per routine care. If the endometrium
      (womb lining) is thickened >4mm on ultrasound they will require an endometrial biopsy.
      Usually this will be a pipelle. In cases where the pipelle biopsy cannot be performed in
      clinic due to poor tolerance, insufficient material or focal lesions a hysteroscopy guided
      biopsy will be required (local or GA).

      In this case, the patients will be offered an ultrasound (USS) guided biopsy in the first
      instance, this will be performed at the same time in clinic. The biopsy will be taken under
      scan guidance using a very fine forceps such as Bettochi forceps. These forceps are used
      routinely during hysteroscopy so whilst the instruments are common the application is novel.
      The biopsy results of this will be sent for standard histology. If the results are inadequate
      patients will be sent for standard hysteroscopy and biopsy. Patients will also be asked to
      assess tolerability of the procedure using a visual analogue score.
    
  