
    
      Objective:

      The primary goal of this study is to evaluate the role and interaction of (epi)genetic
      factors, early life stress (ELS) exposure, and alcohol use disorder (AUD) on neuronal
      mechanisms of fear conditioning and extinction.

      The central hypothesis is that participants with AUD and ELS will have disrupted fear
      extinction, and in addition, those with ELS will also have disrupted fear extinction. AUD
      with ELS will have the most severe disruption of fear extinction as observed clinically in
      alcoholics with severe trauma - often presenting with the most severe phenotypes and being
      most treatment resistant. A disruption in fear extinction or living in constant fear after
      stress/trauma could thus put the individual at risk for AUD.

      Identification and characterization of the neurobiological correlates underlying this
      mechanism is thus essential and could provide new avenues for treatment of AUD; namely
      developing interventions that normalize abnormal fear extinctions. These interventions could
      be for example, cognitive-behavior based or molecular by targeting genetic/epigenetic
      pathways potentially identified.

      Our proposal, if successful, will first establish a reliable measureable endophenotype of
      fear extinction in AUD/ELS, both behaviorally (skin conductance response) and neuronal (using
      an fMRI paradigm). Furthermore, we will carry out exploratory genetic and epigenetics studies
      that might influence these measures. This model can then be used in follow up studies for
      novel therapeutic interventions that could target treatment of these mechanisms in AUD.

      Study Population:

      The study sample includes two patient groups and two control groups:

        1. treatment-seeking or non-treatment-seeking individuals with AUD and ELS exposure;

        2. treatment-seeking or non-treatment-seeking individuals with AUD without ELS exposure;

        3. healthy volunteers with ELS exposure;

        4. healthy volunteers without ELS exposure.

      Target accrual for each of these groups is 25.

      Design:

      Subjects will be evaluated for fear conditioning and extinction using shock conditioning
      (extinction procedure combined with fMRI imaging that utilizes galvanic skin response). All
      participants will undergo whole-genome methylome analyses to assess genome wide methylation
      patterns. Genotyping of variants in candidate genes implicated in the biology of fear
      conditioning/extinction will be carried out.

      Outcome Parameters:

      The primary outcome of interest is fear extinction, measured by fMRI paradigms. Secondary
      objectives include: (1) explore the role of genetic variants and epigenetic factors and their
      impact on fear extinction in AUD and healthy controls with or without ELS; (2) explore
      differences in reward processing and emotion processing, measured by fMRI as a function of
      AUD, ELS, and (epi)genetic modulators; and (3) examine the relationship between fear
      extinction and clinical outcomes in both AUD and ELS participants sample.
    
  