
    
      Following transplant, prior to the one month post transplant visit, subjects will be
      approached either in the transplant unit in the hospital or at the transplant clinic in the
      hospital for study participation. Following enrollment, subjects will be randomized at one
      month post transplant to reduced dose Tacrolimus plus Mycophenolate Mofetil immunosuppression
      (control group) or to Everolimus plus Mycophenolate Mofetil (study group) maintenance
      immunosuppression.

      After liver transplant, all patients will receive the standard induction regimen and
      Tacrolimus monotherapy.

      INDUCTION:

      Rabbit anti-thymocyte globulin (rATG) 1.5 mg/kg of actual body weight rounded to nearest 25
      mg and capped at 150 mg for up to three doses given IV on post-operative day (POD) 1, 3, and
      5. Some patients may receive only one dose if considered too frail to need all three doses.

      30 minutes prior to infusion, pre-medicate with the following: Daily steroid dose
      Acetaminophen (Tylenol®) 650 mg PO or per NG x 1 dose B - Lay Summary & Research Design
      Diphenhydramine (Benadryl®) 25 mg IV push x 1 dose

      Steroids:

      Methylprednisolone (Solu-Medrol®) 250 mg IV push x 1 dose on POD 1 (given 30 minutes prior to
      rATG) and 125 mg IV push x 1 dose on POD 3.

      Maintenance:

      Low dose Tacrolimus (FK / Prograf®) (titrated to a goal trough of 6 ± 1 ng/mL) plus
      Mycophenolate Mofetil 500 mg BID.

      RANDOMIZATION:

      On POD 30, patients meeting study criteria will be randomized to either the study arm or
      control arm. Patients randomized to the study arm will be converted to Everolimus (target
      trough levels 4-8 ng/mL) plus Mycophenolate Mofetil 500 mg BID therapy. The control arm will
      be maintained on the low dose Tacrolimus plus Mycophenolate Mofetil therapy.

      At 3 months, patients with GFR <=60 will proceed to reduced dose Everolimus (target trough
      levels 3-6 ng/mL) plus Mycophenolate Mofetil 500 mg BID therapy. Patients with GFR >60 will
      proceed to Everolimus monotherapy (target trough levels 4-8 ng/mL).

      Complete blood counts, liver function panels, and drug levels will be monitored per Standard
      of Care [SOC]: initially twice per week for first month, once per week for next two months,
      once every other week for next three weeks, and then once monthly. Ultrasound, ERCP, biopsy
      as needed by clinical situation as SOC.
    
  