
    
      The literature has clearly demonstrated that the effective treatment of postoperative pain in
      infants and children is challenging. Despite the recognition of the importance of
      postoperative analgesia and the potential adverse effects of postoperative pain, significant
      pain occurs during the postoperative period in both the inpatient and outpatients settings.
      Specifically, appendectomy is one of the most common pediatric surgical procedures and is
      associated with significant postoperative pain. Additionally, although the use of opioid
      analgesics is generally safe, adverse effects do occur thereby mandating the use of
      alternative analgesic techniques when feasible. In an effort to improve postoperative
      analgesia while limiting opioid-related adverse effects, there continues to be an increased
      use of multimodal techniques in infants and children. These can include TAP block as well as
      wound infiltration with local anesthetic. The efficacy of TAP blocks in the setting of
      laparoscopic appendectomy has been demonstrated in both adult and pediatric populations,
      however its efficacy in comparison to local anesthetic infiltration is unclear.

      The TAP block was first described by McDonnell et al. in 2004 for pain control of procedures
      involving the anterior abdominal wall. The skin, muscles, and parietal peritoneum in this
      region are innervated by the T7 through L1 nerve roots. The authors described deposition of
      local anesthetic in the plane between the internal oblique and the transversus abdominis
      muscle where the terminal branches of the T7 through L1 nerves lie. Since then, the TAP block
      has been shown to effectively provide analgesia for a variety of abdominal procedures. In
      2007 an ultrasound guided approach was described by Hebbard et al. with a subsequent study
      concluding that an ultrasound guided TAP block provided superior analgesia than a blind
      technique.

      The frequency of surgical appendectomy in both the inpatient surgical as well as the
      ambulatory setting justifies this comparison of effective analgesia. This study can certainly
      change the daily practice of the pediatric anesthesiologist in providing optimal care in
      patient and family satisfaction, as well as recovery.
    
  