
    
      I. Background

        -  Seasonal influenza virus causes an estimated 0.3-0.6 million deaths per year. Avian
           influenza virus H5N1, H7N9 and H5N6 has fatality rate of over 30%. Swine influenza
           viruses from pigs have also infected humans.

        -  Molecular assays are now used routinely in the detection of influenza viruses. The M
           gene is often used as the target for all influenza A viruses because the nucleotide
           sequence of this gene is relatively conserved among all the influenza A viruses. The
           World Health Organization and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
           have published protocols for molecular detection of influenza A virus M gene.

        -  However, recent studies have shown that mutations in the M gene have led to a reduced
           sensitivity of RT-PCR assay targeting this gene. Therefore, it is important to use
           alternative conserved genes as the target of RT-PCR. In this study, our aim is to
           evaluate two new RT-PCR assays that are based on PB2 and NS gene segment

      II. Study objective -To evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of 2 new RT-PCR assays

      III. Overall study design

        -  The investigators will randomly retrieve archived nasopharyngeal and saliva specimens
           that were previously tested for influenza A virus using commercially available assays in
           our laboratory, tested for influenza A virus at the Public Health Laboratory Service
           Branch in Hong Kong. These specimens will be tested for influenza A virus by 4 different
           RT-PCR assays as listed below:

             1. Our new RT-PCR assay targeting PB2 gene

             2. Our new RT-PCR assay targeting NS gene

             3. M gene RT-PCR published by the World Health Organization

             4. M gene RT-PCR published by the US CDC

                Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value
                will be determined.

                IV. Nucleic acid extraction and real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain
                reaction (RT-PCR) for influenza A virus

        -  Saliva and nasopharyngeal specimens will be subjected to total nucleic acid (TNA)
           extraction by NucliSENS easyMAG (BioMerieux, Boxtel, Netherlands).

        -  Monoplex real-time RT-PCR assays for influenza A virus will be performed. The primers
           and probes for the M gene RT-PCR have been published by the WHO and the US CDC.

      V. Sample size:

        -  The investigators will perform all 4 RT-PCR assays on a total of 320 specimens,
           including

        -  80 nasopharyngeal specimens which tested positive for influenza A by
           commercially-available molecular assays or by testing performed at the Public Health
           Laboratory Services Branch in Hong Kong

        -  80 nasopharyngeal specimens which tested negative for influenza A by
           commercially-available molecular assays or by testing performed at the Public Health
           Laboratory Services Branch in Hong Kong

        -  80 saliva specimens which tested positive for influenza A by commercially-available
           molecular assays

        -  80 saliva specimens which tested negative for influenza A by commercially-available
           molecular assays
    
  