
    
      Quasi-experimental study, with evaluation before and after the application of a specific
      postoperative nausea and vomiting prevention algorithm for cancer patients.

      The study will be carried out in 3 phases:

      Phase 1: Database with 1829 patients evaluated and previously analyzed in the project
      "Evaluation of predictive factors and outcomes of the nausea, vomiting and acute pain
      phenomena in the postoperative period of cancer patients ", registered in number 319,985 of
      06/26/2013. This database contains the records of risk factors (Apfel scale, "chemotherapy
      "nausea and vomiting induced by chemotherapy prophylaxis for PONV used in the operating room,
      incidence of nausea and vomiting in the first 24 hours postoperative. This phase is already
      concluded

      Phase 2: Team training. In the second phase of the study, we established a protocol for PONV
      prophylaxis, using two questions:

        1. Patient undergoing chemotherapy before surgery;

        2. Patient presented nausea and vomiting induced by chemotherapy (CINV). If the answer is
           yes to both questions, the anesthetist administers 3 antiemetics (4mg dexametasone, 4mg
           ondansetron and 0,625mg droperidol). If the answer is no to one of the questions, the
           anesthetist administers 2 antiemetics (4mg dexametasone and 4mg ondansetron); In this
           phase, educational measures will be implemented by team meetings and individual approach
           of all anesthesiologists at ICESP to present the study project and the algorithm. A
           summary of the the study will be sent via a specific group of anesthesiologists at ICESP
           through the social network Whats App.

      The number of patients to be studied in the second phase of the project was calculated taking
      into account adherence to the new prophylaxis protocol for post-operative nausea and
      vomiting. If we consider an alpha error of 5% and test power of 80%, to have a NVPO reduction
      of 40% (current overall incidence) to 25% (incidence after protocol adherence) in high-risk
      patients, we need to study 330 patients (165 each group adherence and non-adherence to the
      protocol). The total number of patients in this study, therefore, it is 768.

      Phase 3: Post-training assessment. In the third phase of the study, after the end of the
      dissemination of the protocol among doctors, another group of patients will be evaluated on
      the first postoperative day, using the outcome parameters for PONV used in the first project
      . On the first postoperative day, prophylaxis for PONV used in the room will be recorded and
      the incidence of nausea and vomiting in the first 24 postoperative hours. The presence or
      absence of a previous NVIQ will also be recorded at this time.
    
  