
    
      Non-24-Hour Sleep-Wake Disorder (N24HSWD) occurs when individuals are unable to synchronize
      their endogenous circadian pacemaker to the 24-hour light-dark cycle, and the timing of their
      circadian rhythm instead reflects the intrinsic period of their endogenous circadian
      pacemaker. As a result, the circadian rhythm of sleep-wake propensity in these individuals
      moves gradually later and later each day if there circadian period is > 24 hours and earlier
      and earlier is < 24 hours. These individuals will be able to sleep well at night when their
      sleep-wake propensity rhythm is approximately aligned with the 24-hour light-dark and social
      cycle. However, after a short time, the endogenous sleep-wake propensity rhythm and the
      24-hour light-dark cycle will move out of synchrony with each other, and they may have
      difficulty falling asleep until well into the night. In addition to problems sleeping at the
      desired time, the subjects experience daytime sleepiness and daytime napping. As time
      progresses, the endogenous circadian rhythm of sleep-wake propensity in these individuals
      moves further and further away from the 24-hour light-dark cycle and gradually, these
      individuals are unable to sleep at night and as a result experience extreme sleepiness during
      the daytime hours and more frequent naps with a longer duration. Eventually, the sleep-wake
      time moves back into alignment with the social time for sleep and the individuals sleep well
      at night and have decreased daytime napping. The alignment between their endogenous circadian
      rhythms and the 24-hour day is temporary as they are continually drifting later and later
      each day.

      This will be a multicenter, randomized withdrawal, double-masked, placebo-controlled,
      parallel study. The study has three phases: the tasimelteon run-in phase, the tau estimation
      phase, and the randomized withdrawal phase. Subjects who have participated in study
      VP-VEC-162-3201 that meet the entry criteria for this study will be eligible for the run-in
      phase The run-in phase comprises a screening visit where subject's initial eligibility will
      be evaluated. Subjects that meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria at screening will enter the
      run-in phase and will be dosed with 20 mg of tasimelteon daily for 6 weeks. The tau
      estimation phase (48 hour urine collection samples to evaluate response to tasimelteon) will
      follow the run-in phase and will last approximately 6 weeks long. The randomized withdrawal
      phase comprises approximately eight weeks of treatment with either placebo or tasimelteon 20
      mg taken approximately 1 hour prior to their target bedtime in a double-masked fashion.
    
  