
    
      The intestinal microbiota in early life plays a major role in infant health and development,
      impacting on maturation of the immune system, protection against pathogens, and influencing
      the long-term metabolic welfare of the host. The acquisition of microbial strains from mother
      to infant may occur through multiple different pathways, including the birth canal (and the
      proximity of the birth canal to the anus), contact between mothers and infant during parental
      care and through breast milk. From birth through to the initial stages of weaning, microbial
      composition has a significant impact on the infant gut. Recent advances in
      culture-independent sequencing technologies has allowed for the identification of key
      microbial species involved in the initial colonization process, including those facultative
      anaerobes such as Streptococcus, Staphylococcus and Enterobacter spp (Hill et al., 2017).
      Thus, the microbiome of vaginally born, exclusively breast fed infants at term, with no
      previous exposure to antibiotics either directly or indirectly from the mother, could be
      considered the "gold standard". Breast milk, a natural prebiotic source provides the optimal
      active ingredients for the growth of beneficial microbial species. A disturbance in the
      balance of microbial inhabitants can affect human host biology in many ways. Immune,
      endocrine, cognitive, as well as metabolic functions can be influenced by the microbial
      communities present; subsequently implicating future health outcomes such as insulin
      resistance, allergic diseases, depression and perhaps even autism. Beneficial microbial
      species and its associated bioactive compounds, which may restore overall gut health are thus
      of interest for infant nutrition, which when administered, may help treat or prevent a
      microbial disturbance in the gastrointestinal environment and have long term health benefits.

      The gut microbiota appears to influence the development of emotional behaviour, stress- and
      pain-modulation systems, and brain neurotransmitter systems. Additionally, microbiota
      perturbations by probiotics and antibiotics exert modulatory effects on some of these
      measures have been seen in adult animal models. Current evidence suggests that multiple
      mechanisms, including endocrine and neurocrine pathways, may be involved in gut
      microbiota-to-brain signalling and that the brain can in turn alter microbial composition and
      behaviour via the autonomic nervous system. Therefore, another aspect of the work will
      involve studies addressing microbe to brain signalling to identify and develop commensal
      probiotic consortium (mixed strains and possibly mixed strains/ingredient mixes) products
      underpinned by the necessary science suitable for development of probiotics targeted at the
      microbiota-gut-brain axis, a bidirectional communication between the gastrointestinal system
      and the brain, which regulates brain function and plays a crucial role in mood control (Dinan
      et al., 2013). It is well established that probiotic intervention, at least in mice, can
      improve mood and reduce anxiety in various models of stress (Bravo et al., 2011; Desbonnet et
      al., 2008; Desbonnet et al., 2010). Despite confounding evidence, the mood enhancing impact
      of probiotic intervention observed in murine studies are not always translated in humans
      (Kelly et al., 2017).

      Babies born by C-section get the greatest benefit from breastfeeding, and often these mothers
      are taking antibiotics for 1-2 weeks post-delivery Antibiotics are administered at time of
      incision (for both elective and emergency sections) to prevent internal wound infection.
      While human milk itself could be a source of bacteria for the developing infant, thereby
      influencing microbial intestinal colonization following birth, many questions remain about
      the impact of nutrition during pregnancy and lactation, source of the 'milk microbiome' and
      its impact on the establishment of the infant gut microbiota. A limited number of studies
      have examined the microbial communities present within breast milk and tracked alterations in
      microbial diversity throughout the lactation period. However, in a recent study, the
      investigator's group reported the presence of a core breast milk microbiome using Illumina
      MiSeq sequencing to detect 12 dominant genera in lactating mothers (n=10), constituting 81%
      of the taxa present over the first 6 weeks of life (Murphy et al., 2017). A number of
      frequently shared taxa, including Bifidobacterium, Lactobacillus, Staphylococcus and
      Enterococcus were common in both breast milk and infant faeces during the first 3 months of
      life, and culture-dependent analysis identified identical strains of Bifidobacterium breve
      and Lactobacillus plantarum present in both breast milk and infant faeces, confirming the
      concept of maternal-infant transmission (Murphy et al., 2017). Similar findings have been
      reported using randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and/or multi-locus sequence typing
      (MLST) to identify identical genomic patterns of Bifidobacterium and Lactobacillus present in
      breast milk and corresponding infant faeces (Solís et al., 2010) (Martin et al., 2006)
      (Martín et al.) (Makino et al., 2015).

      Antibiotic treatment throughout pregnancy accounts for 80% of prescribed medications during
      pregnancy (Kuperman and Koren, 2016). The Mayo Clinic describes amoxicillin, ampicillin,
      clindamycin, erythromycin, penicillin and nitrofurantoin as being generally considered safe
      during pregnancy. Tetracyclines can damage a woman's liver during pregnancy, and trimethoprim
      + sulfamethoxazole (commonly used together to treat UTIs) may be linked with an increased
      risk of birth defects. Considering that it is now accepted that optimal establishment of the
      gut microbiota is highly desirable for normal human development, the risk is that antibiotic
      usage during pregnancy may have undesirable effects on the maternal vaginal and milk
      microbiome, with knock-on negative impact on the early infant microbiome. It is estimated
      that one in five pregnant women in Europe is prescribed at least one course of antibiotics
      during pregnancy; in the United States, this rate is double (Roberts et al., 2012). In the
      case of proven maternal infection, narrow spectrum antibiotics should be preferred due to
      their less extensive effects on the microbiome, taking into account the association of
      prenatal antibiotics with increased risk of childhood atopic disease, epilepsy, and obesity
      (Kuperman and Koren, 2016).
    
  