
    
      Wheelchairs enable Veterans to participate in home, employment, and social activities that
      might otherwise be inaccessible to them, thereby improving their quality of life (QOL).
      Despite VA's efforts to remove financial and other barriers to the provision of high quality
      wheelchairs to all Veterans, preliminary evidence suggests that disparities exist in the
      quality of wheelchairs prescribed to vulnerable (e.g., minority race/ethnicity, lower
      socioeconomic status) Veterans with Spinal Cord Injury (SCI) or amputated limbs (AL). This
      finding is concerning because patients who receive lower quality wheelchairs may be at risk
      for adverse physical, psychological, economic, and QOL outcomes. Mounting research
      demonstrates that patient psychosocial characteristics (e.g., medical mistrust, perceived
      discrimination, locus of control) and provider factors (e.g., demographics and training) are
      associated with disparities in healthcare processes and outcomes. However, for Veterans with
      SCI or AL, no studies to date have examined (a) what patient and provider factors are
      associated with the prescription of high quality wheelchairs, and (b) how these factors are
      associated with wheelchair quality and patient outcomes. The proposed cross-sectional,
      multi-site study of Veterans with SCI or AL who use a wheelchair as their primary source of
      mobility aims to determine whether: (1) patient demographic (e.g., race, SES) and
      psychosocial characteristics (e.g., medical mistrust, experience of discrimination) and
      provider factors (e.g., years of practice, certification, demographics) are associated with
      wheelchair quality; (2) wheelchair quality is associated with key patient outcomes, including
      satisfaction with medical care, QOL, amount of wheelchair activity, and participation in
      social and work-related activities; (3) patient and provider factors are independently
      associated with key patient outcomes including satisfaction with medical care, QOL, amount of
      wheelchair activity, and participation; and (4) the association of patient and provider
      factors with patient outcomes is explained by differences in wheelchair quality. Veterans
      with SCI or AL, who were prescribed their wheelchairs through the VA, will be recruited from
      the Philadelphia, PA, Cleveland, OH, Richmond, VA, and Bronx, NY VA Medical Centers to
      participate in an interview to assess their demographic characteristics, health information,
      psychosocial characteristics (including, experience of discrimination, perceived racism,
      medical mistrust, self-image, anxiety/depression, health beliefs, health literacy, and
      communication) and health-related outcomes (including wheelchair skills, satisfaction, QOL,
      participation). We will also assess amount of wheelchair activity using data logging devices,
      and determine wheelchair quality by its make and model. Data will also be collected from all
      health care providers involved in wheelchair provision for study participants.

      Provider factors will include demographics (e.g., race/ethnicity, age, gender), and specialty
      (i.e., MD/OT/PT).

      For Occupational and Physical Therapists, we will determine if they are certified by the
      Rehabilitation Engineering and Assistive Technology Society of North America. Years of
      practice since completion of medical training, number of chairs prescribed over the span of
      their career, what role each provider plays in the wheelchair provision process, as well as
      the number of continuing medical education (CME) credits and/or educational credit units
      (ECU) they have obtained in the past 3 years related specifically to wheelchairs, will also
      be assessed. Understanding the associations among the proposed patient characteristics and
      provider factors is an essential step toward developing tailored interventions, aimed at
      patients and providers, to improve the quality and equity of wheelchair service delivery for
      Veterans.
    
  