
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety of adjuvant porfimer sodium (Photofrin) mediated interstitial
      photodynamic therapy (I-PDT) in patients with locally advanced or recurrent head and neck
      cancer (HNC) who will receive standard of care (SoC) therapy that includes: chemotherapy
      (cisplatin or carboplatin and fluorouracil [5-FU]) and/or targeted agents (cetuximab), and/or
      immunotherapy (nivolumab, or pembrolizumab), i.e. standard of care (SoC) therapy and or other
      clinically approved treatment for the disease management such as: other chemotherapy,
      reirradiation or palliative treatment for pain control. (Phase I) II. To evaluate the
      efficacy of adjuvant porfimer sodium mediated I-PDT with SoC therapy by comparing the
      objective tumor response rate of a locally advanced HNC treated with I-PDT with SoC to SoC
      therapy alone, in patients with locally advanced or recurrent HNC. (Phase II)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) between adjuvant
      porfimer sodium mediated I-PDT with SoC therapy and SoC alone, in patients with locally
      advanced or recurrent HNC. (Phase II) II. To compare changes in quality of life (QoL) between
      adjuvant porfimer sodium mediated I-PDT with SoC therapy and SoC alone, in patients with
      locally advanced or recurrent HNC. (Phase II) III. To evaluate the relationship between
      response rate and immune markers in patients with locally advanced or recurrent HNC receiving
      either adjuvant porfimer sodium mediated I-PDT with SoC therapy or SoC alone. (Phase II) IV.
      To evaluate the relationship between objective response rate and levels of serum alkaline
      deoxyribonuclease (DNase) activity (SADA), a circulating biomarker, in patients with locally
      advanced or recurrent HNC receiving either adjuvant porfimer sodium mediated I-PDT with SoC
      therapy or SoC alone. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I study followed by a phase II study.

      PHASE I: Patients receive porfimer sodium intravenously (IV) over 3-5 minutes and undergo
      I-PDT approximately 48 hours later. Patients also receive SoC chemotherapy (cisplatin,
      carboplatin, fluorouracil, cetuximab, nivolumab, pembrolizumab) at the oncologist's
      discretion at either 7 days, 14 days, or 28 days later.

      PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive SoC chemotherapy (cisplatin, carboplatin, fluorouracil, cetuximab,
      nivolumab, pembrolizumab) at the oncologist's discretion.

      ARM B: Patients receive porfimer sodium IV over 3-5 minutes and undergo I-PDT approximately
      48 hours later. Patients also receive SoC chemotherapy (cisplatin, carboplatin, fluorouracil,
      cetuximab, nivolumab, pembrolizumab) at the oncologist's discretion at either 7 days, 14
      days, or 28 days later.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, 1-3 months for 1
      year, 2-6 months for 1 year, and annually up to 5 years.
    
  