
    
      Large hemangiomas of the face can be associated with anomalies of the blood vessels of head
      and chest. The acronym PHACES indicates the association of Posterior fossa and other brain
      malformations, facial Hemangioma, Arterial anomalies, Coarctation of the aorta and other
      cardiac defects, Eye abnormalities and Sternal malformations. Study subjects will be
      recruited through the Pediatric Dermatology department in several cities. All patients age
      0-1 year old of age, who present with large facial hemangioma (>22 cm^2) will be offered to
      participate in the study. Parents will be interviewed to obtain personal, medical, and family
      history.

      Patients will undergo standard of care evaluation for facial hemangioma with risk of PHACE
      syndrome. This includes skin, eye and neurological examination, photograph, magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) of head/neck/chest, and lab tests requiring samples of blood, urine
      or stool. No other tests will be performed for participating in the study.

      Lumbosacral hemangiomas of infancy (hemangioma in the lower back) can be associated with
      anomalies of the spine. "Tethered cord syndrome" indicates a condition caused by abnormally
      stretched spinal cord. Over time this condition can lead to neurological damage. Although
      often there are no symptoms until adulthood, it can become apparent during childhood. Common
      symptoms are: lower back pain, pain and weakness of the legs, walking problems, and bladder
      and bowel loss of control. "Occult spinal dysraphism" is the term used when the defect of the
      spine is hidden under normal skin. We noticed that infants with hemangioma in the lower back
      area are more inclined to present a hidden spine defect.

      Study subjects will be recruited through the Pediatric Dermatology departments in several
      cities. All patients age 0-18 year old of age, who present with lumbosacral hemangioma (> 2.5
      cm of diameter overlying the spine) will be offered to participate in the study. Parents will
      be interviewed to obtain personal, medical, and family history.

      Patients will undergo standard of care evaluation for lumbosacral hemangioma. This includes
      skin, neurological examination, photograph, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the back, lab
      tests requiring samples of blood, urine or stool. No additional tests will be performed only
      for participating in the study.
    
  