
    
      Background Currently, 18.5 percent of all European Union citizens sit more than 7.5 hours per
      day. It is estimated that approximately one third of white-collar workers spend more than 7.5
      hours per day seated. Moreover, it is assumed that working adults sit for up to two thirds of
      their working time on average, with some office-based occupations (e.g. call center
      employees) requiring workers to sit for more than 80% of their working day. Although the
      decline in physical activity helped to reduce physical overload and the accompanying risks,
      ongoing activity pattern changes are relevant factors in the development of health-related
      problems. Sedentary and sitting time are both risk factors for several diseases, such as
      obesity, depression and all-cause mortality. Interestingly, risks of prolonged sitting are
      independent of physical activity levels.

      A possible way to reduce occupational sitting time are sit/stand workstations. Sit-to-stand
      workstations provide an incentive for people to work in either a sitting or standing posture
      and facilitate regular sit-to-stand transitions. Despite the global increase in incidence
      rates, the majority of office workers in Austria are still not provided with this kind of
      workstation because of concerns about utilization rates.

      Aim The primary aim of this observational study is to investigate the mid-term effect (1
      year) of sit/stand workstations on occupational sitting and standing time as well as the
      prevalence and intensity of neck and back pain. Secondary aims are the short- and mid-term
      effects of sit/stand workstations on weekly physical activity as well as daily and weekly
      sitting and standing time. Furthermore, their effect on the prevalence and intensity of
      shoulder pain should be analysed. Lastly, predictors for postural changes at work (between
      sitting and standing) as well as correlates between the IPAQ and OSPAQ questionnaire for
      office workers should be determinated.

      Intervention All employees of an Austrian bank headquarter will be newly equipped with
      sit/stand workstations by their own company. Prior to this furniture change, all employees
      were equipped with traditional sit workstations. The study uses the company induced furniture
      change for scientific purposes. Hence, the furniture change was not driven by the research
      institution (university).

      Methods Within this study 4 assessment days will be executed. They will be carried out 2
      weeks before (baseline) and 3, 6 and 12 months after the furniture change. On each assessment
      day an online survey will be applied. This survey consists of the International Physical
      Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ), the Occupational Sitting and Physical Activity Questionnaire
      (OSPAQ), the Nordic Musculoskeletal Questionnaire (NMQ), Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) and well
      as questions addressing participants´ characteristics.
    
  