
    
      Background:

        -  Satraplatin is an oral, third-generation platinum analog that has recently been shown to
           increase prostatic specific antigen (PSA) decline rates and progression-free survival in
           hormone-resistant prostate cancer.

        -  Satraplatin acts by binding to deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) forming intra- and
           interstrand cross links (DNA adducts), resulting in cell-cycle arrest in G2 phase and
           eventual apoptosis. One of the mechanisms that bring about resistance to platinum-based
           chemotherapy is removal of the platinum-DNA adducts by DNA repair pathways, called
           nucleotide excision repair (NER) and base excision repair (BER) pathways.

        -  Polymorphisms in the DNA repair genes causing impaired NER and BER capability has
           recently been shown in some cancers, including head and neck squamous cell carcinoma,
           non-small cell lung carcinoma, and ovarian carcinoma to predict better treatment outcome
           and response to platinum treatment.

      Objectives:

        -  Primary objective of this single arm study is to determine if the presence of ERCC1
           variant gene polymorphism which is involved with DNA damage repair may be associated
           with an impact on the progression-free survival of patients with metastatic prostate
           cancer.

        -  Secondary objectives of this study includes demonstration of biologic effect by the drug
           satraplatin in the patient and in the tumor whenever possible, by obtaining tissue
           biopsy and white blood cell collections, to determine correlation of biologic or
           clinical effects with PSA progression, evaluate correlations between genotype
           expression, repair pathways and clinical events, and obtain laboratory correlates which
           will include pharmacogenetic analysis of prostate cancer patients with genotyping using
           Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) followed by either restriction fragment length
           polymorphism or direct sequencing to genotype single nucleotide polymorphisms of ERCC1,
           x-ray repair cross-complementing protein 1 (XRCC1), and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1
           (PARP1).

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients with metastatic androgen-independent prostate cancer.

        -  Had docetaxel-based chemotherapy, but no more than 1 previous cytotoxic chemotherapy
           line.

        -  Good organ function.

      Design:

        -  Phase II trial with single stage design and a planned accrual of 66 patients.

        -  Progression-free survival will be determined using a Fisher's exact test.

        -  Will treat all enrolled patients with oral satraplatin 80 mg/m^2 dose on days 1-5 of
           every 35-days cycle plus Prednisone 5 mg twice daily every 35 days.

        -  Genotyping will be performed after the first 20 patients to determine if the proportion
           for wild-type ERCC1 and variants follow a 20:80 split.
    
  