
    
      Efficacious adjuvant treatments such as radiotherapy following breast conserving surgery, and
      chemo- or hormonal therapy for stage 1b or 2 breast cancer improve disease-free and overall
      survival. Lower rates of radiotherapy following breast-conserving surgery have been reported
      among black women. Few data exist about racial disparities in receipt of chemo- or hormonal
      therapies; however, poorer stage-specific survival rates among blacks and among women with
      poor or no insurance suggest underuse of these treatments. Despite elimination of racial
      disparities in rates of mammography screening, the full benefit of screening will not be
      realized unless underuse of effective treatments for early-stage breast cancer is eliminated.
      Little is known about reasons for underuse of these treatments or ways to increase treatment
      rates. Our preliminary work suggests omitted referrals and lack of follow-up tracking account
      for a majority of underuse particularly among minority patients.

      The proposed breast cancer project will measure the extent of underuse of efficacious breast
      cancer treatments among patients of the hospitals serving East and Central Harlem and other
      minority communities in lower Manhattan. We will first interview physicians and patients
      about their reasons for omission of efficacious adjuvant treatments. At the 6 participating
      hospitals, we will then implement an intervention consisting of: a) computerized reminders to
      prompt surgeons to refer patients for adjuvant treatment, and b) an individual to track
      referrals for and receipt of adjuvant treatments. We will assess racial/ethnic differences in
      rates of underuse and explore racial differences in reasons for underuse.

      We will assess the impact of the intervention on reducing underuse of efficacious therapies
      among 2 years of 695 pre-intervention and 2 years of 695 post-intervention patients. This
      study will provide new knowledge about racial disparities in treatment for early-stage breast
      cancer; patient and physician reasons for underuse; and the effectiveness of a simple,
      sustainable intervention to improve rates of efficacious adjuvant treatments.
    
  