
    
      Research questions/hypotheses: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the main cause of
      legal blindness among elderly patients in industrialized countries. The main reason for
      severe and irreversible visual impairment among these patients is subretinal fibrosis (SF).
      Large-scale interventional trials (e.g. CATT) have shown that half of all eyes affected by
      choroidal neovascularization (CNV) develop clinically visible fibrotic scarring over two
      years despite optimal treatment, causing irreversible retinal damage and functional loss.
      Thus, prevention of fibrosis in AMD is currently the focus of researchers worldwide. Clearly
      defined end points for interventional trials, however, are lacking because detection and
      quantification of SF is challenging. Clinical staging of SF is subjective and current gold
      standard imaging modalities such as color fundus photography (CFP), fluorescein angiography
      (FA) and optical coherence tomography (OCT), even in concert, do not allow a distinct and
      early delineation of SF. Novel imaging modalities such as polarization-sensitive OCT
      (PS-OCT), OCT angiography (OCTA) and adaptive optics (AO)-OCT are promising means to
      objectively detect SF and provide detailed insights into the biology of the microvascular and
      neurosensory compartments. Our group recently demonstrated that PS-OCT offers automated
      identification and quantification of SF in AMD based on tissue-specific contrast. Aim of the
      proposed research project is to detect and characterize the angiofibrotic switch, i.e. the
      transition from active and reversible neovascularization to irreversible fibrosis, in
      neovascular AMD under anti-VEGF treatment. We hypothesize to detect the initiating events of
      fibrotic conversion including even subclinical stages of fibrosis by non-invasive PS-OCT and
      identify the association with fibrovascular and retinal changes by OCTA and AO-OCT,
      respectively.

      Scientific/scholarly innovation/originality of the project: The combination of PS-OCT, OCTA
      and AO-OCTA to non-invasively detect pathognomonic features of fibrovascular conversion is a
      novel and unprecedented approach towards objective visualization and quantification of
      disease pathomechanisms. Outcomes of this study may provide clearly defined morphological
      endpoints for future interventional trials.

      Methods: Eighty eyes of 80 patients with chronic nAMD will be included and examined
      cross-sectionally to evaluate the accuracy of PS-OCT to detect and quantify fibrosis in
      comparison to gold standard imaging. In addition, OCTA and AO-OCT will be performed to
      analyze the relationship between fibrous, vascular and retinal structures. Furthermore, forty
      eyes of 40 participants with treatment-naïve nAMD will be included in a prospective study and
      followed for one year under treatment. PS-OCT, AO-OCT and OCTA imaging will be performed
      according to a standardized protocol at predefined visits. Gold standard imaging will be
      performed for validation.
    
  