
    
      Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), defined as a mean pulmonary arterial pressure (mPAP)
      of ≥25 mmHg at rest and pulmonary arterial wedge pressure ≤15 mmHg, is consistently
      associated with reduced exercise capacity and intolerable dyspnoea (respiratory difficulty)
      on exertion. Dyspnoea is a complex multifaceted and highly personalized sensory experience,
      the source and mechanisms of which are incompletely understood. Activity-related dyspnoea
      appears to be the earliest and the most frequent complaint for which patients with PAH seek
      medical attention. This symptom progresses relentlessly with time leading invariably to
      avoidance of activity with consequent skeletal muscle deconditioning and an impoverished
      quality of life. Unfortunately, effective management of this disabling symptom awaits a
      better understanding of its underlying physiology. Previous studies on mechanisms of
      exertional dyspnoea in PAH have largely and mostly focused on the cardiovascular determinants
      of respiratory discomfort. However, respiratory mechanics abnormalities could contribute to
      exertional dyspnoea in these patients. For instance, PAH patients may exhibit reduced
      expiratory flows at low lung volumes at spirometry (namely instantaneous forced expiratory
      flows measured after 50% and 75% of the FVC has been exhaled [FEF50% and FEF75%] lower than
      predicted), despite a preserved forced expiratory volume in 1 second/forced vital capacity
      ratio (FEV1/FVC). Several studies have shown that such a finding ("small airway disease")
      could be common in certain PAH cohorts, have either related it to incidental descriptions of
      airway wall thickening with lymphocytic infiltration in PAH or proposed several other
      speculative explanatory mechanisms, either biological or mechanical. Whatever its cause,
      reduced expiratory flows at low lung volumes imply that the operating tidal volume (VT) range
      becomes closer than normally to residual volume (RV) mostly through an increase in RV
      (elevated residual volume/total lung capacity ratio, RV/TLC). The reduced difference between
      forced and tidal expiratory flows promotes dynamic lung hyperinflation [i.e., a progressive
      increase in end-expiratory lung volume (EELV)] under conditions of increased ventilatory
      demand. Dynamic lung hyperinflation (DH) increases the mechanical inspiratory load that the
      respiratory muscles must overcome to produce ventilation (V'E), places the diaphragm at
      mechanical disadvantage, and reduces the ability of VT to expand appropriately during
      exercise, thus imposing "restrictive" mechanics: VT is therefore truncated from below by the
      increasing EELV and constrained from above by the total lung capacity (TLC) envelope and the
      relatively reduced inspiratory reserve volume (IRV). Dynamic hyperinflation-induced critical
      mechanical constraint of VT expansion has serious sensory consequences, i.e., increase in
      dyspnoea intensity, as clearly shown in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
      and chronic heart failure.

      In this regard, our team has recently confirmed that small airway dysfunction at spirometry
      exists in the majority of PAH patients (60%) despite preserved FEV1/VC, and that this
      promotes the development of DH under the increased ventilatory demand in response to physical
      task: in fact, during the accelerated ventilatory response to exercise, 60% of PAH patients
      did increase their EELV (i.e., DH) by an average of 0.50L from rest to peak exercise, whereas
      age- and sex-matched healthy subjects did decrease it by an average of 0.45L. Similar levels
      of DH have been reported in healthy subjects between 40 and 80 years of age, patients with
      mild-to-severe COPD, CHF, and recently also in a heterogeneous group of patients with
      precapillary pulmonary hypertension, but at much lower V'E and work-rate than in our more
      homogeneous group of PAH patients. Our team did also show that DH had serious sensory
      consequences for PAH patients. DH imposed severe mechanical constraints on VT expansion
      during exercise on a background of progressively increasing central neural drive: VT was
      truncated from below by the increasing EELV and constrained from above by the TLC envelope
      and the relatively reduced IRV. It is generally accepted that in this setting dyspnoea
      results from the conscious awareness of the increasing disparity between respiratory effort
      (or neural drive to breathe) and simultaneous thoracic volume displacement. The notion that
      DH and the subsequent constraint of VT expansion contributed to exertional dyspnoea was
      bolstered by the strong inverse correlation between dyspnoea intensity and both the increase
      dynamic EELV/TLC(%) (R=0.70, p<0.05) and the reduced IRV/TLC(%) (R=-0.78, p<0.05) at a
      standardized exercise stimulus.

      Our team was able, for the first time, to clearly demonstrate that an abnormal mechanics of
      breathing (dynamic lung hyperinflation and the attendant constraint of VT expansion) played
      an important role in dyspnoea causation in PAH during cycle exercise. When increased
      ventilation/perfusion mismatching is superimposed on pre-existing abnormal airway function,
      greater troublesome exertional symptoms are the result. This finding opens up new horizons
      for research in the field of dyspnoea mechanisms in PAH: if investigator treats and
      ameliorates the "lung function" (i.e., the respiratory mechanics abnormalities"), then our
      team could be able to improve the troublesome exertional symptoms that curtail daily-living
      activities of PAH patients. The corollary of this is that any therapeutic intervention that
      effectively reduces and/or delays the rate of onset of DH-induced critical ventilatory
      constraints, such as administration of inhaled bronchodilators (BDs) as add-ons to
      vasodilators, should have a positive effect on symptom perception in selected patients with
      stable PAH. Determining the magnitude of this effect will be the object of the planned
      experiments. However, it should be borne in mind that the relationship between dyspnoea
      intensity and the severity of respiratory abnormalities is not linear, but rather
      exponential. In other words, when a given disease is already responsible for a very intense
      dyspnoea, a small additional deterioration directly or indirectly related to the disease can
      make dyspnoea intolerable. Therefore, even small BDs-induced changes in respiratory mechanics
      could have major effects on dyspnoea intensity on exertion in selected PAH patients, which
      would undoubtedly have a major impact on their quality of life and their ability to perform
      daily-living activities.

      Hypothesis for the research What is the potential mechanism by which BDs would be able to
      ameliorate the exertional symptoms in patients with stable PAH, and, which BDs would be the
      best candidate in achieving that? Regardless of the BDs administered, our team anticipates
      that the potential mechanism by which BDs are able to ameliorate the exertional symptoms in
      patients with stable PAH would be the reduction and/or delay of the rate of onset of
      DH-induced critical ventilatory constraints during exercise. In contrast, the nature of the
      specific BD (β2-agonist or anticholinergic) would be important in determining the mechanism
      by which the reduction in DH-induced critical ventilatory constraints can be achieved. BDs
      have been extensively studied in COPD patients, and to less extent in CHF patients. Little is
      known in PAH patients. Spiekerkoetter and colleagues have recently pointed out that inhaled
      β2-agonists are able to cause a mild but significant increase in resting FEV1, FEF50% and
      FEF75% in PAH patients. They also showed that inhalation of β2-agonists determined a
      significant increase in resting cardiac output accompanied by an increase in stroke volume
      and a decrease in pulmonary and systemic vascular resistance, in the presence of no change in
      heart rate. To date, no information is available on the effects of inhaled β2-agonists on the
      ventilatory, mechanical and perceptual responses to exercise in PAH patients. It can be
      argued that β2-agonists may reduce and/or delay the rate of onset of DH-induced critical
      ventilatory constraints by 1) reducing the ventilatory demand in response to exercise, and/or
      by 2) modifying the shape and limits of the maximal flow-volume loop (MFVL). In the first
      case, the improved cardiac function and concurrent ventilation-perfusion relations following
      β2-agonists would reduce the ventilatory demand, thereby reducing the rate of DH and
      enhancing VT expansion during exercise. This, in turn, would be expected to reduce the
      perceived exertional dyspnoea, as clearly shown in patients with COPD following BDs. In the
      second case, β2-agonists would increase the maximal volume-corrected expiratory flow rates in
      the effort-independent mid-volume range where tidal breathing occurs (i.e., increase in
      FEF50% and FEF75%), as it has been shown in CHF. This means that PAH patients would now
      accomplish the required alveolar ventilation at a lower operating lung volume and, therefore,
      at a reduced oxygen cost of breathing during exercise. The corollary of this will be that PAH
      patients would increase their end-expiratory lung volume (i.e., DH) to less extent after
      inhalation of β2-agonist than before, and this is likely to have salutary sensory
      consequences (i.e., reduction in dyspnoea intensity) for patients with PAH, as clearly shown
      in patients with COPD. Inhaled anticholinergic agents have not yet been studied, neither at
      rest nor during exercise in PAH. Inhalation of anticholinergic agents would increase the
      maximal volume-corrected expiratory flow rates in the effort-independent mid-volume range
      where tidal breathing occurs, without interfering with the cardiac and pulmonary vascular
      functions, as it has been shown in patients with CHF. The attendant increase in FEF50% and
      FEF75% (where tidal breathing occurs) following inhaled anticholinergic agents would cause VT
      to be accommodated at a lower operating lung volume, thus reducing the extent of DH and the
      concurrent ventilatory constraints imposed by the accelerated ventilatory response to
      exercise. This, in turn, is likely to have salutary sensory consequences (i.e., reduction in
      dyspnoea intensity) for patients with PAH. The interest of our study in dyspnoea evaluation
      after BDs in PAH patients is, therefore, evident and appealing, for at least two reasons: 1)
      there is no information in the literature about the effect of pharmacological interventions
      on dyspnoea intensity (measured by Borg score) during cycle exercise in PAH population, and
      2) investigators do not know how much will the dyspnoea intensity (measured by Borg score)
      change after BD administration in PAH population because no Minimally Clinically Important
      Difference (MCID) has been established for measurements of dyspnoea intensity. Nonetheless,
      based on COPD studies, short-term post-intervention changes in dyspnoea intensity of ~1 Borg
      unit at a standardized exercise time or V'E appear to be clinically meaningful, therefore our
      team can assume that this MCID may also apply to PAH patients undergoing cycle exercise
      testing after BD interventions.
    
  