
    
      The current study investigated the effect of oral supplementation with Biobran/MGN-3, 500 mg
      every day for 3 months, on several components of innate immune system and the incidence rate
      of influenza-like illnesses (ILI) in older adults population. The study protocol conformed to
      the ethical guidelines of the 1975 Declaration of Helsinki and was approval by Institutional
      Review Board (IRB) at the Faculty of Medicine, Zagazig University, Egypt. Zagazig University
      Hospitals serves over 1 million residents in Zagazig district and neighboring towns.

      The study spanned the time period from November 2018 till the end of February 2019, a period
      with known peak incidence of ILI attacks. Subjects of ≥ 56 years were recruited from the
      visitors of outpatient clinics at Zagazig University Hospitals. The age of ≥ 56 years was
      used by the WHO to define old age in African nations. In addition, this age is close to
      public service retirement in Egyptian society, which is associated with significant social,
      mental, and psychological stress and therefore could be associated with significant decline
      in NK cell activity. Only local residents of Zagazig district were recruited to the study so
      as to reduce the dropout rate.

      Originally 90 subjects, both males and females, were approached but only 80 subjects, 40
      males and 40 females, continued the study. Ten of the recruits refused to participate when
      they realized that the sachets were only labeled with the manufacture symbols without printed
      names, which was used to ensure double-blinding. Informed consents were obtained from all
      participants and their right to unconditionally withdraw from the study at any time were made
      clear to them.

      Males and females were randomly assigned into two groups (n=40/group) that received either
      placebo or Biobran/MGN-3 (500 mg/day for 3 months). Both the health care giver and the
      participants were blinded to the ingested supplement. Participants' health was monitored via
      weekly home visits and they were instructed to report any complaints or side effects by phone
      to the health care giver.

      Diagnosis of ILI was made by documenting the incidence of acute respiratory illness with a
      measured temperature of ≥ 38 °C with cough (3). After diagnosis, the subject was helped to
      follow the proper health management plan by the health care giver. During the study, all
      participants were required not to take any vitamins or medications during the study without
      consultation.

      The effect of Biobran/MGN-3 on liver, kidney, and hematological parameters were monitored.
      Liver functions were monitored using alanine aminotransferase (ALT/SGPT) and aspartate
      aminotransferase (AST/SGOT), whereas kidney function was monitored using serum uric acid. The
      assessed hematological parameters included red blood cell count (RBC), hematocrit value
      (HCT), hemoglobin (Hb), mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH), mean corpuscular volume (MCV), and
      total and differential (WBC).

      NKC activity was measured using the well documented degranulation assay. The viral nucleic
      acid receptors, RIG-1 and MDA5, and their downstream target, ISG15 and MX1, were assessed
      using flowcytometry in BEAS-2B cells.
    
  