
    
      The study objective is to evaluate the efficacy of L-serine in subjects with hereditary
      sensory neuropathy type 1 (HSAN1). Hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type I (HSAN1)
      is a progressive and debilitating illness for which currently no treatment exists. The
      investigators recently identified two novel deoxysphingoid bases (DSB) that accumulate in
      plasma of HSAN1 patients and mutant transgenic HSAN1 mice. The disease is caused by missense
      mutations in the SPTLC1 gene encoding a subunit of the enzyme serine palmitoyltransferase
      (SPT). In normal circumstances the SPT enzyme catalyzes the reaction of palmitoyl-CoA with
      serine to form sphinganine. The two newly identified DSB, deoxysphinganine and
      deoxymethylsphinganine, arise from condensation of palmitoyl-CoA with alanine and glycine
      respectively, suggesting that HSAN1 mutations alter amino acid selectivity of SPT. In support
      of this hypothesis the investigators have shown that levels of DSB in humans and mice can be
      lowered by supplementation with the enzyme's normal substrate, serine.

      In this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled cross over study the investigators will
      enroll 20 research participants with HSAN1 with 10 subjects assigned to L-serine (400mg/kg/d)
      and 10 assigned to placebo who are each treated for 12 months. The 10 subjects assigned to
      placebo will then be crossed over to active L-serine for the remaining 12 months. The
      progression of HSAN1 will be measured by the change in an established clinical rating scale
      and measures of intraepidermal nerve fiber density (IENFD) on skin biopsy. L-serine levels
      will be measured using 24-hour pharmacokinetic blood sample at 12-month intervals. The
      investigators will assess the percentage of failures (clinical decline of > 1 point on CMTNS
      or > 30% decrease in IENFD) at 6 month intervals. Regardless of CMTNS score, all subjects who
      are on placebo for the first year will be switched to active study drug in year two.

      After the 2 year period subjects will be given the option of being re-consented for the open
      label extension. All consented subjects will then be treated with L-serine (400 mg/kg/d) for
      an additional year.
    
  