
    
      Myocardial infarction the term acute myocardial infarction(AMI) should be used when there is
      evidence of myocardial injury (defined as an elevation of cardiac troponin values with at
      least one value above the 99th percentile upper reference limit) with necrosis in a clinical
      setting consistent with myocardial ischemia . Myocardial infarction is classified as either :
      ST elevation acute myocardial infarction.* non-ST segment elevation acute myocardial
      infarction. according to the electrocardiogram at the time of admission.

      There are Two main treatment modalities for STEMI which are primary percutaneous coronary
      intervention (PPCI) & thrombolytic treatment (TT).

        -  Erectile dysfunction (ED) is defined as the recurrent or persistent inability to achieve
           and/or maintain an erection for satisfactory intercourse.Erectile function will be
           evaluated using the international index of erectile function in the hospital to
           characterize each patients sexual function before the acute myocardial infarction & 3
           months after the event.

      International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF-5) Questionnaire

        1. How do you rate your confidence that could you get and keep an erection? 1)very low
           2)low 3)moderate 4)high 5)very high

        2. . When you had erections with sexual stimulation, how often were your erections hard
           enough for penetration?

      1) Almost never/never 2) A few times (much less than half the time) 3) Sometimes (about half
      the time) 4) Most times (much more than half the time) 5) Almost always/always 3-During
      sexual intercourse, how often were you able to maintain your erection after you had
      penetrated (entered) your partner?

        1. Almost never/never

        2. A few times (much less than half the time)

        3. Sometimes (about half the time)

        4. Most times (much more than half the time)

        5. Almost always/always 4- During sexual intercourse, how difficult was it to maintain your
           erection to completion of intercourse?

      1) Extremely difficult 2) Very difficult 3) Difficult 4) Slightly difficult 5) Not difficult
      5- When you attempted sexual intercourse, how often was it satisfactory for you?

        1. ) Almost never/never

        2. A few times (much less than half the time)

        3. Sometimes (about half the time)

        4. Most times (much more than half the time)

        5. Almost always/always the cases will be classified as:

             -  without ED (score greater than 25 points)

             -  mild ED (score 17 to 25),

             -  moderate ED (score 11 to 16)

             -  severe ED (score 10 points or less). No treatment for ED would applied within the
                3-month period prior to the second IIEF evaluation for each patient
    
  