
    
      Ankle inversion trauma often leads to chronic ankle instability which can severely limit the
      patient during daily activities, including work and sports. When conservative treatment
      fails, surgical treatment in which the ruptured anterior talofibular ligament (ATFL) is
      reconstructed can be considered. Surgical treatment for ankle instability is associated with
      a relatively long rehabilitation due to the initial limited strength of the reconstructed
      ligament. This limited strength in the first weeks after surgery makes it necessary to
      protect the reconstructed lateral ankle ligament with immobilization. Usually a lower leg
      plaster is applied for six weeks. Due to the initial limited strength of the reconstructed
      ligament and the immobilization period itself, return to activities after surgery for this
      injury usually takes up to six months or even more. Therefore, surgical intervention is only
      indicated for patients who suffer chronic, recurrent ankle instability.

      With a new surgical technique, an internal brace is placed over the reconstructed lateral
      ankle ligament, thereby providing protection which makes immobilization in the postoperative
      weeks unnecessary. This allows an earlier start of the rehabilitation which might enhance
      ankle function postoperatively and allows earlier return to activities. Also, adding an
      internal brace to the reconstructed lateral ankle ligament might result in a lower recurrence
      rate of ankle instability compared to the current surgical procedure.

      Objective: To evaluate if patients with chronic, recurrent lateral ankle instability who are
      treated with surgical lateral ankle ligament repair protected with an internal brace, have
      significant better ankle function after surgery compared to patients treated with standard
      surgical lateral ankle ligament reconstruction without internal brace. The appropriately
      adapted rehabilitation for each surgery procedure is applied.
    
  