
    
      Lumbar disc herniation (LDH) is a clinical entity characterized by compression of the spinal
      nerve roots and resultant back and leg pain. Though uncommon, LDH has been reported as a
      cause of recurrent low back pain.

      Although more than 100 risk factors have been identified for LDH, it is difficult to
      determine a specific etiology. The most important risk factors are intense sporting activity,
      heavy lifting, frequent rotation of the body, exposure to vibrations, age, tall stature,
      obesity, smoking, and psychological and genetic factors.

      It has been shown that in LDH patients; the strength and endurance of the back and abdominal
      muscles are reduced, and this aspect has been reported as a major predisposing factor for low
      back pain. Hence, an exercise program as part of conservative treatment of low back pain and
      after surgery would be of potential benefit for patients. Twomey and Taylor have shown that
      behavioral and cognitive principles combined with exercise programs can be effective in
      reducing disability in patients with chronic low back pain.

      The severity of symptoms in disc herniation depends not only on the amount of herniated disc
      pressure but also on nervous irritability. To reduce the sensitivity of nerve fibers to pain,
      symptomatic initiatives that include drugs, physical therapy, and psychological methods can
      be successful. The primary purpose of physical therapy is control of pain and inflammation,
      and secondarily to improve symptoms such as stiffness in the joints and muscle spasms.
      Physical therapy also delivers psychological effects. Agents used in physical therapy are
      generally administered in a combined regimen. We undertook this study to investigate the
      effect of lumbar stabilization training and proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation (PNF)
      training on muscle strength and muscle endurance.

      Results The groups showed no difference in demographic and clinical characteristics( p>0.05).

      When groups' evaluations before and after treatment were compared, statistically significant
      differences were found in VAS after treatment (at rest), VAS (at activity), Oswestry
      Disability Index (ODI), abdominal strength, endurance of back extensor, left hip flexion
      flexibility, sit and reach flexibility, 60°/sec trunk flexion, 90°/sec trunk extension,
      90°/sec trunk flexion, 120°/sec trunk flexion, and 120°/sec trunk extension.

      When pairwise comparisons of groups were conducted, there were significant differences in the
      stabilization group's ODI, left hip flexion flexibility, sit and reach flexibility, 90°/sec
      trunk extension, and 90°/sec trunk flexion muscle strength values when compared with values
      in the PNF group.
    
  