
    
      Computerized continuous performance tests (CPT) considered the "gold standard" for diagnosis
      of Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and are widely used.

      This type of tests measures the number of correctly detected stimuli as well as response
      time. The diagnosis in this tests based mainly on visual performance. The available tests in
      the market suffer from high false negative errors. In some subgroups of children the error
      can be false positive. All this raises questions regarding their ability to correctly
      diagnose ADHD. There are also doubts regarding the validity of these tests. From the medical
      literature and from our own experience it seems that with the current tests as much as third
      of the children who fulfill DSM criteria for ADHD can escape detection.

      With the expanding knowledge regarding the neurobiological basis in ADHD we have learned that
      attention is not a general property of the whole brain, but involves several coordinated
      networks. These networks must be orchestrated in order to perform normally in three main
      domains of attention = alertness, orientation and executive function. This raised the need
      for a better, more accurate and valid computerized test.

      This knowledge promoted us to the stage in which we can recognize different types of
      attention domains. We can separate between - visual attention, auditory attention, spatial
      attention, integrated attention, sustained attention, covert and overt attention, working
      memory, the ability to integrate and disintegrate attention, attention span, focusing,
      impulsivity and response time. Different people have different "subtypes" of ADHD. The
      individual separation and ability to focus on specific difficulties influence diagnosis
      process and treatment methods.

      Our diagnosis test can separate between the different attention abilities and provide the
      parents with specific diagnosis of their child and in this way direct them to the appropriate
      diagnosis and treatment. Moreover, we expect its falls negative and positive errors to be
      negligible.

      The next phase - involves training and exercise. It is proved that training can improve
      attention.

      We have also developed a computerized training program for children. This program is based on
      the same platform as the diagnosis test and can recommend on training in the individual
      difficulties of the specific child.

      Other programs are already distributed in the market for the same propose. The other programs
      focus on improving a general specific skill and ignore (or can not focus) on the specific
      need of the individual. They can try to improve working memory which is only one aspect in
      attention domain. Or, based on improving visual-motor skill, which is a skill that can be
      improved in regular computer games and again focus on a specific short range difficulty. In
      many children ADHD symptoms and signs are due to other sources. For them improving working
      memory or visual-motor skills will not change their every day performance.

      Our program is better since it is individually fits for the specific child difficulties and
      covers a wider range of needs. So, it can be helpful to a larger variety of children with
      different needs.
    
  