
    
      The incidence and severity of postoperative pain in patients undergoing major airway surgery
      for OSA, such as palatopharyngoplasty (PPP) and maxillomandibular advancement (MMA) is high,
      and may persist for days, significantly contributing to patient's morbidity. High doses of
      intravenous and oral opioids are frequently required to achieve adequate pain relief. Yet,
      the increased sensitivity of OSA patients to opioid analgesics, and associated high risk of
      postoperative respiratory depression and upper airway obstruction limit the traditional
      therapeutic options, frequently making pain control after PPP and MMA surgery suboptimal.

      The effect of significant postoperative pain on surgical outcomes is multifold. Poorly
      controlled post-surgical pain increases patient morbidity, impairs wound healing, and
      negatively affects patient recovery and functional outcomes, such as ambulation, a resumption
      of a normal oral intake, a return to normal daily activities, a return to work, and others.
      Side effects of opioid medications, such as urinary retention, constipation, nausea,
      vomiting, dizziness, and itching may further adversely affect recovery and cause patient
      dissatisfaction with the surgical procedure.

      The development of the new, effective analgesic modalities, is therefore highly desirable for
      OSA surgical patients, and particularly those undergoing PPP and MMA surgeries. Transcranial
      electrostimulation (TES) is a non-invasive brain stimulation technique that employs
      administration of a weak electrical current (≤ 5 mA) through the electrodes positioned on the
      skin of the patient's head. TES is a safe procedure, with a low risk of associated, minor
      side effects It is widely believed that TES with combined direct (DC) and alternating (AC)
      current (TES DC:AC) triggers the release of endogenous opioids and other central
      neurotransmitters (e.g. norepinephrine) that interrupt nociceptive processing. The
      investigator's previous studies have demonstrated that TES DC:AC produces quickly evolving,
      effective non-pharmacological analgesia, without associated respiratory depression or other
      opioid-induced side effects. If analgesic effect of TES can be demonstrated in this study,
      the TES may become an attractive adjunct for postoperative analgesic treatment for OSA
      patients, allowing for improved quality of analgesia and enhanced recovery.

      Moreover, demonstrating TES analgesic effect may facilitate its widespread use as a
      non-pharmacological analgesic adjunct postoperatively, especially in elderly patients, who
      have a high incidence of associated OSA and sensitivity to systemic opioids. The incidence of
      OSA in general surgical population reaches over 20%.
    
  