
    
      Fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and mitoxantrone are chemotherapy drugs that are used in the
      treatment of CLL. Rituximab is a monoclonal antibody that binds to CLL cells and causes cell
      death. Pegfilgrastim (Neulasta) is a growth factor that helps the bone marrow to produce
      white cells (neutrophils) and is an approved drug to treat the suppression of marrow function
      caused by chemotherapy.

      If you are eligible to take part in the study, you will begin treatment. Rituximab will be
      given through a needle in your vein (IV) on Day 1 of Courses 1-6. The first infusion may take
      up to 8 hours. For every dose of rituximab after that, the infusion may take 2-4 hours. The
      length of the infusion time depends on whether you have any reactions to the infusion. The
      dose level of rituximab may be increased for Cycles 2-6 as well. The drugs acetaminophen
      (Tylenol) and diphenhydramine hydrochloride (Benadryl) will be given before each dose of
      rituximab. This will be done to decrease the risk of side effects. If side effects do occur
      during rituximab treatment, the drug may have to be stopped until the side effects go away
      and then restarted, so your time in the outpatient area may be longer if that occurs.

      One day after the first dose of rituximab (Day 2), fludarabine and cyclophosphamide will be
      given by IV every day for 3 days (Days 2, 3, and 4), and mitoxantrone will be given by IV on
      Day 2. Fludarabine and cyclophosphamide will be given as 30-minute infusions, while the
      infusion of mitoxantrone will take 30-60 minutes. After the first treatment cycle, all the
      drugs will be given on Days 1, 2, and 3 for every cycle after that. Pegfilgrastim will be
      given as a subcutaneous injection (an injection under the skin) once per treatment cycle,
      right after you receive the last chemotherapy drug (in other words, on Day 4 during the first
      cycle, and on Day 3 for every cycle after that). Other IV fluids, such as saline, will be
      given on all of the treatment days to keep you hydrated, which means that each clinic visit
      will take about 6 hours. The combination will be repeated once every 4 to 6 weeks for a total
      of 6 courses.

      The first treatment will be given at the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center
      (UTMDACC) outpatient clinic. The other 5 courses can be performed either at UTMDACC or at
      home with your regular physician.

      During each treatment cycle, you will have blood samples (about 1 teaspoon each) drawn once
      every 1-2 weeks. Bone marrow biopsies will be performed at the end of Cycles 3 and 6 of
      chemotherapy.

      With the exception of rituximab, the same doses of all other drugs will be used throughout
      the study unless side effects become severe. In that case, the dose may be lowered or the
      treatment may be stopped. You will be taken off study if the disease gets worse.

      After Course 6 of chemotherapy is finished, you will have blood tests (about 2 teaspoons
      each) performed every 6-12 months.

      This is an investigational study. The FDA has approved all of the drugs used in this study,
      and they are commercially available. However, their use in this study and in this combination
      is considered investigational. Up to 30 patients will take part in the study. All will be
      enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  