
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Test the efficacy (overall response rate) of single-agent MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) in
      relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) (Arm A) other
      low grade B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (B-NHL), and CLL with Richter's transformation (Arm C).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Test the safety of single-agent MK-3475 in relapsed CLL/SLL (Arm A), other low grade B-NHL
      (Arm B), and CLL with Richter's transformation (Arm C).

      II. Test the overall survival, progression free survival, treatment free survival, duration
      of response and time to next therapy of single-agent MK-3475 in relapsed CLL/SLL (Arm A),
      other low grade B-NHL (Arm B), and CLL with Richter's transformation (Arm C).

      III. Test the complete response rate of single MK-3475 in relapsed CLL/SLL (Arm A), other low
      grade B-NHL (Arm B), and CLL with Richter's transformation (Arm C).

      IV. Test the safety of MK-3475 in combination with the signal inhibitor (either idelalisib or
      ibrutinib) in relapsed CLL/SLL (Arm A) and CLL with Richter's transformation (Arm C).

      V. Test the progression-free survival, treatment-free survival, duration of response and time
      to next therapy, as well as overall survival of MK-3475 in combination with the signal
      inhibitor (either idelalisib or ibrutinib) in relapsed CLL/SLL (Arm A) and CLL with Richter's
      transformation (Arm C).

      VI. Test the overall and complete response rates of MK-3475 in combination with the signal
      inhibitor (either idelalisib or ibrutinib) in relapsed CLL/SLL (Arm A) and CLL with Richter's
      transformation (Arm C).

      CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the potential association between programmed cell death ligand 1
      (PD-L1)/programmed cell death 1 (PD-1)/PD-L2 expression on tumor and T cells and/or PD-L1
      soluble levels in plasma with clinical efficacy of PD-1 blockade.

      II. To investigate the effects of MK-3475 on selected markers of immune modulation and immune
      profiles in peripheral blood and tumor samples.

      III. Examine T-cell immune synapse function and expression/location of co-stimulatory and
      co-inhibitory molecules (including effector molecules) as potential biomarkers to response
      for anti-PD-1 immune checkpoint blockade immunotherapy.

      OUTLINE:

      ALL PATIENTS (ARMS A, B, and C): Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30
      minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 12 months in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients receiving benefit may continue to
      receive treatment for an additional 12 months at the discretion of the investigator. Patients
      with CLL or CLL with Richter's transformation experiencing stable disease without partial
      remission or progressive disease at 3 months of treatment with pembrolizumab proceed to the
      treatment continuation phase.

      CONTINUATION PHASE (ARMS A and C): Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day
      1. Patients also receive idelalisib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21 OR ibrutinib
      PO once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 12 or 24 months in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients receiving benefit may
      continue to receive treatment for an additional 12 months at the discretion of the
      investigator.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year.
    
  