
    
      Objectives: To develop and test the efficacy of a computer-based training to elementary
      school teachers of the most common mental health problems.

      Outcomes: (a)early identification of the most common mental health problems among children
      and adolescents, (b)teacher's acquirement of manage skills to better deal with behavior
      problems and (c)teacher's acquisition of important knowledge to refer students to treatment
      when necessary.

      Method: This research includes two steps: a pilot project (already implemented, whose data
      will be presented here) and a randomized clinical trial intervention (that will be
      implemented in a few months).

        1. Pilot project, without control group - Comprehended six sessions of educational videos
           covering basic concepts of mental health stigma and the main disorders that affects
           children and adolescents followed by discussion forums, quizzes and a conclusion web
           conferencing with a specialist.

        2. A randomized controlled trial with a sample of 176 teachers from nine elementary schools
           were randomly divided in three groups: a web-based interactive educational group (WBIE),
           a text and video-based educational group (TWBE) and a waiting list group (WL).

      Outcome measures: knowledge, beliefs and attitudes of teachers in mental health and
      satisfaction with the training received.

      Results: The results show that there was an increase in knowledge, attitude changes in mental
      health and reducing stigma among teachers of web-based interactive educational group. Indeed,
      comparing the three groups of study participants (WBIE, TVBE and WL), was verified that TVBE
      group compared with WL group did not show a significant statistical difference (B = 0.957, p
      = 0.127). Comparing WBIE with WL group, the WBIE answers correctly 1:44 (B = 1.44, p =
      0.015). Regarding beliefs and attitudes, WBIE group increased significantly in the ability to
      identify children with mental health problems, search for mental health information, the
      ability to recognize colleagues with mental health problems. The average confidence in
      helping a student with mental health problems also showed increased after psychoeducational
      intervention in WBIE group.

      Discussion: After adjusting educational tools, the methodology and with a bigger sample it's
      expected to have greater positive results. It's very important to offer teachers a basic
      apparatus so that they will be able to deal with mental health issues in schools.
    
  