
    
      This experiment takes place over the course of two or three days. On each visit day, the
      experiment will involve a brief interview session, electroencephalography (EEG)
      recording,and/or a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

      Screening tests or procedures include:

        -  If you are female of child bearing potential, you must complete a urine pregnancy test
           for the MRI procedure

        -  You will be asked a series of questions about your mental health and your background

      If the screening exam shows that you can be in the main part of the study and you choose to
      continue, these are the tests and procedures that you would complete on one or two test days:

        -  EEG recording: In this procedure, the researcher will assess your brain function while
           you perform simple computer-based tasks. The computer tasks involve presentation of
           pictures to which you respond by pressing a button. You will be given clear instructions
           and a chance to practice before each task. While you are performing these tasks, we will
           record the weak electrical signals produced by your brain, or "brain waves", using a
           technique called electroencephalography (EEG).

             -  In order to record your EEG, sensors (small plastic discs) will be attached to
                specific locations on your scalp. Your scalp will be gently scrubbed before the
                sensors are attached. The sensors are held in place on your scalp using a nylon cap
                that fits snugly on your head. Sensors will also be attached above and below your
                eyes and will record your eye movements. It will take approximately one hour to
                attach the sensors. The entire EEG will take approximately 2 hours.

             -  Before you take part in the EEG session, please make sure to wash your hair and
                scalp. Do not use conditioner or a 2-in-1 shampoo/conditioner. Your hair should be
                dry before your arrival. We ask this in order to make the set-up process go more
                smoothly.

        -  MRI: In the fMRI procedure, we will use a magnet to measure blood flow to your brain
           while you do different cognitive tasks. You will be asked to lie down on a platform that
           can be slid into the middle of the magnet. A plastic MRI imaging coil will be placed
           around your head. You will not come into contact with the coil during the experiment.
           Foam pads will be placed around your head to limit head movement during the experiment.
           We will then slide you into the magnet. At different points during the experiment, you
           will be asked to do the same tasks you did in the training session prior to the scan.
           During the scan, you will be asked to either lie still and rest, or do some tasks
           similar to those you completed during your EEG. The entire MRI will take approximately
           two hours.

             -  If the researchers feel as though the quality of data collected by the scanner can
                be improved, you may be asked to return for an additional scan session.

        -  Brief interview session: There will be a series of questions about your education,
           smoking status, and economic background. You will also be given a list of words to read
           to the researcher. If you are a patient diagnosed with one of the above-mentioned
           psychiatric disorders, you will be asked to participate in an additional interview,
           lasting about one hour, focusing on how you have been feeling recently.
    
  