
    
      Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) had been considered as a milder form
      of heart failure until 1990's. However, the prevalence and the prognosis of HFpEF were found
      to be similar to that of heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) and it is
      widely accepted that HFpEF is a separate entity of heart failure, substantially different
      from HFrEF. The pathophysiology of HFpEF can be contracted to the increased stiffness and
      impaired relaxation of left ventricle (LV), causing increased LV end-diastolic pressure and
      pulmonary venous pressure. These may lead to dyspnea, limited exercise capacity, and
      pulmonary congestion in patients.

      Current guidelines on treatment of HFpEF include appropriate blood pressure control, rate
      control in those with atrial fibrillation, and use of diuretics for pulmonary or peripheral
      edema. But there has been no evidence-based effective treatment strategy for HFpEF. Recently,
      phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE-5) inhibitors (eg. sildenafil, vardenafil, tadalafil) have
      shown promising effects on heart failure, reducing pulmonary vascular resistance, improving
      LV systolic and diastolic function, exercise capacity and quality of life. These results
      infer that PDE-5 inhibitors might be beneficial in patients with HFpEF.

      Udenafil (Zydena), a newly developed PDE-5 inhibitor, has been proved to have similar
      efficacy and safety profile, compared with other PDE-5 inhibitors. Also, laboratory data
      showed that udenafil inhibits ventricular hypertrophy and fibrosis in rat heart failure
      model. Based on these results, we hypothesized that udenafil would improve symptom, exercise
      capacity and hemodynamic status in patients with HFpEF.

      In this 12-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, patients with HFpEF will
      be enrolled according to the eligibility criteria. After randomization, study participants
      will be assigned to receive either 50mg of udenafil or placebo two times a day for 4 weeks,
      and then the dosage will be doubled to 100mg two times a day for next 8 weeks. Participants
      will attend study visits at baseline and weeks 4 and 12. Physical examination, medical
      history review, blood sample collection and electrocardiogram will be conducted on each study
      visits. At baseline and week 12, participants will undergo cardiopulmonary exercise test and
      exercise echocardiography. At every study visits, researchers will collect health
      information.
    
  