
    
      Blood purine levels have been shown to be associated with ischaemic brain conditions. Studies
      have consistently shown that levels of purines in the blood rise rapidly when oxygen flow to
      the brain is reduced (hypoxia) and returns to the pre-hypoxic level within 30 minutes upon
      restoring the oxygen supply. There is therefore the potential for blood purine levels to be
      used to diagnose strokes more quickly. The investigators have undertaken a programme of work
      to develop, test and refine a purine biosensor, called SMARTChip. This is a prospective
      observational study to test the sensitivity of SMARTChip in detecting fluctuations in blood
      purine levels throughout various stages of carotid endarterectomy. Carotid endarterectomy
      patients have been chosen for this study because the procedure provides a controlled normoxic
      and hypoxic brain environment without compromising patient safety and has clear and
      systematic technical steps which will ensure reliable and robust data. The investigators will
      test the pre-, peri- and post-operative blood purine levels in 40 patients undergoing carotid
      endarterectomy at University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust, University
      Hospitals of North Midlands NHS Trust and University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation
      Trust.

      In this study the investigators will also test the hypothesis that purine levels may be
      predictive of future stroke risk. In a previous study carried out by the trial team patients
      undergoing carotid endarterectomy, a group that is by definition at increased risk of stroke,
      were found to have significantly higher purine levels than would be expected in a healthy
      population. Therefore a case-control study, including 80 patients recruited from the day
      surgery schedules at the three hospitals as controls and the 40 CEA patients recruited for
      the observational study as cases, will be undertaken alongside the observational study to
      assess whether purine levels differ systematically in CEA patients and controls.
    
  