
    
      This study addresses the public health problem of chronic pain as one of the most feared
      symptoms in people with cancer, with 70% to 90% of patients with advanced disease reporting
      pain. Unrelieved pain remains a challenge in cancer care. Insufficient relief from
      pharmacological treatments and the fear of side effects are important reasons for the growing
      use of complementary pain management approaches in people with cancer. One such approach is
      music therapy. Although efficacy of music therapy for pain has been established, there are no
      mechanistic studies clarifying how it works in clinical populations. Thus, there is a lack of
      knowledge related to 1) therapeutic mechanisms that lead to improvement (mediator effects)
      and 2) the relationship between patient characteristics and treatment response (moderator
      effects). Yet, it is well accepted that knowledge of mediators and moderators as well as a
      validated theory of action (i.e., how the intervention activates the mediators) are needed to
      optimize psychosocial treatment interventions. Therefore, the overarching goals of this study
      are to 1) examine mediators and moderators hypothesized to account for the pain-reducing
      effects of Interactive Music Therapy (IMT) in people with advanced cancer and chronic pain
      and 2) validate IMT's theory of action. The mediation model to be tested in this study aligns
      with a biopsychosocial framework to palliation of chronic pain and is based on findings from
      a preliminary study. The investigators postulate that anxiety, mood, self-efficacy and
      perceived support mediate the effects of IMT on pain outcomes (i.e. pain intensity and pain
      interference). In addition, the impact of several moderators on the hypothesized mediation
      model, namely adult playfulness, perceived musical competence, and treatment expectancy, will
      be tested. This study uses a mixed methods intervention design in which qualitative data
      (i.e. semi-structured follow-up interviews) are embedded within a randomized controlled
      trial. A total of 100 outpatients with advanced cancer and chronic bone pain will be
      randomized to one of two 6-week treatments: 1) Interactive Music Therapy or 2) Verbal-based
      support. The mediators and pain outcomes will be measured at baseline and after the fourth
      and sixth session using self-report measures as well as biomarkers (salivary cortisol,
      lachrymal dopamine content, serum oxytocin, and plasma β-endorphins). Follow-up interviews
      with a subsample of 30 participants will enable the investigators to examine the congruence
      between the hypothesized mediators and moderators and participant explanations of how IMT
      influences chronic pain management (i.e. theory of action). This study will contribute
      towards the optimization of music therapy for palliation of chronic pain in people with
      advanced cancer through a better understanding of the impact of mediators and moderators of
      IMT on chronic pain management. The results of this study will provide estimated effects
      sizes of IMT on the mediators and preliminary effect size estimates for the pain outcomes.
      This information will be instrumental in the development of a subsequent large-scale efficacy
      trial.
    
  