
    
      Because the US population is aging and obesity is rising dramatically, the epidemic of
      arthritis-associated disability and its associated costs will significantly worsen, largely
      due to the consequences of knee osteoarthritis (OA). Knee OA is already a major cause of work
      disability and work absenteeism/presenteeism, especially among obese and overweight
      employees. In addition, total knee replacement surgeries have increased by 161.5% among
      Medicare participants over the past 20 years and are expected to quadruple in the next 20
      years. Increased physical activity can relieve the pain and activity limitations of
      individuals with knee OA, but this healthy lifestyle behavior has not been embraced by a
      substantial proportion of the employed population. The overarching goal of this program is to
      develop and disseminate an affordable, efficient, efficacious physical activity intervention
      that can assist large groups of employees with or at risk for knee OA to attain and maintain
      healthy physical activity behavior. MobilWise is a 12-week RCT pilot that will use data
      transmitted from an affordable accelerometer-based personal monitor (Fitbit Flex) via
      customized remote- coach interface to 1) allow a remote coach to view and collect physical
      activity data generated by the personal monitor, and 2) use that data to formulate and
      provide tailored behavioral support via mobile phone, ba sed on the supportive accountability
      model and using motivational interviewing. The MobilWise intervention will use the media
      communication mode preferred by the participant (text, voice call, or video chat) to attain
      and sustain healthy physical activity behavior in Blue Cross Blue Shield of Illinois
      employees with knee symptoms after previous completion of an in-person, intensive
      intervention (Joint ADventure). Six month follow-up measures are planned. Specific aims are
      to: 1) assess the feasibility of conducting a randomized controlled trial of the Mobil Wise
      intervention at this worksite, 2) estimate the effectiveness of the intervention to increase
      objectively-measured physical activity, 3) to develop/refine the customized remote
      coach-interface, dashboard, and coaching protocol, and 4) to examine the accuracy of the
      affordable personal monitor (Fitbit Flex) by comparing that output with data from the
      state-of-the-art GT3X+ accelerometer. This study leverages the combined clinical and
      technologic expertise of Northwestern's Arthritis Center Accelerometer Unit and its Center
      for Behavioral Intervention Technologies, in cooperation with the Fitbit technology team and
      the Blue Cross Blue Shield of Illinois Corporation. If successful, a multi-site randomized
      controlled trial/R01 proposal will follow to demonstrate the effectiveness/cost-effectiveness
      of the Mobil Wise intervention in larger worksite populations. Given the influence that BCBS
      has in shaping future health practices and the scalability/generalizability of the proposed
      intervention, this research could have a tremendous impact on improving symptoms and quality
      of life for those with early knee OA as well as preventing the work absenteeism/presenteeism,
      work disability, and increased healthcare costs associated with knee OA.
    
  