
    
      Every year, millions of dollars are spent on urine drug testing. Urine samples are generally
      provided in an unwitnessed fashion. Only a small percentage of samples involve direct
      observation of urination. The authenticity of the provided sample greatly affects its
      clinical utility and/or the validity of the test results. Direct observation of urination can
      be unpleasant and humiliating for people. For the institution, there are increased costs (for
      example, staff, insurance) and risks regarding impropriety when direct observation is
      utilized.

      Participants are being asked to take part in a research study of an approved drug called
      FluoresciteTM. FluoresciteTM is an intravenous drug (administered into a vein) that has been
      approved by Health Canada. The active ingredient in FluoresciteTM is fluorescein disodium
      (10% fluorescein disodium in sterile water).

      Fluorescein disodium has been used medically for over fifty years. It is a fluorophore (emits
      light, similar to a yellow glowstick) that is most commonly used in ophthalmology (the study
      and treatment of disorders and diseases of the eye). It is currently used in angiography (to
      view blood vessels), or topically for staining the eye's cornea. FluoresciteTM or fluorescein
      disodium has not been approved by Health Canada for oral administration.

      During this study, participants will ingest 100 mg of fluorescein disodium or a placebo (no
      drug) mixed in GatoradeTM. The Investigator will then ask the participant to provide a urine
      sample after 10, 15, 20 or 30 minutes to see if he can detect fluorescence (light) in the
      urine.

      The purpose of this study is to:

        -  Develop a new standardized protocol for urine sampling that will increase sample
           authenticity and make the situation between the patient/physician more pleasant.

        -  To evaluate the safety and tolerability of orally ingested fluorescein disodium.
    
  