
    
      Stroke is a frequent, serious and disabling condition. Spasticity interferes with the classic
      motor pattern and reflects reflex motor activities normally inhibited by the central nervous
      system. This term most frequently refers to a disorder that causes a speed increase dependent
      on the tonic stretching reflex associated with an increase of tendon reflexes. About 30% of
      patients are affected and this can occur in the short, medium and long term after stroke. It
      would seem that, the more serious the initial motor and sensory impairments, the more likely
      it is to develop a pattern of spasticity. The most classic upper limb (UL) pattern is that of
      an internal adductum rotation of the shoulder coupled to a flessum of the elbow, wrist and
      fingers. Approximately 79% of spastic patients on UL have an elbow flessum, involving at
      different degrees the elbow flexor muscles (anterior brachialis, biceps brachialis).
      Spasticity and its neuro-orthopedic impact, together with muscle atrophy, joint contracture,
      pain resulting from the shortening of muscle fibres and ligaments, significantly impede the
      progression of rehabilitation, social reintegration, the pursuit of daily living activities
      and quality of life.

      Recommended management of spasticity after stroke involves multidisciplinary rehabilitation
      programs associated with botulinum toxin A (BTA) treatment. Despite this, the dose injected
      into this muscle is ultimately more dependent on the experience, feelings and habits of the
      referring physician. Some studies provide a safe framework for increasing doses, but
      treatment failure by shortness of breath in initially responding patients is still possible.

      BTA by blocking the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) is a source of denervation in muscle fiber
      (MF), which causes the activation of a serine protease, urokinase. This degrades the
      components of the basal muscle blade, causing the nerve endings to bud. The term sprouting
      refers to the phenomenon of collateral reinnervation by adjacent fibres from nodal (Ranvier
      nodes), terminal and ultra-terminal sites, making it possible to temporarily ensure the
      function of parental synapses paralysed by BTA. Thus, initially, between 3 and 7 days, nodal
      regrowth is responsible for the development of so-called "immature" NMJs. Then, secondarily,
      between 4 to 8 weeks, the original synapse begins its recovery through the development of
      terminal reinnervations, parallel to the regression of nodal regrowth. This explains
      clinically the increase in remote spasticity of treatment and structural changes in motor
      units (MU), usually observed after about 12 weeks. Compared to healthy (or naive) muscles in
      this treatment, BTA-induced muscles develop amyelin-like nerve fibers with more collateral
      and are characterized by the appearance of non-collateral or nodal reinnervations. Any motor
      unit (MU) is normally made up of MF of the same type. The addition of adjacent denervated MFs
      leads to a restructuring of the UM, which led to its functional modification.

      Although it is widely accepted that the effect of BTA is temporary and reversible and that
      functional muscle recovery is thus allowed through the restoration of NMJ, remodelling, and
      induced myogenesis; some studies show that its effects persist at a distance from the
      injection. Indeed, whether directly after injection, several months or even a year later,
      there are changes in the conformation of synaptic gutters (length, width, depths and areas),
      with an increase in the number of nicotine receptors for Ach (ACHR) and finally a development
      of continuous nodal reinnervations over time. At present, histological studies are the only
      ones that have shown this. All the changes observed are not associated with an effective
      neuromuscular transmission (NMT), which is only guaranteed by the restoration of the
      original, much more progressive synapse. In most cases, it's estimated that NMJ is still
      under impregnation with BTA and therefore incompletely restored at a time when it is usual to
      repeat this treatment. This explains why, in clinical practice, the chemo-denervation process
      does not always seem entirely anatomically reversible. At present it is not clear which
      mechanisms are involved: insufficient contact between reinnervations and denervated MF,
      failure of the stimulation system or failure of Schwann's peri-synaptic cells.

      The effects of BTA are still incompletely understood. Histological, molecular, biochemical
      and genetic analyses explain the phenomena linking denervation to muscle remodelling, with a
      description of muscle atrophy, a change in sarcomer structure, an increase in intramuscular
      lipid cells, inflammatory cells, or collagen content, responsible for a reduction in
      contractile tissue and therefore in the number of motor end plate (MEP). Unfortunately, these
      histological data cannot be extrapolated to humans or used repeatedly for follow-up.
      Currently, it is not known whether healthy muscles in animal models behave in the same way as
      human spastic muscles, nor how to study the latter in clinical routine.

      It is therefore not exceptional that after repeated injections into the same muscle, there is
      an escape of the initial therapeutic effects, forcing the doses to be increased a few times
      without obtaining any results either on spasticity or on the duration of the treatment. The
      effect of BTA may fade over time and complex neuro-orthopaedic changes in the clinical
      picture, justifying the use of new strategies such as increasing doses, which may not always
      be negligible. There is no specific recommendation on how to proceed, as the situations are
      diverse and complex.

      The literature, our experience and the testimonies of patients followed in our department for
      many years have contributed to these questions: how to explain the lack of response to BTA
      treatment, after initial efficacy and after sometimes doubling / tripling the doses? Would
      the investigator have a parameter capable of approaching the BTA mechanism as closely as
      possible in order to study its variations and correlate them with the clinical response
      established by our conventional scales? By going further, can we even consider that there may
      be a tool that can predict the effectiveness of this treatment and thus establish
      decision-making charts that can support physicians in their practice? In practice, the
      assessment of spasticity and its evolution during this treatment is not always easy in view
      of the often complex clinical pictures and readily uses clinical scales such as MAS, Tardieu.
      These are based on restricted ordinal values, the mean of which is frequently used as a
      reference in patient follow-up. It is lawful to question the relevance and objectivity of
      these scales. MAS is easy and fast to use with satisfactory intra-evaluator reliability;
      however, its reproducibility between judges remains questionable In the literature, some
      tools for quantifying muscle tone alterations in spasticity and their modification following
      pharmacological management by BTA are proposed and appear to be independent of the evaluator.
      They are interested in the following properties: electrophysiological in EMG with the study
      of neurography and H and F reflex viscoelastic in elastography and with myoton, mechanical in
      mechanography structural in ultrasonography (61-63) and MRI. However, there are no
      recommendations regarding these tools at this time. It seems crucial to propose within our
      practice as physical medecine and rehabilitation physicians a quantitative, reproducible
      evaluation, capable of abstracting itself from the evaluator's subjectivity.

      The study of the single fiber EMG (SFEMG), a technique introduced in 1963 by Stålberg and
      Ekstedt, has made it possible to understand the pathological process of affecting NMT and MF
      rearrangement within the MU. It has been recognized as the most sensitive diagnostic test in
      myasthenia gravis, more specifically in ocular myasthenia gravis or in atypical forms for
      which conventional repetitive stimulation tests are rarely proven This technique has also
      been used in anterior horn defects. It has made it possible to support the principle of
      chronic partial denervation in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and to monitor its
      evolution.The two main parameters of the SFEMG are jitter and fibre density (FD), for which
      some reminders about NMT should be given.

      The amount of acetylcholine contained in a vesicle corresponds to the base unit or quantum;
      normally released at the NMJ in an amount sufficient for a motor plate potential to generate
      an action potential (AP) and thus a muscle contraction: this is called the safety factor.
      However, there are normal variations in the amplitude of the motor plate potential and
      variability in the time it takes to reach the threshold generating the AP: these different
      variations in the inter-potential interval of NMT thus constitute the jitter. This variation
      is usually very short in the normal subject, about 4 microseconds. This parameter thus
      reflects the membrane state and the release of acetylcholine within the motor plate. If the
      NMT is very altered there may be transmission blocks.

      The second diagnostic interest is the study of FD, the increase in which is observed during
      reinnervation processes (after nerve section for example) but also during muscular
      dystrophies. It provides information on the type of muscle fibers within the MU equivalent to
      "grouping" determined by muscle biopsy. The normal FD is about 1.5 fibers per recording but
      varies with age and muscle studied. In the event of nerve damage, the denervated fibres, then
      reinnered as well as those in the process of being destroyed, separate from their motor
      plate, resulting in a temporary elongation of the jitter, which tends to normalize (sometimes
      with a duration of more than one year). Secondly, the investigator are witnessing an increase
      in the FD that can be maintained at a high level over the long term.

      If the Jitter, is the witness of the blockage of the NMT, then it seems to us to be a
      relevant tool for the reflection of the BTA origin action. Many scientific articles have
      focused on asserting or disproving subclinical manifestations of the systemic spread of BTA
      using jitter elongation in muscles far from the initial injection site. Few have been
      interested in the evolution of the parameters of the single fibre within the muscle itself
      treated, except for work on the orbicular muscle of the eye in patients with blepharospasm or
      hemifacial spasm treated with BTA. At the peak of therapeutic efficacy, jitter was
      significantly the highest and the recurrence of involuntary movements and therefore the
      decrease in efficacy was correlated with its normalization. Moreover, except in the fields of
      aesthetics, of interest and relevance too far removed from the problem of our work, there is
      no publication correlating the cumulative dose effect within the muscle itself treated with
      electrophysiological parameters.

      Our clinical observations of the ineffectiveness of certain injections in patients who are
      usually responders and electrophysiological based on jitter and FD parameters remaining high
      at a distance from the injection (suggesting the persistence of MNT blockage) led us to doubt
      the scientific relevance of an on-site reoperation. The place of a paraclinical tool,
      witnessing the reaching of this threshold, thus seems interesting to avoid the increase of
      excessive and ineffective doses on a sufficiently denervated muscle and to be able to
      distribute as well as possible this maximum authorized dose within involved muscles by
      avoiding potential adverse effects and a significant additional cost.

      This preliminary study aims to study the kinetics of the electrophysiological parameters
      "jitter and FD" in SFEMG during BTA treatment in hemiplegic patients after stroke, spastic on
      one elbow flexor muscle (such as anterior brachialis, biceps brachial muscles), depending on
      the primary or multi-injected status, in order to highlight the residual effect of this
      treatment on NMT. It is an objective, standardized means, capable of accurately quantifying
      the blockage of NMT by decreasing the release of acetylcholine within the synapse of muscle
      treated with BTA. If this tool proved to be effective, it would allow in a future work the
      realization of abacuses potentially predictive of the therapeutic effect of BTA and thus
      justify new actions to be taken at a given time in the life of a spastic muscle (therapeutic
      window, revision of injection patterns). SFEMG analysis coupled with ultrasound tracking is
      part of the dynamics of our discipline on the development and implementation of technologies
      for patients and their families.

      Our assumptions are as follows:

        -  BTA causes jitter elongation and FD increase in elbow flexor muscle after a single
           injection

        -  Jitter is significantly longer in "multi-injected" subjects (cumulative dose > 400 IU in
           one elbow flexor muscle (biceps brachialis, anterior brachialisl) compared to
           primary-injected subjects

        -  Is Jitter elongation maximum at peak treatment efficacy (evaluation at 4-6 weeks) and
           will it tend to normalize at a distance from the injection (3 months-6 months)

        -  There is a correlation between the Jitter-FD values and the therapeutic efficacy of BTA
           estimated by the MAS scale in the elbow flexor muscle chosen.
    
  