
    
      Overall Design:

      This is a multicenter, open-label, phase Ib/II clinical study of Toripalimab Injection
      (JS001) in patients with gastric adenocarcinoma (GC), esophageal squamous cell carcinoma
      (ESCC), nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC), or head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). On
      the basis of the results of safety and pharmacokinetic data in the phase I study of JS001, 3
      mg/kg is determined as the recommended dose of the 2-week monotherapy regimen, and no study
      on the 10 mg/kg cohorts will be conducted any more. And the corresponding 240 mg and 360 mg
      are determined as the corresponding exploratory doses of the 3-week combined treatment
      regimens.

      Eligible subjects will be selected based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria: subjects
      with gastric adenocarcinoma, esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, nasopharyngeal carcinoma, or
      head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (cohort 1, 2, 3, 4, respectively) will receive
      treatment at the dose of 3 mg/kg. While subjects with advanced gastric adenocarcinoma,
      esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, nasopharyngeal carcinoma, or head and neck squamous cell
      carcinoma (cohort 5, 6, 7, 8, respectively), who have not received any treatment before, will
      be treated with the corresponding 3-week regimen of standard first-line chemotherapy combined
      with JS001 240 mg or 360 mg .

      Study Treatment:

      The study on the 3 mg/kg cohorts is planned to be conducted first in cohort 1, 2, 3, 4 in
      this trial. After enrollment, the subjects will receive study treatment once every 2 weeks
      (Q2W) with 4 weeks as a cycle, until absence of further benefits judged by the investigator,
      disease progression, occurrence of intolerable toxicity, investigator's decision, withdrawal
      of informed consent by the subject, or death.

      The study of cohort 5, 6, 7, and 8 will be carried out in the sites designated by the
      sponsor. Subjects will receive corresponding regimen of standard first-line chemotherapy
      combined with JS001 240 mg or 360 mg once every 3 weeks (Q3W) (see Section 3.1 Overall Design
      for details). JS001 240 mg or 360 mg Q3W can be administrated after the end of chemotherapy
      until absence of further benefits judged by the investigator, disease progression, occurrence
      of intolerable toxicity, investigator's decision, and withdrawal of informed consent by the
      subject, or death.

      If the subject experiences disease progression but the subject can still obtain clinical
      benefit from the study treatment of JS001 according to the investigator, the subject can
      continue the study treatment if an approval is obtained after discussion between the
      investigator and the medical monitor from the sponsor or the authorized CRO. If the subject
      develops disease progression for a second time, he/she should permanently withdraw from the
      study treatment.

      Tumor Assessment:

      During the study, for cohort 1, 2, 3, and 4, tumor responses will be evaluated every 8 weeks
      in the first year according to RECIST 1.1, and every 12 weeks thereafter. Tumor responses
      will also be evaluated according to irRECIST at the same frequency with that conducted
      according to RECIST 1.1 until disease progression, death or loss of follow up (whichever
      comes first). For cohort 5, 6, 7, and 8, tumor responses will be evaluated every 6 weeks (± 3
      days) in the first year according to RECIST 1.1 and irRECIST, and every 12 weeks thereafter
      until disease progression, death or loss of follow up (whichever comes first).

      The radiographic data of the subjects will be collected for review by IRC. The IRC will
      evaluate the corresponding study endpoints based on tumor responses, but no such evaluation
      is planned for cohort 5, 6, 7 and 8.

      Pharmacokinetics:

      At least 10 of the subjects (no requirements on indications) in JS001 3 mg/kg cohorts at the
      sponsor-designated study sites should complete the pharmacokinetic blood sampling in the
      first 3 cycles of study treatment until 60 days after the end of study treatment. If a
      subject did not complete the scheduled sample collection in the first 3 cycles of study
      treatment due to any reason, another subject should be added.

      Corresponding pharmacokinetic blood samplings will also be conducted for cohort 5, 6, 7, and
      8, to evaluate the pharmacokinetic characteristics of JS001 used in the combined treatment
      with chemotherapy. At least 3 patients will be selected for blood sampling in each cohort.

      Acquisition of Tumor Tissue Specimens:

      Subjects with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, gastric adenocarcinoma (including
      adenocarcinoma at esophageal-gastric conjunction), nasopharyngeal carcinoma, or head and neck
      squamous cell carcinoma must provide acceptable tumor tissue specimens (fresh tumor tissue
      specimens for biopsy before enrollment are preferred) prior to enrollment for future use in
      subsequent exploratory studies.

      Any subject with the response confirmed as partial response (PR) and/or progressive disease
      (PD) is encouraged to voluntarily participate in the selectable biomarkers study if tumor
      tissues can be obtained from him/her. And in the selectable biomarkers study, they will
      provide tumor tissues for exploratory study on the correlation between tumor markers and the
      level of anti-tumor responses.

      All the tumor tissue specimens provided will be sent to the designated central laboratory for
      evaluation.

      End of Study:

      The primary endpoint of the study is ORR. The study will be completed at 12 months after the
      last patient in and data analysis will be conducted then. If by that time there are still
      some subjects receiving study treatment, these subjects will be transferred to an extension
      study to continue the study treatment until absence of further benefits judged by
      investigator, disease progression, occurrence of intolerable toxicity, investigator's
      decision, withdrawal of informed consent by subject, or death.
    
  