
    
      The goal of this proposed study is to conduct a pilot trial of a web-based moral elevation
      intervention to determine if such an intervention is a feasible and acceptable therapeutic
      approach for Operations Enduring Freedom, Iraqi Freedom, and New Dawn Veterans with distress
      related to posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and moral injury (MI). This study will also
      assess the feasibility of randomization, retention, and completion of a no-treatment
      condition (i.e., comparison group) in preparation for future randomized controlled trials
      (RCTs). The sample will include 24 Veterans (12 per group). The online intervention consists
      of two exercises per week for one month, totaling eight sessions. Sessions will include
      watching validated videos that elicit moral elevation and recalling moments when one
      experienced moral elevation in daily life, paired with journaling about one's reactions to
      witnessed virtuous behavior. Participants in the intervention condition will also be
      presented with a brief goal to be completed prior to the next session to facilitate greater
      social engagement. Participants randomized to the no-treatment condition will access the same
      online portal twice per week, but will not be exposed to any intervention components. All
      participants will complete brief self-report measures at each online session. All
      participants will also complete self-report measures at baseline and 1-month follow-up that
      will assess PTSD symptoms, MI distress, prosocial behavior, and quality of social
      relationships. At the follow-up assessment, participants randomized to the intervention
      condition will complete an individual qualitative interview with a member of the study team
      to assess acceptability and satisfaction with the intervention and proposed methodology,
      which will be coded and analyzed to inform future clinical trials. To supplement self-report
      measures, all participants will invite a significant other (e.g., spouse, close friend) to
      complete measures based on observations of the Veteran's behavior and social functioning at
      baseline and 1-month follow-up. Feasibility of recruitment, retention, and completion of the
      intervention will be analyzed by tracking the number of participants retained at each stage
      of the study, as well as the number of sessions completed in the intervention. Results from
      this study will be used to develop an RCT with a larger sample size to determine the efficacy
      of a moral elevation intervention and assess whether this novel approach leads to unique
      beneficial outcomes regarding PTSD and moral injury distress.
    
  