
    
      The time interval between Study Start Date and Study First Received was related to
      bureaucratic problems.

      The treatment of systemic iron overload has in recent years improved notably since new drugs
      and new therapeutic combinations have become available for use. Conversely, therapies for the
      removal of regional iron overloads on the cerebral level have not been described in the
      literature.

      As it is known, the symptoms resulting from a cerebral iron overload are strongly disabling,
      reducing the patient's autonomy. Considering that valid therapeutic alternatives of proven
      preventive and/or curative efficacy in these neurodegenerative diseases do not exist today,
      the use of lipophilic iron chelators must be considered as a possible therapeutic strategy
      worthy of deeper study.

      Deferiprone is an oral active iron chelator, the use of which is authorized for the treatment
      of iron overload in patients affected by thalassemia major in conditions of "chelation not
      suitable for Desferal." In recent years, deferiprone has been applied extensively,
      demonstrating a good efficacy and tolerability profile.

      Unlike deferoxamine, a hydrophilic drug, deferiprone presents chemical-physical
      characteristics (low molecular weight, favourable octanol:water partition coefficient,
      neutral charge) that guarantee drug good permeability of mitochondrial walls and the
      blood-brain barrier.

      In a recent study deferiprone (commercial name Ferriprox) was used in 13 patients with
      Friedreich's ataxia (FA), also treated with idebenone (an experimental drug with an
      anti-oxidant action), compared with 9 patients affected by FA but treated only with
      Idebenone. The 9 patients who completed the 6 months of treatment with deferiprone were
      evaluated from a clinical point of view using the ICARS Scale (International Cooperative
      Ataxia Rating Score) before the start and after 1 and 6 months of therapy. They also
      performed a cerebral Magnetic Resonance Imaging before and after 1, 2, 4 and 6 months of
      treatment. The results were promising. In fact, after 6 months of therapy, a reduction in
      iron accumulation in specific cerebral areas involved in the pathogenesis of
      neurodegenerative disease was demonstrated. The patients also presented a significant
      clinical improvement confirmed by the ICARS score.

      Therefore the use of deferiprone, despite the possible side effects (such as gastrointestinal
      disturbances, a temporary increase in transaminases, and especially agranulocytosis found in
      about 1% of patients treated with deferiprone), currently represents the only possibility for
      removing and/or preventing the accumulation of iron in the central nervous system, curing
      and/or avoiding the most severe and debilitating consequences of a disease for which another
      therapy does not exist.

      The Centers that specialize in the treatment of iron accumulation have acquired significant
      experience in the use of new oral iron chelators over the last 10 years, which permits
      deferiprone to be used carefully and safely in the three cases at hand. We therefore propose
      the use of this drug for treating patients who show neurological symptoms that can be
      correlated with a cerebral iron overload shown through MRI and who have not benefited from
      other therapies.
    
  