
    
      Primary objective

      The main objective of this study is to show the continuous administration of superiority
      ceftazidime versus intermittent administration, in terms of lung tissue concentration of
      ceftazidime in mechanically ventilated patients with pneumonia caused by a bacillus gram
      negative.

      Methods

      Trial

      Prospective therapeutic trial in parallel groups, controlled, randomized, single center
      comparing two methods of administration of ceftazidime (continuous administration by
      self-pulsed syringe versus discontinuous administration regimens to 3 injections per 24
      hours) in patients with severe pneumonia in mechanically ventilated due to gram negative
      bacillus.

      Population

      Patients will be enrolled in the Intensive Care Unit of the Reims university hospital.

      All patients meeting the inclusion criteria and respecting the criteria of non-inclusions
      (see below) will be consecutively enrolled in the study after obtaining consent. The
      allocation of one of the 2 treatment modality will be made by randomization.

      Variables and parameters collected in the study:

      In addition to sociodemographic variables, variables for inclusion in the study and judgment
      criteria, different blood and urine tests will be collected:

        1. Criteria for inclusion and non-inclusion (see above);

        2. Outcome:

           i) concentration in the cell film ceftazidime;

           ii) serum concentration of ceftazidime;

           iii) period during which the serum concentration of ceftazidime is higher than 20 mg/l;

        3. Socio-demographic variables: Age, Gender;

        4. Blood Assays: Blood gas; Blood Urea, créatinimémie and chemistry panel; serum protein;
           Complete Blood Count; Beta HCG if women of childbearing age; Liver function tests: AST,
           ALT, GGT, bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase;

        5. Urinary Assays: Creatinine clearance and urinary electrolytes.
    
  