
    
      This is a phase I-II multicenter, open label, sequential cohort dose escalation study of
      erlotinib designed to assess the safety and efficacy of a daily administration of erlotinib
      in high risk MDS patients.

      Five patients per cohort will be enrolled into sequential cohorts receiving increasing
      dosages of erlotinib. The first cohort of 5 patients will start with a dosage of 100 mg
      erlotinib daily. Response will be determined after 12 weeks of treatment (or earlier upon
      major hematologic improvement, whichever event occurs first). At the completion of each
      cohort, defined as the fifth subject completing the week 12 visit, the safety review panel
      will be responsible for making the decision as to whether the next cohort will begin, an
      intermediate dose cohort will be added, or if additional subjects will be enrolled into an
      earlier dose cohort.

      Upon agreement of the safety review panel, the second cohort of patients will receive 150 mg
      of erlotinib daily, and - upon agreement of the safety review panel - the third cohort of
      five patients will be enrolled to receive 300 mg of erlotinib daily.

      Since it is to be expected that the therapeutically required dosage of erlotinib is higher
      than the dosage for which a patient was initially enrolled (i.e. patient enrolled in the
      first cohort receiving 100 mg daily), dosage of erlotinib should be increased (for the same
      patient) to the next higher level, if no response is documented after 12 weeks of continuous
      treatment and no grade III or IV toxicity is documented. In contrast, responders will
      continue their treatment with the same dosage of erlotinib until grade III or IV toxicity
      arises or treatment loses efficacy (as defined by relapse/progression of the disease).

      Consequently, this study plans to enrol 15 patients in 3 cohorts of 5 patients. Once the dose
      limiting toxicity has been defined, additional confirmatory subjects (20) will be enrolled
      into the appropriate lower dose as recommended by the safety review panel.
    
  