
    
      This is a prospective randomized controlled trial. Patients with a history of difficult
      venepuncture who agreed to be enter into the study will be randomized into one of three
      groups using a sealed envelope system: Conventional Venepuncture without aid (Control 1);
      Veinlite® EMS (TransLite®, Texas, USA) (Control 2), a commercial transillumination device;
      our device TenTaTorch (Experimental Group). Hemodynamically unstable patients are excluded.
      The nurse involved in the care of the patient will attempt venepuncture over the upper limb.
      A group of nurses will be recruited before the start of patient recruitment. A maximum of 4
      times attempts is allowed, before escalation to a doctor/phlebotomist.

      A standardized venepuncture technique using standardized instruments will be utilized. A
      tourniquet is applied (Braun® International, USA). Veins will be localized using one of the
      above techniques. Both Veinlite and TenTaTorch utilize the concept of transillumination.
      Placing it onto the skin will cause the outlines of the veins to show up. Once a suitable
      vein is localized, the vein is marked with a pen. The area of the skin to be cannulated is
      disinfected with an alcohol wipe (Webcol®, Covidien®, USA). For the setting of IV
      cannulation, a standardized IV cannula (ranging 18 to 25 gauge) is used (Introcan Safety®,
      Braun®, USA). Normal saline (PosiFlush® 3ml, BD®, USA) will be used for flushing the cannula
      after successful cannulation. For blood taking, a syringe (Terumo®, Philippines) ranging from
      2ml to 20ml and a needle (ranging between 18 to 25 gauge) (Venofix®, Braun®, USA) will be
      used. All instruments needed for venepuncture, including 4 IV cannula or 4 needles should be
      by the patient's bedside prior to the start of each venepuncture attempt. Duration of the
      procedure will be recorded using a stop watch. This is defined as the time (in minutes) from
      the start of attempt to localize a vein to its successful cannulation. Successful cannulation
      is defined either as the ability to flush 2ml of normal saline into the IV cannula or the
      ability to draw 2ml of blood from the vein. A post-procedure questionnaire will be filled up
      by the nurses after the attempt at venepuncture.

      Outcome data include: number of attempts and duration needed for successful venepuncture.
      Patient data include: age, sex, race, body-mass index, history of intra-venous drug abuse,
      and renal function. Nurses who consent to join the study will be required to participate in a
      pre- trial tutorial which is estimated to last for 1 hour. During the tutorial, techniques of
      locating veins using TenTaTorch and by using the Veinlite® device will be taught. A
      standardized technique of venepuncture will also be taught. Tutorial will be in the form of
      slide- show presentation and hands-on training. During the hands-on training, nurses will
      attempt to identify veins on fellow trainees using both TenTaTorch and Veinlite®.
    
  