
    
      Patients undergoing arthroscopic rotator cuff repair by one of the three attending surgeon
      authors at Orlando Orthopaedic Outpatient Surgery Center will be candidates for the study.
      Further inclusion criteria will be a full-thickness rotator cuff tear, age eighteen or
      greater, a reparable rotator cuff tear and willingness to consent to study participation.
      Patients will not be excluded for concomitant procedures such as acromioplasty, distal
      clavicle resection, biceps tenotomy and biceps tenodesis.

      Exclusion criteria will include age less than eighteen, irreparable rotator cuff tear,
      subscapularis tear requiring repair, labral tear requiring repair, allergy to ropivacaine or
      a similar local anesthetic agent and allergy to oxycodone.

      All patients will undergo an ultrasound guided ISB with 30cc of 0.5% ropivacaine with
      epinephrine in the preoperative holding area by an anesthesiologist trained in regional block
      anesthesia. A continuous infusion catheter will be placed under ultrasound guidance to
      confirm appropriate position. An adhesive dressing on the skin will be used to keep the
      catheter in position and away from the operating field.

      All patients will receive a reservoir for their catheters containing 280cc of either
      ropivacaine or saline that will infuse at a rate of 6cc per hour. The reservoirs will be
      attached in the operating room at the completion of the rotator cuff repair. Patients will be
      randomized intraoperative to receive either the ropivacaine or the saline. Randomization will
      be performed by block number randomization and the group assignments will be placed in sealed
      envelopes. The envelopes will be opened by the operating room circulating nurse. Both
      patients and surgeons will be blinded to the randomization.

      Patients and their families will be educated preoperative and postoperative on the removal of
      the pain catheters. There will be written instructions regarding catheter removal. Patients
      or their family members will remove the catheters after the reservoirs are empty. The study
      authors will be available to assist with any catheter removal issues that the patients may
      have.

      Patients will be prescribed oxycodone 5mg tablets for their postoperative pain control.
      Patients will receive diaries to record their pain levels utilizing visual analog scores
      (VAS) for the first five postoperative days. The first pain level will be recorded in the
      post anesthesia care unit. Pain levels will then be recorded twice daily. Patients will also
      be asked to log their oxycodone use during the first five postoperative days. Patients will
      be educated preoperative on the postoperative diaries. They will also receive a call from an
      OOOSC nurse on postoperative day one to address any questions or concerns.

      Patients will be evaluated in the office by the operating surgeon at one week postoperative.
      At that time, study diaries will be collected.
    
  