
    
      Radiofrequency (RF) ablation is the most commonly employed method for the catheter treatment
      of cardiac arrhythmias. Myocardial scar serves as the most frequent substrate for the genesis
      of both atrial and ventricular arrhythmias. Such scar frequently contains surviving myocyte
      bundles interspersed with fibrotic tissue, which leads to slow conduction. Areas of denser
      fibrosis cause conduction block. When appropriately arranged, conduction through or around
      these scars leads to the creation of a "reentry" circuit through which an arrhythmia is
      generated and maintained. Each reentry circuit contains within it an area called the isthmus,
      a portion of the circuit located in a position intimately related to the scar border zone.
      Electrical activation travels slowly through the isthmus before breaking out into normal
      myocardium. Ablation at the site of an isthmus will terminate a reentrant tachycardia.

      A variety of techniques, including electroanatomic mapping and activation, entrainment, and
      substrate mapping, are employed during electrophysiologic (EP) study to identify areas of
      myocardial scar and potential isthmus sites. Points or lines of ablation using RF energy are
      then created in an attempt to interrupt the reentry circuit. Typically, RF energy is applied
      via a catheter tip electrode to the endocardial or epicardial surface of the heart and
      grounded via an electrode pad placed on the patient's skin. RF energy in this setting is
      dispersed through the entirety of the tissue between catheter tip and grounding pad. The
      standard 7-French, 4-mm tip catheters are highly successful at ablating circuits located
      within a few millimeters of the catheter tip. A focal, 1mm area of resistive heating occurs
      within the myocardium immediately in contact with the catheter tip; myocardial cell death
      occurs several millimeters more deeply through passive, conductive heating, which spreads
      outward from the contact point.

      While the standard catheter is effective at the ablation of superficial arrhythmias, it has
      proven more problematic when used for deep myocardial sites or for creating transmural
      lesions. A number of alternatives have been developed in an attempt to access these sites.
      8-mm or 10-mm catheter tips are able to create larger zones of resistive heating, delivering
      direct RF energy to a larger area of myocardium. A larger interface between catheter tip and
      blood improves cooling and allows for the delivery of more power without a rise in
      impedance.The clinical use of these larger catheters can, however, be limited by rapid
      temperature rises at the catheter-tissue interface, resulting in thrombus formation, char,
      and "steam pop" rupture of the endocardial surface. The use of irrigated ablation catheters
      have improved upon the ability to deliver RF energy without a sustained rise in impedance.
      Both open irrigated- and closed-loop irrigated catheters circulate saline along the catheter
      tip-myocardial interface, allowing for continued delivery of RF current without thrombus
      formation at the endocardial surface. Intramyocardial temperature rises accordingly without a
      concomitant endocardial temperature surge, creating larger and deeper myocardial ablation
      zones. Transcoronary ethanol ablation has also been employed with moderate success in
      patients with arrhythmias resistant to endocardial catheter ablation.This technology,
      however, grants only limited control over the size of the resulting infarct and is restricted
      by the need for perfusion of the scar zone by an accessible coronary artery.

      Nevertheless, there remain occasions in which an arrhythmia cannot be eliminated by standard
      ablation techniques. This is seen most frequently due to deep intramural ventricular
      tachycardia, sometimes encountered following myocardial infarction. Both standard and
      alternative ablation strategies are frequently either unavailable or inadequate for
      termination of these arrhythmias.

      Initial experience with an electrically active needle electrode have demonstrated that
      radiofrequency ablative energy can effectively create lesions of homogeneous necrosis. Needle
      electrodes have been used experimentally from the epicardial surface, from the endocardium ex
      vivo and in vivo in an internally irrigated form. It has been shown that the use of a
      narrow-gauge non-irrigated endocardial needle ablation catheter creates very narrow but deep
      lesions due to the small electrode size. Catheters featuring a retractable needle tipped
      electrode with intramyocardial saline infusion have also shown promise as a means of
      accessing deep myocardial circuits in ventricular tachycardia ablation.18

      The proposed study will further examine the role of INA in patients with ventricular
      arrhythmias resistant to standard ablation techniques.
    
  