
    
      Background

      In the prevention and treatment of suicidality the main emphasis according to the traditional
      medical model has been on diagnosis and treatment of mental disorders, first and foremost
      depression. However, it is debatable how far this approach toward the suicidal patient can
      actually affect suicide rates. It has been argued that the mechanisms of suicidal behavior
      should be studied independently of any associated psychiatric disorder.

      Follow-up studies strongly suggest that when a person has attempted suicide, the risk of
      future suicidal behavior, including death by suicide, cannot be "cured". Once a person has
      tried to solve an emotional crisis with a suicide attempt, this behavioral pattern will
      quickly re-emerge in similar situations in the future, not only because a suicide attempt
      provides a - temporary - solution, but also because very often it associated with an
      immediate sense of relief. The prevailing view emerging from recent developments in suicide
      research is that, following attempted suicide, it is crucial to establish individual safety
      strategies with patients for coping differently in future emotional crises. For as many
      patients as possible to benefit, treatments targeting suicidality should be brief and
      focused, and, of course, effective.

      ASSIP combines aspects of action theory, cognitive behavior therapy, and attachment theory. A
      fundamental assumption is that an action theoretical approach toward the suicidal patient
      will establish a therapeutic alliance in the sense of a "secure base", which will enhance the
      effect of the regular letters following the four treatment sessions. ASSIP is not a
      stand-alone therapy but should be offered to suicidal patients in addition to the usual
      clinical management and follow-up treatment.

      Objective

        1. How effective is ASSIP, compared to a control group in preventing suicidal behaviour
           after a suicide attempt?

             1. Primary outcome measures: Suicidal behaviour, suicidal ideation

             2. Secondary outcome measures: Depression, coping skills, contact to health care
                system

        2. Which parameters have a moderating influence on outcome measures?

             1. Therapeutic alliance

             2. Diagnosis

             3. Previous suicide attempts

      Methods

      In this treatment study, 120 patients were randomly assigned to either the ASSIP intervention
      or a control group that received a one-session clinical assessment. Both groups received in-
      and outpatient treatment as usual. The quality of the therapeutic alliance as a moderating
      factor for outcome was measured at the therapy sessions 1 (both groups) and 3 (ASSIP group
      only) using the Helping Alliance Questionnaire (HAq). Regarding outcome measures the study
      participants completed a set of psychosocial and clinical questionnaires every 6 months
      during a 24-months follow-up period.
    
  