
    
      Study protocol:

      - The study is conducted in four stages: in the first stage, measurements are performed
      preoperatively in awake patients. Patients are placed in supine position and mean arterial
      blood pressure (MAP), heart rate, oxygen saturation are measured. The transcranial doppler
      (TCD) probe is fixed in place by applying a headband to maintain a constant angle of
      insonation. Mean blood flow velocity (MBFV) and pulsatility index (PI) in the middle cerebral
      artery (MCA) are obtained. MCA is insonated through the right temporal window by using pulsed
      2 megahertz TCD ultrasound probe. Identification of the MCA is confirmed by using standard
      criteria, at a depth of 45-55 mm. Cerebral CO2 vasoreactivity is calculated as the percentage
      change in MBFV or PI for mmHg change in end-tidal CO2 (ETCO2).

      SphygmoCor is placed on the left radial artery to obtain data about the central aortic blood
      pressure, augmentation pressure (AP) and augmentation index normalised to a 75 beat per
      minute heart rate (Alx75). From the derived aortic pulse, calculations can be made, using the
      area under the systolic and diastolic part of the curve, to determine the heart's ratio of
      oxygen supply and demand, it is called the subendocardial viability ratio (SEVR).

      As part of the premedication each patient receives 7.5 mg midazolam. Anaesthesia is induced
      using 2 mcg/kg fentanyl followed by 2 mg/kg propofol. Afterwards 0.6mg/kg rocuronium is given
      for muscle paralysis and subsequently patients were intubated with a suitable intratracheal
      tube.

      After induction of anaesthesia, the patients are placed on a mechanical ventilation system,
      using a volume-controlled setting with an air and oxygen mixture set to 0.4 fraction of
      inspired oxygen (FiO2) , the fresh gas flow rate to 2 l/min and sevoflurane is adjusted to
      reach a constant 1minimal alveolar concentration (MAC) during examination. Anesthesia is
      maintained with sevoflurane and on demand fentanyl boluses.

      Differences in the depth of anesthesia could influence cerebral activity, thereby cerebral
      metabolism and blood flow. Bispectral index is placed onto every patient in order to assure
      constant depth of anaesthesia during the intervention.

      The second series of TCD and SphygmoCor measurements are performed 20 minutes after the
      respiratory rate is set to maintain end-tidal CO2 at 40 mmHg in order to allow sufficient
      time for equilibrium to be reached and the effect of drugs used for the induction of
      anesthesia to be terminated. Subsequently the examinations are repeated twice again at 35 and
      30 mmHg ETCO2. The measurements were carried out 5-5 minutes after adjusting the minute
      ventilation to reach target ETCO2 values.

      Statistical methods:

      - Comparisons between the preoperative and three intraoperative stages of the study are made
      using repeated measures ANOVA with the Bonferroni post hoc correction. The relationship
      between MBFV, PI and ETCO2 is assessed using linear regression, while the connection between
      SEVR, pulse and Alx75 is calculated with bivariate correlation.
    
  