
    
      Background The shoulder joint is the second most affected body part of all overuse injuries
      in overhead athletes.Prevalence of a history of shoulder problems related to overuse in
      volleyball players was reported to be approximately 60%. Typical overuse symptoms like pain
      seriously limit progress in performance and the individual career options of volleyball
      players.

      Due to the repetitive throwing motion overhead athletes show the following characteristic
      adaptations of their dominant (Ds), compared to the non-dominant (NDs) shoulder: 1) Loss of
      internal rotation (IR) and gain of external rotation (ER), by preserving the total rotational
      motion (TROM). 2) Reduced muscle strength of the shoulder external rotators (ER). 3) Scapular
      dyskinesis. On the one hand these adaptations are normal and necessary for a powerful
      throwing performance. On the other hand the amount of adaptation seems to play a crucial role
      in developing overuse symptoms and therefore becoming a risk factor; e.g. loss of IR, also
      known as glenohumeral internal rotation deficit (GIRD) of more than 20° side difference, and
      a loss of TROM of the Ds, were defined as risk factors in baseball players. Moreover
      decreased muscle strength of ER (OR: 0.71 per 10N decrease) in the Ds as well as obvious
      scapular dyskinesis were associated with increased risk of overuse related shoulder symptoms
      (ORSS). Nevertheless there are still overhead athletes showing these adaptations or risk
      factors without being symptomatic.

      Recently, several authors underlined the importance of core stability related to the kinetic
      chain during an overhead throwing task. It is hypothesised that symptomatic athletes may
      overload the shoulder girdle through altered biomechanics in an effort to compensate for
      insufficient power generated by the core musculature. The most reliable measurements to asses
      core stability components are core endurance tests.

      Most previous studies investigating throwing specific adaptations and risk factors focused on
      overhead sports like baseball, handball or tennis, whereas similar research in volleyball is
      still insufficient. Moreover, no one ever investigated core endurance and its possible
      association with (ORSS) in volleyball players.

      Objective The first aim is, to evaluate if sport specific adaptations such as IR ROM deficit,
      gain of ER ROM, ER strength deficit, alterations in TROM and scapular dyskinesis are present
      in female volleyball players and if yes, if there is a difference of the extent of these
      adaptations in volleyball players with ORSS and players without.

      The second aim is, to evaluate if there is a difference in core endurance in volleyball
      players with ORSS and players without and if there is a correlation of core endurance and
      shoulder related risk factors such as ER strength deficit and scapular dyskinesis?
    
  