
    
      Heart failure is a major public health problem. It is associated with high mortality,
      frequent hospitalization and represents a large cost to the health care system. Therapies to
      ameliorate the high mortality and morbidity of heart failure have focused on abrogation of
      activated neurohormonal systems associated with this condition. These systems include the
      renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system and the sympathetic nervous system.

      Strategies to ameliorate sympathetic activation have primarily focused on blockade of the
      beta-adrenoceptors that mediate the adverse effects of activation of this system upon the
      myocardium. This has been a highly successful strategy with beta-blockers resulting in an
      approximately 35% reduction in mortality as well as improvements in hospitalization and
      quality of life and attenuation of disease progression.

      However, less than full blockade of the effects of the sympathetic nervous system is achieved
      with the use of conventional doses of beta-blockers. Moreover, a not insignificant fraction
      of patients are unable to tolerate beta-blockers or are not able to have them up-titrated to
      target effective doses, in large part because of the systemic nature of these agents, whereas
      renal denervation allows the selective removal of the kidney's contribution to central
      sympathetic drive without blunting other compensatory mechanisms.

      The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone axis has also been found to be a key system involved in
      heart failure disease progression and it too may be inhibited by renal sympathetic
      denervation.

      Therefore, a clear need exists for further strategies to beneficially manipulate the
      sympathetic activation that is characteristic of the heart failure disease process.

      Cardiorenal syndrome is a major comorbid condition of patients with advanced chronic heart
      failure. In the setting of renal hypoperfusion and/or activation of neurohormonal and
      cytokine systems there is a reduction in glomerulofiltration. Renal function has been found
      to be a major determine of prognosis in these patients. Strategies to ameliorate cardiorenal
      syndrome are being actively pursued. There is considerable a priori evidence to suggest that
      the sympathetic nervous system, in particular renal sympathetic, is a key factor to the
      progression of cardiorenal syndrome and impaired tubulo-glomerular feedback. In particular
      renal sympathetics reduce renal perfusion through vascular alpha adrenergic receptor
      stimulation as well as, indirectly, through stimulation of local release of adenosine causing
      afferent glomerular arteriole constriction. We hypothesize that by disrupting renal
      sympathetic afferent and efferent activity these salutary adenosine inhibitory mediated
      effects will be demonstrated using the renal denervation approach.

      A number of studies with hypertension patients indicate that the Symplicity Catheter System
      can safely denervate the kidney without significant periprocedural complications.

      In a small first-in man pilot study, involving seven normotensive patients with chronic heart
      failure, six months after renal denervation their 6-min walk distance improved significantly
      and the patients' self-assessment of well-being also improved. No procedural or post
      procedural complications following renal denervation in patients in 6 months of intensive
      follow-up were found.

      The investigators believe that therapeutic renal denervation using the Symplicity Catheter is
      a promising therapy for patients with elevated sympathetic activity, as in CHF.
    
  