
    
      Diabetes mellitus is a major health problem in the U.S., especially in the VA population. The
      majority of diabetics are Type 2, and they are at risk for microvascular (e.g. eye, kidney)
      and macrovascular (e.g. cardiovascular) complications. It is probable that many of the
      macrovascular and microvascular complications potentially prevented by the 5-7 years of good
      Glycemic control achieved in the VADT (median follow-up 6.25 years) will occur years after
      completion of the VADT experimental protocol. This follow-up study will provide the
      opportunity to see if this holds true up to 9 years following the end of 465.

      The results will help the VA in evaluating most appropriate treatments and costs of such
      treatment.

      This is a longitudinal observational follow-up study of CSP #465, "Glycemic Control and
      Complications in Diabetes Mellitus Type 2",the VA Diabetes Trial (VADT) NCT #00032487. The
      objectives are: 1) to determine the long term effects of intensive glycemic control in type 2
      diabetes on major cardiovascular complications (primary outcome), and 2) to determine the
      long term effects of intensive glycemic control in type 2 diabetes on four secondary
      outcomes: a) cardiovascular mortality, b) major microvascular complications, c)
      health-related quality of life, and d) total mortality.

      All patients active at the end of VADT will be approached for participation in VADT-FS. The
      only exclusion reason will be failure to receive consent for participation. Consented VADT-FS
      patients will be followed until the end of the study unless they withdraw their consent.
      Patients will be sent a short, standardized self-administered survey annually. Information
      collected will include: 1) self-reported health status; 2) occurrence of study endpoints; and
      3) VA or non-VA outpatient visits, hospitalizations and procedures. A variety of data sources
      will be searched to verify endpoints. These sources include: 1) VA and non-VA medical
      records; 2) data from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS); and 3) VA and US
      death records. Patients who do not respond to 3 mailed surveys will be contacted by phone.

      If still unsuccessful, their designated surrogate will be contacted. Certain endpoints will
      be adjudicated by the same committee that was utilized by VADT. Endpoints that will be
      adjudicated will include: 1) cause of death; 2) reason for amputation; and 3) cardiac-related
      non-VA hospitalizations. Endpoints of interest in this study include: 1) mortality; 2) acute
      myocardial infarction requiring hospitalization; 3) stroke; 4) new onset congestive heart
      failure; 5) coronary revascularization; 6) amputation; 7) peripheral revascularization; 8)
      renal insufficiency; 9) severe visual impairment; and 10) self-reported health status
      (diabetes-related quality of life).
    
  