
    
      This study is a retrospective, multinational, non-interventional observational study. The
      study does not attempt to test any specific a priori hypothesis; it is descriptive only and
      will collect data under conditions of routine medical care. Relevant secondary databases will
      be identified, and a series of cohort studies will be conducted to assess the prevalence of
      undiagnosed CKD. The study will also assess the current state of CKD management in patients
      with undiagnosed CKD.

      Primary Objectives

        1. Estimate the point prevalence of undiagnosed stage 3 CKD (proportion of patients with
           eGFR measurements indicating stage 3 CKD with no corresponding CKD diagnostic code
           either before or up to six months after the second abnormal eGFR value)

        2. Describe time to CKD diagnosis in patients with no prior CKD diagnosis code at index
           date (time of second qualifying eGFR), overall and by patient characteristics

      Secondary Objectives

        1. Assess trends in the prevalence (point prevalence) of undiagnosed CKD by calendar year

        2. Describe baseline characteristics among those with undiagnosed versus diagnosed CKD

        3. Assess CKD management and monitoring practices (post index date) in patients with
           diagnosed versus undiagnosed CKD

      Exploratory objectives (pending feasibility)

        1. Describe the risk of selected adverse clinical outcomes longitudinally among those with
           undiagnosed versus diagnosed CKD

        2. Describe HCRU associated with undiagnosed versus diagnosed CKD

        3. Assess association between the timing of the CKD diagnosis and the risk of selected
           adverse clinical outcomes and HCRU in patients with no CKD diagnosis code prior to the
           index date

        4. Describe health care costs associated with undiagnosed versus diagnosed CKD

        5. For CKD patients with eGFR 25-75 mL/min/1.73m2 and urine albumin creatinine ratio (UACR)
           200 - 5000 mg/g (DAPA-CKD trial-like population):

             1. Estimate the point prevalence of undiagnosed CKD

             2. Describe the risk of selected adverse clinical outcomes longitudinally among those
                with undiagnosed CKD

             3. Describe HCRU and costs associated with undiagnosed CKD
    
  