
    
      Primary PCI versus Traditional Early Invasive Treatment of Patients presenting with NSTEMI

      Patients with NSTEMI are currently admitted for initial evaluation and stabilization at local
      hospitals. An intensive antithrombotic treatment is initiated and after 3 - 7 days of
      "cooling-off" the patients are referred to an invasive centre for coronary angiography and
      possibly PCI or CABG - this is known as the early invasive approach. Some of these patients
      represent a high-risk sub-group with occluded or sub-occluded coronary arteries who might
      benefit from very early revascularization.

      Study Aims

        1. To investigate if it is technically feasible to diagnose patients with NSTEMI in the
           pre-hospital setting and reroute them to an invasive heart centre for primary PCI in a
           timely manner.

        2. To estimate area at risk (AAR = the part of cardiac muscle tissue at risk of infarction)
           and final infarct size (FIS) in patients referred for primary PCI and patients
           undergoing the traditional "early invasive" treatment, respectively.

        3. To investigate whether Primary PCI in patients with NSTEMI results in a shorter duration
           of the primary admission, fewer rehospitalizations with reinfarction and acute heart
           failure and a briefer overall "sick leave" within a year from the index admission.

      Methods

      In this study 300 consecutive patients with symptoms, clinical signs and ECG changes (≥4mm
      cumulated or ≥ 2mm ST-segment depression (horizontal or descending) in two associated leads)
      suggesting significant NSTEMI are randomized for one of two strategies, either (A) usual
      early invasive treatment (coronary angiography and possibly PCI after 3 days) or (B) direct
      referral (rerouting) to primary PCI at an invasive heart centre (Skejby).

      All patients undergo myocardial perfusion imaging at admission for PCI and again after 30
      days to estimate AAR, FIS and possible myocardial salvage.

      All patients undergo cardiac MRI on the 7th day after admission for determination of AAR and
      FIS.

      The study is a randomized controlled study; it has been approved by the local ethics
      committee.

      Primary outcome measures are specified above

      If the study confirms that it is possible to diagnose and re-route NSTEMI patients for
      primary PCI with an acceptable diagnostic accuracy, then a larger scale mortality study will
      be planned. Furthermore, the present study will provide valuable information regarding AAR
      and FIS in NSTEMI-patients which may be of value for planning larger-scale, scintigraphic
      studies and for the possible future use of a single MRI scan to determine AAR and FIS.
    
  