
    
      In spite of the recognition of obesity as a serious public health problem due to its
      well-known increased risk for the development of type 2 diabetes hypertension, coronary heart
      disease, sleep-breathing disorders, and certain forms of cancer, among others, it is proving
      extraordinarily difficult to halt this pandemia. Strictly speaking obesity does not refer to
      an excess weight or weight to height ratio. In fact, the World Health Organization defines
      obesity as a state of increased adipose tissue of sufficient magnitude to produce adverse
      health consequences. Thus, in order to better define the effects and benefits of weight loss
      it is important to address the impact on body fat changes. Given the limited approved
      anti-obesity drugs, the main therapeutic strategies involve either conventional treatment or
      bariatric surgery. The main modifiable factors affecting energy balance are dietary energy
      intake and energy expended through physical activity. In spite of the difficulty in achieving
      relevant and sustained weight loss via the conventional approach, some patients are
      successful in reducing weight and obesity-associated complications. Bariatric surgery has
      proved to be the most effective long-term treatment for weight loss and comorbidity
      improvement. While some of the surgery-induced benefits are directly dependent on adipose
      tissue reduction, others are due to specific gastrointestinal changes that take place early
      on and before any significant effects on body weight are observed. Noteworthy, currently
      available bariatric procedures differ on their impact on these aspects. The present study
      contemplates the determination and comparison of the anthropometric and metabolic changes
      produced by the conventional and surgery-induced treatment modalities. Particular emphasis
      will be placed on the potential differential effects between conventional and surgical weight
      loss on energy intake, energy expenditure, body composition changes, circulating adipokines
      and gastrointestinal hormones together with their subsequent impact on cardiometabolic risk
      factors. The conventional weight-reduction program (CONV) will pursue a safe weight loss rate
      of 0,5-1,0 kg per week. The surgery-induced weight loss will be achieved by two of the most
      frequently used bariatric operations, the sleeve gastrectomy [SG (which implies a restrictive
      component)] and the Roux-en-Y gastric bypass [RYGB (which combines a restrictive and a
      malabsorptive component)].

      The purpose of the study is to determine the effect of three weight loss procedures that
      differ on their manipulation of the anatomical and functional characteristics of the
      gastrointestinal tract. While in the conventional treatment the gastrointestinal system
      remains intact, in the SG only the stomach is manipulated as opposed to the RYGB, where both
      the stomach and the small intestine are operated on. Since bariatric surgery is well known to
      induce partial or total remission of type 2 diabetes mellitus, the effects of the three
      different weight loss procedures will be assessed separately in obese normoglycemic and obese
      type 2 diabetic individuals.
    
  