
    
      This is a Phase III, open label, randomized study to enroll 228 patients with advanced in a
      1:1 ratio at the time of registration. Patients in Arm A will receive pemetrexed, 500 mg/m2,
      with appropriate vitamin supplementation; patients in Arm B will receive the same dose and
      schedule of pemetrexed as in Arm A, in combination with carboplatin, AUC of 5. For the
      purpose of the study, treatment (Arm A or Arm B) will consist of up to four cycles of therapy
      (repeated every 21 days). Primary endpoint of the study is overall survival; secondary
      endpoints include toxicity, response rate, and progression-free survival. At the time of
      analysis, patients will be stratified according to age (≥ 70 versus < 70 years), disease
      stage (IIIB versus IV), site, and weight loss (≥ 5 Kg versus < 5 Kg).

      The dose of carboplatin will be determined according to the formula developed by Calvert et
      al., which is shown in equation [1] below and uses the estimated creatinine clearance
      according to the method of Cockcroft and Gault for estimation of the glomerular filtration
      rate (GFR) (equation [2] below):

        1. Dose of carboplatin (mg) = Target AUC x (GFR + 25)

        2. GFR = (140 - Age) x Weight/(72 x serum creatinine) (multiply by 0.85 in women) Sample
           Size and Expected Accrual In the CALGB 9730 study of advanced NSCLC, first-line
           treatment with paclitaxel plus carboplatin resulted in a median overall survival of 4.7
           months among patients with a performance status of 2. In the ECOG 1594 study, the median
           overall survival of patients with a performance status of 2 who were treated with
           platinum-based doublets was 4.1 months. Approximately 208 eligible patients are needed
           to provide 80% power to detect a difference between the two treatment arms with a
           two-sided type I error of 0.05, assuming that pemetrexed plus carboplatin will result in
           a median survival of at least 4.3 months, and pemetrexed alone 2.9 months. An additional
           20 patients will be accrued to account for an early dropout rate of 10%, for a total of
           228 patients. It is anticipated that the accrual time will be approximately 22 months
           and patients will be followed for 1 year after completion of treatment; therefore, 2
           years and 10 months will be needed to complete the study.
    
  