
    
      Data collection will occur at each disease reevaluation, during which time the conversation
      will be audio-recorded and data will be abstracted from the medical record. Additionally, 2
      surveys will be completed at specific time points by both the oncologist and the parent.
      Lastly, interviews will be offered to both the oncologist and the parent/patient following
      any audio-recorded conversation in which difficult news was discussed.

      Disease reevaluation will be defined as any of the following interventions performed for the
      purposes of assessing disease status:

        -  Diagnostic imaging

        -  Lumbar puncture with cerebrospinal fluid analysis

        -  Bone marrow aspiration and/or biopsy

        -  Surgical biopsy or resection

      The first time point for data collection with be at the time of the patient's first meeting
      with their oncologist to discuss the results of disease reevaluation. This discussion will be
      audio-recorded. The parent will be asked to complete a survey within 7 days. Those receiving
      difficult news will have the opportunity to participate in a brief interview with a study
      team member regarding their experience. Patients who are at least 12 years old will also have
      this opportunity, separate from their parents, if desired by the patient and approved by the
      parent. Interviews may be in person or by phone and have no set length.

      The next time point for data collection will coincide with any time the patient/parents meet
      with their oncologist to discuss results of a disease reevaluation. Each conversation will be
      audio-recorded. If difficult news is delivered during the discussion, the parent and
      oncologist will be asked to complete a second survey for first bad news conversation,
      following the baseline recording. Parent, patient, and oncologist will be asked to
      participate in an interview for all bad news conversation.

      Patient-parent dyads will be followed for a total of 24 months from the time of enrollment on
      study (defined as the date of first audio recording rather than date of actual consent), in
      the context of patients who do not experience disease relapse, progression, or refractory
      disease. Dyads in which patients experience disease relapse, progression, or refractory
      disease will be followed for a total of 24 months from the time of first disease relapse or
      progression while on study.

      All data analyzed from audio-recordings will be permanently erased from recorders following
      completion of data analysis. Participants may request to discontinue to the study at any
      time.
    
  