
    
      Post-COVID-19 syndrome is an assembly of signs and symptoms first described on patients
      recovering from severe COVID-19 infection. The syndrome is characterized by cognitive
      impairment, fatigue, and other neurologic symptoms. With time, and the growing understanding
      on this unique virus, there is cumulative case serries reports on patients with mild to
      moderate disease, suffering from long standing post-COVID-19 syndrome. Taking in
      consideration, this pandemic is worldwide and still spreading, there's an urgent need for
      effective treatment for those patients who are suffering from the long standing, life
      debilitating, post-COVID-19 syndrome.

      Neurologic signs and symptoms are common during hospitalization with COVID-19, with 42% of
      patients at onset of the disease and 82% during the course of the disease. Patients report
      mainly on myalgias, headaches, encephalopathy, dizziness, dysgeusia, and anosmia. After
      recovering from COVID-19, many patients continue to suffer from symptoms. Only 13% of the
      patients were completely free of symptoms after full resolution of the virus. The main
      symptom, reported by more than half the patients included cognitive impairment, fatigue and
      sleep disorders. A recent study analyzed data from 84,285 Individuals who recovered from
      suspected or confirmed COVID-19 showed reduced cognitive performance. This deficit scales
      with symptom severity and is evident amongst those without hospital treatment.

      Two main biological sequelae of COVID-19 might play a role in the pathogenesis of this
      syndrome. The first is hypercoagulability state accompanies acute infection. This is
      characterized by increased risk of small and large vessel occlusion and is associated with
      increased mortality [9]. Neurologic complications might be a result of micro-infarcts in the
      central of peripheral nervous system; The second is an uncontrolled inflammatory response,
      called cytokines storm. This cytokine release is characterized by an increase in IL-1, IL-6,
      TNF-α and a change in macrophages population. Thus, COVID-19 can cause neuroinflammation,
      that might be prolonged and lead to signs of post-COVID-19 syndrome.

      The Micro-infarcts and neuroinflammation are important causes of local hypoxia, and
      specifically neurological hypoxia. One of the options to reverse hypoxia, reduce
      neuroinflammation and induce neuroplasticity is hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT).

      Hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT) includes the inhalation of 100% oxygen at pressures
      exceeding 1 atmosphere absolute, thus enhancing the amount of oxygen dissolved in the body
      tissues. During HBOT, the arterial O2 tension typically exceeds 2000 mmHg, and levels of
      200-400 mmHg occur in tissues Even though many of the beneficial effects of HBOT can be
      explained by improvement of tissue oxygenation, it is now understood that the combined action
      of hyperoxia and hyperbaric pressure, triggers both oxygen and pressure sensitive genes,
      resulting in inducing regenerative processes including stem cells proliferation and
      mobilization with anti-apoptotic and anti-inflammatory factors.

      The HBOT protocol will be administrated in a multi-place chamber. The protocol includes 40
      daily sessions, 5 sessions per week for two months. Treatment group will subjected to 100%
      oxygen by mask at 2 ATA for 90 minutes with 5 minute air breaks every 20 minutes. Sham group
      will be subjected to 21% oxygen by mast for 90 minutes, at 1.2 ATA during the first five
      minutes of the session with the noise of circulating air, and then decrease slowly during the
      next five minutes to 1.03 ATA.
    
  