
    
      Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) affects an estimated 15 million Americans at a cost of $1.7
      billion per year. Visceral hypersensitivity is present in many patients with IBS, but its
      contribution to clinical symptoms is unclear. Tricyclic antidepressants may be beneficial in
      IBS, but their side effects can be unacceptable. Because they are better tolerated, selective
      serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are often used to treat IBS, but their efficacy in IBS
      has not been examined in controlled studies. We propose a randomized, placebo-controlled
      trial of SSRI treatment in IBS. Non-depressed patients will be studied in order to assess
      SSRI effects on IBS independent of depression. Our specific aims are: 1) To determine whether
      the SSRI citalopram is superior to placebo in improving clinical symptoms, disease-related
      quality of life, and tolerance to rectal balloon distension; 2) To assess whether symptomatic
      improvement is correlated with improvement in quality of life and/or visceral sensitivity.
      Subjects will fulfill Rome II IBS criteria, will have normal screening studies, and will not
      be depressed or on antidepressants. Global and specific symptoms, and satisfaction will be
      rated daily during a 1-week baseline. Subjects will then be randomized in concealed,
      double-blind fashion to citalopram or placebo, will complete the validated IBS-QOL
      instrument, and will undergo rectal compliance and sensory testing with a barostat. Subjects
      will be treated and will rate symptoms and satisfaction weekly for a total of 8 weeks, and
      also daily during the final week for comparison with the baseline. At study end, subjects
      will again complete the IBS-QOL and undergo a barostat study. For the primary outcome, we
      estimate that to detect a standardized effect size of 0.9 in global symptom rating with
      2-sided α=0.05 and β=0.1, 54 subjects are needed. We plan to enroll 60 subjects, which will
      allow detection of an odds ratio for response (adequate relief) of 4.5 with 2-sided α=0.05
      and β=0.2. If the odds ratio for this dichotomous outcome is smaller, this study will provide
      pilot data for a larger trial. Clinical symptoms are expected to fluctuate. Even if
      citalopram is not superior to placebo, prospectively collected data will illuminate the
      relationship between symptoms and visceral sensitivity, and the placebo effect.
    
  