
    
      Epiretinal membranes consist of a proliferation of fibrocellular tissue along the inner
      aspect of the retina. Over time, this membrane can result in anterior-posterior traction and
      cause disruption of the retinal architecture, which can lead to symptoms of blurred vision,
      or distorted vision (with straight lines appearing bent or wavy).

      Patients with ERM now constitute one of the most common referrals to the vitreoretinal
      service. Management of epiretinal membrane includes observation or surgery for severely
      symptomatic membranes. The surgery consists of vitrectomy and epiretinal +/- inner limiting
      membrane peel. Currently there is limited evidence to help identify which patients with an
      epiretinal membrane are the most likely to benefit from this operation, which makes it more
      difficult for patients to be able to weigh up the benefits and risks of proceeding with this
      elective procedure.

      Our study will measure the effects on distortion (using D chart), visual acuity and quality
      of life of ERM surgery. Hence it will allow us to investigate whether the pre-op D chart
      score can predict subsequent improvement in quality of life following surgery. This will
      provide vitreoretinal surgeons and patients with an evidence base regarding the success of
      this elective procedure and offer realistic expectations regarding surgical outcomes.
      Ultimately, we hope that the results of this study will facilitate the decision of whether or
      not to proceed with ERM surgery.

      We plan to recruit patients with an epiretinal membrane who choose to undergo surgery at the
      time of their clinic appointment within the vitreoretinal service. In addition to standard
      care, the study participants will undergo measurements of distortion (using a D-chart,
      duration 5-10 minutes) and fill in a quality of life questionnaire. These measurements will
      be taken before the operation and at six and twelve months following the operation.

      The aims of the study are:

        -  To investigate the sustained effect of epiretinal membrane surgery on distortion (using
           D-chart), visual acuity and vision-related quality of life (using NEI VFQ-25
           questionnaire)

        -  To determine the relationship between pre-operative distortion score and post-operative
           vision-related quality of life score following ERM surgery

      Our study will have a larger number of participants with a longer period of follow up (52
      weeks) than comparable studies. It will be the first epiretinal membrane study that measures
      distortion using the D-chart, which we believe to be superior to existing tests (such as the
      M-chart) which have been used in similar studies.
    
  