
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate whether we can safely administer NY-ESO-1 T cell receptor transduced
      autologous peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) (up to 1x10^9 cells) along with an
      NY-ESO-1 dendritic cell vaccine and low dose IL-2 to patients with advanced malignancies.

      II. To evaluate the feasibility of delivering two patient-specific cell therapies, the
      NY-ESO-1 TCR transgenic peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) and NY-ESO-1 (157-165)
      peptide pulsed dendritic cells (DC), within a technically challenging study design that
      requires other significant interventions, like a lymphodepleting conditioning regimen and
      post-infusion of subcutaneous low dose interleukin (IL)-2 (aldesleukin).

      III. To determine the rate of objective tumor responses, by Response Evaluation Criteria in
      Solid Tumors (RECIST) objective response criteria.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the persistence of NY-ESO-1 TCR-engineered cells. This will be determined by
      temporally analyzing peripheral blood samples for the presence of T cells with the transduced
      NY-ESO-1 TCR by tetramer or dextramer analysis.

      II. To explore the homing and persistence of the adoptively transferred NY-ESO-1
      TCR-engineered PBMC in secondary lymphoid organs and tumor deposits via positron emission
      tomography (PET)-based imaging using the PET tracer fluorodeoxyglucose ([18F]FDG).

      OUTLINE:

      CONDITIONING: Patients receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days -5 to
      -4 and fludarabine phosphate IV over 30 minutes on days -4 to -1.

      TRANSPLANT: Patients receive NY-ESO-1 TCR transduced autologous PBMC IV on day 0. Patients
      also receive NY-ESO-1 (157-165) peptide pulsed dendritic cell vaccine therapy intradermally
      (ID) on days 1, 14, and 30 and aldesleukin subcutaneously (SC) twice daily (BID) on days
      1-14. Patients may receive 3 additional doses of NY-ESO-1 (157-165) peptide pulsed dendritic
      cell vaccine therapy after day 90.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30, 45, 60, and 75 days;
      every 3 months for 2 years; every 6 months for 3 years; and annually thereafter.
    
  