
    
      hepatitis C virus is a major health problem, not only in adults but also in the pediatric age
      group. In Egypt, the prevalent genotype is the difficult-to-treat genotype 4. Attempts are
      being made to improve the treatment outcomes. In the current study we aim to investigate the
      effect of customized pegylated interferon-alpha-2a plus ribavirin in children with chronic
      hepatitis C virus. For that, 46 children with chronic hepatitis C virus were recruited from
      three tertiary Pediatric Hepatology centers. All were assigned to receive weekly subcutaneous
      pegylated interferon-alpha-2a plus daily ribavirin for 12 weeks. At this point, the study
      population was divided into two arms. Arm 1 included those who became hepatitis C virus-RNA
      negative by polymerase chain reaction and those who showed no change of viremia or a decrease
      of less than 1 log. This group continued treatment on weekly bases for 48 weeks, even those
      who are hepatitis C virus-RNA positive. Arm 2; included patients who had a decrease in
      viremia more than one log of pre-treatment viremia level. For those patients, injection
      interval was shortened to every 5-day for a completion period of 48 weeks. Patients from
      either group who were polymerase chain reaction-negative at week 48, but had at least one
      polymerase chain reaction-positive test during therapy, were assigned to have an extended
      treatment course up to 72 weeks.

      So the first customization was,

        1. prolongation of treatment duration for up to 48 weeks regardless response type

        2. Shortening injection interval in some patients to every 5-day injection

        3. The third customization was the prolongation of treatment for extra 6 months, i.e. up tp
           72 weeks in some patients.

      The occurrence of adverse effects, virological and biochemical responses were assessed during
      treatment and follow up.
    
  