
    
      Proliferation signal inhibitors (PSIs), sirolimus and everolimus, have been demonstrated to
      be effective immunosuppressants and delay the progression of cardiac allograft vasculopathy.
      To date, there are no prospective studies designed to evaluate the potential use of PSIs as a
      primary immunosuppressant in the prevention of cardiac allograft vasculopathy. The goals of
      our study are to compare primary vs. secondary preventive strategies and to evaluate the role
      of intravascular ultrasound compared to coronary angiogram in diagnosing CAV and preventing
      CAV-related events. The specific aims of the study are:

        1. To evaluate the effect of primary vs. secondary initiation of sirolimus on the
           development of significant coronary artery (> 70% angiographic stenosis, Mean intimal
           thickness (MIT) 0.5mm or greater, IVUS calculated coronary cross sectional area of <
           4mm2 / <6mm2 for mid LAD/Left Maim (LM), < 0.75 fractional flow reserve (FFR) lesion
           associated with a positive stress test), change in global left ventricle (LV) function,
           incidence of rejection episodes, and hospitalizations at 1, 2, 3, and 4 years.

        2. To determine the effect of IVUS-guided initiation of sirolimus on short-term and
           long-term outcomes vs. angiogram-guided initiation of sirolimus

        3. To determine whether prevention of progression of CAV diagnosed by IVUS prevents graft
           dysfunction or death related to CAV or heart failure.

        4. To assess the correlation between peripheral small artery elasticity, peripheral
           biomarkers, and endothelial cells, and development of cardiac allograft vasculopathy in
           order to develop a strategy for determining risk of progression and monitoring
           treatment.

      The study has a prospective and a retrospective arm

      Prospective Arm Design: This is a prospective, randomized, partially-blinded pilot study.
      Randomization for the study will be done in 2 stages.

      The first stage of randomization will randomize subjects to either the early or late
      initiation of sirolimus. At this stage of the randomization, subject will have a 30% chance
      of being in group 1 (early-initiation of sirolimus), and a 70% chance of being in group 2
      (diagnostic-guided sirolimus group).

      The second stage randomization will be done only on subjects in group 2 (diagnostic-guided
      sirolimus group) at the time of their first annual heart transplant review. At the time of
      their annual heart transplant review, subjects in group 2 will have a 50% chance of being in
      group 2A (CAV diagnosed by angiogram), and a 50% chance of being in group 2B (CAV diagnosed
      by intravascular ultrasound).

      Group 1: Initiate sirolimus at 6 months after transplant

      Group 2A: Initiate sirolimus after development of angiographic stenosis of >70% in a major
      epicardial vessel or >50% in the left main artery

      Group 2B: Initiate sirolimus after development of maximal intimal thickness of 0.5 mm on
      intravascular ultrasound

      Retrospective Arm

      The main objective of this retrospective study is to compare a treatment strategy based on
      the diagnosis of CAV by intravascular ultrasound to a strategy guided by angiogram.

      Design: This is a randomized, partially-blinded pilot study. Subjects will be randomized 1:1
      to one of two groups. At the time of the randomization, the subject will have a 50% chance of
      being in group 1 (initiation of sirolimus when CAV is diagnosed by angiogram) and a 50%
      chance of being in group 2. (Initiation of sirolimus when CAV is diagnosed by IVUS)

      Primary Endpoints for Prospective and Retrospective Arms

        1. Change in maximal intimal thickness at 1, 2, 3 and 4 years

        2. Combination of significant coronary artery disease (as described above), death, major
           rejection episodes, and decrease in global ejection function of more than 10% from
           baseline at 3 and 4years.

      Secondary endpoints for Prospective and Retrospective Arms

        1. Mean MIT at 1, 2, 3, and 4 years

        2. Percent atheroma volume at 1,2,3 and 4 years

        3. Death from CAV, death from any cause, myocardial infarction, need for PCI, number of
           hospitalizations, infection rates, evidence of restrictive physiology, arrhythmic event
           related to CAV or pulmonary hypertension at 4 years.

        4. Change in small artery elasticity at 1, 2, 3, and 4 years

        5. Change in endothelial progenitor cell count at 1 and 2 years

        6. Change in biomarkers (see table) at 1 and 2 years
    
  