
    
      Background:

      High-dose chemotherapy followed by autologous hematopoietic cell transplant (AHCT) remains a
      critical part of the Plasma Cell Myeloma (PCM) treatment in subjects eligible for the
      procedure. The timing of the procedure however, has become more controversial recently. This
      protocol will allow collection of Hematopoietic Progenitor Cells by Apheresis (HPC,
      Apheresis) in potential candidates for various PCM protocols at the Clinical Center.

      The mobilizing agent plerixafor (Mozobil, Genzyme) has been recently approved by the Food and
      Drug Administration (FDA) for mobilization in PCM. However, the best and most cost effective
      strategy for its use remains to be defined.

      Objectives:

      Evaluate the overall validity of an HPC mobilization strategy (with granulocyte-colony
      stimulating factor (G-CSF) alone or in combination with plerixafor) using a formula
      calculating the likelihood of collecting greater than or equal to 5 time 10^6 cluster of
      differentiation 34 (CD34) plus cells/kg in a single mobilization cycle.

      Collect mobilized Hematopoietic Progenitor Cells by Apheresis (HPC, Apheresis) prior to AHCT
      for PCM

      Eligibility:

      Subjects with a possible indication for AHCT for the treatment of newly diagnosed PCM.

      Subjects with recurrent or persistent evaluable disease who have not undergone AHCT for the
      treatment of the PCM.

      Design:

      Subjects will undergo mobilization and collection of HPC, Apheresis for subsequent use in
      various clinical protocols.

      Mobilization will be provided by a 5-daily administration of filgrastim according to standard
      procedure.

      The need for an additional mobilizing agent (plerixafor) to be given on day 4 of mobilization
      will be evaluated in real time in each patient, based on the peripheral blood CD34 count on
      the morning of day 4 of filgrastim administration.

      Study accrual over a 3-year period: 70 subjects
    
  