
    
      Dogs and humans exhibit differences in gastrointestinal physiology. The development of
      pharmaceuticals for both humans and dogs typically depends upon pharmacokinetic studies in
      the other species. Product design and quality attributes for dogs (and for humans)generally
      conduct such extrapolations in a simplistic fashion, without a systematic account of the
      differential intestinal physiology between dog and human. This project aims to elucidate
      product quality differences between human and dog oral solid dosage forms as a result of the
      differential physiology between the two specifies. This insight will facilitate the
      regulation of canine medicines by highlighting how product standards for human medicines are
      either too liberal or too restrictive for canine medicines.

      Ciprofloxacin hydrochloride will be used as a model poorly soluble drug. A range of
      immediate-release (IR) tablets will be formulated to map the design space. Formulations will
      be fast, medium, and slow, with respect to dissolution rate of drug. Ciprofloxacin is
      expected to exhibit formulation-dependent pharmacokinetics, which is additionally impacted by
      the differential physiology between dog and humans. In particular, the investigators
      anticipate a greater sensitivity to formulation for dogs than for humans. Consequently, the
      investigators anticipate dogs to be more sensitive to formulations, where such critical
      formulation factors must be considered in canine product design and regulation.

      Objectives: 1) The primary objective of this human study is to assess whether specific
      formulation factors impact the rate and extent of ciprofloxacin oral absorption, as well as
      the absolute absorption profile of ciprofloxacin. 2) The secondary objective is to assess if
      dogs exhibit a greater sensitivity to formulation than do humans.

      Hypotheses: The investigators anticipate that humans exhibit a modest sensitivity to specific
      tablet formulation factors. 1) Hence, the hypothesis of this human study is that humans do
      not exhibit a sensitivity to specific formulation factors and show no in vitro - in vivo
      correlation to dissolution rate. 2) Alternative hypothesis is that humans do exhibit a
      sensitivity to specific formulation factors and show an in vitro - in vivo correlation to
      dissolution rate.
    
  