
    
      PR-ESSENCE is a problem-solving training program developed by our research team, inspired by
      Dr Greene´s model "Collaborative and Proactive Solutions (CPS)". We recently completed an RCT
      with PR-ESSENCE at the Gillberg Centre, Gothenburg University, including 108 children and
      adolescents who had complex neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism, ADHD, ODD, Tourette,
      learning difficulties etc and challenging behaviors. The study showed significant global
      improvements in behavior problems with a large effect size.

      The PR-ESSENCE model is designed to train and develop mutual problem solving strategies for
      children and adolescents with neurodevelopmental disorders (ESSENCE, an umbrella term coined
      by Gillberg 2010 = Early Symptomatic Syndromes Eliciting Neuropsychiatric Clinical
      Examinations, which puts focus on the considerable overlap several of these syndromes have).
      Many youth who are placed in youth treatment homes due to challenging and risk-taking
      behaviors have been shown to have ESSENCE impairments.

      The present study is a randomized controlled trial of PR-ESSENCE treatment for youth with
      challenging behavior in two youth treatment homes in southwestern Sweden, Bjorkbacken (girls)
      and Nereby (boys). We plan to include 60-70 youth. Inclusion criteria: Youth aged 12-17
      years, staying at least 3 months at the home, with intellectual function in the normal range
      according to WISC-test and clinical judgment, and exhibiting significant problem behaviors as
      measured by Broset Violence Checklist (BVC). Exclusion criteria: Intellectual disability,
      bipolar syndrome, psychosis, substance use, or other unstable psychiatric or medical
      condition which would make study participation unsuitable. Psychoactive medication is allowed
      if stable at least one month before baseline, and during the trial.

      At baseline a medical and neuropsychiatric history is taken by psychologist and physician (a
      standard assessment done for all youth placed at the homes), including rating of history of
      risk behaviors with Youth Level of Service/Case Management Inventory (YLS/CMI), and a
      DSM-5-diagnostic screening (DSM-5-CCSM) for psychiatric symptoms. Intellectual level will be
      tested with WISC-V. The participants will do self-ratings of psychiatric symptoms and
      self-concept with Becks Youth Inventories. The therapists interview parents/carers about
      history of neuropsychiatric symptoms with the A-TAC-interview.

      Subjects are randomized to 10 weeks of PR-ESSENCE treatment or to the control condition
      "treatment as usual". After the control period, the control group will also receive 10 weeks
      of PR-ESSENCE treatment. Outcome is assessed at baseline, post treatment/control period, and
      3-6 months post-treatment (at the time when the youth is planned to move from the home) with
      global assessments of problem severity and improvement by blinded independent rater (CGI-I,
      CGI-S), ratings of SNAP-IV (ADHD and oppositional symptoms), ECBI (behavior problems) and RPQ
      (relation problems) by the youth's contact person, and self-ratings of psychiatric symptoms
      and self-concept with Becks Youth Inventories. BVC ratings are made daily by contact persons
      and teachers during the whole study. During treatment, therapists rate every week with a
      Problem Rating Scale how many problem situations are completely or partly solved.
    
  