
    
      The pathophysiologic mechanisms causing supine hypertension in patients with autonomic
      failure are not completely understood.In MSA patients, supine hypertension may be explained
      by residual sympathetic tone, possibly acting on hypersensitive adrenoreceptors and
      unstrained by the lack of baroreflex modulation. In contrast, the pathogenesis of
      hypertension in PAF remains unknown. Hypertension in these patients is not related to
      intravascular volume, residual sympathetic tone, or renin mechanisms. Increased vascular
      resistance is the underlying hemodynamic mechanism. The driving force of this increased
      vascular tone, however, is not known.

      We hypothesize that endothelin (ET)-l contributes to the increased vascular resistance in
      pure autonomic failure patients with supine hypertension. To gauge its contribution to blood
      pressure regulation, we will induce endothelin blockade with acute systemic administration of
      BQ123 in an ascending dose regimen (25, 50, 100 and 300 nmol/min) and we will compare the
      hemodynamic effects between PAF and MSA patients.

      Subjects will be studied on 3 different days, one with saline (placebo) and two with BQ123: a
      'low dose' day (25 and 50 nmol/min infusions separated by 75 min) and a 'high dose' day (100
      and 300 nmol/min infusions separated by 75 min). The order of the placebo day will be
      randomized in a single-blinded manner so that each subject receives it on a different visit.
      The order of the BQ123 study days will be always the same, starting with the low dose. If SBP
      drops by >40 mm Hg or SBP < 130 mm Hg during the monitoring period after the first or second
      infusion, the following dose(s) of BQ123 will not be given and patients will receive normal
      saline until the study ends.

      Ganglionic Blockade with Trimethaphan (optional study day):

      The purpose of this study day is to determine the level of residual sympathetic tone that
      contributes to supine hypertension in each autonomic failure patient by inducing transient
      withdrawal of the autonomic nervous system. This approach would allow us to identify patients
      in whom supine hypertension is not driven by sympathetic tone and thus, better characterize
      the role of endothelin in the hypertension of these patients.
    
  