
    
      Offering patients, a low residue diet on the first postoperative day (POD1) after colorectal
      surgery is safe and improves surgical outcomes and postoperative hospital stay. Early use of
      low solid is superior to clear liquid diet after elective colorectal surgery.

      The purpose of this study is to prospectively evaluate whether providing a patient a solid
      diet from postoperative day zero is superior to clear liquids. The primary endpoint measured
      will be patient tolerability, as evidenced by absence of vomiting. The secondary endpoints
      measured will be duration of supplemental intravenous hydration needed, length of hospital
      stay and postoperative complications, and intestinal rate measured by Abstats.

      Abstats™ consists of a disposable plastic device embedded with a microphone that adheres to
      the abdominal wall and connects to a computer measuring acoustic event rates. The monitor
      will be placed on the patient's abdomen 30 minutes prior to surgery in the preoperative
      holding area to obtain baseline intestinal rate. The monitor will be removed prior to surgery
      and replaced by the surgical team in the operating room and maintained until postoperative
      day 3. Daily intestinal rate will be calculated as mean and median acoustic events per
      minute. The raw data will be analyzed by an investigator blinded to the clinical data.
      Intestinal rates of patients offered immediate solid feeds will be compared with those
      offered clear feeds. In addition, patients not tolerating or consuming early solid meal will
      be compared with those who do to identify whether Abstat™ can be an early predictor of diet
      intolerance in patients undergoing colorectal surgery.

      Patients will be assigned into one of two groups:

      Group I - Clear liquids on postoperative day zero immediately upon return to the floor and
      subsequent days' advancement of enteral diet to regular diet is as per discretion of the
      attending physician.

      Group II - Regular diet from postoperative day zero immediately upon return to floor and
      onwards.

      Three questionnaires assessing quality of life are to be completed by the patient, during
      his/her hospital stay. On postoperative day one, a self-administered questionnaire is to be
      completed by the patient. Please see appendix A for the questionnaire details. The same
      questionnaire is administered on postoperative day two and again on the last day of
      hospitalization.
    
  