
    
      Data Collection and Processing

      Recording of data All data required for the study will be recorded in the participating
      center using a case report form (CRF). Completeness and plausibility checks will ensure the
      collection of high quality data.

      A CRF for each patient will be completed by authorized personnel who must be identified and
      authorized in writing by the Principal Investigator before they conduct any study related
      tasks.

      A delegation of responsibility log identifying who can enter data and/or sign off a CRF will
      be maintained by the Principal Investigator.

      The subject's number and date of entry into the study, along with a study identifier, should
      be recorded in the subject's study records. The following should also be recorded in the
      study records: confirmation of written consent, the subject's clinical status, date of every
      study visit, copies of all relevant reports, comments on results and reference to serious
      adverse events and related adverse events.

      Direct access to source data/documents Investigators will ensure access to the source
      documents of the staff responsible for guaranteeing data quality and data analysis. In
      addition, access to documentation will be provided, if necessary, to the staff duly
      authorized by the sponsor (study monitors).

      Data management The Investigator must ensure the accuracy, completeness, legibility and
      timelines of data reported in the CRF and all required reports.

      Archiving and storage of data The investigator is responsible for maintaining all records
      which enable the conduct of the study at the site to be fully documented, in accordance
      applicable national regulatory requirements. Timeliness and completeness of the documentation
      will be regularly checked by the clinical monitor. All completed study related documents
      (e.g. eletronic CRF, Informed consent forms, Subject identification log, etc) must be
      archived at site.

      QUALITY CONTROL The purpose of monitoring is to verify that the rights and wellbeing of human
      subjects are protected; that the study is accurate, complete and verifiable with source data
      and that the study is conducted in compliance with the protocol, and the applicable
      regulatory requirements. A monitoring plan will be designed. The monitoring plan will
      establish the guideline for conducting all the monitoring activities. Source data will be
      verified during on-site monitoring visits. During the visits, the monitor will compare the
      data entered into the CRF with the source documents. The nature and location of all source
      documents will be identified to ensure that all sources of original data required to complete
      the eCRF are known to the monitor and study-site personnel and are accessible for
      verification. During monitoring visits, the relevant study-site personnel should be
      available, the source documentation accessible, and a suitable environment provided for
      review of study related documents.

      Criteria for termination and /or discontinuation The participants will discontinue study
      participation if they are unwilling or unable to meet the protocol requirements in terms of
      the visit schedule or if the patient or the investigator considers it is best to end their
      participation in the study. All participants have the right to withdraw their consent at any
      time during the study without prejudice to them.

      All follow-up terminations of study subjects and the reasons for them must be reported
      immediately to the study monitor and be duly documented both in the medical records and the
      case report form.

      Drug accountability Drug accountability will be carried out at each study visit for those
      patients assigned to the Probiotic arm. FMT administration will always be performed under
      direct observation of one of the investigators and if ambulatory, the patient will remain
      under observation in the outpatient clinic during at least 2 hours after the procedure.

      Source data verification Source documents are defined as all observations or notes recorded
      on the clinical interventions, and all reports and notes required for assessment and
      reconstruction of the research study.

      Whenever possible the original document should be kept as the source document; however,
      provision of a photocopy which is clear, legible and an exact duplicate of the original
      document and signed by the principal investigator is acceptable.

      End of the clinical research The end of the clinical research is defined as the date of the
      last visit of last subject undergoing the study.

      Statistical analysis For the primary outcome the main analysis will be performed according to
      the intention to treat principle, considering as intention-to-treat population all randomized
      patients. Missing RS will be considered as positive. In addition, the investigators intend to
      do a per protocol analysis, evaluating only the patients who end the treatment and end the
      study. Categorical variables will be compared by the Fisher exact test and continuous ones
      the the student t-test or Mann-Whitney test. Univariate logistic regression with group
      assignment as predictor variable and clinical characteristics and decolonization as outcome
      will be performed to calculate OR and 95% confidence intervals. In the event of imbalance in
      the distribution of potential confounder despite randomization, a multivariate logistic
      regression analysis with decolonization as de dependent variable and group assignment as one
      of the explanatory variables will be carried out.

      All randomised patients will be included in the "intention-to-treat population" for analysis.

      Patients withdrawn for any reason or lost to follow-up will be considered as treatment
      failure in this analysis.

      Subgroup analyses An analysis of efficacy for each bacterial species/resistance determinant
      (ESBL-producing K.pneumoniae, carbapenemase-producing enterobacteriaceae, MDR-P. aeruginosa)
      are planned

      Interim analysis A safety interim analysis is planned after inclusion of the first 100
      individuals in the study.

      Analysis Centre Data will be analyzed in the "Institut Clinic de Medicina Interna,
      Dermatologia I Infeccions del Hospital Clinic de Barcelona".
    
  