
    
      There is a gradual change in metabolism in pregnancy. This is characterised by a switch from
      normal levels of cholesterol, glucose and bile acids in early pregnancy to high levels of
      lipids, glucose and bile acids in late pregnancy. This is important to ensure that nutrients
      are provided for the growing fetus. However, it results in some women developing metabolic
      diseases of pregnancy, e.g. gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) or intrahepatic cholestasis
      of pregnancy (ICP).

      This project aims to understand the role of metabolic tissues in the changes of the
      metabolism of pregnant women. The investigators are asking for permission to collect samples
      of adipose tissue (subcutaneous and visceral fat) when women are having surgical procedures.
      Specifically, the investigators would like to take small samples of fat at two time points:

        1. When having a caesarean section (3rd trimester of pregnancy)

        2. When having laparoscopic surgery for ectopic pregnancy (1st trimester of pregnancy)
           Samples will only be taken from women having surgery as part of their clinical care. The
           investigators are requesting permission to collect samples from women with metabolic
           diseases of pregnancy (GDM and ICP) and matched controls (women with uncomplicated
           pregnancy). The investigators will also want to collect blood samples.

      There is evidence from non-pregnant individuals (and from animal studies) that the adipose
      tissue in different parts of the body function in different ways. Subcutaneous fat is
      typically a fat storage tissue while visceral adipose tissue plays a role in metabolism of
      fat. The investigators' studies in mice suggest that these different fat stores function
      differently in pregnancy, and they may play a role in the metabolic changes that cause
      dyslipidaemia and susceptibility to diabetes mellitus. The investigators aim to identify
      where there are similar changes in function of adipose tissue in human pregnancy, and whether
      this contributes to the development of GDM and ICP.
    
  