
    
      Cesarean delivery under general anesthesia is one of few only surgical procedures, where the
      most important factor of safety is the speed of the surgery, as a newborn adaptation strongly
      depends on a time between induction to the general anesthesia (and administration of
      anesthetics) and pennywort ligation. The shortest possible interval is essential for the
      amount of anesthetics crossing placenta into the fetal circulation.

      The same requirement for the fastest time applies for the suture of uterus, when the duration
      of suture directly affects an amount of blood loss. Hence creating the best surgical
      conditions allowing the fastest delivery and performance of whole surgery, safe for the fetus
      and the mother, should be an extremely important. The question is, whether recent
      recommendations for Cesarean section under general anesthesia best meet these requirements.
      We assume that by creating better surgical conditions it could be positively affected not
      only the time and safety of fetus delivery (and thus its adaptation), but also the reduction
      of perioperative blood loss and the incidence of surgical complications (primarily subfascial
      hematoma, bladder injury, dehiscence, surgical site infection).

      For higher risk of regurgitation and aspiration rapid sequence induction into the general
      anesthesia is the method of choice for Cesarean section for more than last forty years [1].
      This means that intubation in apnoeic pause should be performed as soon as possible after
      administration of anesthetics and muscle relaxant. The traditional basic requirements on the
      administered muscle relaxant then primarily are a time of onset of its action and a creation
      of good intubating conditions. The depolarizing agent succinylcholine (1 to 1.5 mg/kg) is
      still worldwide recommended the muscle relaxant of choice for most parturients undergoing
      rapid-sequence induction for general anesthesia as provides adequate intubating conditions
      within approximately 45 seconds of intravenous administration [2]. But essential likewise is,
      that administration of muscle relaxant does not affect only the creation of intubating
      conditions, but the effect on relaxation of the abdominal wall muscles has an effect also on
      surgical conditions for fetus delivery. Surprisingly, and to our knowledge, this effect has
      not been studied yet. From this perspective, and taking into account the negative effects of
      succinylcholine, rocuronium seems to be preferable alternative. Rocuronium in the dose of 0.6
      mg/kg in pregnant women induces good intubating conditions similar to succinylcholine [1, 3,
      4], in a still reasonable time for apnoeic intubation [5]. But compare to succinylcholine,
      which allows only very short muscle blockade (and may thus prolong a delivery in complicated
      cases with all the consequences on postnatal fetus adaptation), rocuronium induces deep
      muscle relaxation and so should offer better surgical conditions for easier and faster fetus
      delivery.

      As stated in recent recommendations, additional neuromuscular blockade after fetus delivery
      is either not necessary (provided that the mother has an adequate depth of anesthesia with
      administration of both a volatile agent and an opioid), or a small dose of a short-acting
      nondepolarizing agent (or an infusion of succinylcholine) can be administered [2]. This
      means, if succinylcholine is used as a muscle relaxant, due to its very short action the
      surgery is performed in no or shallow only neuromuscular blockade. We again assume that deep
      neuromuscular blockade during the surgery will offer better surgical conditions for suture of
      the uterus and the rest of surgery and thus reduce time of the surgery and perioperative
      blood loss and even incidence of surgical complications. Such comparison has not been studied
      to date.

      Comparison of surgical conditions for fetus delivery and its influence on fetus adaptation
      has not been also investigated yet. Unanswered question then is, whether deep muscle blockade
      wit rocuronium, allowing improved surgical conditions can also improve newborn adaptation
      compare to traditional approach with succinylcholine.
    
  