
    
      Crohn's disease (CD), a chronic transmural inflammatory disease of the gastrointestinal
      tract, continues to increase in incidence for unknown reasons. According to population based
      studies, at least 26% of patients with CD will develop perianal fistulas in the first two
      decades following diagnosis, particularly those with colonic and rectal involvement. These
      patients experience significant morbidity due to pain, persistent drainage, recurrent
      perianal sepsis, and ongoing need to access medical care resulting in increased costs and
      impaired quality of life.

      Unfortunately, perianal fistulizing Crohn's disease is notoriously difficult to cure with 37%
      of patients experiencing refractory disease. As a result, patients cycle through numerous
      immunosuppressive medications that can have significant side effects, and >90% undergo
      multiple surgical interventions putting them at risk of incontinence.

      The specific rationale for MSCs in perianal Crohn's fistulas is based upon 1) their
      anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory properties; 2) several studies reporting the safety
      and efficacy of MSCs for the treatment of perianal Crohn's fistula; 3) existence of safe
      manufacturing methods for isolation and expansion of MSCs.

      This study will enroll 20 participants that have Crohn's disease with medically and
      surgically refractory perianal fistulizing disease. Participants enrolled will be those that
      meet particular criteria for participation in the clinical trial.

      Enrolled participants will be randomized to treatment group with adult allogeneic bone marrow
      derived mesenchymal stem cells, versus placebo in a 3:1 fashion. Participants in the
      treatment group will have a direct injection of MSCs at a dose of 75 million cells. This will
      be given as a direct injection in and around the fistula tract. Participants will be
      evaluated for complete healing at three months. If complete healing has been achieved,
      participants will continue to be followed for one year. If complete healing has not been
      achieved at three months, participants will be eligible for a second injection of MSCs at the
      same dose of 75 million cells. Control participants without complete healing from placebo
      will cross over at the 6 month visit to receive an injection of MSCs and again three months
      after this as above, and will be followed for one year after treatment to a total duration of
      18 months.
    
  