
    
      The pathogenesis of acne has been attributed to multiple factors such as increased sebum
      production, alteration of the quality of sebum lipids, regulation of cutaneous
      steroidogenesis, androgen activity, interaction with neuropeptides, exhibition of pro- and
      anti- inflammatory properties, follicular hyperkeratinization and the action of
      Propionibacterium acnes (P. acnes) within the follicle .

      Central or peripheral stress may induce the development of clinical inflammation in the
      pilosebaceous unit, leading to the development of acne lesions or to exacerbation of
      pre-existing acne . Prolactin is one of the major hormonal signals that are immediately
      upregulated on psychoemotional and physical stress .

      The discovery of locally produced extrapituitary prolactin and that human skin is both a
      source and target of prolactin production has increased interest in cutaneous prolactin
      research . Prolactin and prolactin receptors expression have now been demonstrated in several
      cutaneous cell populations, including keratinocytes, fibroblasts, sweat glands and sebaceous
      glands. Hence, prolactin is likely to be involved as a mediator in the ''brain-skin axis'' .

      Given that the mammary gland is an epidermal derivative, it is not surprising that the
      pilosebaceous unit, another epidermal derivative, has also surfaced as a prominent,
      non-classical prolactin target organ expressing prolactin receptors .

      In human skin, Prolactin and prolactin receptors are both expressed in the sebaceous gland ,
      and prolactin stimulates sebum production . These effects are evident in women with
      hyperprolactinemia, who develop hirsutism and seborrhea, not uncommonly associated with
      female pattern balding . Patients treated with hyperprolactinemia-inducing neuroleptic agents
      also develop seborrhea . As sebocytes are prominent target cells of neuroendocrine signaling
      , prolactin might also contribute to the aggravating effect of psychoemotional stress on acne
      vulgaris. Besides the stimulation of sebocyte proliferation, which enhances holocrine
      secretion of this gland, this might also be related to effects on peripheral androgen
      metabolism .

      The secretion of extrapituitary prolactin is regulated by the alternative promoter of
      prolactin gene , and the G/T polymorphism in position -1149 seems to be associated with level
      of prolactin expression .

      In view of the recognized increase of human prolactin serum levels upon psychoemotional
      stress and the exacerbating effect of psychological stress on acne, together with a proposed
      role of prolactin in acne pathogenesis, it would be interesting to investigate the role of
      prolactin in acne vulgaris
    
  