
    
      The hospitalization of one family member may be responsible for the generation of anxiety and
      depression, especially if the patient environment for the intensive care unit (ICU). The
      orientation of family members, through website and brochure, seems to have effect of reducing
      these symptoms, however, there is a shortage of studies capable of such conduct. The focus of
      this study will be to evaluate the impact of family guidance in reducing symptoms of
      depression, acute stress and anxiety displayed by them, in addition to verifying the
      association between resilience.

      A randomized clinical trial 1:1 among relatives of patients admitted to an intensive care
      unit, the randomization will be in blocks of different sizes and stratified according to the
      educational level of the familiar. Intervention group will be composed by family members who
      receive a printed brochure and will be encouraged to visit a website detailed information and
      plain language about the ICU environment (treatments, care, alarms, multidisciplinary team)
      and the critically ill patient characteristics (organic dysfunction, prognosis, palliative
      care, organ dysfunction). The family, of the control group, will not receive the printed
      brochure and are not encouraged to visit the website. After hospitalization of the patient in
      the ICU, the research team will have up to 48 hrs to evaluate the eligibility criteria of the
      next of kin of this patient. Primary outcome will be the impact of orientations on symptoms
      of post-traumatic stress, assessed by the IES-R scale. Secondary outcome measures will
      include symptoms of anxiety and depression at the end of 7 days and after 3 months of
      follow-up by the HADS scale, the degree of satisfaction of the relatives, through the FS-ICU
      scale, as well as the association of resilience, through the CD-RISC scale, with the symptoms
      of anxiety and depression The study will occur with families of patients admitted to the ICUs
      of Hospital Moinhos de Vento and Hospital Ernesto Dornelles. We will collect characteristics
      related to demographic, social, educational features, levels of resilience, religiosity and
      prior history of mood disorder, anxiety disorder or post-traumatic stress disorder, length of
      ICU stay, SAPS III, and ICU and hospital outcomes.
    
  