
    
      This study is a prospective, multi-center, randomized controlled study with a delayed start
      arm, conducted under a common implant protocol.

      Up to 40 study subjects will be implanted at up to six centers in Europe. Subjects will be
      evaluated at baseline, implant, post-op (randomized) and 1-, 2-, 3,- 4- and 6-months
      post-implant.

      Baseline data will include collection of demographics and medical history, completion of a
      physical exam, Functional Tongue Exam (FTE), and subject quality of life (QoL) questionnaires
      (Functional Outcomes of Sleep Questionnaire (FOSQ) and Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS)).
      Adverse event data will be collected from the time of baseline testing through the 6-month
      study follow-up.

      Implant eligibility assessments will include home sleep testing (HST), a surgical
      consultation and a drug induced sedated endoscopy (DISE) to determine if the subject is a
      qualified candidate for implant.

      Subjects meeting all baseline and pre-screening requirements will be implanted with the
      Inspire system. Intra- and post- operative procedure data will be collected. Subjects will be
      seen for a post-operative check one week after implant. During this visit, subjects will be
      randomized 1:1 to the ACTIVE group or the DELAY group. However, the Inspire system will not
      be activated (turned "on") during the first month post-implant to allow for post-surgical
      healing.

      Only subjects randomized to the ACTIVE group will return for the 1-month follow-up visit at
      which time the device will be activated (turned "on"). The subjects will be provided with a
      patient remote and instructed on its use. These ACTIVE arm subjects will be instructed to use
      their Inspire system on a nightly basis and return for a 2-month visit for an in-laboratory
      sleep study to complete device titration.

      All subjects (ACTIVE and DELAY) return for the 3-month visit to complete a HST (DELAY
      subjects' therapy will remain off during the HST). In addition, QoL and patient satisfaction
      surveys, Functional Tongue Exam (FTE), and general health assessments, including adverse
      event review, will be collected. Subjects in the DELAY arm will have their therapy activated
      at the end of the 3 month visit, and return for a 4-month visit for an in-laboratory sleep
      study to complete device titration. All subjects will return for a 6-month and final visit
      where a two-night HST will be completed. In addition, QoL and patient satisfaction surveys,
      physical exam and FTE data will be collected; a device check will be completed as well as
      adverse event review. Therapy usage and device adjustment data, as well as a subject
      satisfaction with therapy survey, will be collected for additional analysis. Safety data will
      be collected throughout the study.
    
  