
    
      This study will be designed as a prospective observational trial. After obtaining
      Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval, patients will be recruited and consented from the
      Anesthesia Pre-Operative Clinic. On the day of surgery, baseline urine samples will be
      obtained at the initial insertion of the Foley catheter, after induction of anesthesia. Urine
      samples will also be collected from the Foley catheter in the immediate post-operative period
      shortly after the patient is admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). Urine samples will
      continue to be collected for 72 hours post-operatively, at 0600 (6am) and 1800 (6pm) each day
      from the indwelling Foley catheter, which is standard of care in the ICU. Urine samples will
      be labeled and stored as per the instructions provided in a commercially available kit; six
      urine samples total will be collected and stored per patient. The electronic medical record
      (EMR) will be reviewed to determine whether the patient received ketorolac, ibuprofen, or no
      NSAIDs intra-operatively and postoperatively (within 72 hours of the beginning of surgery).
      Daily serum creatinine measurements and hourly urine output, which are standards of care in
      the ICU, will be obtained from the EMR as well.

      AKI will be diagnosed and staged according to KDIGO criteria, which are based on changes in
      creatinine and urine output. In all patients with "KDIGO-diagnosed AKI" and in a matched
      non-AKI group, we will also compare the time course of new urinary biomarkers, including but
      not limited to uNGAL, to that of serum creatinine and urine output. We will match patients
      according to their demographics as well as clinical characteristics, including
      co-morbidities, type of surgery and anesthesia technique. Comparing the time course of
      current clinical markers (serum creatinine and urine output) with that of new urinary
      biomarkers will allow us to assess their role in guiding future preventive interventions.
    
  