
    
      Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is the sixth most common cancer in men and the eighth in women in
      the USA. In Italy RCC incidence was 11500 new cases in 2017, while mortality was 3371 cases
      in 2015. Increasing evidence suggests that response to immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs), a
      novel treatment for advanced RCC (aRCC) and other epithelial tumors, can be influenced by the
      patient gut microbiota. Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) is a novel therapeutic option
      based on the restoration of healthy gut microbiota, and is the most effective therapy for
      recurrent C. difficile infection, and preliminary nonrandomized findings show that FMT is
      able to improve efficacy of ICIs in patients with advanced melanoma. The aim of the study is
      to evaluate, through a randomized controlled trial, the efficacy of targeted FMT (from donors
      who are responding to ICI) in improving response rates to ICIs in subjects with aRCC. So, the
      investigators will investigate, through a randomized controlled trial, if donor FMT will be
      more effective than placebo FMT in improving response to ICIs in patients with renal cell
      carcinoma. Patients will undergo the first infusion by colonoscopy. Then, patients will
      receive frozen fecal capsules (8 capsules t.i.d.) at 3 and 6 months after the first FMT.

      Fifty patients will be enrolled. Sample size calculation was based on the hypothesis of the
      superiority of FMT+SOC over SOC alone. The 1-year PFS rate for SOC has been reported to be
      nearly 60%. The alternative hypothesis is that FMT can improve the 1-year PFS rate from 60%
      to 80% wen associated to SOC. A total of 50 patients will enter this two-treatment
      parallel-design study. The probability is 80 percent that the study will detect a treatment
      difference at a one-sided 5.0 percent significance level, if the true hazard ratio is 0.436.
      This is based on the assumption that the accrual period will be 18 months and the follow up
      period will be 12 months and the median survival is 15.1 months. The total number of events
      will be 35. Microbiome analysis will be performed with shotgun sequencing techniques.
    
  