
    
      Indication:

      This study will include subjects that have relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM)
      after treatment with at least 3 prior antimyeloma therapies, including a proteasome inhibitor
      (PI) and an immunomodulatory drug (IMiD®) or after development of double-refractoriness to a
      both a PI and an IMiD.

      The most recent multiple myeloma (MM) treatment regimen should contain daratumumab (DARA) and
      subjects must have progressed on DARA while on this regimen. Stage 1 A cohort of 18 subjects
      will be enrolled to determine the preliminary efficacy of DARA plus DURVA. Once the 18
      subjects have been enrolled, an interim analysis for futility purpose will be conducted to
      determine if the study can proceed to Stage 2.

      Early Safety Monitoring Once 6 subjects have been enrolled and completed the first treatment
      cycle in Stage 1 of this study, the enrollment continuity would depend on the availability of
      safety data from the on-going Phase 2 study (MEDI4736-MM-003) of DARA and DURVA in previously
      DARA-naïve patients.

        -  If MEDI4736-MM-003 safety data are available and the tolerability profile of DARA plus
           DURVA has been determined to be adequate, then enrollment will continue as planned in
           Stage 1 without an early safety monitoring review of the data.

        -  If safety data are not available enrollment in this study will be paused for a review of
           the safety profile of DARA plus DURVA by a Dose Review Team (DRT), using the data from
           the first 6 patients.

        -  If ≥ 1 of the first 6 patients experiences a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), the study
           will be halted for review and a change in the dosing regimen may be implemented.

        -  The DRT will consist of the Celgene Medical Monitor, Celgene lead Safety Physician,
           Celgene biostatistician, other Celgene functional area representatives, as appropriate,
           study specific consultants (MD/PhD), and site investigator and/or designees who have
           enrolled subjects to the study.

        -  All available safety and, if applicable, PK/(pharmacodynamic) Pd, biomarker, and
           preliminary efficacy data will be reviewed and can be considered in the DRT's decisions.

        -  A DRT meeting will be held to review all data and make decisions regarding continuity of
           the study.

      Dose-limiting Toxicity

      Dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) may be evaluated during the DLT evaluation period for the
      initial 6 patients in Part 1 of the study. The DLT evaluation period will be defined as the
      first treatment cycle. Subjects are considered evaluable for assessment of DLT if they:

        -  Receive at least 1 dose of study treatments and experience a DLT OR

        -  Receive 1 dose of DURVA, 4 doses of DARA and complete the safety follow-up through the
           end of the DLT evaluation period.

      Grading of DLTs will be according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) Version 4.03.

      A DLT will be defined as below:

      Hematologic DLT

        1. Grade 4 neutropenia observed for greater than 5 days duration

        2. Grade 3 neutropenia associated with fever (≥ 38.5 °C) of any duration.

        3. Grade 4 thrombocytopenia or Grade 3 thrombocytopenia with bleeding, or any requirement
           for platelets transfusion.

        4. Any other Grade 4 hematologic toxicity that does not resolve to subject's pretreatment
           baseline level within 72 hours

        5. Grade 4 anemia, unexplained by underlying disease. Non-hematologic DLT

      a. Any nonhematological toxicity ≥ Grade 3 except for alopecia and nausea controlled by
      medical management b. Any treatment interruption greater than 2 weeks due to an AE. While the
      rules for adjudicating DLTs in the context of dose escalation are specified above, an AE not
      listed above may be defined as a DLT after consultation with the Sponsor and investigators,
      based on the emerging safety profile.

      Stage 2 If 3 or more subjects achieved a response (PR or better) out of the 18 subjects at
      the end of Stage 1, an additional 32 subjects will be enrolled to evaluate the safety and
      efficacy of DARA plus DURVA.

      Part 2: Expansion Upon completion of Part 1, if at least 9 subjects achieve a response (PR or
      better) out of a total of 50 subjects and it is determined to further confirm the efficacy
      and safety of DARA plus DURVA, an additional 70 subjects may be enrolled.

      An Independent Response Adjudication Committee (IRAC) will be set up for this trial to review
      study data. The IRAC will determine tumor response to therapy and to confirm the time of
      disease progression (PD) (if disease progressed) at scheduled or unscheduled visits for each
      subject.

      The safety and efficacy of the study will be monitored by an independent Data Monitoring
      Committee (DMC) who are not involved in the trial conduct. The DMC will meet up and review
      study data at pre specified intervals throughout the trial.

      In the event that the trial is halted for early safety monitoring, evaluation of the emerging
      safety data from the initial 6 patients enrolled in Part 1 will be performed by the Dose
      Review Team (DRT).

      Safety data will be monitored by the Celgene Medical Monitor and Safety Physician on an
      ongoing basis throughout the study. Should a significant safety issue be identified, the DMC
      will be convened to make a recommendation as to the future conduct of the study.

      The decision to discontinue a subject, which will not be delayed or refused by the Sponsor,
      remains the responsibility of the treating physician. However, prior to discontinuing a
      subject, the Investigator may contact the Medical Monitor and forward appropriate supporting
      documents for review and discussion.

      The study will be conducted in compliance with the International Council on Harmonisation
      (ICH) of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use/Good
      Clinical Practice (GCP) and applicable regulatory requirements.
    
  