
    
      Females in Xuan Wei County are almost all non-smokers, yet they have the highest lung cancer
      rate in China. Non-smoking women in Xuan Wei who use smoky coal in their home can inhale ten
      times higher levels of PAHs than a 20 cigarette per day active smoker, and air concentrations
      approach levels experienced by workers on the top-side of coke ovens. Several lines of
      research have provided strong support that the excess lung cancer in this region is caused
      primarily by PAHs derived from smoky coal exposure. As such, this region of China provides
      one of the best opportunities in the world to carry out a model study of gene-environment
      interactions in lung cancer. We have designed a hospital-based case-control study of 500 lung
      cancer cases and 500 controls among non-smoking women, with controls to be selected through a
      randomized recruitment design to achieve balance for the main effects of smoky coal exposure
      and ultimately greater power to detect interactions. The study will be carried out over a
      three-year period in Xuan Wei and Fu Yuan Counties in Yun Nan Province, China. In addition,
      we will be carrying out an exposure assessment study (n=150 households) to evaluate air and
      dermal exposure to PAHs from smoky coal use in order to model PAH exposure experienced by
      subjects in the case-control study. We will collect buccal cell, sputum, blood, and urine
      samples from all subjects. The primary goal of the study is to characterize genetic risk
      factors at the DNA level for lung cancer in this population and determine how they interact
      with smoky coal and PAH exposure. In addition, the hospital-based design will enable us to
      collect venous blood samples and cryopreserve lymphocytes, which will allow us to carry out
      state-of-the-art functional susceptibility assays such as testing ability to repair
      PAH-damaged DNA and apoptotic capacity, and to measure integrative markers of genomic
      stability such as telomere length and oxidative damage in mitochondrial DNA. These types of
      assays have never been conducted in this population and hold great promise to provide
      insights into cancer risk that will compliment those obtained by genotyping. This study will
      provide an important complement to and contrast with both DCEG and extramural studies of
      tobacco smoking and lung cancer, where unraveling the genetic component is challenging in
      part because hundreds of tobacco carcinogens in various combinations likely contribute.
    
  