
    
      The liver diseases frequently occur in China. For various reasons, the chronic liver diseases
      are not controlled in time, and then develop gradually into liver fibrosis and cirrhosis.
      Without effective treatment, the advanced liver cirrhosis seriously influences the quality of
      patients' life, and places an intolerable burden on family and society. At present, the
      scholars generally thought that the liver fibrosis at early stages is reversible. Therefore,
      if the liver fibrosis in patients with chronic liver diseases can be accurately evaluated at
      early stages and be treated in time, so we can stop the progress of diseases and reduce the
      occurrence of liver cirrhosis and liver cancer.

      For many years, liver biopsy is still as "golden standard" for diagnosis of liver
      inflammation and fibrosis. However, with its invasiveness, potential risks and some
      complications, liver biopsy is limited in clinical application due to the poor acceptability
      and repeatability. In recent years, the liver fibrosis cannot directly and accurately
      diagnose via the various diagnostic models using serological biomarkers (e.g. FIBROTEST and
      APRI) and medical imaging technologies (e.g. ultrasonic B, CT and MRI).

      Transient elastography is a new technology in the field of ultrasonic imaging. Liver
      stiffness measurement (LSM) is based on the relationship between the speed of spread of
      acoustic wave in tissues and stiffness of the tissues. It utilizes specific probes to send
      out controlled low-frequency shear waves, the waves signals transmit through liver tissues, a
      high-frequency signals will track the transmitting process of shear wave in the liver and the
      value of liver stiffness (kPa) is quickly calculated with reference to a built-in liver
      histological model, which provides a quantitative standard for diagnosis of liver fibrosis of
      chronic liver disease. The bigger LSM value means the faster transmission of shear wave, and
      the harder of determined liver tissue.

      As stated in the "12th Five-year Plan for Medical Device Technological Industry" (the
      Ministry of Science and Technology), China will greatly support the research and development
      of new medical devices and promote the application of Chinese transient elastography system,
      FibroTouch, which was R&D by Tsing-Hua University independently with new algorithm.
      FibroTouch can rapidly determine the LSM in a non-invasive way and provide useful information
      for liver fibrosis and steatosis staging.

      Due to FibroTouch is a new transient elastography system in marketing, there is no too much
      studies on the correlation between FibroTouch and liver biopsy in diagnosis of liver fibrosis
      and cirrhosis.

      The goal of this prospective and multicenter study is to determine the diagnostic performance
      (accuracy, specificity and sensitivity) of FibroTouch for liver fibrosis assessment in
      chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients using ROC analysis, and liver biopsy as the reference.

      Approximately 600 patients will be enrolled to guarantee 500 final statistical cases; and
      ≥100 cases are required for fibrosis stage S0/1, S2, S3 and S4 (compensatory stage of
      cirrhosis), respectively. For each stage, the case is assigned as equally as possible.
    
  