
    
      Breast cancer (BC) is the most common cancer in women in the developed world. Surgery and
      medical protocols have improved significantly over the last 10 years and this guarantees a
      better chance of survival and an improvement in quality of life.

      Then, the focus on "what happen after defeating BC" has become current: patients' and
      physicians' awareness of the sequelae of BC surgery has increased, especially in the case of
      mastectomy or modified radical mastectomy. A large number of these complications, such as
      lymphedema or post-treatment pain with or without functional impotence, which contribute to
      limitations in daily life activities, can be treated favourably and, in sometimes, resolved
      with early rehabilitation protocols. Therefore, it is not only important to start the
      rehabilitation process early after surgery, but, also, during the sub-acute phase, choose
      appropriate exercise programs to allow recovery in "quantity" and "quality" of the movement
      of the operated upper limb (UL). Alterations in muscle activation and reduced shoulder
      mobility are common in patients with BC. It is necessary to consider that winged scapula
      incidence in BC surgery is 8% and the prevalence decreased during 6 months after surgery. In
      particular, patients who developed winged scapula had more shoulder flexion, adduction and
      abduction limitation. These findings suggest that, after BC surgery, soft tissues
      restrictions obstruct short-term scapula motion.

      Reaching movement is a complex multi-articular movement towards a defined point in space and
      allows the hand to interact with the environment. Nevertheless, it is not yet investigated
      during the rehabilitation process. Moreover, the execution of the UL movements, improves if
      the numerous perturbations of the musculoskeletal system, which occur during the execution of
      movements, are compensated. Motor synergy's components should modify their action to
      influence positively the outcome of motor activity, preventing the mistakes of the individual
      components from influencing the overall activity. An important issue is represented by the
      redundancy of the degrees of motor freedom. Actions and movements can be performed in
      different ways because the functional synergies are able to co-vary, without changing the
      result of the action. However, only three spatial dimensions are needed to specify any
      position where the hand could be placed. This excess of kinematic degrees of freedom means
      that there are multiple arm configurations that correspond to any particular position of the
      hand. Thus, improvements in reaching, after BC mastectomy, can be determined, compared to a
      different rehabilitation protocol, by comparing the Single rehabilitative Treatment (ST) with
      Group Treatment (GT). Authors designed a randomized-controlled trial to check if specific
      scapula exercises, included in the ST, could induce changes in the fluidity of the reaching,
      called Jerk (primary outcome), decrease shoulder pain and improve the functioning of the
      operated upper limb (secondary outcomes).
    
  