
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Paroxysmal arrhythmias are a group of disorders in which sudden abnormalities of the cardiac
      rhythm occur without warning. Despite the abundant information available from studies on the
      mechanisms of tachycardias, there was hardly a shred of objective data in 1989 to establish
      how the occurrence of symptomatic tachycardias was influenced by various mechanisms. In fact,
      there were very few objective data describing the occurrence of symptomatic tachycardia among
      the patients who were afflicted with various paroxysmal tachycardias. For example, were
      patients in normal sinus rhythm likely to remain free of their tachycardia for one day, one
      week, one month, or longer? The suddenness and apparent unpredictability of attacks of
      paroxysmal tachycardias have been substantial obstacles to quantitative description of their
      occurrence. These studies used careful documentation of spontaneous tachycardia to establish
      the epidemiology of symptomatic arrhythmias.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Baseline electrophysiologic methods, including intracardiac recording and programmed
      electrical stimulation, were used to determine the mechanism of paroxysmal supraventricular
      tachycardia. All patients had antiarrhythmic medications stopped. In most cases, the
      diagnosis of atrial fibrillation was established by scalar electrocardiographic criteria. At
      the time of entry into follow-up each patient was given a cardiobeeper and instructed to
      record and transmit any symptomatic arrhythmia when it occured. Descriptive information about
      each patient was entered into a baseline data file which included information on the time
      interval between attacks, age, sex, mechanism of arrhythmia, types of associated heart
      diseases, ECG data during sinus rhythm, and date and time of call. The purpose of the
      outpatient follow-up was to obtain objective documentation of spontaneously occurring,
      symptomatic tachycardia for quantitative analyses. Holter monitoring was used in patients
      with paroxysmal tachycardias to establish that asymptomatic tachycardia did not occur so
      often that it constituted an important, unrecognized feature of these clinical conditions.

      Ten consecutively referred patients with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia and ten
      consecutively referred patients with atrial fibrillation underwent untreated surveillance
      with telephone/ cardiobeeper monitoring for symptomatic arrhythmias and had four 24-hour
      ambulatory ECGs recorded at weekly intervals to detect symptomatic and asymptomatic
      arrhythmias. The Cox proportional hazards model was used to test the hypothesis that the
      mechanism of tachycardia was the most important predictor of the tachycardia-free period
      during an untreated observation period.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  