
    
      Sick-leaves due to musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) among municipal workers of Nokia City
      increased notably during the year 2017, which was noticed as increased call and burden in
      occupation healthcare settings. According to the disease grading statistics of early
      retirement, MSDs were the leading cause. Due to the afore facts Nokia City composed a novel
      model of co-operation between the personnel administration and exercise facilities of Nokia
      City: The coordinator of wellbeing (occupational nurse) now prescribes exercise referrals for
      patients to directly contact the sports sector for personalized exercise counseling.

      The purpose of the present study is to investigate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness
      of the afore described novel operations model of exercise referral in the Nokia City.
      Personalized Exercise Counseling (PEC) intervention guides and motivates the workers to set
      and achieve personal exercise/physical activity goals. The hypothesis is that the PEC
      improves workability (main outcome) and reduces musculoskeletal pain, and thus improves
      quality of life and reduces days of sickness absence. Regarding cost-effectiveness of the
      PEC-arm is expected to be cost-effective in terms of quality adjusted life-years (QALY) and
      days of sickness absence compared to the Control-arm.

      The target population of the PEC-Nokia study is practical nurses, personnel of kitchen and
      cleaning service and janitorial service. In case that the number of participants fulfilling
      the inclusion criteria of these occupational groups is not adequate to reach the number
      needed to be randomized (n=190), other occupations may be recruited.

      Sample size was calculated based on the work ability score (WAS) i.e. current work ability
      compared to lifetime best on numeric rating scale from 0 (completely unable to work) to 10
      (work ability at its best). Thus, to detect a difference in main effects (i.e., Personalized
      Exercise Counselling (PEC) group vs. non-treatment group (Control) with a significance level
      of 0.05 and a power of 90%, the study required at least 150 participants (75 in each
      study-arm). For compensation of probable loss of participants to follow-up, the aim is to
      recruit 190 participants. We expect that there would be a minimal difference of 15% between
      the PEC-arm and Control-arm among those with improved WAS-score to the good level (i.e. at
      least 8). We expect that 5% of the participants in the Control-arm and 20% in the PEC-arm
      will reach the afore target. Reductions of 30% or 15mm (0-100) in intensity of
      musculoskeletal pain levels at neck-shoulder, lower back, and knee would meet the criteria of
      clinically important change.

      The participants (n=190) will be randomly assigned into 6-month Personalized Exercise
      Counseling combined with interactive accelerometer (PEC-arm) or a non-intervention
      Control-arm. Statistician KT will randomly assign about 200 persons to one of the two
      parallel groups in a 1:1 ratio using a computer-generated procedure. The codes of the study
      group will be provided to the participants fulfilling the inclusion criteria, using the
      method of sealed envelopes, immediately after the person has given his/her written consent to
      participate to the well-being coordinator (specialist nurse of occupational health employed
      by Nokia City). Only the investigators (i.e. the research group) will be blinded to group
      allocation.

      Electronic questionnaires have been prepared to cover the following: Work-related factors
      include perceived physical strain, perceived exertion after typical work day at different
      body sites of musculoskeletal structures and work stress; Health-related factors include
      perceived health, depression, sleep and recovery, quality of life and days of sickness
      absence; Physical activity related factors include preferred activity modes and motivation,
      Fear Avoidance Beliefs related to physical activity at work and leisure-time. In addition,
      the following physical tests will be used to measure health-related fitness: Neck-shoulder
      mobility for flexibility, Modified push-ups for upper body strength and trunk stability and 6
      minutes' walk test for cardiorespiratory fitness in terms of distance walked and predicted
      maximal oxygen uptake.
    
  