
    
      In patients with primary or metastatic liver tumors, the only potentially curative
      therapeutic option is represented by hepatic resection. Nowdays extended resections can be
      performed with acceptable morbidity and mortality. There is no unanimous definition on the
      criteria of resectability and the ability to perform a more or less extensive liver resection
      is deferred to the expertise of the center and the surgical team. The investigators will
      consider a tumor resectable if the surgical procedure does not damage vital structures, the
      normal function of the organ is preserved and and the tumor is completely removed (R0
      resection). One of the limiting factors in the execution of a liver resection, in particular
      if it is extended, it's represented by the future remnant liver (FRL) after hepatic
      resection. In cases of normal organ function an FRL of 25% is considered sufficient. In case
      of impaired hepatic function or a history of chemotherapy, it is considered safe if at least
      of 40%.

      Many methods have been developed and proposed to increase the resectability in patients
      undergoing major liver resections. In case of bilobar tumor, a two-step approach (two-stage
      hepatectomy)have been proposed. This procedure implies that one of the two lobes is initially
      freed of disease by tumor resection or ablation. After achieving an adequate compensatory
      hypertrophy of the lobe freed by the tumor (usually 4-6 weeks),a contralateral liver
      resection can be done to treat the remnant tumor.

      To increase the FRL another approach is to occlude the portal branches towards one of liver
      lobes. This can be done with a surgical ligation (laparotomy or laparoscopy) or
      radiologically, using portal embolization. The technique allows to increase from 10% to 46%
      of the FRL with the possibility of obtaining a resection R-0 in 70-100% of cases. It is
      unclear whether there is any difference between the methods of portal occlusion (ligation vs
      embolization). To further increase hypertrophy after portal occlusion in liver tumors
      occupying the right liver, some researchers proposed to embolize the portal branches of
      segment 4th together with the right portal vein.

      The group of Regensburg has introduced a new technique in two stages for tumors of the right
      lobe, which combines the methods mentioned above. This two-stage approach consists in the
      ligation of the right portal vein associated with resection of the liver along the falciform
      ligament (step 1). Step 2, after a period of 9 days (median - 5-25 days), after a volumetric
      CT to ensure an adeguate hypertrophy of the left lateral lobe, the patient undergo a right
      trisectionectomy. The hypertrophy of the left lateral lobe is shown to be of 74%, higher than
      any other techniques of ligation or portal embolizatiol proposed in the literature.

      The rationale of this technique is the complete portal devascularization of the right lobe
      plus segment 4 that produce a greater stimulus to hypertrophy of the left lateral segments.
      This occurs in less time than other methods above described and allows to reduce the
      timeframe between the two steps and minimizes the risk of interprocedural progression of the
      underlying disease (incidence of drop outs in the two-stage hepatectomy of 20% for
      progression disease).

      The morbidity of this two-stage approach was 44% (complications of Clavien grade III and IV)
      that mimics the data reported in the literature for extended hepatic resections (20-50%). The
      12%mortality rate was similar to one described by Lang et al for left trisegmentectomies.

      On the basis of the clinical experiences reported the investigators designed a new protocol
      of two-stage hepatic resection for the treatment of primary or secondary tumors of the right
      lobe. Step1: laparoscopic radio frequency / microwave ablation of the future transection
      plane between segment 4 and left lateral lobe and surgical ligation or embolization of the
      right portal vein. The ablation has the purpose to devascularize the segment 4 and has the
      same significance of the resection of the liver along the falciform ligament described by the
      Regensburg group.

      Step2: After a period of time of 9 ± 2 days, following a volumetric CT showing an adequate
      liver volume gain (ratio FRL / patient body weight> 0.5), the patient undergo the
      second-stage surgery: laparoscopic/ laparotomic right trisectionectomy
    
  