
    
      INTRODUCTION The National Cancer Institute estimated 625 thousand new cases of cancer
      (excluding non-melanoma skin cancer cases) in Brazil for each year between 2020-2022, In
      2018, 2.1 million new cases of breast cancer occurred in the world , equivalent to 11.6% of
      all estimated cancers, being the first in the ranking of cancers for females. Among the
      environmental and behavioral risk factors for breast cancer, alcohol consumption, excess body
      weight and physical inactivity, are some of the modifiable factors. Obesity, as a risk factor
      for breast cancer, makes many women obese when diagnosed and when starting treatment.
      Adhering to healthy eating and exercise can protect and / or decrease the risk of breast
      cancer, in addition to improving results during and after the active phase of treatment.

      After the diagnosis of the disease and evaluation of its stage, the treatment can be defined
      as neoadjuvant or adjuvant; systemic or regional locus. Breast cancer treatments cause
      cardiovascular dysfunctions, which are due to age-related factors, pre-existing chronic
      diseases, comorbidities such as smoking, dyslipidemia and obesity, in addition to cancer
      treatment.Therapies for breast cancer have a strong association with impaired cardiac
      function, from transient and reversible changes to permanent dysfunctions, as well as changes
      in lipid metabolism.

      The cardiotoxic effects of cancer treatments can also affect vagal activity and, thus,
      influence cardiac autonomic balance. In the long run, autonomic imbalance is associated with
      an increased risk of cardiovascular disease and mortality, and in addition, the autonomic
      dysfunction that is common in many types of cancer leads to an increase in sympathetic tone
      and a decrease in cardiac vagal tone. As a way of assessing autonomic activity and vagal
      response, measures of heart rate variability (HRV) have been adopted. A reduction in
      parasympathetic modulation and HRV indices was observed in women with breast cancer who
      underwent chemotherapy, radiotherapy and hormonal therapy after one year of treatment.
      Physical training, which already has satisfactory results in cancer patients in relation to
      quality of life related to health, functionality and other aspects, also showed benefits in
      the autonomic modulation of patients with breast cancer. In non-cancer patients, exercise
      interventions show improvements in the modulation of autonomic function, minimizing
      cardiovascular problems and reducing mortality after episodes of myocardial infarction.

      In addition to the cardiotoxic effects, cancer treatment favors the appearance of muscle
      changes. A systematic review with 754 women with breast cancer showed sarcopenia as a risk
      factor for mortality in 68% of patients. Not only the pathophysiology of cancer, but also
      drugs used for its treatment contribute to the loss of muscle mass.

      Research indicates that physical exercise can mitigate the declines induced by cancer
      treatment. There is sufficient evidence to support that exercise improves fitness before,
      during and after treatment is completed. A cardiovascular rehabilitation program based on
      education and behavioral counseling offers a modification of cardiac risk, increases
      functional capacity, ensures monitoring of the patient's functional status, improves
      psychosocial well-being and can reduce recurrent hospitalizations.

      Home rehabilitation can be an alternative for patients with moderate cardiac risk,
      self-monitoring capacity and with difficulties to attend due to social or displacement
      reasons. Considering the profile of the user of the Unified Health System, interventions at
      home and in the community seem to be the best way, together with telephone contacts for
      questions and / or guidance.

      Pre-qualification in cancer treatment is an opportunity to increase physiological reserves
      even before neoadjuvant therapies or surgery, with the intention of improving results and
      accelerating recovery. May consist of physical exercises, nutritional and psychosocial
      interventions.

      Knowing the nutritional profile of patients is of great importance considering the negative
      impact of an impaired nutritional status on postoperative outcomes. Excess weight or
      depletion has been reported as a factor that negatively influences surgical and cancer
      outcomes. The identification of patients at nutritional risk and probable sarcopenia will
      define an early nutritional orientation through an individualized diet with a focus on
      improving body composition, glycemic control, since preoperative glycemic control is
      associated with a lower incidence of infectious complications; and management of symptoms
      related to cancer treatment.

      Combined with treatment, behavioral counseling is effective in motivating changes in
      lifestyle, which are part of the modifiable risk factors for breast cancer. Thinking about
      the risks that accompany the diagnosis of breast cancer, a rehabilitation focused on treating
      current disorders and anticipating future complications are the first steps to improve the
      results of care and reduce costs.

      GOALS Main goal To evaluate the effectiveness of physical exercise in a surgical
      pre-habilitation program for women diagnosed with breast cancer who underwent cancer
      treatment with a curative therapeutic proposal at the Cancer Hospital III of the National
      Cancer Institute.

      Specific objectives

        -  Describe the sociodemographic and clinical characteristics of the study population

        -  Identify the rate of adherence to physical exercise and associated factors;

        -  To assess changes in functional and cardiopulmonary capacity, fatigue, health-related
           quality of life, level of physical activity, cardiac autonomic modulation and sarcopenia
           in women diagnosed with breast cancer, before and after surgical treatment and
           throughout the follow-up periods. according to the intervention group;

        -  Assess the nutritional status and body composition in the inclusion of patients in the
           study and before surgical treatment in all participating women;

        -  To verify the association between regular physical exercise before surgical treatment
           and functional and cardiopulmonary capacity, fatigue, level of physical activity,
           health-related quality of life, cardiac autonomic modulation and sarcopenia in
           comparison with the control group;

        -  Describe the perception of patients regarding the performance of pre-habilitation
           exercises;

        -  To evaluate the behavioral change in the practice of physical exercises after the
           surgical treatment of breast cancer.

      SAMPLE SIZE For the calculation of the sample size, the incidence of complications (outcomes)
      was considered to be 10% in the intervention group and 30% in the control group, with an
      alpha error of 0.05, a beta error of 0.20 and a power of 80%. Based on these parameters, it
      will be necessary to include 62 patients in each group. However, due to the evaluation of
      different outcomes and the lack of data on the incidence of complications in this population,
      all eligible patients will be included in the study inclusion period.

      LOSS CONTROL Losses related to change, lack of information and abandonment will represent a
      small number, as patients remain on cancer treatment for approximately 5 years at the
      institution. The non-recoverable losses will have data collected from the medical records to
      be compared with the patients who completed the follow-up.

      DATA ANALYSIS The data will be analyzed by intention to treat. The descriptive analysis will
      be performed by measures of central tendency and dispersion (quantitative variables) and
      distribution of absolute and relative frequency (qualitative variables).

      To assess the normal distribution of outcomes and quantitative control variables, the
      Kolmogorov-Smirnov test will be performed.

      To assess changes between groups in the pre- and / or post-intervention stages, the mean
      values will be compared by the t-student test or Mann-Whitney U test (non-parametric
      distribution). When analyzing the pre-verus comparison after intra-group intervention, the
      paired t-student test will be considered. For all analyzes, p-value less than 0.05 will be
      considered statistically significant.

      To assess the linearity between the outcome and the quantitative adjustment variables, the
      dispersion diagram will be performed. Quantitative independent variables that do not have a
      normal distribution will be categorized. To test the collinearity of the categorical
      independent variables, Pearson's correlation will be performed.

      To assess the association between the intervention groups and the quantitative outcomes, the
      differences between the means will be calculated and tested by analysis of variance,
      considering a value of p <0.20. Multiple linear regression will be performed using the enter
      method (stepwise forward), considering the 95% confidence interval. Homoscedasticity and
      possible biases of the model will be analyzed through residual analysis and all assumptions
      will be observed. To identify the explanatory power of the model, the determination
      coefficient will be performed. The association between intervention groups and categorical
      outcomes will be performed by univariate analysis, using the odds ratio (OR), assuming 95%
      confidence intervals (95% CI). Associations with clinical and statistical significance in the
      univariate analysis (considering p <0, ETHICAL AND LEGAL ASPECTS This study was submitted to
      the Research Ethics Committee of the National Cancer Institute (CEP / INCA), under CAAE
      42627521.6.0000.5274, and approved as per opinion 4.576.731. At the time of recruitment,
      women will be instructed on the objectives of the study and those who agree to participate
      will sign the Free and Informed Consent Form (ICF).

      RISK AND BENEFITS Performing physical assessments will not pose any health risks to patients.
      The practice of unsupervised physical exercises is safe for people without any chronic health
      impairment, as already mentioned in the exclusion criteria. To reduce the risks, patients
      will be instructed on the level of effort during the practice and on signs and symptoms of
      decompensation, being instructed to contact the researcher, if necessary.Despite the small
      risk, palpitation, excessive sweating, dizziness and shortness of breath may occur when
      exercising at home. If this occurs, patients will be instructed to end the exercise and
      contact the research team.. The study population will benefit indirectly through the results,
      which will analyze the effectiveness of the pre-habilitation program in improving functional
      capacity, fatigue, health-related quality of life, level of physical activity and autonomic
      modulation of women undergoing treatment for breast cancer, making it possible to plan
      actions to control complications.The intervention group, which will perform home physical
      exercises according to the guidelines, will benefit from the effects of physical exercise on
      physical and emotional well-being. When adhering to a healthy habit, physical conditioning,
      mental health and health-related quality of life improve.

      FINANCING This research will not impose any burden on the institution, since patients will be
      evaluated on the day they attend their routine consultations and other information will be
      collected from the physical and / or electronic medical record. The rest of the materials
      will be paid for by the researchers responsible.
    
  