
    
      Up to now, the balloon-expandable valves have been considered contraindicated for patients
      with pure AR due to the absence of calcium which is considered necessary for the anchoring of
      the prosthesis. Nonetheless, several cases report have suggested the feasibility of TAVI
      using the SAPIEN XT THV, in patients with no calcified valves suggesting that an appropriate
      degree of oversizing might compensate the lack of calcium for the anchoring of these
      prostheses.

      The new generation balloon-expandable SAPIEN 3 THV has incorporated changes in the stent
      frame geometry, leaflets configuration and an external sealing skirt resulting in an
      increased stability and outstanding control during its implantation, a greater radial force,
      a reduced rate of paravalvular leaks and a covering of a wider range of annulus dimensions.
      These characteristics of the SAPIEN 3 THV might translate into a safer use of this device in
      patients with pure AR and non-calcified valves.

      Significant AR occurs in 2.0% of individuals of >75 years, 13.3% of patients referred for
      intervention, being severe in 5% of these patients. As for aortic stenosis, its prevalence
      increases with age and the most frequent cause is degenerative although rheumatic and
      endocarditis are present. Although patients with severe AR have an excess risk of mortality
      and aortic valve replacement reduces mortality, only 1/3 of patients with significant AR
      finally undergo intervention. Reasons for no intervention are unknown.

      Even if it has been suggested that AR might be underestimated and the prevalence of this
      disease might be higher than previously reported, and a percent of patients with indication
      for aortic valve replacement are denied for surgery, pure AR is a small niche of patients for
      TAVI. In terms of cost-effectiveness, both the development of a dedicated device and the
      investment in the training of operators in the implantation technique might lack of interest.
      However, performing TAVI with a device used in the routine practice might be appealing and,
      importantly, safer. A preliminary case series including 3 patients have suggested the
      feasibility of TAVI with the SAPIEN 3 device for pure AR (Urena M, Himbert D. JACC, 2016 ).
      In this study we aim to evaluate the feasibility and long-term safety of the SAPIEN 3 THV in
      patients with pure AR.
    
  