
    
      Background:

        -  Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a systemic autoimmune disease that can involve
           almost any organ and can range in severity from mild to life-threatening. In spite of
           significant improvements in survival of SLE patients over last 20 years, a small but
           significant portion of patients still develop progressive therapy-refractory disease
           that impairs organ function and overall survival.

        -  Since 1996, more than 500 patients have been treated worldwide in pilot trials of
           autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (autoHSCT) for autoimmune diseases,
           including about 80 patients with SLE.

        -  The rationale for autoHSCT in autoimmune disease is to ablate autoreactive immune
           effectors and allow reconstitution of a new self-tolerant immune system from the

      hematopoietic stem cell. Studies have demonstrated acceptable safety and promising short term
      efficacy of high-dose cyclophosphamide-based (200 mg/kg) autoHSCT for about 60% of patients
      with advanced refractory SLE and reacquisition of sensitivity to conventional drugs have been
      demonstrated in many cases. However, these trials were designed to address the primary
      endpoint of safety and were inadequate for assessing the disease response.

      -Numerous questions about the true efficacy of autoHSCT, optimal transplant regimen, patient
      selection and mechanisms of action remain unaddressed.

      Objectives:

        -  The primary objective is to assess the rate of continuous relapse-free complete clinical
           responses at 24 months post-transplant, with statistical power of 84% to detect, if
           greater than 70 percent of patients meet the primary endpoint.

        -  The long-term goal of this research is to develop a basis for future transplant
           protocols that would incorporate new cellular or other immunotherapeutic interventions
           to further improve results of transplants with the ultimate goal to cure SLE.

      Eligibility:

      -Subjects age 15-40 years who fulfill at least 4 of the 11 criteria for SLE as defined by the

      American College of Rheumatology

      -Have severe and active lupus, refractory to immunosuppressive therapy. Included are subjects
      with nephritis, central nervous system (CNS) lupus, pulmonary lupus or hematologic disease

      Design:

        -  Fourteen patients with active and standard dose cyclophosphamide-resistant SLE will be
           enrolled on this phase II pilot study.

        -  Study design is intended to improve the efficacy of autoHSCT. A lymphoablative
           conditioning regimen (rituximab, fludarabine and cyclophosphamide) is explored for the
           first time in autoimmune disease.

        -  The treatment schedule consists of two parts; the priming regimen prior to stem cell
           mobilization and collection, and the conditioning regimen with transplant.

        -  In contrast to other studies, this study has precisely defined eligibility and disease
           response criteria with strict schema of tapering immunosuppression that should allow
           accurate interpretation of the treatment results.

        -  The study includes a carefully chosen battery of laboratory research studies designed to
           investigate SLE biology and mechanisms of post-transplant responses.
    
  