
    
      As observed in other immunocompromised individuals with selective or combined T cell
      deficits, the prevalence and morbidity of human papillomavirus (HPV)-related disease is
      increased in patients with idiopathic CD4 T cell lymphocytopenia (ICL). The high burden and
      aggressive clinical course of HPV-associated disease in patients with ICL requires the
      development of effective preventive measures in this specific population. The protection from
      a broader range of HPV types offered by the 9-valent vaccine is expected to be particularly
      beneficial in this population. This applies even to patients with a history of type-specific
      HPV-associated disease, as this population may remain at a higher risk of acquisition of
      infection with new oncogenic HPV types even with increasing age. However, the immunogenicity
      of vaccines and in particular HPV preventive vaccines has never been systematically studied
      in patients with ICL.

      This will be a phase 2, open-label study to assess the immunogenicity of the U.S. Food and
      Drug Administration (FDA)-approved 9-valent HPV recombinant vaccine GARDASIL 9 in patients
      18- through 65-years-old with ICL, irrespective of HPV serostatus, presence of HPV-associated
      diseases, or previous immunization with bivalent or quadrivalent HPV vaccine, as well as
      healthy controls matched to the ICL patient group for age and gender. The study will take
      place at a single site (National Institutes of Health Clinical Center, Bethesda, MD).
      Participants will be assessed at baseline for history and/or clinical evidence of
      HPV-associated disease. Those with a history of or current HPV skin or mucosal disease will
      undergo clinically indicated evaluation and be referred for clinical care as needed. We will
      administer the vaccine according to the standard 3-dose schedule approved by the FDA for
      individuals 9 through 45 years of age, with the second and third doses administered at least
      2 months and at least 6 months, respectively, after the first dose. Follow-up visits will
      occur 1 and 18 months after completion of the vaccination schedule. Blood will be collected
      at each study visit for safety and immunogenicity testing.
    
  