
    
      [Introduction] Aging usually results in a decline of motor function. However, elderly tends
      to refuse the regular health examination because of travel issues or lack of self-health
      awareness. Examination unit also has difficulty to intensively track and instantly feedback
      the health status of elderly due to insufficient manpower. If elderly goes to the hospital
      only when the health problem is getting worse, his/her health is often irreversible and the
      cost of medical care would be increased. It is therefore an essential issue for the early
      detection of functional changes in elderly to prevent the deterioration of the health and
      function. Currently, the telemedicine cares provided by hospitals are not universal due to
      the out-of-date legislation and non-successful business model. The wearing and operation
      issues of the wearable devices used for health management are still a gap affecting the
      acceptance of elderly. Accordingly, the objective of this project is to develop a handy and
      easy-to-use smart physical examination system targeted on the unmet need of the elderly. With
      the use of motion-sensing and big data analysis technology, the non-contact professional and
      intelligent assessment could simplify the general health checkup procedures to promote the
      health management and to reduce the manpower cost of health care. The ultimate goal is to
      realize a commercial product aiming at the silver hair market with functional advantages to
      meet the unmet needs of health management in elderly.

      In this study, a new type of home-based health assessment platform will be proposed. The main
      purpose is to help the elderly who may not be able to go to the hospital or health unit for
      regular health check because of inconvenience to physical activity. The current health
      assessment mode is also insufficient because Human and resource could not provide a more
      intensive frequency of health testing. The physical condition of the elderly may rapidly
      decline into a systemic disability due to some minor diseases. Therefore, the current limited
      resource inspection mode cannot effectively monitor and recover the elderly's physical
      condition. The home-based health assessment platform developed in this study can evaluate the
      user's health status in hospitals, communities, or home environments. The non-contact
      evaluation method allows users to start testing without wearing any device, which can
      effectively improve The user's acceptance of health testing and rapid grading of the user's
      health will also help to further design a personalized rehabilitation training program in the
      future.

      [Method]

      Subject:

      Inclusion criteria: 1) aged between 55-85 years old. 2) normal upper extremity function. 3)
      walk for at least 10 meters without help.

      Exclusion criteria: 1) any disease that could affect balance. 2) deficits in vision or
      hearing. 3) mental issues preclude from the understanding of the protocol.

      Protocol:

        1. Basic information: including gender, age, height, leg length, weight, medical history,
           medication, etc.

        2. Clinical functional assessment: The results of following tests evaluated by the
           Kinect-based health management platform will be compared with those of the physical
           examination conducted by experts such as clinicians and therapists.

           i. Flexibility test: The subjects sit in a chair with no backrest and backrest. One foot
           bent stably on the ground and one foot extended forward (knee joint must be straight).
           The heel hits the ground and the foot was in neutral position. They are then asked to
           overlap the hands and straighten the upper body forward slowly, trying to touch the toes
           in the middle pointing and holding for 2 seconds. The distance between the middle finger
           and the toes is then measured. The test are repeated twice and the better measured value
           will be recorded.

           ii. Endurance test: evaluated by the 2-minute stepping test. iii. Muscle strength: Upper
           limb strength is assessed using a 30-second arm curl test. And the lower limb strength
           is assessed by the 30-second sit-to-stand test.

           iv. Balance test: The subjects are asked to stand on the force plate looking straight
           ahead with feet in shoulder width. There are two kinds of standing test situations: i)
           single leg standing for a maximum of 60 seconds; ii) forward reaching as the arms
           straight and parallel to the ground and remain in the maximum extended position for two
           seconds.

           v. Questionnaire: EuroQOL-5D will be used to evaluate their quality of life.

        3. Data analysis: The concurrent validity of the Kinect-based health management platform
           will be analyzed by the Pearson Correlation. And the balance parameters will be
           evaluated by the movement of center of the pressure.

        4. Adverse reactions and management: All the tests are non-invasive, so we won't expect any
           major side effects. If the patient feels uncomfortable or feels dizzy during the fitness
           test, he can stop the test, lie down and rest at any time, and the on-site medical staff
           will monitor their breathing, heartbeat, and blood pressure to assess whether additional
           treatment is required.
    
  