
    
      Introduction: The decline in malaria incidence has stalled globally and incidence is
      increasing in some high transmission settings of sub-Saharan Africa, including Malawi. The
      situation is worsening despite the scale-up of previously effective interventions, raising
      concerns that the impact of current malaria control and prevention strategies maybe
      compromised.

      Problem: There is an urgent need for innovative approaches to malaria control and Malawi is
      currently positioned to assess two of the most promising new interventions. The Malawi
      Ministry of Health (MOH) is launching large scale projects to evaluate a new formulation of
      insecticide-treated bed nets with a chemical synergist, piperonyl butoxide (PBO), designed to
      enhance the insecticidal effect of pyrethroids and the new malaria vaccine RTS,S (RTS,S). In
      an effort to gain the most information from these, interventions Malawi's National Malaria
      Control Programme (NMCP) have invited the Malawi International Center for Excellence in
      Malaria Research (ICEMR) to evaluate the effectiveness of the two interventions (alone and in
      combination) on malaria prevalence and transmission.

      Objective: In this proposed implementation study, we propose to assess the impact of PBO nets
      and RTS,S vaccine on Plasmodium infection prevalence and transmission.

      Study type and methodology: We will enroll children in a prospective cohort study in which
      the follow-up will be at the 2nd, 4th, and 6th month. We are selecting two health center
      catchment areas: one in which both RTS,S and PBO nets are available through the government
      health system and one in which there is no RTS,S vaccine available and standard long-lasting
      insecticide-treated nets (LLINS) have been distributed through the public section. At each
      visit, we will collect specimens to identify malaria infection and detect gametocyte
      infections. We will also collect and analyze mosquitoes from 100 households in both catchment
      areas to provide an entomological evidence of the force of infection. Children in households
      that are scheduled to receive both PBO nets and RTS,S vaccine will be compared to children in
      households that are not scheduled to receive either of these interventions.
    
  