
    
      The investigators propose a randomized double-blind trial comparing TAP blocks with liposomal
      bupivacaine, plain bupivacaine, and placebo in patients having elective abdominal surgery.

      After eligibility is confirmed, patients will receive complete information about the study
      both verbally and in writing. Informed consent will be obtained from the patients prior to
      randomization and study-specific procedures.

      Randomization will be based on computer-generated codes and use random-sized blocks.
      Allocations will be concealed until the morning of surgery where they will be provided by a
      web-based system. Randomization will be stratified by study site and chronic opioid use,
      defined by opioid use for more than 30 consecutive days within three preoperative months, at
      a daily dose of 15 mg or more of morphine or equivalent. Randomization will also be
      stratified according to anticipated type of surgery (open vs. laparoscopic-assisted).
      Clinicians doing the blocks will not be involved in data collection and all the evaluators
      will be blinded to group allocations.

      All blocks will be performed preoperatively or after induction of anesthesia by attending
      anesthesiologists or regional anesthesia fellows who are experienced in TAP blocks.
      Premedication will be administered at the discretion of the attending anesthesiologist and
      standard monitors will be used. Patients will be given 1 g oral acetaminophen an hour before
      surgery, and an additional 500 mg every 6 hours for 72 hours after surgery starting with oral
      intake.

      Patients will be randomly assigned to: 1) 4-quadrant TAP block with liposomal bupivacaine; 2)
      4-quadrant TAP block with plain bupivacaine; or, 3) placebo (normal saline). An in-plane
      ultrasound will be guide TAP blocks. Two subcostal injections will be applied by placing the
      probe midline and then moving lateral along the subcostal margin identifying area between the
      rectus abdominis sheath and the transversus abdominis muscle. The lateral two TAP block
      injections will be applied in the midaxillary line between the thoracic cage and iliac crest
      between external oblique and transversus abdominis muscles. Once the target area is
      positioned, the following injections will be given, based on randomization:

      Liposomal bupivacaine. 40 ml of plain bupivacaine 0.25% will be mixed with 20 ml liposomal
      bupivacaine and 20 ml of saline. 20 ml of the mix will be injected at each location of the
      4-quadrant TAP block.

      Plain bupivacaine group. 50 ml of plain bupivacaine 0.5% will be combined with 30 ml of
      normal saline making a total of 80 ml. 20 ml will be injected at each location of the
      4-quadrant TAP block.

      Placebo group; patients will receive total of 80 ml of normal saline, injected 20 ml in each
      of the four-quadrant sites.

      General anesthesia will be induced using propofol or etomidate, fentanyl, and rocuronium to
      facilitate intubation. Anesthesia will be maintained with sevoflurane or isoflurane, along
      with opioids and muscle relaxants as clinically indicated. However, intraoperative analgesic
      use will be limited to fentanyl, a short-acting opioid.

      Postoperatively, patients will be given intravenous patient-controlled analgesia and nurses
      will be free to give additional opioid as clinically indicated. Hydromorphone will be the
      default drug, but fentanyl will be substituted if necessary. Clinicians blinded to trial drug
      will adjust analgesic management as necessary in an effort to keep verbal response pain
      scores (details below) <4 points on a 0-10 scale, with 10 being worst pain. When patients no
      longer need PCA, they will be switched to as-needed hydromorphone or fentanyl.

      A single dose of dexamethasone (4-8 mg) will be permitted for PONV prophylaxis, and inhaled
      steroids will be permitted as necessary to treat reactive airway disease. The use of
      non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and gabapentinoids will be allowed as part of the ERAS
      approach (enhanced recovery after surgery) according to hospital's clinical practice. Other
      opioid-sparing medications such as ketamine and lidocaine patches will not be permitted
      through the initial 72 postoperative hours.

      Patients will be allowed to receive prophylactic anti-emetic (first choice ondansetron)
      intraoperatively based on the risk assessment for nausea and vomiting. Postoperative
      anti-emetics for symptomatic treatment will also be allowed; again ondansetron will be the
      first choice.
    
  