
    
      A Phase III, randomized, open label, pragmatic trial to compare the safety and efficacy of
      first-line combination therapy (sildenafil and bosentan) to first-line monotherapy
      (sildenafil alone) in pediatric subjects with WHO Functional Classes II or III and
      precapillary pulmonary hypertension of Group 1 (PAH caused by idiopathic, heritable, drugs or
      toxins, congenital heart disease, or connective tissue disease) or Group 3 (PAH caused by
      lung disease or hypoxemia) according to the WHO (Nice) classification system. Precapillary
      pulmonary hypertension will be defined by standard criteria as mean pulmonary artery pressure
      over 25 mmHg and/or pulmonary vascular resistance index (PVRI) > 3, as well as pulmonary
      capillary wedge pressure (or left ventricular end diastolic pressure) ≤ 15 mmHg as determined
      by cardiac catheterization.

      Study subjects will be followed with current standard of care assessments and diagnostics,
      including longitudinal clinical evaluations, determinations of functional class (FC), serial
      NT-pro-Brain Natriuretic Peptide (NT-proBNP) levels, and echocardiography. Data from these
      studies will be analyzed in central core facilities that will be used by all participating
      study sites.

      Clinical endpoints are the focus of this study. However, additional data collection is
      planned for exploratory aims to examine the potential role for future application of novel
      metrics of outcomes in children with PAH (e.g., pediatric QOL and actigraphy), as described
      below. The investigators also plan to collect blood, swab and urine samples to determine
      whether inherent genomic variations or novel proteomic biomarkers will associate with
      clinical responsiveness to interventions within the cohort. Bio-specimens will be obtained to
      further test the hypothesis that therapeutic responders will have a different genomic or
      proteomic profile as compared to subjects who do not respond well to therapy.

      Bio-specimens will include the following:

        1. Blood for DNA, peripheral blood mononuclear cells, plasma, and serum; and

        2. Paired Box Gene (PAXgene) tubes for RNA and miRNA studies; and

        3. Urine for biomarker analysis.

      Because sildenafil and bosentan have different mechanisms of action targeting different
      intracellular pathways, combination therapy is a rational treatment strategy for pediatric
      patients with PAH. Past work in adult PAH suggests that combination therapy with longer
      duration agents with the same mechanisms of action may cause greater and more sustained
      improvement in clinical course in comparison with monotherapy. Whether children with PAH
      respond and tolerate combination therapy better than monotherapy has not been studied. In
      addition, despite a growing experience with sequential therapy, additional medications are
      added only after clinical deterioration or failure to sustain responsiveness.

      Pharmacokinetics will be assessed during this study in order to determine whether drug levels
      or compliance with therapy affect outcomes in this cohort. In addition, pharmacokinetics data
      and related clinical responses from mono- and dual therapy participants will be compared.
      Interactions between these agents are well known, whereby bosentan decreases sildenafil
      levels. As a result, sildenafil levels during mono- and combination therapy will be further
      defined by the planned pharmacokinetics in the current protocol. In addition to strengthening
      this current study design, such data will form a basis for optimizing the use of these agents
      and potential strategies for dose adjustments in the broader scope of clinical care in the
      future.
    
  