
    
      Disordered glucose tolerance in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus is multifactorial and
      includes dysfunction not only of β-cells of the pancreas, liver and muscles, but also of the
      adipose tissue, gastrointestinal tract, kidney, α-cells of the pancreas and the brain.
      Therefore, it is likely that the use of drugs that act on multiple aspects of the
      pathophysiology of diabetes will have beneficial effects on glycemic control and outcome of
      patients.In addition to the many possible causes of glucose deregulation, people with type 2
      diabetes have comorbidities such as hypertension, hyperlipidemia and obesity resulting in
      increased cardiovascular risk. Optimal treatment of hyperglycaemia and cardiovascular risk
      factors is necessary to reduce adverse events. Although the initial approach is the
      modification of dietary factors (physical activity, diet, smoking cessation), the progressive
      nature of type 2 diabetes ultimately leads to the use of multiple therapies. Guidelines for
      the treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes with high HbA1c are initial double-combined
      therapy or triple combination if glycemic control is not achieved after 3 months. Although
      insulin is usually included in such combinations, additional treatment options are required
      for patients with high HbA1c who also need to lose weight and avoid hypoglycaemia. It is
      likely that the outcome of patients could be improved by using drugs targeting different
      aspects of the disease (glycemia, body weight, blood pressure, lipids).

      Over the last decade, two classes of antidiabetic drugs have been added to weight loss,
      improved cardiovascular risk factors and a low risk of hypoglycemia: glucagon-like peptide-1
      agonists (GLP-1, glucagon like peptide-1) and inhibitors of the sodium glucose subtype 2
      (SGLT2, sodium-glucose co-transporters). Recent studies have shown that these two drugs have
      cardioprotective effects possibly through different mechanisms of action, while their
      complementary mechanical, pharmacological and clinical effects make their combination (in
      addition to metformin) potentially beneficial in type 2 diabetes patients. Specifically,
      SGLT2 inhibitors manifest their cardioprotective activity by improving hemodynamic
      parameters, while GLP-1 agonists through antiatherogen / anti-inflammatory mechanisms.

      The increased arterial stiffness with the associated increase in the range of reflected
      pressure waves, determines not only the augmentation of systolic pressure but also the rate
      of increase which depends on age. Increased levels of pulse pressure (indirect
      atherosclerotic index) and pulse wave velocity (PWV), a reliable measure of arterial
      stiffness, predict future cardiovascular events. Endothelial dysfunction is associated with
      the presence of atherosclerosis and is also considered as an indicator of the early changes
      preceding it. The role of impaired endothelial function of large arteries seems to be
      significant in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease . Endothelial glycocalyx is a
      glycoprotein layer that covers the surface of endothelial cells and regulates arterial wall
      permeability and the interaction of endothelial cells with circulating blood cells.
      Inflammatory or atherogenic stimuli, such as hyperglycemia, lead to glucocalyx disorder and
      increased vascular sensitivity to further atherogenic stimuli. The two-dimensional speckle
      tracking ultrasound allows accurate estimation of left ventricular distortion, which is
      disordered in diabetics in relation to healthy subjects.

      Hypothesis of the proposed study:

      Endothelial function, arterial stiffness and left ventricular distortion are improved in
      patients with type 2 diabetes with high cardiovascular risk treated with GLP-1 agonist and
      SGLT2 inhibitor compared to either one or both combination of insulin and other antidiabetic
      tablets.

      Aim of the study:

      The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of GLP-1 agonist, SGLT2 inhibitor and
      their combination on endothelial function, arterial stiffness, central hemodynamic
      characteristics and left ventricular distortion in patients with type 2 diabetes with high
      cardiovascular risk and compared with the combination of insulin and other antidiabetic
      tablets.

      Materials and methods :

      A. Four groups of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus with high cardiovascular risk will
      be studied before and after 3 months of treatment:

        -  40 patients treated with a combination of GLP1 analogue and SGLT2 inhibitor ± metformin

        -  40 patients treated with GLP-1 agonist as a second step after metformin

        -  40 patients treated with SGLT2 inhibitor as a second step after metformin

        -  40 patients treated with a combination of insulin and other antidiabetic agents
           (metformin - DPP4inhibitors) Individuals will be equal distributed as far as age, gender
           and body mass index concerned. In addition, patients suffered from kidney disease and
           retinopathy are excluded.

      B. All patients will be submitted to an echocardiographic study in order to estimate the
      total left ventricular and atrial myocardial global longitudinal strain (GLS) as well as the
      twisting-untwisting of the left ventricle using speckle tracking imaging. In addition, pulse
      wave velocity (PWV , measured in m/s), pulse wave augmentation index [AIx %, which is
      calculated by the formula (P2-P1)/PP x 100, where P1 stands for peak systolic pressure, P2
      stands for second peak systolic pressure due to wave reflection and PP stands for Pulse
      Pressure ], central systolic blood pressure (SBPao, measured in mm Hg) and central pulse
      pressure (PPao, measured ) with Arteriograph, Mobilograph and Complior, and perfused boundary
      region (PBR) of sublingual vessels (5-25 μm in size) using a high-resolution special lens
      with Sideview Darkfield Imaging technique (Microscan, Glucockeck). PBR consists the cell-free
      space which is formed from the separation of red blood cells from plasma at the surface of
      the endothelial glycocalyx. Increased PBR is considered to be an accurate indicator of the
      reduction of endothelial glycocalyx thickness due to plasma penetration into the glycocalyx.

      Μalondialdehyde (MDA), protein carbolates (PC) as oxidation load markers, blood glucose,
      glycosylated hemoglobin HbA1c and a full lipidemic profile will be measured before and after
      3 months of treatment.

      The examination will be carried out at the Angiology Laboratory of the 2nd Department of
      Cardiology of the University of Athens at "Attikon" Hospital.

      C. For the statistical analysis of the results, the significance of each intervention will be
      measured by t-test and the 4 groups will be compared by ANOVA (post-hoc comparisons with
      Bonferroni correction). Non-parametric tests will be used for non-Gaussian distributions.
      Forty individuals should be included in each group in order the results being statistically
      significant. In a previous study, myocardial global longitudinal strain of the left ventricle
      showed normal distribution with standard deviation 10. A true difference in mean left
      ventricular myocardial distortion between the intervention group (GLP-1 agonist compined with
      SGLT2 inhibitor) and a control one (combination of insulin and other antidiabetic tablets)
      which is calculated of -6.344% or 6.344% will be calculated with probability 0.8. The
      probability of a type I error if the null hypothesis is that the mean difference between the
      two groups is equal, is equivalent to 0.05.

      Significance/future prospects:

      This study is expected to open the horizons of better understanding the cardiovascular
      benefits of GLP-1 agonist, SGLT2 inhibitor and their combination in patients with type 2
      diabetes mellitus. Moreover, the contribution of the investigator's results, in a
      clinical-level could be the use of new drug therapies that reduce both microvascular
      complications by reducing glycemia and macrovascular complications (myocardial infarction,
      stroke, cardiovascular mortality) as the first treatment line in patients with type 2
      diabetes with high cardiovascular risk.
    
  