
    
      The problem to be addressed:

      Fever is among the commonest symptoms for which parents consult health care providers
      worldwide. Distinction between life-threatening bacterial infection and viral infection is
      clinically difficult, and many children worldwide receive unnecessary antibiotic treatment,
      or undergo invasive investigations and hospitalization, whilst bacterial infection is missed
      in others.

      Objective:

      The investigators aim to validate biomarkers that will identify children with bacterial
      infection, viral infection and inflammatory syndromes, using whole-blood RNA expression,
      proteomic and metabolomics signatures. The investigators aim to assess how efficacious these
      biomarkers would be if they formed the basis of a diagnostic test.

      Design:

      The investigators will use established case-control groups of febrile children presenting to
      hospital, recruited across Europe as part of previous (and current) ethically-approved
      studies, to discover signatures of febrile illness. The investigators will validate these
      signatures in samples prospectively collected from children as part of this observational
      study.

      There are two components to the study design;

        1. MOFICHE study:

           Observe the management and outcome of children presenting to Emergency Departments (ED)
           with fever across Europe (MOFICHE study.

           STUDY SIZE: at least 50,000 febrile children

           PROCEDURES:

           Data of all febrile children will be flagged at triage and a standardised dataset will
           be collected.

        2. Biomarker Validation (BIVA studies):

      Validate biomarkers using prospectively recruited patients and patient samples (Biomarker
      Validation studies (BIVA))

      The investigators will use prospective, observational BIVA studies to recruit febrile
      children with infectious and inflammatory diseases in order to validate diagnostic
      biomarkers. The investigators will also recruit non-febrile controls in order to discover and
      validate disease-specific biomarkers and to understand their biological significance.

      STUDY SIZE at least 4000 febrile children;

      PROCEDURES;

      Informed consent using age appropriate patient/parent/guardian information sheets will be
      taken from parents (or from children aged 16 and over), assent will be taken from the child
      under the age of 16 (if appropriate).

      Routine clinical and laboratory data and research samples from three timepoints
      (presentation, 48 hours after presentation, 28 days after admission). If patients present to
      hospital with fever on subsequent occasions, clinical data will be recorded and further
      research samples will be taken at those times.

      Samples; Blood, urine, stool (in the case of gastroenteritis), nasopharyngeal/throat swab

      CONTROLS:

      The investigators will collect samples from age-matched control patients will not have had a
      febrile illness, major trauma or vaccination within the previous three weeks and who are
      having routine blood sampling for reasons other than investigation of infectious or
      inflammatory disease.

      Control children may include critically ill children without infection or those with
      healthcare associated infections).
    
  