
    
      Congestive heart failure (CHF) is a public health epidemic in the U.S., affecting almost 5
      million Americans. It is associated with a 5-year mortality rate of 50% (according to the
      American Heart Association, 1999) and is currently the most costly cardiovascular disease in
      the U.S. (according to Rich MW et al 1999 and O'Connell JB 2000). In 1999, the total
      estimated direct and indirect costs associated with the treatment of CHF approached $56
      billion (according to O'Connell JB 2000). Advanced CHF accounts for over 1 million hospital
      admissions annually in the U.S.and for a large portion of the total expense to third-party
      payers, due to the high cost of acute inpatient care and related Emergency Department visits.

      Emergency Departments are the last line of defense against hospital admission for CHF.
      Operational and liability issues that pertain to the typical Emergency Department lead to
      hospital admission for most CHF patients. Yet, problems with bed availability may lead to the
      delayed transfer of patients from the Emergency Department to the inpatient unit, further
      delaying important treatment. To address this, many Emergency Departments have developed
      extended-stay policies for the observation and continuing care of patients who cannot be
      discharged from the Emergency Department within a few hours of arrival. With an extended stay
      (< 24 hours) for evaluation and treatment in the Emergency Department, hospital admission for
      CHF may be significantly reduced by adequately ruling out coronary ischemia and aggressively
      treating the precipitating factor of the decompensation. This allows physicians to better
      assess the appropriateness of admission for the patient (according to Graff LG 1993 ).
      Initiation of a safe and effective acute therapy in addition to usual standard care may make
      it possible to further reduce hospital admissions or the severity of the patient's condition
      at the time of the admission.

      Natrecor® has been approved for use in the treatment of acutely decompensated CHF patients
      with dyspnea at rest or with minimal activity. It is a recombinant form (produced by genetic
      engineering) of naturally occurring human B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP, also known as
      brain natriuretic peptide) produced primarily by the ventricular myocardium (according to
      Hosoda K et al 1991). Natrecor® has been well tolerated in controlled clinical trials
      involving more than 1000 patients with CHF. The data from these previous studies suggest that
      doses of Natrecor® may be a potent agent for the treatment of acute CHF with a unique
      combination of desirable effects on the flow of blood throughout the body; the hormones
      secreted by the nervous system; and support of copious salt outputs by the renal system not
      provided by currently available therapies (according to LeJemtel TH et al 1998). Although
      Natrecor® has not been studied in the setting of an Emergency Department, it has been
      administered as a fixed-dose infusion without invasive monitoring to over 500 patients.
      Furthermore, Natrecor® has not been associated with an increase in cardiac ectopy or
      arrhythmias in both placebo-controlled and active-controlled trials (according to Burger AJ
      et al 1999 and Mills RM et al 1999).

      This multicenter, randomized, double-blinded pilot study compares the clinical effects,
      safety profile, and economic impact of standard therapy plus Natrecor® to standard therapy
      plus placebo in the treatment of acutely decompensated CHF in an Emergency
      Department/Observation Unit setting. Study drug (Natrecor® or placebo) is administered as a
      bolus of 2 mcg/kg over approximately 60 seconds, immediately followed by a fixed-rate
      infusion of 0.01 mcg/kg/min for at least 12 hours. Subjects who continue to receive study
      drug and who remain in the Emergency Department/Observation Unit beyond 12 hours, up to 24
      hours, have vital signs measured at 18 hours, 24 hours, immediately before discontinuation of
      study drug, and at 30 minutes, 1 hour, and 2 hours after discontinuation of study drug. Also,
      global clinical and dyspnea (difficulty breathing and shortness of breath) evaluations, and a
      visual monitoring scale for dyspnea, are completed at the time of termination of study drug
      in the Emergency Department/Observation Unit, or admission to the hospital. The
      health-economic analysis focuses on resource utilization and cost of care for initial
      treatment in the Emergency Department/Observation Unit and inpatient facility (if admitted),
      as well as any subsequent treatment in an Emergency Department or acute inpatient facility
      within the 30-day study period.

      The study hypothesis is that the efficacy and safety profile of Natrecor® may be conducive to
      its early administration for acute treatment of heart failure in the Emergency Department and
      that in addition to standard care, may make it possible to further reduce hospital admissions
      or the severity of the patient's condition at the time of admission. Natrecor® 1.5 mg for
      injection made up to final concentration of 0.3 mg/mL with 5% dextrose in water, or placebo.
      Dispensed as an intravenous bolus of 2 mcg/kg over approximately 60 seconds, immediately
      followed by a fixed-rate infusion of 0.01 mcg/kg/min for at least 12 hours.
    
  