
    
      The evaluation of left ventricle filling pressures (LVFP) perioperatively in cardiac surgery
      could be challenging. This is particularly relevant after separation from cardiopulmonary
      bypass because the hemodynamic state is dynamic, with changes in heart rate, loading
      conditions, and deterioration in diastolic function being common. Elevated LVFP leads to
      pulmonary edema, arrhythmia, pulmonary hypertension and RV failure.

      To estimate the LVFP, the gold standard method is the pulmonary capillary wedge pressure
      (PCWP) measured by a pulmonary arterial catheter (PAC). However, placement of a PAC is an
      invasive procedure associated with adverse events.

      Recommandations released by the American Society of Echocardiography for the evaluation of
      left ventricular diastolic function pointed out some difficulties concerning the evaluation
      of elevated LAP perioperativly in cardiac surgery. The commonly used parameters, such as the
      mitral pulsed Doppler flow, could be faulted by mitral valve regurgitation, atrial
      fibrillation, or fast changes in loading conditions. In cardiac surgery, additional
      diagnostic methods are needed to diagnose elevated LVFP.

      In the right heart, measurements of the inferior vena cava diameter and collapsibility index
      are recommended for the evaluation of the right atrial pressure. Since it has been previously
      described that alterations of the pulmonary vein Doppler flow are correlated with elevated
      LAP, pulmonary vein diameter dilatation or lack of collapsibility have never been
      investigated as a marker of elevated LAP, neither in cardiology nor in cardiac surgery.

      In this study, the investigators made the hypothesis that pulmonary vein diameter increase
      when LAP increase (in the absence of confounding factors, such as pulmonary vein stenosis or
      mitral regurgitation directed toward the pulmonary vein). In the same way,the investigators
      hypothized that cyclic variations of pulmonary vein diameter under mechanical ventilation
      decrease when the LAP increase. The ventilation parameters will be standardized.

      The investigators will conduct a prospective study in the Department of cardiothoracic
      anesthesiology and critical care medicine, at the Montpellier University Hospital. Patients
      scheduled for an elective cardiac surgery and requiring pulmonary arterial catheter
      monitoring will be enrolled. The TEE standardized protocol will be performed three times,
      before and after cardiopulmonary bypass, and one-hour postoperatively in ICU. The mean PCWP,
      the standard method for measuring the LAP, will be recorded simultaneously by the pulmonary
      arterial catheter. For patients with atrial fibrillation, measurements will be averaged from
      10 consecutive cycles.

      The main objective is to correlate left upper pulmonary vein diameter and collapsibility with
      invasive PCWP. We have chosen to analyze the LUPV as the main marker because the LUPV is the
      easiest to measure among the four pulmonary veins in our clinical practice. Secondary
      objectives are to explore the correlation between the recommanded LAP echocardiographic
      parameters and the PCWP ; and to compare the area under curve (AUC) of all echocardiographic
      parameters to define which parameter has the best predictive value to diagnose elevated LAP.
      An elevated LAP is defined by a PCWP greater than 18 mmHg.

      The study protocol has been approved by the Institutional Rview Board under the number
      2019_IRB-MTP_05-21. The IRB waived the need for the investigator to obtain signed consent
      forms. We have planned to include 30 patients in this study
    
  