
    
      Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder
      characterized by attention deficits, hyperactivity, or impulsive actions that are not
      appropriate for the individuals' age (Barkley 1997). These behavioural issues arise
      relatively early in life, typically before the age of 12, and continue to persist into
      adulthood in many cases (Barkley 1997). In school-aged children, ADHD is associated with low
      academic achievement, poor school performance, anxiety and depression.

      Symptoms are divided into inattention (e.g., easily distracted, difficulty focusing on &
      completing a task), hyperactivity (e.g., constantly in motion, fidgets, squirms, talks
      non-stop), and impulsivity (e.g., difficult waiting one's turn, interrupting others). Three
      subtypes of ADHD have been identified: predominantly inattentive (ADHD-I), predominantly
      hyperactive-impulsive (ADHD-H), and the combined type (ADHD-C).

      Psychostimulants in medium to high doses acts to inhibit re-uptake of dopamine by the
      dopamine transporter (DAT), resulting in increased dopamine concentrations in the synapse.
      DAT is abundant in the striatum, which is implicated in hyperactivity and impulsivity aspects
      of ADHD. However, DAT is sparse in prefrontal cortex (PFC), which plays a critical role in
      subserving executive functions. Executive functions (EFs; also called cognitive control or
      self-regulation) are a group of processes involved in concentration, focused attention,
      self-control, cognitive flexibility, problem-solving, and working memory (refs: Diamond,
      2013; Jacques & Marcovitch, 2010). Thus the number of high risk alleles of the gene that
      codes for the dopamine transporter (DAT1) are associated with hyperactivity (which depends on
      the striatum) but not inattention or EF deficits (which depend on PFC; refs: Jucaite et al.,
      2005; Waldman et al., 1998.

      The action of low doses of psychostimulants has been shown to be different, however. At low
      doses psychostimulants has been demonstrated to act preferentially on PFC, increasing
      dopamine release (refs: Berridge et al., 2006; Schmeichel & Berridge, 2013; Spencer et al,
      2012). Thus, moderate to high doses of psychostimulants (doses most often prescribed for
      children and youths with ADHD) probably do not improve PFC function or EFs, or worse, may
      actually impair cognitive function, leaving a patient feeling more in a daze.

      Optimal dosing for psychostimulants in children and youths with ADHD is usually determined by
      parents' reports of improved behaviour, almost never by performance on cognitive measures. We
      propose to look at cognitive performance on measures of attention, working memory, planning,
      etc. in children and youths with ADHD on their current dose of psychostimulants and on half
      that much (order counterbalanced across participants).

      Purpose/Objectives: This double-blind crossover study aims to compare cognitive performance
      (e.g., working memory, selective attention and cognitive flexibility) of children ages 6-18
      years diagnosed with ADHD of the combined type (ADHD-C) or inattentive-type (ADHD-IA) and
      currently on > 20 mg/day of psychostimulants on their current dose of psychostimulants and on
      a lower-dose of psychostimulants (half of their current dose), order counterbalanced across
      subjects.

      To give us an estimate of order effects to help us correct for better performance in the 2nd
      session due simply to taking the same cognitive tests twice (note: the tests are Version A
      and B), we will also be recruiting healthy volunteers to serve as a control group. This
      control group will be strictly no intervention.

      Hypotheses: The investigators hypothesize that lower-dose psychostimulants will result in
      better cognitive performance than moderate-to-high doses of psychostimulants.
    
  