
    
      Awake craniotomy for resection of brain tumor located in close proximity to areas of eloquent
      brain function, such as speech, motor and sensory, is an accepted procedure used to minimize
      neurological injury during resection. The level of sedation and analgesia during the
      different stages of surgery varies, but importantly, the patient needs to be awake and alert
      during brain mapping. During awake craniotomy, anesthesia is usually provided using a
      combination of local anesthesia (regional scalp block and/or local infiltration) and
      intravenous (IV) agents to provide sedation, anxiolysis and analgesia. There is considerable
      variation in the anesthetic management of the awake craniotomy in different institutions.
      Propofol sedation, commonly in combination with a shorter acting opioid such as fentanyl, or
      remifentanil, is an effective and popular technique during awake craniotomy, achieving a high
      degree of patient satisfaction and acceptance. However, the awake craniotomy remains one of
      the most challenging techniques of anesthesia care in terms of balancing an adequate depth of
      sedation and analgesia to combat the rapid changes of surgical stimulation yet having an
      alert patient for brain mapping. Furthermore, most of the anesthetic agents are associated
      with some respiratory depression.

      A newer anesthetic agent called dexmedetomidine (Precedex (TM), Hospira Healthcare
      Corporation, Saint Laurent, Québec, Canada) is a potent, highly selective α2-adrenoceptor
      agonist with an α2:α1 selectivity ratio of 1600:1. It has been available in the Canada since
      2009 as a short-term sedative agent, and is available in the UHN. The use of dexmedetomidine
      has been in mechanically ventilated patients in ICU and for intra-operative sedation. The
      well-documented beneficial effects of dexmedetomidine are anxiolysis, analgesia, sedation and
      sympatholysis, and it is not associated with respiratory depressive effect.

      Dexmedetomidine has been successfully used to provide sedation in dental procedures, awake
      fibreoptic intubation, bariatric surgery and morbidly obese patients, as well as obstructive
      sleep apnea patients. The pharmacokinetic properties of dexmedetomidine is very predictable
      and titratable, with a rapid distribution half-life (t1/2α) being approximately 5-6min and an
      elimination half-life (t1/2β) of approximately 2h. Bekker et al. first reported the
      successful use of dexmedetomidine in awake craniotomy in 2001. Subsequent case series
      published by Souter et al. demonstrated that dexmedetomidine can be used either as a sole
      agent or in combination with other agents such as fentanyl during seizure foci resection with
      accurate intraoperative brain mapping.

      The hypnotic effect of dexmedetomidine is mediated by the hyperpolarization of noradrenergic
      neurons in the locus ceruleus, which proposed that dexmedetomidine converges on a natural
      sleep pathway to exert its sedative effect. Venn and co-workers, as part of a large European
      multicentre trial investigating dexmedetomidine for postoperative sedation in the ICU,
      reported that: "Patients are calmly and easily roused from sleep to allow excellent
      communication and cooperation while intubated and ventilated, and then similarly quickly
      return to sleep". This unique sedation state is very useful for awake craniotomy, which
      requires deep level of sedation during painful operative procedures, as well as easily
      rousable state during mapping of eloquent function.

      The purpose of this blinded, prospective, randomized study is to compare the efficacy of
      dexmedetomidine versus propofol-remifentanil based sedation in patients undergoing awake
      craniotomy for resection of tumors. The study hypothesis is that the efficacy of performing
      intra-operative brain mapping is identical between dexmedetomidine and the
      propofol-remifentanil based sedation. The primary end-points are to assess the ability to
      perform intraoperative mapping during awake craniotomy. Secondary end-points will assess the
      incidence of complications (respiratory depression, failure to provide adequate analgesia),
      as well as patient and surgeon satisfaction to the corresponding anesthetic technique.
    
  