
    
      The prevalence of food allergy is increasing in the pediatric population. A diagnosis of food
      allergy carries significant medical, nutritional, and psychological implications for both
      patients and their families. Therefore, making an accurate diagnosis is critical. However,
      the diagnosis of symptomatic food allergy continues to be a challenge for allergists and
      other practicing physicians. The patient's clinical history remains a key component in
      diagnosing food allergy. Skin prick testing and food-specific immunoglobulin-e (IgE) testing
      act as secondary tools to aid in the evaluation process, but these tests also suffer from a
      high rate of false positivity. For specific IgE levels below the cutoffs to these foods,
      however, supervised oral food challenges (OFCs) may be necessary to establish the diagnosis
      of symptomatic food allergy, as the sensitivity of these values is relatively low. Currently,
      the double-blind, placebo-controlled food challenge (DBPCFC) remains the gold standard for
      the diagnosis of food allergy. OFCs have their own inherent drawbacks: they are not always
      readily available to all patients, they are time-consuming, and they are potentially
      dangerous due to their risk of anaphylaxis.

      Wheat is one of the eight allergenic foods that are responsible for approximately 90% of all
      food allergies. Wheat is less allergenic than other foods in this group and less likely to
      cause multi-organ, severe, life-threatening reactions. Allergy to wheat is more prevalent in
      children than adults and is considered a transient allergy of infancy/childhood. Wheat
      allergy is often outgrown in early childhood, in most cases by age 3-5 years, but 35% show a
      persistent allergy into adolescence. While previous studies using food-specific IgE
      antibodies have determined diagnostic decision points that indicate a high likelihood of
      clinical reactivity for certain foods, namely milk, egg, peanut, and fish, wheat-specific IgE
      levels do not seem to be useful predictors of food challenge outcome, enabling reduction in
      need for food challenges. Furthermore, false-positive IgE reactions to wheat and other
      cereals are frequently seen in grass-allergic patients due to insignificant cross-reactivity
      between water/salt-soluble proteins. Therefore, identification of wheat proteins associated
      with symptoms to wheat is of importance.

      Gliadins in particular have been implicated in allergy to wheat, both in IgE-mediatedallergy
      and the non-IgE mediated celiac allergy. IgE antibodies to ω-5-gliadin have been found in
      children with immediate reactions to ingested wheat, and published results show that
      increased levels of IgE to ω-5-gliadin correlate with the outcome of food challenges. In a
      Finnish study, all children with IgE antibodies to ω-5-gliadin reacted with immediate
      symptoms to wheat challenges, while all patients with delayed or negative challenge test
      results showed no detectable IgE antibodies to ω-5-gliadin.15 In a Japanese cohort, the
      presence of elevated ω-5-gliadin-specific IgE antibodies was associated with immediate
      symptoms with wheat food challenges and also in patients with a strong convincing history of
      wheat allergy who were not challenged due to risk of anaphylaxis. Furthermore, patients with
      severe reactions upon challenge had significantly higher levels of ω-5-gliadin-specific IgE
      antibodies compared to children with mild or moderate symptoms. In a multicenter Japanese
      study, Ebisawa et al. showed a significant relationship between the probability of wheat
      allergy and the concentration of ω-5-gliadin-specific IgE antibodies with 2.6-fold increased
      risk. In a study of mixed German and American subjects, ω-5-gliadin-specific IgE antibodies
      did not correlate with food challenge outcomes in patients with suspected allergy. However,
      the sample size in this study was much smaller than in others, and the German population
      included more patients with non-IgE mediated wheat allergy with delayed symptoms, almost half
      of the German cohort. Nonetheless, ω-5-gliadin-specific IgE antibodies may differ among
      populations in Asia, Europe, and the United States due to dietary habits and genetics, and
      further study is warranted, especially in a larger U.S. cohort.

      Food crops that have been developed through agricultural biotechnology for commercial use are
      thoroughly assessed for their safety. One of the key elements in the safety assessment of a
      genetically improved crop is an evaluation of potential changes in their allergenic
      properties. Allergenic properties of the crop can potentially be altered if a known allergen
      or a protein that has high potential to become an allergen is introduced. In addition, the
      level of expression of endogenous allergens might be altered as a result of transformation
      and insertion of the new gene into the plant genome.

      Since wheat is a known allergenic food crop, international guidelines require analyses to
      determine if the introduction of the genes and production of the recombinant proteins in
      wheat cause an unintended change in the levels of endogenous allergenic proteins. To address
      this question, levels of wheat-specific IgE binding observed in the biotechnology derived
      wheat varieties are compared to the set of binding values observed in reference wheat
      varieties that are already on the market. Determining the levels of direct IgE binding using
      an enzyme linked immuno-sorbent assay (ELISA) has been shown to be an appropriate method to
      perform such comparisons, especially when the assay is validated and calibrated prior to the
      production of data. This comparison is important as it will enable determinations of whether
      there is heterogeneity in wheat-allergic patients with wheat allergy in terms of a
      predominant trigger. Ultimately, crops may be engineered to eliminate culprit components if
      predominant.

      Food challenge outcomes and standard ImmunoCAP IgE assays to wheat will be compared to CRD
      wheat testing in this study (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Waltham, MA). When evaluated together
      with clinical history, skin test reactivity, and OFC outcomes, responses to individual
      components may be able be used to predict food challenge responsiveness. With respect to
      intact wheat-specific IgE levels, in two previous studies using these, a true 95% positive
      predictive value cutoff to predict reactivity at OFC could not be determined to wheat,
      although a physician challenge was suggested at an estimated wheat level of 26 kU/L to
      determine possible reactivity.6,7 However, these studies are now over a decade old and
      pre-dated component resolved diagnostics (CRD). CRD to major proteins ω-5-gliadin may prove
      to be more beneficial in determining predictive levels of IgE and positive OFC outcomes to
      wheat. Therefore, in addition to determining wheat component patterns that could predict OFC
      outcomes, the investigators hope to determine 95% predictive decision points for each of the
      individual components and compare these to the decision points estimated by the ImmunoCAP
      assay to wheat.
    
  