
    
      This will be a double blind placebo controlled study, involving 30 female participants. The
      study will run for 3 months, over 3 menstrual cycles and shall be determined by the length of
      each participant menstrual cycle. The participants will be assessed over 3 menstrual events.
      Consultations will take place in a private setting at the Homoeopathic Health Centre at the
      Doornfontein campus, under the supervision of a registered homoeopath.

      Participants will be recruited by advertisements placed at the University of Johannesburg
      Health Centre located on the Doornfontein campus, with the relevant permission obtained.

      The researcher will explain the study to each participant as well as provide each participant
      with a consent form to sign, before they may take part in the study. Participants will be
      screened and a general physical examination will be conducted to asses each participant's
      general wellbeing. Each participant will be issued with a modified Short Form McGill
      questionnaire and the Visual Analogue Scale to complete. Participants will be instructed to
      complete the forms when they begin to experience the pain and cramping. No medication will be
      given at the initial consultation.

      During the second follow-up consultation the participants will return their completed forms
      given to them at the initial consultation. Each participant will be issued with a 50 ml
      bottle of the homoeopathic remedy or placebo and new forms (SF-MPQ-2 and VAS) to complete.
      Participants will be advised to take 10 drops of the remedy three times a day starting when
      they experience pain and cramping. The forms will additionally need to be completed during
      this time. The participants will be advised to stop the homoeopathic remedy when their pain
      and cramping has ceased. This process will be repeated at both the third and fourth
      consultations.

      During the final consultation participants will return the last forms to the researcher. The
      participants will measure their subjective satisfaction of the medicine on their pain by
      completing the five point treatment satisfaction scale.

      The data will be statistically analysed by the researcher with the aid of a statistician.
      This will be done using the non-parametric Friedmann test (to measure the differences within
      both groups) and the Mann-Whitney test (to measure the differences between the groups) as
      well as the repeated measures ANOVA. These tests will evaluate the change of severity of
      symptoms over time.

      The possible benefits for those participating in the study may include an improvement in
      their symptoms of primary dysmenorrhea. This study will contribute to the medical knowledge
      and efficacy of the clinical management of primary dysmenorrhea.
    
  