
    
      The goal of this study is to optimize the dosing of three commonly used antibiotics, thereby
      improving the treatment of serious, often life-threatening infections in patients on
      intermittent high-flux hemodialysis (iHFHD).

      The hypothesis is that current antibiotic dosing is suboptimal, thereby increasing the risk
      of poor outcomes including treatment failure, adverse drug reactions and antibiotic
      resistance.

      A prospective, non-interventional pharmacokinetic (PK) study of cefazolin, ceftazidime, and
      ciprofloxacin will be conducted in the St. Boniface Hospital outpatient hemodialysis unit.

      The 1st objective of this study is to measure the free and total plasma concentrations of
      cefazolin, ceftazidime, and ciprofloxacin in adult patients on iHFHD and receiving antibiotic
      therapy for suspected or proven infection. For each antibiotic 20 participants will be
      enrolled and three blood samples will be collected from each participant. Antibiotic
      concentrations will be measured using an ultra high performance liquid chromatograph mass
      spectrometer. Total antibiotic concentrations in plasma will be measured in all patient
      samples. To describe protein binding, free levels will also be measured in the first two
      samples collected from the first 10 patients for each antibiotic.

      The 2nd objective of this study is to characterize the PK of cefazolin, ceftazidime, and
      ciprofloxacin in patients on iHFHD using population-PK modelling. Covariates with potential
      influence on PK such as gender, age, body weight, dialyzer type, blood and dialysate flow
      rates, duration of dialysis and Kt/Vurea will be investigated, and incorporated as
      appropriate. For each antibiotic, the best PK model will be selected using established
      goodness-of-fit tests, and then independently validated.

      The 3rd objective of this study is to translate findings to patient care using Monte Carlo
      simulations to evaluate conventional antibiotic dosing and develop optimized evidence-based
      dosing recommendations for cefazolin, ceftazidime, and ciprofloxacin in patients on iHFHD.
    
  