
    
      -  A custom made examination chart (Appendix 1) will be filled for each child including
           date, name, age, address, gender, medical history and any previous dental treatment.
           Parents' data includes: level of education and oral hygiene level.

        -  Prior to performing dental examination, the child will be asked to rinse his mouth with
           tap water and the teeth will be cleaned with cotton.

        -  The examiner will carefully inspect all surfaces of the teeth.

        -  All the primary teeth will be evaluated using CAST index as shown in Table 1.

        -  Each child will be given two printed sheets translated into Arabic, of his diagnosed
           caries status, the oral hygiene measures needed to inform the parents about the oral
           health status and how to keep good oral health and to indicate the need for treatment
           for children diagnosed with dental caries, and dietary bad habits that should be avoided
           to prevent caries occurrence.

      Examination chart

      Date:

      Personal information:

      Name: Age: Gender:

      Address:

      Medical history:

      Parents' level of education:

      Dental history:

      Clinical examination:

      E D C B A A B C D E

      E D C B A A B C D E

      Table 1: Caries Assessment Spectrum and Treatment(CAST) index Cast codes characteristics Code
      Description Concept of Health Sound 0 No visible evidence of a distinct •carious lesion is
      present Healthy

        -  Sealant 1 Pits and/or fissures are at least partially covered with a sealant material

        -  Restored 2 A cavity is restored with an (in)direct restorative material

        -  Enamel 3 Distinct visual change in enamel only. A clear caries related discoloration is
           visible, with or without localized enamel breakdown Reversible premorbidity

        -  Dentin 4 Internal caries-related discoloration in dentine. The discolored dentine is
           visible through enamel which may or may not exhibit a visible localized breakdown of
           enamel Morbidity

        -  5 Distinct cavitation into dentine. The pulp chamber is intact

        -  Pulp 6 Involvement of the pulp chamber. Distinct cavitation reaching the pulp chamber or
           only root fragments are present Serious morbidity

        -  Abscess/ fistula 7 A pus containing swelling or a pus releasing sinus tract related to a
           tooth with pulpal involvement

        -  Lost 8 The tooth has been removed because of dental caries Mortality

        -  Other 9 Does not correspond to any of the other descriptions ■Severity according to CAST
           index:

      Comments:

      Dental caries: Present Absent Severity: ……………………….. (Appendix 1)
    
  