
    
      This is a pilot study, and as such is not necessarily expected to achieve statistical
      significance. A control group will not be used, again owing to the pilot nature of the study.
      Previous studies have demonstrated the safety of oral bethanechol. It has shown some efficacy
      in the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux in both adults and children1-8, and there is
      extensive preclinical data suggesting a beneficial effect for patients with IEM9-14. A single
      study15 of oral bethanechol in patients with IEM demonstrated a significant improvement in
      distal esophageal muscle contraction and bolus transit. This study, however measured
      esophageal function using an inferior method of manometry. The proposed study uses
      high-resolution manometry to measure the effects of oral bethanechol in patients with IEM,
      and will yield improved understanding of changes in esophageal function in real-time. The
      study intervention (oral bethanechol) will be a single-dose event (applied in two
      encounters), not an ongoing treatment intervention.

      We will evaluate the effect of topically applied bethanechol on esophageal motility in a
      cohort (n=20) of patients with IEM. Presence of IEM will be defined using current criteria:
      esophageal contraction amplitude <30 mmHg either 5 or 10 cm above the lower esophageal
      sphincter, in 50% or more of saline swallows15, 16. We will perform high-resolution manometry
      (HRM) to establish a baseline in these patients. HRM is part of the cutting-edge technology
      available at the Medical College of Georgia Center for Voice and Swallowing Disorders (CVSD,
      part of the Department of Otolaryngology), and is used in the clinical evaluation of patients
      with dysphagia on a routine basis. Many patients with IEM referred to the CVSD will undergo
      high-resolution manometry during the course of their evaluation and treatment, regardless of
      inclusion in this study. The test consists of placement of a manometry catheter through the
      nasal cavity into the esophagus, much as a naso-gastric tube would be placed. After
      confirming proper placement of the catheter by manometry, the patient is asked to perform 10
      swallows of a teaspoon (5ml) of water. The muscle contractions of the esophagus, including
      the upper and lower esophageal sphincters, are then recorded in real-time along the entire
      length of the catheter for the duration of the swallow. This allows measurement and analysis
      of not only isolated contraction events, but also the entire swallow as it propagates down
      the esophagus.

      Following establishment of baseline esophageal function, patients will be given either 5 mg
      (first phase) or 10 mg (second phase) of bethanechol in 1 ml of solution containing an
      absorption enhancer. Administration will be performed by throat spray device. The composition
      of the delivery solution is proprietary. Since bethanechol is a quaternary amine known to
      have less than 1 % topical absorbance, an absorption enhancer is necessary to aid in this
      process. The choice of an appropriate FDA approved absorption enhancer is what makes this
      preparation unique. The preparation also contains thickening agents that allow it to remain
      where sprayed to enhance absorption.

      After waiting 10 minutes, patients will then undergo a post-treatment HRM to establish
      treatment effect. The manometry catheter will be left in place during the entire encounter,
      thus requiring only the single placement of the catheter per sessions. Two sessions will be
      required to establish dose escalation effect.
    
  