
    
      Participants will be recruited by electronic announcements and IRB approved recruitment
      flyers in local pain clinics and pain support groups. These ads and flyers will contain
      relevant info (e.g., study email address and GoogleVoice number) for prospective participants
      to contact study staff with any questions about participation. Interested participants will
      be screened by an RA on the phone using the following steps: 1) RA will obtain verbal consent
      upon explaining study participation and answering any questions participants may have; 2)
      Once informed consent is obtained, RA will use participants preferred email address to send
      potential participant a link to the Qualtrics screening questionnaire; 3) RA will then
      briefly orient participant to Qualtrics; and 3) RA will complete the screening process with
      participant on the phone to determine and inform participant of their eligibility to
      participate.

      Consent and Screening: Participants will first go through the informed consent procedure,
      where they will be told about the purpose of the study, expectations of them as participants,
      etc. Informed consent is expected to take no more than 5 minutes. They will then be asked to
      complete a screening questionnaire which is expected to take no more than 3 minutes. Eligible
      participants will be randomly assigned to one of two groups: 1) Control and 2) CBAT. Both
      control group and experimental group participants will be required to complete 2 pre-recorded
      sessions per week lasting 1 hour each (total of 8 hours) over the course of 4 weeks.

      Online Sessions and Surveys: After questionnaires (including measures of pain and opioid use,
      the Anger Parameters Scale) have been administered at pre-treatment, the first session will
      serve as orientation to self-monitoring anger levels between sessions. If a participant has
      no anger on a given day, no monitoring is necessary. Following this, control group
      participants self-monitor their anger and watch pre-recorded sessions on emotions in general.
      The treatment group will be actively trained in anger regulation skills within the framework
      of CBAT. These participants will proceed from a week of anger prevention to a week of
      intervention to a week of postvention. During the prevention phase, an individually-tailored
      behavior contract against anger will be signed by each paParticipants will work with
      investigators over email to draft and electronically sign their contracts. RAs will review
      participant progress toward fulfillment of contracts during weekly check-in phone calls to
      participants. Participants will also engage in behavioral rehearsal of anger-provoking
      situations and learn about stimulus control for discriminating and avoiding situations that
      are likely to culminate in anger.

      In the Intervention phase, participants will be introduced to techniques for regulating anger
      that could not be prevented. These include thought-stopping, distraction, and cognitive
      reappraisal..

      In the postvention phase, participants will be trained in techniques for ameliorating
      residual anger. These include expressive writing and verbal disclosure. Gestalt therapy empty
      chair dialogue will be used for overcoming unresolved anger.

      At the conclusion of the 4 weeks of anger self-regulation training, the same questionnaires
      relating to anger, pain, and opioid misuse and beliefs will be assessed in both groups. This
      post-treatment set of questionnaires is expected to take no more than 20 minutes.

      Finally, a follow-up session (2 hours) will be held for both groups one month after
      post-treatment. Anger, pain, and opioid use measures will be re-administered (taking no more
      than 20 minutes). All participants will receive a brief booster session to reinforce
      effective anger regulation techniques. The same pre- and post-treatment questionnaires
      mentioned above will be re-administered at this point in the study.

      Phone Calls and Knowledge Tests: To ensure that participants are paying attention to the
      online videos, RAs will contact them weekly and administer a brief, multiple choice knowledge
      test over the phone. Participants who score less than 50% in any given week will be dropped
      from the study. During that same phone call, RAs will check in with participants to ensure
      that there are no problems with their participation in the study and that the participants
      are not in any emotional distress. Phone calls are anticipated to last approximately 10
      minutes, for a total time of 50 minutes over the span of the study (4 weeks of either
      treatment or control and the 1-month follow up). Total participant time commitment over the
      course of the study is approximately 12 hours.
    
  