
    
      Background:

      In recent years fermentable oligo-, di-, mono-saccharides and polyols, have been proposed to
      exacerbate symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) such as abdominal discomfort and
      bloating. This phenomenon has also been observed in patients with an ileostomy, where certain
      foods have been associated with increased fluid output from the stoma. This is in accordance
      with past work surveying ileostomy patients on foods that altered stoma function. However,
      there may be other factors that drive fluid output from a stoma. Rhubarb, a food listed by 1
      in 3 patients as exacerbating watery diarrhoea, also contains anthraquinones that have
      laxative effects, such as in senna.

      A food less commonly associated with laxative effects is lettuce but 1 in 6 patients reported
      that eating lettuce led to an increase in watery stoma output. Certain lettuce varieties
      exude a milk-like latex material when cut, giving rise to the latin name Lactuca sativa.
      While the methylcellulose is insoluble and would not be expected to hold water in the lumen
      of the small bowel, latex could be expected to stimulate intestinal secretion. This may
      contribute to post-prandial sensations of bloating by a different mechanism to the osmotic
      effects and colonic fermentation seen with poorly absorbed but fermentable carbohydrates..

      The Nottingham GI MRI group has been at the forefront of elucidating the effects of poorly
      digested carbohydrates on gastrointestinal physiology. the investigators have published
      techniques to measure free water in the small bowel and assessment of viscosity in the colon
      using MR relaxometry. This includes the demonstration that fructose ingestion on its own
      leads to increased free water in the small bowel compared to co-ingestion with glucose - see
      panel. The investigators wish to apply these techniques to compare the effect of different
      foods: white bread, lettuce and rhubarb. The investigators have previously shown that bread
      led to a reduction in small bowel water and so can active as a negative control. Rhubarb
      should serve as a positive control.

      Aims: The purpose of the study is gather pilot data on the effect of different foods on
      intestinal physiology.
    
  