
    
      Statistical methods

      Continuous data are presented as mean and standard deviation (SD) if it follows a normal
      distribution assessed using histograms and Q-Q plots; otherwise, as median and interquartile
      range (IQR). Categorical data are presented as numbers and percentages. Missing data will not
      be imputed. Patients from a specific analysis were excluded if the data for the related
      variable are missing.

      The first objective is to investigate the relative effectiveness of different NIVs, including
      high-flow nasal cannula (HFNC), bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP), and continuous
      positive airway pressure (CPAP). Patients will be divided into three groups per the type of
      NIV they first received. Patients who received invasive mechanical ventilation (IMV) before
      NIV will be excluded. Patients who received two or three different types of NIV will also be
      excluded in this analysis. Patients who received IMV after the use of NIV are eligible.

      The secondary objective is to investigate the impact of IMV on mortality via comparison with
      patients who received NIV only. The role of lung protective ventilation in patients who
      received IMV will also be investigated. The characteristics of the ventilator settings that
      are associated with an improved outcome will be explored.

      The primary outcome is in-hospital mortality and patients will be followed until hospital
      discharge. Patients are considered alive if they were discharged alive from the hospital or
      are still hospitalized at the closure of data extraction. For the first objective, the rate
      of respiratory support escalation from NIV to IMV will also be analyzed (as a secondary
      outcome measure in this analysis).

      Patients will be balanced using propensity score matching. The propensity score model will
      include demographic characteristics, comorbidities, the pandemic phase, severity of acute
      illness (24 hours before the targeted respiratory support), laboratory results (24 hours
      before the targeted respiratory support), and vital signs (24 hours before the targeted
      respiratory support). The balance between matched pairs will be assessed using a standardized
      10% difference and calculated using the method described by Yang and Dalton. A stratified Cox
      proportional-hazards model will be used to analyze the matched pairs. Additionally, survival
      will be estimated using the product-limit Kaplan-Meier estimator, and the log-rank statistic
      will be used to compare survival curves.

      The backup statistical analysis plan is as follows. The univariate Cox proportional-hazard
      models to screen for potential factors associated with lower mortality will be performed. A
      multivariable Cox proportional-hazards model to estimate independent associations between
      respiratory supports and mortality will be performed. The confounders included in the
      multivariable analysis are as follows: 1) known risk factors for mortality (age, sex, and
      hypertension); 2) the severity of the acute illness 24 hours before the targeted respiratory
      support (Sequential Organ Failure Assessment score and Glasgow Coma Scale score); 3) the
      various phases during the first pandemic year, including the first phase (February 1, 2020,
      to May 31, 2020), the second phase (June 1, 2020, to August 31, 2020), the third phase
      (September 1, 2020, to November 30, 2020), and the fourth phase (December 1, 2020, to last
      date of data extraction); 4) the demographics and comorbidities with a P-value < 0.25 in the
      univariate analysis; and 5) the laboratory results and vital signs 24 hours before the
      targeted respiratory support that have a P-value < 0.25 in the univariate analysis. All
      treatments considered to be part of COVID-19 management will be included in the multivariable
      analysis for confounding control. To avoid collinearity, only one variable will be included
      if two variables have an absolute Pearson's or Spearman's rank correlation coefficient
      greater than 0.5. Variables with more than 10% missing data will also be excluded. Multiple
      testing will be corrected using the Bonferroni method to reduce the chance of type I error at
      a two-sided 0.05 alpha level, considering the hypotheses for all of the COVID-19-related
      respiratory supports/treatments as a family. The association between exposures and mortality
      will be estimated using hazard ratios (HRs) and reported with 95% confidence intervals (CIs).
      To account for clustering within hospitals, robust sandwich estimators to compute standard
      errors for the HRs will be used. The proportional hazards assumption will be assessed using
      Schoenfeld residuals.

      With a two-tailed hypothesis test, the significance level for each general hypothesis is
      0.05. All analyses will be performed in R software (version 3.5.3, R Foundation for
      Statistical Computing).
    
  