
    
      Purpose:

      The purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy of TSD and to assess if it alters
      swallowing frequency and breathing modes in OSA patients during sleep.

      Hypothesis:

      Investigators hypothesize that TSD therapy will improve OSA symptoms and will lead to
      effective nasal breathing which may decrease swallowing frequency in OSA patients during
      sleep.

      Justification:

      The coordination of swallowing and breathing is an important mechanism because the route for
      air and deglutition is partly shared in the pharynx. OSA occurs when there is complete or
      partial obstruction in the pharynx during sleep which results in an impact on both breathing
      and swallowing. Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) and Oral Appliance (OA) therapy
      improve breathing in OSA patients, but these therapies have some disadvantages such as poor
      adherence and expensiveness. TSD is a preformed appliance for OSA that protrudes the tongue
      and improves upper airway structure and function during sleep. TSD is simpler and more
      economical than other therapies and may bring similar benefits. In regards to swallowing, it
      has been reported that swallowing frequency during sleep increases with OSA severity and when
      preceded by oronasal breathing. However, it still remains to be determined if the treatment
      of OSA alters breathing modes and swallowing frequency in OSA patients during sleep. An
      evaluation of the efficacy of TSD therapy on OSA and the physiological change of swallowing
      and breathing route may be an important step in the sleep medical field so as to understand
      the mechanism(s) by which TSD therapy improves the clinical condition of OSA.

      Objectives:

      The objective of this study is to clarify the mechanism(s) by which TSD therapy improves the
      clinical condition of OSA in terms of regulation of swallowing and breathing modes in OSA
      patients during sleep.

      Research Methods:

      Investigators plan to collect data from a minimum of 60 patients who have been diagnosed with
      OSA .In addition to the regular sleep study electrodes and measurements, investigators will
      require four supplementary standard sleep channels that utilize standard sleep recording
      tools. Breathing modes (pure nasal, oral and oro-nasal) will be evaluated with a nasal
      pressure transducer, which is traditionally used for patients' evaluation (Braebon) and an
      additional standard oral flow thermistor sensor (1) (Braebon). The degree of mouth opening
      will be scored with a jaw sensor® (2). Swallowing will be scored based on a combination of
      measurements which include laryngeal movements as recorded over the thyroid cartilage with a
      standard piezoelectric sensor (Opti-Flex, Newlife Technologies, Midlothian, VA, USA) (3), and
      a sub-mental(SupraHyoid) EMG used for the muscle activity of swallowing (4). Standard
      polysomnography (PSG) data will be analyzed manually according to AASM criteria by sleep
      technologists. After regular scoring and sleep evaluation, data from results of the sleep
      study will be transferred to a CD and one of the authors, Kentaro Okuno, will perform further
      analysis outside of the laboratory. Using the completed data for sleep stages, apnea and
      hypopnea events, the swallowing events and breathing modes will be assessed visually and
      scored. Each epoch will then be evaluated for temporal relation between breathing modes and
      swallowing as well as for degree of mouth opening, apneas, hypopneas, and arousals. The
      efficacy endpoint is the change in AHI between baseline and TSD. The polysomnographic results
      will be subjected to paired Student's t-Tests to demonstrate and difference between baseline
      and TSD.
    
  