
    
      Background Approximately 85% of vaginal deliveries are accompanied by trauma to the genital
      tract, with a higher risk at the first compared to subsequent vaginal births [1,2]. Among
      primipara with vaginal deliveries, 86% sustain a vaginal or perineal tear, and 77% require
      suturing of a lesion [1,3].

      Birth trauma is associated with both short- and long-term morbidity, including pain,
      discomfort, dyspareunia, and fecal incontinence, and perineal trauma may cause social
      problems and affect the psychological well-being of the mother [1,4]. The level of postpartum
      morbidity is related to the degree of trauma [5,6], and studies of preventive measures are
      therefore of interest.

      Genital tract traumas are classified into subtypes according to the location and severity of
      the lesion. Most studies have evaluated the risk factors for 3rd- and 4th-degree perineal
      tears that include the anal sphincter complex, the so-called obstetric anal sphincter
      injuries (OASIS). Predisposing factors are increasing maternal age, heavier birthweight,
      longer duration of the second stage of labour, oxytocin augmentation, occiput posterior
      position, and instrumental delivery [7-9]. The risk increases with the number of different
      risk factors [9]. Protective factors are previous vaginal delivery, epidural analgesia, and
      multiparity [7-9]. Several perineal management techniques used during delivery have been
      studied, and a recent Cochrane review concluded that warm compresses and perineal massage
      seem to reduce the risk of OASIS [4]. The introduction of an interventional perineal
      protection programme also seems to reduce the incidence of OASIS [10-12].

      Leading textbooks recommend primary delivery of the anterior shoulder by gentle traction if
      the shoulders are not delivered spontaneously [13,14]. However, if shoulder dystocia occurs,
      the recommended manoeuvres are primary delivery of the posterior arm or primary delivery of
      the posterior shoulder, with the woman positioned on her hands and knees (Gaskin's manoeuvre)
      [15,16]. A computer-simulated trial of the manoeuvres used during shoulder dystocia found
      that primary delivery of the posterior arm caused an 80% reduction in the delivery force and
      a 70% reduction in stretch to the brachial plexus [17]. Primary delivery of the posterior
      shoulder could therefore be of advantage during uncomplicated deliveries, but, to the
      knowledge of the authors, various methods of shoulder delivery have never been studied
      previously.

      The objective of this trial is to evaluate the incidence and degree of perineal trauma after
      primary delivery of the anterior shoulder compared to primary delivery of the posterior
      shoulder during vaginal birth in primiparous women in a randomized controlled trial. The
      hypothesis is that primary delivery of the posterior shoulder reduces the rate and degree of
      perineal trauma.

      Interventions The trial interventions take place during vaginal birth after the delivery of
      the head. The head is supported in the spontaneous rotation that occurs after its delivery,
      and the shoulders are delivered according to randomization. The intervention is either
      primary delivery of the anterior or the posterior shoulder as illustrated in the additional
      movie files (see additional files 1 and 2). It is performed by the midwife placing her hands
      around the head of the baby and applying gentle traction in the appropriate direction.

      All midwives are trained in the two interventions by the primary investigator (HW) to secure
      uniform use of the techniques. Training sessions include an introductory video of the two
      methods and practical training on a birthing phantom (MODEL-med Sophie and her Mum Full Birth
      Obstetric Trainer, Carnegie, Australia). All midwives are also trained in evaluation and
      classification of perineal tears using an e-learning programme (GynZone ApS, Aarhus,
      Denmark). Primary training sessions (n = 14) took place from February to November 2013, and
      additional sessions are held every second month during the course of the trial to train new
      midwives and update previously trained midwives. Attendance at a training session accredits
      midwifes to deliver included patients.

      The participants can deliver in the position they prefer, and if spontaneous delivery of the
      shoulders occurs, this is to be respected regardless of randomization. If during delivery the
      midwife judges that an alternative method of delivery is preferred with regard to the safety
      of the birthing mother, this overrules randomization. Episiotomy may be used in accordance to
      local guidelines as judged necessary by the midwife. In case of vacuum-assisted delivery,
      which according to guidelines is performed by physicians, the midwife delivers the shoulders.
      Any deviations from the protocol are registered on the clinical registration form.

      Assessment After delivery of the placenta, a blinded midwife or doctor not otherwise involved
      in the delivery assesses the perineum and grades the perineal tears. Tears are sutured and
      officially classified and coded independently of the trial by the midwife responsible for the
      delivery or a doctor according to the hospital guidelines. Secondary outcomes are registered
      by the midwife responsible for the delivery.

      Assessors of the primary outcome and the primary investigator are blinded to randomization.

      Registered 3rd and 4th degree tears are validated through manual assessment of patient
      records. We assume that especially higher degree tears may be diagnosed after trial
      assessment during repair. In order not to underestimate the level of higher degree tears,
      data on all 3rd and 4th degree tears in our study population registered in the hospital
      register during the trial period will be retrieved after the end of the trial. These data
      will be validated against patient records and any additional confirmed cases of 3rd and 4th
      degree tears in our study population will be incorporated into the final dataset.

      Discussion The purpose of this randomized controlled trial is to compare two methods of
      delivering the shoulders during vaginal delivery, with perineal trauma as the primary
      outcome.

      The literature on delivery techniques is limited, and previous studies have primarily focused
      on their effect on OASIS. Most studies have been non-randomized, and different shoulder
      delivery techniques have not been evaluated previously. Thus, the strengths of this study are
      the randomized design, the intervention studied, i.e. the delivery of the shoulders at
      vaginal delivery, and the outcome of any perineal trauma.

      The validity of this trial could be affected by the fact that several midwives perform the
      interventions. But numerous birth assistants are the reality at most centres, thereby
      increasing the external validity and generalizability of the trial. Additionally, it might be
      interpreted as a limitation that this is a single-centre trial, although it increases
      internal validity of the trial. tThe perineal tears are evaluated by several objective
      assessors (midwives or doctors), which possibly might affect the validity of the outcome
      assessment. We will try to overcome this issue by validating the registered higher degree
      tears (3rd and 4th degree) by examining the patient records. Additionally, we are planning to
      retrieve data on all 3rd and 4th degree tears in our study population during the study period
      from the hospital registers and validate this data against patient records. We assume that
      especially higher degree tears may be diagnosed after trial assessment. These tears will be
      registered centrally because registration commonly takes place after lesion repair. Thus, all
      higher degree tears included in our final analysis will be validated.

      Most delivery assistance techniques used today are based on tradition and heritage and are
      not evidence based. This trial provides an example of how vaginal delivery techniques may be
      evaluated in a randomized controlled trial.

      The results of this trial will clarify the role delivery of the shoulders has on perineal
      trauma and thereby add knowledge about recommended birthing techniques.

      For futher details please see the published protocol:

      Willer H, Aabakke AJ, Krebs L. The effect of primary delivery of the anterior compared with
      the posterior shoulder on perineal trauma: a study protocol for a randomized controlled
      trial. Trials 2014;15:291.
    
  