
    
      The purpose of this Pilot Grant is to collect data critical for the design of a subsequent
      full-scale clinical trial testing the efficacy of treatment with amphetamine combined with
      physical therapy to facilitate poststroke motor recovery. When combined with task-relevant
      experience, a single dose of d amphetamine given 24 hr following a unilateral sensorimotor
      cortex ablation in the rat results in an enduring enhancement of motor recovery. This
      amphetamine effect extends to functional deficits that occur following focal lesions produced
      through a variety of mechanisms including ischemic brain injury, to lesions affecting other
      areas of the cortex, and to other behaviors. Laboratory studies not only show that certain
      drugs such as amphetamine may facilitate recovery, but that other classes of drugs may be
      harmful. Clinical studies suggest similar detrimental drug effects may occur in humans
      recovering from stroke. Three small studies of the impact of treatment with amphetamine on
      poststroke recovery have been carried out. Two found a beneficial effect and the third was
      negative. These studies differed in significant ways as reviewed in the referenced section of
      the proposal. The present study is designed based on these small studies. Using a
      multicenter, block-randomized, placebo-controlled design, this pilot study will:

        1. Refine the intervention strategy which has been developed for this Pilot Grant based on
           the best available laboratory and preliminary clinical data.

        2. Refine the target patient population.

        3. Gain information to permit an accurate sample size calculation (estimated for this pilot
           study) for a subsequent trial.

        4. Refine outcome measures, site monitoring techniques, data consistency protocols, and
           data management procedures.

        5. Obtain data to further support the safety of the proposed intervention.

      This study has several hypotheses.

        1. Patients treated with d-amphetamine combined with physical therapy will have improved
           recovery of motor function as compared to similar patients treated with placebo combined
           with physical therapy measured 90 days after hemispheric ischemic stroke.

        2. There will not be a clinically significant increase in the frequency of serious adverse
           events associated with treatment with d-amphetamine which would preclude further testing
           of these regimens.

      Secondary goals include:

        1. Refinement of the target patient population.

        2. Gain information to permit an accurate sample size calculation (estimated for this pilot
           study) for a subsequent trial.

        3. Refinement of outcome measures, site monitoring techniques, data consistency protocols,
           and data management procedures.
    
  