
    
      The purpose of the study is to investigate whether internet-based, structured NSE, differs
      from PPA after surgery for cervical disc disease, in relation to function, pain, work
      capacity, health-related quality of life, satisfaction with care, and cost effectiveness.

      The hypothesis is that internet-based NSE will be superior in terms of outcome measures to
      PPA. This assumption, based on an earlier study of patients with chronic WAD, remains
      untested for individuals with residual disability following ACDF. The project is expected to
      lead to improved care, well-being, and patient satisfaction, and, as a result, a reduced
      societal burden.

      Design This is a prospective, randomised, experimental longitudinal multicentre study, with a
      two-year follow-up. Questionnaires are distributed and physical measurements taken at
      baseline, at the end of treatment (3 months after enrolment), and after 2 years. Preoperative
      data is collected from Swespine. Patients are recruited from the surgical unit following
      regular follow-up visits to the physiotherapist/surgeon at approximately 3 months
      postoperatively.

      Should the study criteria be met, and after the receipt of written and oral informed consent,
      the patient completes a questionnaire and undergoes physical measurements of neck-related
      function. The patient is then randomised (computerised block randomisation list compiled by
      statisticians) to one of two groups for 3 months of treatment with a) internet-based NSE with
      3 visits to the physiotherapist or b) PPA with 3 visits to the physiotherapist. In addition,
      and prior to treatment, patients in both groups are examined by a physiotherapist, in
      accordance with Swedish law.

      The test leader is a physiotherapist at the surgical unit who is not involved in study
      treatment and is blinded to the randomisation groups. Qualified clinicians will perform
      X-rays and (potentially) ultrasound registration. Following randomization the results will be
      put into an opaque envelope that contains the name of the patient and their randomisation
      group, which is sent to the physiotherapy outpatient care clinic. Questionnaires and tests of
      physical neck-related function are conducted at baseline (before randomisation), after 3
      months (when the treatment ends), and after 2 years. Participant physiotherapists will be
      provided oral, written, and practical training, and are able to consult project managers at
      any time. Exercise diaries and the number of care contacts will be recorded for both groups.

      Study criteria

      Inclusion criteria for each surgical department:

      • Record data in Swespine

      Inclusion criteria for surgery:

        -  Cervical disc disease, confirmed by MRI data compatible with clinical findings
           (neurological examination performed by neck surgeon i.e. neurosurgeon/orthopaedic
           surgeon) that show nerve root compression in the cervical spine.

        -  Radiculopathy with pain in one or both arms, with or without sensory and/or motor
           deficit

        -  At least 3 months of persistent arm pain

      Inclusion criteria for the study:

        -  ACDF due to cervical disc disease (disc herniation with or without osteophytes, or
           stenosis caused by osteophytes) in one or two segmental levels

        -  Age 18-75 years

        -  Residual disability (approximately) 3 months after surgery (at the re-visit to the
           surgeon/ physiotherapist at the neurosurgery/ neuroorthopedic clinic) in terms of the
           Neck Disability Index (NDI ≥30%).

        -  Access to a computer/tablet/smartphone and the Internet

        -  Motivated to exercise

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Myelopathy

        -  Previous fracture or dislocation of the cervical spine

        -  Malignancy or benign spinal tumour (e.g. neuromas)

        -  Spinal infection, ongoing post-operative infection, or previous spondylodiscitis

        -  Previous cervical spine surgery

        -  Factors that are contraindicated for study participation or which hinder treatment or
           follow-up because of systemic disease, physical or mental illness, injury,
           inconvenience, or postoperative complications.

        -  Known alcohol/drug abuse

        -  Lack of ability to write/comprehend/or express oneself in the Swedish language

      Intervention Internet-based neck-specific exercise (NSE) Participants will be provided with
      an explanation and justification for their exercise. Training includes exercises to activate
      the deep neck muscles (initially daily), continuing with endurance training of the neck and
      shoulder muscles (3 times/week). Exercise will be tailored to the individual's physical
      condition, and then scaled up progressively in terms of severity and dose. Participants will
      undertake three visits to the physiotherapist, where the exercises will be introduced and
      repeated, in order to establish and control patient comprehension. The exercise is completed
      with the help of internet support outside of the healthcare system, which can be accessed
      anywhere, but most probably at home. Photos and videos of the exercises, information, and
      answers to frequently asked questions are available on the internet-support platform.
      Patients can contact a physiotherapist by e-mail if necessary. Three visits to the
      physiotherapist are provided in addition to a mandatory first visit (for new clinical
      investigations as required by Swedish law). At the end of the treatment period, the patients
      are encouraged to continue practicing the exercises on their own.

      Prescribed physical activity (PPA) The training consists of general, physical, land-based
      activity (3 times/week). The aim is to find a physical activity outside of the care unit that
      suits the individual, based on their specific needs and problems. The goal is that the
      individual should increase their overall level of physical activity, and that that activity
      is performed as part of a self-care/wellness routine. This may involve activities that can be
      performed at home, such as walking according to a set schedule, home exercises given by a
      physiotherapist (not neck-specific training), and aerobic classes etc. To increase
      compliance, a simple motivational interview is performed before the PPA schedule is provided,
      which can occur during the same session or at a separate visit, should the physiotherapist
      and patient prefer. Patients are advised to contact the physiotherapist should their
      prescribed activity fail to work so that another activity can be identified. Three visits to
      the physiotherapist are provided in addition to a mandatory first visit (for new clinical
      investigations as required by Swedish law), with the patient encouraged to continue
      practicing on their own at the end of the treatment period.

      Sample size calculation and statistics Seventy participants per group (i.e. a total of 140
      patients) are required. Sample size calculations (conducted by statisticians) are based on
      the primary outcome measure of Neck Disability Index (NDI). In order to detect a clinically
      relevant improvement of 10 NDI points, 70 participants per group are needed (assuming 80%
      power, and a level of significance of 5%). This calculation is based on group differences
      recorded in previous studies. These include a study in which individuals with chronic
      whiplash-associated injuries were offered training, as well as a study investigating the
      benefits of surgery over and above physical therapy for cervical disc disease.

      As we lack any studies on rehabilitation for patients with disability after ACDF, this
      calculation remains hypothetical and our sample size may need to be adjusted after the first
      30 people (15/group) have completed the 3-month follow-up. This number can also be adjusted
      in the event of participants dropping-out, such that at least 70 individuals per group
      complete the intervention. Data will be analysed using an intention-to-treat approach.
      Alternative analyses (sub-group analyses) will be carried out where the degree of
      implementation of treatment (compliance) is taken into account, as well as sex, dizziness,
      headaches, neurological findings, and the number of segmental levels operated on. Analyses
      will be performed using parametric or non-parametric statistics, depending on the type of
      data, in consultation with statisticians as appropriate.

      Ultrasound registrations, electromyography, Magnetic Resonance Imaging and kinesthesia may be
      done on a sub-group of participants to investigate neck muscle structure and function.
      Interviews may be done on a sub-group of individuals regarding their function, experiences
      and opinions.

      Ethical considerations This study was approved by the Regional Ethical Review Board in
      Linköping Ref: 2016 / 283-31. The scientists are independent with no commercial ties.
      Patients are recruited after providing informed consent. Patient data are presented at the
      group level such that no connection to any individual can be made. All data are anonymised
      when reported, and subject to the Official Secrets Health Acts. The test leaders are
      independent and blinded for randomisation. Exercises, both general and neck-specific, have
      been used extensively in clinical practice and we anticipate no harm from their
      implementation other than a risk of muscle soreness. Any important harms or unintended
      effects in each group will be collected by the test leaders. All questionnaires and test
      materials are encoded by the research group, with code lists stored in locked, fireproof file
      cabinets, housed at the university in a room with controlled (card-based) access. Only
      individuals in receipt of a unique website address posted by the researchers can access the
      program; patients can neither communicate with each other nor with caregivers via the
      program.
    
  