
    
      A. Background

        1. The HIV Epidemic in Indonesia

           Until recently, Indonesia was among the few countries in which annual numbers of new HIV
           infections continued to rise (MoH, 2016). The latest epidemic modeling update indicated
           that except among men who have sex with man (MSM), annual numbers of new HIV infections
           had stabilized and begun to decline. However, with the current epidemic trajectory there
           would still be over 40,000 new HIV infections in the year 2030 (MoH,2016). Therefore,
           Indonesia is not yet on course to end HIV and AIDS by 2030.

           Although there has been a significant increase in the number of persons being treated
           for HIV/AIDS, the 108,479 people receiving ART as of December 2018 amounts to only 17
           percent of the estimated number of people live with HIV (PLHIV) in the country (MoH,
           2018). This makes Indonesia a performance "outlier" when compared to countries at
           comparable levels of gross national income (GNI) and health system development. The lack
           of more rapid progress has recently led key development partners to question Government
           of Indonesia (GOI) commitment to meaningfully addressing HIV and AIDS.

           Insufficient HIV testing remains a barrier to increasing ART coverage. The number of HIV
           tests performed annually has risen steadily in recent years, reaching 3,077,653 in
           calendar year 2018 (MoH, 2018). However, pregnant women account for a sizeable
           proportion of the increased number of persons being tested. While commendable, the case
           detection "yield" from testing pregnant women is relatively low. More effective case
           finding strategies need to be implemented to reach population sub-groups with higher HIV
           incidence and prevalence, including key affected populations (KAPs) such as female sex
           workers (FSW). Unless Indonesia can significantly increase its volume and efficiency of
           HIV testing, it will not be able to reach the first "95" of the UNAIDS 95-95-95
           framework - that is, 95% of PLHIV know their HIV status.

           The main rationale is Indonesia's concentrated epidemic transmission of HIV infection
           among KAPs, specifically FSWs. In 2016 it is estimated that there are 226,791 female sex
           workers and around 5,254,065 clients access their service per year (MoH, 2017). This
           mode of transmission continues to clients' sexual partner and moreover, their babies.
           Lowering the transmission of HIV infection from FSW to their clients would
           simultaneously lower its transmission to their sexual partners and furthermore their
           babies.

           FSW can be grouped by "direct" (i.e., brothel-based) and "indirect" status with regard
           to way of selling their sex services. In 2016, however, the estimated number of FSW was
           not grouped into direct and indirect because it was considered that most of FSWs had
           shifted to becoming indirect due to Indonesia's national policy to close brothels. Due
           to this policy, most FSWs have become hidden and hard to reach, thus increasing the
           challenge of increasing HIV testing uptake among this sub-population. Many commercial
           sex transactions have become underground, especially given the new popularity of digital
           platforms to sell sexual services. This phenomenon has created a new demand to identify
           alternative strategies for increasing HIV testing uptake among FSW.

        2. HIV Testing Among FSW

           Community based HIV-testing has been implemented in some countries such as Vietnam
           (Nguyen et al., 2019), Uganda (Ortblad et al., 2018), Malawi and Zimbabwe (Napierala et
           al., 2019). Non-governmental organizations in Indonesia had conducted study or pilot
           project on HIV test in men who have sex with men (MSM) outside health facility (Hidayat
           et al., 2019). This study was done to find an alternative to facility-based HIV testing,
           however MoH has been rather conservative in supporting non-health facility-based
           approach outside of mobile clinic testing which involves trained healthcare professional
           to perform HIV testing procedure according to the algorithm developed by the government.
           Mobile clinic testing strategy gave out insufficient result, especially in terms of
           linking those with positive HIV result for further follow-up and initiation of
           treatment. Cost-effectiveness of this approach was also doubted, at least in Jakarta
           (Cantelmo et al., 2019). This study found that the cost needed for mobile testing to
           identify at least one HIV positive case among FSW was almost six-times fold higher
           compared to finding similar target among transgender and MSM, and seventeen-times fold
           higher than those for identifying one HIV positive case among people who inject drugs
           (PWID). For the effective use of resource, this study suggested modification of the test
           frequency, time, and location for FSWs in Jakarta. In addition, this study also
           recommended the need for alternative strategies to increase HIV test uptake among FSW.

           FSWs community are at greater risk of not only HIV infection, but also stigma,
           discrimination and violence. They first face stigma and discrimination due to engaging
           in sex work itself, or from HIV stigma, particularly in contexts of HIV burden, which
           later affect their access to HIV testing (UNAIDS, 2016). The latest World Health
           Organization (WHO) guidelines have highlighted HIV self-testing (HIVST) as important
           tool to identify more people with undiagnosed HIV and at high risk of HIV infection.
           Protection of privacy and confidentiality is one of the advantages of this modality
           which allows for removing stigma as barriers to access services. HIVST has been shown to
           be acceptable across varieties of population globally including for FSWs community (King
           et al, 2013). Oral fluid HIVST is an alternative to traditional HIV testing services in
           the facility or other healthcare provider testing (UNAIDS, 2016).

        3. Role of Outreach Worker in HIV Self-testing Using Assisted and Unassisted Method

           In a study which assessed implementation and scale-up to HIV self-testing programs for
           female sex workers in Malawi and Zimbabwe, there were difference in preferences for how
           to access HIV self-testing, depended on how supportive the existing program
           infrastructure was (Napierala et al., 2019) In Zimbabwe, where there was a detailed
           understanding of the context of female sex workers and a ready framework to implement
           and evaluate HIV self-testing strategies, high acceptability (76%) and high accuracy of
           HIV self-testing was reported (Napierala et al., 2019). In contrast, peer-distribution
           models were favored by female sex workers in Malawi and female sex workers in Zimbabwe
           who were not engaged in the program (Napierala et al., 2019). Another study in Kampala
           (Uganda) evaluated HIV self-testing performance and results interpretation among FSWs
           who performed unassisted HIV self-testing, showed that misinterpretation of HIV
           self-test results were common among FSWs: 23% (12/56) of FSWs interpreted HIV-negative
           self-test results as HIV positive and 8% (3/37) of FSWs interpreted HIV-positive
           self-test results as HIV negative (Ortblad et al., 2018). The concordance between FSWs'
           instructions was 73% (95%CI 56% to 86%) for HIV-positive self-tests and 68% (95%CI 54%
           to 80%) for HIV-negative self-tests (Ortblad et al., 2018). This finding suggested
           training on use and interpretation of HIV self-test for the unassisted method might be
           necessary to prevent errors and to avoid the negative consequences of false-positive and
           false-negative HIV self-test results among FSWs.

        4. Study Purpose

      The study proposed in this protocol directly addresses the need to get more Indonesian FSW to
      "know their status" by providing an alternative, convenient HIV testing option in
      non-threatening community settings. In the Indonesian context where a reactive HIV test
      result using the MoH-mandated triple rapid test algorithm is needed to qualify for
      GoI-financed ART, community screening is seen as a mechanism for enabling FSW to conveniently
      determine their status and a facilitation mechanism for taking action based upon the
      community screening result, whether that entail going to a health facility for a confirmatory
      test in the case of a reactive screening result or adopting stronger prevention measures in
      the case of a non-reactive screening result, including Pre-Exposure Prophylactic (PrEP) as
      this prevention method is rolled out in Indonesia.

      The study will produce scientifically strong evidence as to whether two alternative models of
      community HIV screening among FSW (assisted and unassisted) result in (1) increased rates of
      formal HIV testing at health facilities and (2) increased rates of treatment initiation in
      districts in which the community screening intervention is added to the existing FSW
      community outreach model.

      Two alternative study protocols are described in this document. The bulk of this document
      presents a protocol for a community randomized controlled trial (cRCT), which is the
      preferred research design option. However, due to a delay in procurement of the OraQuick®
      rapid HIV test kits that are to be used in the study, there may be insufficient time to
      undertake a full cRCT. Accordingly, a contingency protocol that can be implemented in a
      shorter period of time is also presented.

      B. Study Design

        1. Design Summary

           The study will be undertaken in the 23 "acceleration" districts in the National AIDs
           Program. These are: Kota Medan, Deli Serdang, Kota Palembang, Kota Bandar Lampung, Kota
           Tangerang Selatan, Tangerang, Kota Jakarta Selatan, Kota Jakarta Timur, Kota Jakarta
           Pusat, Kota Jakarta Barat, Kota Jakarta Utara, Bogor, Kota Bekasi, Kota Bandung, Kota
           Depok, Kota Semarang, Kota Surakarta, Kota Malang, Kota Surabaya, Kota Denpasar, Kota
           Makassar, Kota Sorong and Kota Jayapura. These are districts with high HIV prevalence
           among HIV key populations, including FSW, and have comprehensive ongoing HIV-TB
           intervention packages consisting of both health services and community prevention and
           support programs. As for the FSWs program, these 23 priority districts already
           implementing a comprehensive outreach package (reach to test and simplified case
           management for FSWs living with HIV).

        2. Randomization

           Stratified randomization was carried out for the 23 priority districts involved in this
           study. First, sampling strata were created by sorting the mean average value of achieved
           HIV testing target per semester from 2018-2019 in each district from the largest to the
           smallest. The second step was to sort the districts into eight groups of three
           districts, except for the last group which will only consist of two districts.
           Randomization for intervention and comparison group were then carried out within these
           groups of eight with 2:1 ratio (2 intervention: 1 comparison).

        3. Recruitment and Sample Size

      All FSW in intervention districts who meet study eligibility criteria will be offered
      community screening. FSW in comparison districts will continue to receive the current
      standard package of interventions.

      In to be able to detect a 10 percentage point difference in the rate of HIV testing at health
      facilities between FSW in intervention vs. comparison districts and have 95% certainty that a
      difference of that magnitude would not have occurred by chance and 90% certainty of detecting
      a difference of this magnitude if the difference was real/"the truth," the following sample
      of FSW will be needed in intervention and in comparison districts:

      n ≥ [Z1-α (2P(1-P))1/2 + Z1-β (P1(1-P1) + P2(1-P2)2 / (P1-P2)2] * deft

      Where:

      Z1-α = the Z score for the level of statistical confidence, or statistical precision, desired
      (for 95%, Z = 1.96) Z1-β = the Z score for the desired statistical power (for 90% one-sided
      test, Z = 1.282) P1 = the expected population proportion in the comparison group of districts
      (set = 0.5 - this is the worst-case scenario and will produced a sample size that is adequate
      irrespective of the actual proportion P2 = the expected population proportion in the
      intervention group of districts (set = 0.6 - assume minimum effect size to be realized of 10
      percentages points) P = (P1-P2) / 2 (P1-P2) = the magnitude of comparison-group differences
      (or change over time) to be detected with the specified level of precision and power (assumed
      to be +/- 10 percentage points) deft = design effect to compensate for clustering at the
      district level (1.5 assumed).

      The required sample size is thus n ≥ 635 per experimental group; ≥ 761 after 20% allowance
      for lost-to-follow up Interpretation: we would need to recruit 761 FSW who self-test for HIV
      testing in the intervention districts and 761 FSW for HIV testing at health facilities in
      comparison districts to be able to detect a 10 percentage point difference in the rate of HIV
      testing at health facilities (intervention vs. comparison districts) to have 95% certainty
      that a difference of that magnitude would not have occurred by chance and 90% certainty of
      detecting a difference of this magnitude if such a difference existed.

      In order to assess whether "assisted" or "unassisted" community HIV screening among FSW
      results in a larger increase in the rate of HIV testing at health facilities, we would need
      samples of size n ≥ 761 each of FSW who received assisted and unassisted screening in
      intervention districts, a total of n ≥ 1,522 FSW in intervention districts, plus n ≥ 761 in
      comparison districts.

      Sample size requirements for the third question measurement pertains to the number of FSW who
      test positive for HIV at a health facility and are thus eligible to initiate treatment. This
      will depend upon (1) the number of FSW presenting at health facilities for testing and (2)
      the positivity rate among those tested. Sample sizes should thus be calculated accordingly.
      If we assume a testing positivity rate of 3%, it is apparent that the expected number of FSWs
      who would be eligible for treatment will be small and we will lack sufficient statistical
      power to make meaningful comparisons with comparison districts. For this reason, it is
      recommended that the impact of community screening among FSW be measured using system
      information HIV and AIDS data (SIHA) for FSW in both intervention and comparison districts.
      This estimate of impact derived in this way will be confounded if it were to be the case that
      interventions other than HIV self-testing were to be better implemented in intervention vs.
      comparison districts. It might be possible to minimize this potential bias by including
      measures of intervention implementation performance in the intervention and comparison
      districts in multivariable analyses. Thus, a large enough sample size is required to ensure
      sufficient power to determine the difference in the intervention and control districts.

      C. The Intervention

      1. General Description of The Intervention

      The community screening intervention will be implemented as an additional component to be
      added in intervention districts to the intervention package currently being implemented by
      UNFPA's Implementation Units (IUs). In "control districts" implementation of the
      UNFPA-supported GFATM will proceed without modification as concerns community screening.

      D. Data Collection Protocols

        1. Baseline survey

           An application will be developed so that the survey can be completed and submitted to a
           server using mobile phones Outreach worker (OW)/Peer educator (PE)/Female sex worker
           (FSW). The following basic information will be gathered (see draft questionnaires for
           the baseline and post-test surveys in the annex of this protocol).

             -  Name (full name/initial)

             -  Age

             -  Date of birth

             -  Test Kit ID Number

             -  Education

             -  Marital status

             -  Age at initiation of sex work

             -  Number of clients last seven (7) days

             -  Methods of clients' recruitment (fixed facility, street, internet, online platform)

             -  Consistency of condom use

             -  Ever been tested for HIV

             -  When last time tested

             -  Ever been diagnosed with an sexually transmitted infections/STI (other than HIV)

        2. Post-test Survey

           The following inquiries will be made:

             -  The clarity of information being provided (flier or short video), on a scale of 1-5

             -  The easiness of test procedure, on a scale of 1-5

             -  Perceived accuracy of the test result, on a scale of 1-5

             -  The quality of response by the assigned contact person/hotline, on a scale of 1-5

             -  Clients' acceptance/perception towards the study procedure

             -  The likelihood of clients to recommend their peers to take the test, on a scale of
                1-5

             -  Test result

             -  How likely is it that the client will get a HIV test at a health facility as a
                result of the community screening test, on a scale of 1-5

             -  Comments and suggestions.

        3. Routine Recording

      Because of limitations in the data recorded and reported by health facilities, the study will
      rely primarily upon data recorded by IU outreach staff. Modifications will be made to the
      data recording and reporting systems currently being used to facilitate collection of the
      data needed for the study in a manner that minimizes additional recording and reporting
      burden. The nature of the adjustments to be made will be different for "assisted" and
      "unassisted" community screening.

      For unassisted approach, additional information will be gathered as indicated below:

        1. Numbers of FSW who access the link online

        2. Numbers of FSW who are deemed eligible

        3. Numbers of FSW who fill in baseline survey and agree to participate

        4. Numbers of FSW who agree to take HIV test at health facility

        5. Numbers of FSW who request the kit being delivered vs picking-up at fixed location

        6. Numbers of FSW who upload the test result

        7. Numbers of reactive vs non-reactive test result

        8. Numbers of FSW who complete the post-test survey

        9. Among FSW with community screening tests, the numbers that were subsequently tested at a
           health facility (reactive OR non-reactive)

       10. Number of FSW initiating ART.

      4. Numbering System for Test Kit and Other Instruments

        1. Recording Test Kit ID

           Every test kit will have a unique ID number, which will later be referred to as the Kit
           ID number. The Kit ID Number is to be filled in on all instruments and forms that are to
           be linked to the test results (e.g., baseline survey, test results form, post-test
           survey, routine data record in each IU, etc.). This number needs to be identified at all
           times to make sure that each participant is only assigned to one test kit, matching the
           kit with the results, and to track the stock of the test kit remained. The format of
           this ID kit will be "01-001", where the first 2 digits are to identify the number of the
           district in which participants take the test, and the last 3 digits are to identify
           which test kit the participant is using. This test kit ID will also be later used for
           each IU to track the distribution of the test kit. Every test kit being distributed,
           either in a fixed place or delivered through same-day delivery services, will be
           recorded and tracked by each IU. An MS Excel or MS Access form will be developed to
           record and track the Kit ID Number.

        2. Recording temporary FSW ID

           On the ground of confidentiality, participants' full name will not be revealed and used
           within this study. A new system to ensure the reliable yet confidential identification
           of study participants needs to be established. Every participant in the study will be
           assigned to a temporary FSW ID. The format will be the first 4 letters of participants'
           names added by the date of birth (yy/mm/dd). For example, a participant named
           "INDRIYANTI" who was born on March 5th, 1976, her temporary FSW ID will be "INDR760305".
           For FSW whose name contains only 3 letters, the number zero will be added after the last
           letter. For example, an FSW whose name is "AYU" and was born on March 5th1976, her
           temporary will be "AYU0760305". This temporary FSW ID will be used to ensure that each
           participant is only assigned to one test kit, to track test results, and to be filled in
           the baseline and post-test survey.

        3. Matching Test Kit ID and temporary FSW ID

           To match the test kit ID and temporary FSW ID, an automatic system needs to be developed
           to detect it precisely. This way, we can be sure that each participant only gets to
           participate in this study once (from receiving the kit, performing the test, and
           reporting the result).

        4. Paper Based Data Collection

      In the event that participants' data are collected by paper, a procedure to upload the data
      into the established online system will be developed. Each data manager in the IUs needs to
      conduct the procedure regularly. This is to ensure that all data are being captured
      thoroughly.

      E. Research Ethics and Permission

      Participation in the study will be entirely voluntary. For the assisted testing, formal
      signed consent or witnessed verbal informed consent will be obtained by outreach workers.
      Records of informed consent will be managed /safeguarded using sealed envelope with unique
      number. To ensure the confidentiality, in the base line data only unique number will be
      recorded. A draft of the informed consent form can be found in Annex-3 of this protocol. For
      unassisted screening, every study participant should fill in the check box of website or
      application to provide consent: "By signing this form/ticking this box, I understand that I
      am thereby agreeing to enroll in this study" and test kit is not sent out if the check box is
      not checked by the user.

      This protocol will be reviewed by the Faculty of Medicine Udayana University Institutional
      Review Board (IRB) prior to study initiation. Approval of the protocol in either its original
      or modified form is required.

      Research permission will be submitted to Department of Internal Affairs Republic of
      Indonesia, which will subsequently be referred to the licensing office in each provinces and
      priority districts.
    
  