
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the safety and tolerability of vorinostat (SAHA) in combination with bevacizumab
      in patients with unresectable or metastatic renal cell carcinoma. (Phase I) II. Determine the
      recommended dosing in patients treated with this regimen. (Phase I) III. Determine the
      proportion of patients who are progression-free at 6 months after receiving this regimen.
      (Phase II) IV. Determine the clinical response rate in patients treated with this regimen.
      (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients. (Phase II) II. Determine time to
      progression and duration of progression-free and overall survival in patients treated with
      this regimen. (Phase II) III. Determine the pharmacodynamic effects in peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells and tumors before and after treatment with this regimen in these patients.
      (Phase II) IV. Determine the antiproliferative and apoptotic effects of this regimen in these
      patients. (Phase II) V. Determine the antiangiogenic effects of this regimen in these
      patients. (Phase II) VI. Determine the modulation of tumor metabolism and tumor blood flow in
      patients treated with this regimen. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of vorinostat (SAHA) followed by a phase II
      study.

      PHASE I: Patients receive oral SAHA twice daily on days 1-14 and bevacizumab IV over 30-90
      minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of SAHA until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6
      patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. An additional 6 patients are treated at the MTD.

      PHASE II: Patients receive SAHA at the MTD determined in phase I and bevacizumab as in phase
      I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4 weeks and then every 3 months
      thereafter.
    
  