
    
      Occlusal bite force (OBF) is an indicator of the functional status of the masticatory system.
      The level of maximum occlusal bite force (MOBF) results from the combined action of the jaw
      elevator muscles modified by jaw biomechanics and reflex mechanisms. The measurement of OBF
      has been widely used in dentistry to provide useful data for the evaluation of jaw muscle
      function and activity as well as effectiveness of prosthetic therapy.

      Many indicators have been believed to assess the functional status of the masticatory system,
      such as body size, bite force, number of functional tooth units, and the occlusal contact
      area. Dental status formed with dental fillings, dentures, position and the number of teeth
      is an important factor in the value of the OBF.

      Many studies were conducted to evaluate the effect of dental caries on OBF. Tsai et al. found
      a negative correlation between MOBF and the number of decayed teeth. Su et al. reported that
      the overall tooth decay was not related to the strength of OBF. They suggested that the
      severity of tooth decay may be more important than the number of teeth exhibiting decay.

      Stainless Steel Crowns (SSCs) are considered the treatment of choice for severely decayed but
      restorable primary molars. A recent systematic review by Seale and Randall confirmed their
      previous work and reviews and appeared to continue to be supportive and in favor of SSCs.

      SSCs has been blamed for premature contact related discomfort in the first few weeks after
      placement of SSCs. Zee and Amerongen reported that premature contacting SSC restored teeth
      will equilibrate over time and return to pretreatment levels in 15 to 30 days.

      Several opinions have been reported by parents, children and dentists regarding the improved
      mastication efficiency after placement of the SSCs. However, the effects of SSCs placement on
      primary molars on OBF have not yet been investigated
    
  