
    
      Rationale:

      The current strategy in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH)is to improve
      exercise capacity which can be achieved by decreasing pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) and
      subsequently increasing cardiac output (CO). Despite this load reduction, a substantial
      proportion of patients show progressive right ventricular (RV) dysfunction leading to
      clinical worsening and death. A possible explanation is that current therapies show a
      relatively modest reduction in PVR, leaving mean pulmonary artery pressure (mPAP) unchanged.
      As a consequence RV work, defined as the product of CO and mPAP increases, contributing to
      progressive RV dysfunction.

      Hypothesis:

      A goal oriented therapeutic strategy that is able to preserve RV function will result in
      improved clinical outcome. RV function can only be preserved when early and aggressive
      combination therapy not only reduces PVR but also mPAP.

      Study questions:

        1. Will a goal oriented strategy to preserve/improve RV function, measured by right
           ventricular ejection fraction (RVEF) be effective?

        2. Does early and aggressive combination therapy result in improved RV function and
           survival during long term follow-up?

        3. Does a strategy to preserve RVEF also translate into improvements of other clinically
           meaningful parameters?

        4. Can RVEF be replaced by more simple measures?

        5. Will a goal oriented strategy to improve RVEF also lead to improvement of myocardial
           performances and coupling of the RV to its load?

      Study design and study population:

      In this prospective longitudinal feasibility study, thirty newly diagnosed idiopathic or
      heritable PAH patients with New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class II or III will
      be included. Maintenance/improvement of RVEF will be our primary outcome parameter and
      therefore cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR) will be performed at baseline and at 4, 8
      , 12 and 24 months of follow-up. Six-minute walk testing (6MWT), quality of life
      questionnaires and blood sampling (NT-proBNP) will be performed at similar follow-up
      intervals. In addition, right heart catheterization (RHC) will be performed at baseline,
      after 4, 12 and 24 months of follow-up.

      NYHA II patients will start with single agent medical treatment whereas patients with NYHA
      III will start on combination therapy (2 treatments). In case of a stable/improved RVEF
      during each follow-up measurement (defined as no decrease in RVEF >3% compared to previous
      measurement), the treatment strategy will remain unchanged. In case of decreased RVEF >3%,
      additional medical therapy will be added. Our hypothesis will prove to be correct when the
      additional medical treatment result in improved RVEF during the subsequent follow-up
      measurement.
    
  