
    
      Capsule endoscopy (CE), a novel and wireless method of investigating the small bowel uses a
      remote instrument that is swallowed and propelled through the gastrointestinal tract by the
      action of peristalsis. The capsule contains an imaging device, which transmits images of the
      intestine to sensors on the abdominal wall. It has the ability to detect diffuse mucosal
      disease but without the inadvertent radiation exposure. Numerous studies have compared the
      utility of small bowel radiology to CE for the investigation of Crohn's disease. A recent
      meta-analysis showed that CE is superior to small bowel radiology, CT enterography and
      ileo-colonoscopy in the setting of suspected Crohn's disease. Capsule endoscopy has now
      developed an established role in the investigation pathway of small bowel Crohn's disease.
      However CE requires placement of an eight-lead sensor array over the abdomen that receives
      image and localization data transmitted from the capsule. The current process of applying
      this array to the skin has several disadvantages: firstly, it is time-consuming; secondly, it
      can be cumbersome for the patient; and thirdly, it is often difficult to place the leads
      consistently. Moreover, CE is expensive and results are largely influenced by the operator's
      skills.

      Among the available fecal biomarkers for the diagnosis and monitoring of inflammatory bowel
      disease (IBD), only calprotectin and lactoferrin have translated into useful clinical tools.

      Calprotectin (MRP8/14) is a calcium-binding heterodimer of the S100 protein family, presents
      in granulocytes, macrophages, and epithelial cells of humans and other mammals.It is believed
      to play an essential role in immunity. Calprotectin is released upon neutrophil/monocyte
      activation, when it can be detected in serum and body fluids, including stool. It is poorly
      degraded during passage through the gastrointestinal tract and remains stable in refrigerated
      storage. Together, these features make calprotectin a potentially useful marker of clinical
      inflammatory and neoplastic states. Recently, several studies suggested that a high fecal
      calprotectin concentration may distinguish patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)
      from patients with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS).

      Lactoferrin (LF) is an iron binding glycoprotein secreted by most mucosal membranes and a
      major component of secondary granules of polymorphonuclear neutrophils, a component of the
      inflammatory response. A number of studies have investigated the use of lactoferrin as a non
      invasive marker in the distinction of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and non inflammatory
      conditions. Whilst a high sensitivity of LF has been reported for active IBD in comparison to
      IBS, the distinction of inactive IBD and IBS is less clear . Lactoferrin can be detected
      using simple and cheap techniques and it has excellent stability in feces over a long period
      of time. Fecal lactoferrin has a good diagnostic precision for separating organic and
      functional intestinal disease.

      The aim of this prospective study is to assess the clinical utility of fecal calprotectin and
      lctoferrin in patients undergoing CE.

      Exclusion criteria Intake of nonsteroidal agents and/or antibiotics during the three months
      preceding the study, concomitant serious illness, pregnancy, alcohol abuse, and evidence of a
      respiratory tract infection.

      Study protocol After obtaining informed consent from the patients, data will collect on
      patient symptoms including the presence of abdominal pain, weight loss, diarrhoea, abdominal
      mass, extra-intestinal manifestations or family history of IBD. All patients will undergo a
      non diagnostic colonoscopy and gastro copy prior to CE referral.

      Study protocol include diagnostic CE and stool examinations. Stool Analysis Prior to CE
      preparation, patients will ask to supply a stool specimen which they were to store in a
      household freezer and bring with them on the day of examination. The specimens will freeze at
      -20°C until assay. Fecal calprotectin levels will determine with a commercially available
      quantitative enzyme-linked immunoassay (Calpreset; Eurospital, Trieste, Italy and IBD SCAN) .
      Faecal lactoferrin test will perform on each thawed sample as previously described .Normal
      levels of calprotectin will define as 25 mg/kg stool.

      Capsule endoscopy The description of CE is well reported in the literature (Pillcam SB, Given
      Imaging, Yoqneum,Ltd) .Patients will fast overnight for 12 hours after ingestion of two
      sachets of polyethylene glycol solution (Kleen-Prep, Norgine). Patients were allowed to drink
      2 hours after and eat a light snack 4 hours after ingestion of the capsule.

      Blood markers In addition, blood will collect from all patients for measurement of complete
      blood count, C-reactive protein (CRP) level, and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) by
      standard methods (normal values ESR <12 mm/h; CRP <5 mg/l).

      Calprotectin and lactoferrin levels in stool will compare to the clinical and laboratory
      parameters.
    
  