
    
      Recurrent Abdominal Pain (RAP) is one of many disorders in adults and children for which
      there is no identifiable organic or physiological cause, yet which is associated with illness
      behavior that has significant societal and personal costs. Although 10-15% of children have
      RAP, there is at present no accepted medical or behavioral treatment for it. We have
      conducted a series of studies that suggests that illness behavior is, at least in part,
      learned during childhood when parents model sick role behavior or respond to their children's
      somatic complaints in a way that encourages or reinforces sick role behavior. The goal of
      this project is to evaluate the efficacy of a social learning and cognitive behavior therapy
      approach for treating children with RAP.

      The study is a randomized clinical trial. Children with RAP are assigned to one of two
      treatment conditions: 1) a social learning and cognitive behavior therapy condition (SLCBT)
      or 2) an education and support condition (ES). The SLCBT protocol teaches parents and
      children cognitive-behavioral methods such as relaxation and coping for managing RAP pain and
      stress. Patients and parents in the ES condition receive educational information regarding
      nutrition and the gastrointestinal system. Both treatment arms consist of three sessions with
      a mental health professional, each one week apart.

      Study families are recruited from physicians in the community and through community flyers
      and newsletters. Outcome measures are collected at baseline, end of treatment, and at
      follow-up evaluations conducted three, six and 12 months later. Measures are designed to
      assess: RAP symptoms, health care utilization, psychological symptoms, school absences,
      functional disabilities, and family stress).

      Primary Hypothesis: Children in the SLCBT condition will exhibit a greater decrease in
      symptoms of RAP and related maladaptive behaviors and cognitions than children in a
      comparison condition.
    
  