
    
      Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) is a well-known disorder of upper airways collapse during sleep
      time leading to oxygen desaturation, sleep fragmentation, tissue suffering and hypercapnia.
      The repeated airways collapse leads to a fall of blood saturation levels during sleep time
      and it is linked to daytime sleepiness, road traffic accidents, cognitive deficits,
      depression, myocardial infarction, pulmonary hypertension and stroke.

      Despite being increasingly recognized as a major cardiovascular risk, the effect of OSA on
      clinical outcomes after Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) is not fully defined. The presentation
      of Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS) can be unstable angina, non-ST Elevation Myocardial
      Infarction (NSTEMI) or ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction (STEMI). Sleep apnea prevalence in
      the context of acute coronary syndromes (ACS) is sizeable, varying from 36.9%-82% when
      polysomnography is executed briefly after admission in Cardiovascular Care Unit (CCU). The
      high prevalence of OSA in ACS may be related to the deterioration of cardiac function
      resulting in worsening of the severity of sleep apnea. In converse, OSA has also been
      proposed as a protective factor in CAD. The intermittent hypoxia related to OSA could have a
      cardio-protective role during acute ACS via the phenomenon of "ischemic preconditioning",
      showing that in acute MI patients higher AHI was associated with lower peak troponin-T levels
      in partially and fully adjusted models.

      Furthermore, the improvement of cardiac outcomes at the follow-up post-discharge seems to
      positively influence the severity of OSA. In particular, serial sleep studies have
      interestingly shown a progressive reduction of the AHI at 6 weeks, 12 weeks and 6-month
      follow up, making necessary to re-assess the severity of OSA after discharge. Therefore,
      further research in this field is necessary to screen and predict those ACS patients with a
      diagnosis of OSA made at admission in CCU who may experience a change in their AHI index over
      time, in order to identify those with a potential unfavourable prognosis.
    
  