
    
      Idiopathic granulomatous mastitis is an uncommon, benign and chronic inflammatory breast
      disease that mainly involves women of childbearing age . The disease, was first described by
      Kessler and Wollock in 1972 .Although it is a benign condition, it is important from
      different points of view: it poses a diagnostic and treatment dilemma , also, it clinically
      and mammographically mimics breast cancer, especially inflammatory type . On the other hand,
      due to lack of a definitive treatment plan, complications of empiric treatment, such as
      allergic reaction to antibiotics and poor cosmetic procedures result in following repeated
      surgical interventions which threaten the patients . In fact, the etiology of IGM is unknown
      but some factors have been stated including reaction to chemical materials such as oral
      contraceptive pills, infectious disease, autoimmune diseases and immunologic response formilk
      leakage from the breast's lobule . On the other hand, some conditions such as pregnancy,
      breast feeding, hyper prolactinemia, galactorrhea, and alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency have
      been associated with the risk of the disease . Infection with corynebacterium kroppenstedtii
      has been suggested but is unconfirmed . The final word about etiology is that although the
      cause of the disease is unknown the general consensus is that reproductive age, recent
      pregnancy, breast feeding and history of oral contraceptive pills use are the most associated
      conditions with the disease, as shown in finding. The most common presenting sign is a
      defined hard lump of the breast. As the disease progresses nipple inversion, peau d'orange,
      tumorous in duration, ulcer and fistula can occur that can easily be mistaken for cancer .
      The most common reported ultrasound (U/S) findings are: an irregular hypo echoic finding that
      connects with the tubular hypo echo area and parenchymal heterogeneity and an area of mixed
      echo pattern with parenchymal deformity, both of which can lead to diagnosis of malignant
      changes . Common findings in mammography imaging are asymmetric diffuse and skin thickness .
      As mentioned previously, neither U/S nor mammography can differentiate IGM from malignant or
      other benign lesions, especially inflammatory breast cancers . Because of U/S and
      mammographic failure, some authors suggested MRI in diagnosis of IGM, but studies have shown
      that MRI does not provide additional findings for differentiation of IGM from breast cancer.
      In view of the non-definitive clinical and imaging findings, histopathology is the
      cornerstone of definitive diagnosis . It must be mentioned that FNA cannot confidently
      differentiate IGM and histopathological examination remains as the cornerstone . Some studies
      obtained different results in terms of the treatment of these patients that suggested
      corticosteroids and methotrexate with surgery or treatment with corticosteroid and
      azithromycin, and administration of steroids in lesions in these patients .
    
  