
    
      Hip fractures are common among elderly women and can have a devastating impact on their
      ability to remain independent. A significant functional decline following a hip fracture has
      been documented, and many patients have persistent strength and mobility deficits that impair
      their capacity for independent function. Such individuals are at high risk for continued
      supportive services, recurrent injury, and institutionalization. High-risk patients include
      those with deficits in skeletal muscle strength during the post-fracture period.
      Age-associated androgen deficiency contributes to deficits in muscle mass and strength that
      are common in this patient population. The role of testosterone therapy for improving
      deficits in muscle mass, strength, and functional capacity in the frail elderly is unclear,
      particularly for elderly women. There is insufficient information regarding tolerability of
      testosterone therapy, and the appropriate medication dosage and target serum testosterone
      levels necessary to induces changes in skeletal muscle mass and functional measures in
      elderly women with physical frailty due to muscle weakness.

      The goals of this project are to conduct a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled
      prospective study to determine the feasibility, tolerability, and safety of 6 months of
      testosterone therapy in community-dwelling, physically frail, elderly female hip fracture
      patients. Twenty-seven female hip fracture patients will be recruited, using objective
      criteria for testosterone deficiency and frailty. We plan to evaluate two dosages of
      testosterone, administered as a 0.5% topical gel: a physiologic replacement dosage, and a
      supraphysiologic dosage. We plan to carefully monitor testosterone levels, side effects,
      biochemical parameters, and factors related to compliance with therapy. We plan to obtain
      preliminary information regarding the changes in measurements of muscle strength, total score
      on an Objective Physical Performance Test, total lean body mass by dual energy x-ray
      absorptiometry (DEXA), thigh cross-sectional areas by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and
      self-reported performance of activities of daily living, and quality of life. These data will
      be used to develop a full-scale proposal to test the long-term hypothesis that testosterone
      therapy combined with exercise training can improve physical function after a hip fracture.
    
  