
    
      Depression is one of the most common and debilitating conditions among older adults. At-home
      seniors, also called homebound seniors, are older adults who are confined to a bed or chair
      and are unable to get about outdoors. Medical morbidity, disability, cognitive impairment,
      pain, and social isolation are known risk factors for depression that are prevalent among
      at-home seniors. Epidemiological and community-based studies have consistently documented a
      high prevalence of depression among at-home seniors. However, depression treatment is often
      inaccessible to at-home seniors. The majority of at-home seniors with depression do not
      receive adequate treatment, with the dominant treatment modality being medication.
      Successfully treating late-life depression requires a multi-component treatment program
      beyond medication. Besides, medication non-adherence is common due to concerns of side
      effects and preferences for other treatment modalities such as counseling. However,
      office-based psychotherapy is out of reach for at-home seniors who often require assistance
      for transportation. In addition, older adults prefer home-based treatment and counseling, and
      consideration of their preference may lead to better treatment outcomes.

      Online therapy (iCBT) is an evidence-based approach for treating depression.
      Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) is the gold standard of psychotherapy for depression in
      both young and older adults. Internet-based CBT (iCBT) delivers CBT via d websites or
      dedicated apps on mobile devices or tablets. iCBT can be self-administered or guided by a
      therapist. Its strengths include low-cost, accessibility, and ability to tailor to individual
      needs while maintaining fidelity. Meta-analyses have shown that iCBT is equivalent to
      face-to-face CBT in its effectiveness for treating depression. Emerging evidence suggests
      that iCBT may actually be more effective for older adults, because they are more likely to
      adhere to treatment than their younger counterparts. Despite the benefits of iCBT, most older
      adults do not use iCBT, possibly due to limited opportunities accessing iCBT programs and
      technological challenges.

      This project explores the feasibility of implementing iCBT in non-skilled home care. Home
      care workers provide personal care and companionship to older adults in need of assistance
      with daily activities, housekeeping, medication management, and transportation. Home care is
      provided full-time, part-time, intermittently, or even around the clock to address the
      recipient's long-term care needs. Home-based care provides a naturalized and accessible
      setting, and frequent home visits over an extended period offer opportunities for prolonged
      engagement and symptom monitoring. Research shows that iCBT programs with human support are
      more effective than self-guided programs. For at-home seniors, home care workers represent an
      untapped resource of human support and can be trained to provide technical assistance for
      at-home seniors with limited computer literacy, addressing technological challenges
      associated with iCBT use. Moreover, home care workers can facilitate the completion of
      behavioral activation activities (e.g., drive a client to attend a social activity), which is
      critical in realizing the effectiveness of CBT. In addition, participation in training and
      intervention may also benefit the home care workers themselves by improving job satisfaction,
      pride, and retention. However, Studies have not tested iCBT with at-home seniors receiving
      home care. Protocols for implementing iCBT in home care also do not exist. Issues regarding
      screening, supervision, and referrals need to be addressed and standardized. In addition, we
      need to develop strategies to address implementation barriers at the patient, provider, and
      organization levels to achieve sustained impact.

      This pilot feasibility study is a pragmatic trial of iCBT among a sample of diverse at-home
      seniors receiving non-skilled home care. Guided by the Replicating Effective Programs
      framework, this study aims to develop materials to package an existing, evidence-based iCBT
      program called Beating the Blues for testing in a sample of at-home seniors receiving home
      care. The primary aim of the study is to test whether iCBT is an acceptable treatment
      modality for at-home seniors with varying levels of technology competency. An exploratory aim
      is to examine whether it is feasible to train home care workers to assist seniors with iCBT
      completion. Findings from this pilot study will gather information regarding barriers to
      implement iCBT in non-skilled home care at the provider- (home care workers) and the patient-
      (at-home seniors) levels. If the results from this study are promising, subsequent efforts
      will be devoted to address implementation barriers at the organizational (home care agencies)
      level.

      The study is a single-group open trial. Study materials (measurements, participant workbook)
      will be piloted tested with 2 subjects, who will not participate in the full trial. The
      targeted sample size for the full trial is 28. A sample size of 23 provides a power of 0.95
      to detect a significant effect size of d=.8 from paired-sample t-test (G*Power, 3.1 version).
      A proposed sample size of 28 therefore has sufficient power to detect the projected effect
      size.

      Study subjects will be recruited from home-care agencies, meals-on-wheels, and senior
      apartment buildings in Ann Arbor and surrounding areas.

      After being screened and consented, subjects will receive a comprehensive baseline
      assessment. Subjects have the choice of receiving assistance from their home care worker,
      assistance from a member of the research team, or work on the iCBT program on their own. If
      subjects prefer to work on the iCBT program with their home care workers, their workers will
      also been consented and receive a training. After their workers finish the required training,
      subjects will then start treatment. Research team will supply a tablet and prepaid data
      packages to subjects if they don't have access to a working device or internet package.
      Subjects are told that they have 3 months to use the online program. Subjects will receive a
      comprehensive post-test assessment once they complete the entire program or at the end of the
      3-month period, whichever occurs first. Subjects will also be asked to participate in a short
      individual interview during post-test. All assessments with subjects will take place at their
      home. The structured part of the comprehensive baseline and post-test includes three parts:
      an online self-administered survey, a clinical interview, and Montreal Cognitive Assessment
      (MoCA) test for cognitive impairment using the MoCA app. In addition to these scheduled
      assessments, Beating the Blues, the iCBT program used in the study, has built-in assessments
      (PHQ-9 and GAD-7) at the start of session 1 and the end of session 3, 5, 7, & 8.

      Survey data will be recorded and managed using Qualtrics.

      Post-treatment analysis will involve an intention-to-treat design where missing data are
      addressed by carrying forward data previously collected. Primary outcomes include Patient
      Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) for depressive symptoms, number of sessions completed, and
      program satisfaction/acceptability. Difference in PHQ-9 between session 1 and post-test will
      be calculated and tested. Session 1 PHQ-9 score will be used to assure consistency in time
      lapsed up until post-test. Secondary outcomes include Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD-7)
      for anxiety and Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) for cognitive impairment. Difference in
      GAD-7 between session 1 and post-test will be calculated and tested. Difference in MoCA score
      between baseline and post-test will be tested. Paired-sample t-test will be used to detect
      statistically significant difference. Effect sizes (Cohen's d) and 95% confidence intervals
      will be calculated. Statistical analyses will be conducted using Stata 15.1 SE version.

      This study is supported by an Investigator-Initiated Grant from the Blue Cross Blue Shield of
      Michigan Foundation and a grant from the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services.
    
  