
    
      It is estimated that there are 11,400 new cases of soft tissue sarcoma diagnosed in the
      United States annually. Most high-grade sarcomas, and other selected low or intermediate
      grade sarcomas, are treated with a limb salvage surgical resection in conjunction with
      external beam radiation to optimize local control. The current preference of most practicing
      orthopaedic/surgical oncologists and radiation oncologists is to implement the radiation
      treatments prior to surgery to diminish the total radiation dose and field size, thereby
      optimizing long-term functional results of the salvaged limb. While there are clear
      advantages of preoperative radiation, there are well-demonstrated negative consequences with
      regard to healing of the surgical wound. Currently there are no reliable clinical criteria to
      aid physicians in determining an individual patient's risk of developing a postoperative
      wound complication. This fact, combined with the rarity of the sarcoma diagnosis, has
      prevented improvement in wound outcomes in sarcoma patients.

      This project is designed to close this critical gap in knowledge. The investigators propose
      utilizing a preoperative measurement of transcutaneous oxygen (Tc02) at the proposed incision
      to classify patients into high- and low-risk categories for development of wound
      complications after resection. Measurement of preoperative TcO2 represents a novel
      application of a simple, noninvasive method by which to assess skin oxygenation. Given the
      results of an already completed pilot investigation (Nystrom 2016), the investigators believe
      that this important clinical problem is well suited for a prospective, multi-disciplinary,
      multi-institutional investigation.

      A successful project would result in an enhanced ability to identify wounds at risk prior to
      surgery and allow for additional investigation into perioperative interventions (delay of
      surgery until recovery of oxygenation, increasing suture duration, judicious use of muscle
      flaps and skin grafts, postoperative hyperbaric oxygen, or treatment with incisional wound
      vacuum-assisted closure) that may mitigate this significant adverse outcome.
    
  