
    
      This is a multinational, epidemiological, observational, retrospective, cross-sectional study
      of individuals with achondroplasia (subjects). This study will be conducted at up to
      approximately 4 sites in Latin American Countries - Brazil, Argentina and Colombia.

      Subjects will be identified for participation in the study via three routes:

        1. During routine hospital visits

        2. From clinic lists of those previously treated but no longer followed at the study site.

        3. Through collaboration of the Investigator with Achondroplasia patient organizations,
           other Achondroplasia-related organizations, other healthcare professionals in their
           country and Achondroplasia-related social media sites. A recruitment flyer will be
           provided to these organizations, healthcare professionals and distributed to potential
           subjects.

      Data will be collected over a minimum of the three years prior to the date of enrolment.
      Clinical and healthcare resource use data will be collected from medical records. For each
      subject enrolled, data from medical records will be collected and entered onto an electronic
      case report form (eCRF) at each site. Data collection from medical records will be
      supplemented by records provided by the subject and, if necessary, confirmed by the family
      Doctor.

      Data about QoL, mobility, psychosocial burden, socio-economic burden and healthcare resource
      use will be collected via a booklet of validated and structured questionnaires.

      Characteristics of subjects with achondroplasia (QoL scores, healthcare resource use,
      educational level, family status, employment status) will be compared with those of the
      general population, where available.

      As this is an observational study, participation will not affect the subject/Investigator
      relationship, nor influence Investigator's treatment, therapeutic or other management of the
      subject.

      Subject participation onto the study will be voluntary, without financial support to the
      subject.
    
  