
    
      Each patient will be inspected to check if the patient fits for the eligibility criteria. If
      the patient meets the standards, phase I therapy for periodontal plastic procedures will be
      performed including thorough supragingival scaling and subgingival debridement. Preservation
      of appropriate plaque control (both mechanical and chemical) by the patient will be executed
      as well.

      Surgical procedures:

      It will be done by the principal investigator.

      CTG harvesting:

      A measurement of the approximate length and width of the graft required will be taken. A CTG
      will be harvested from the palate using single incision technique as described by Kumar et
      al. (2013) as follows:

      The graft will be harvested from the palate between the distal aspect of the canine and the
      mid-palatal region of the first molar.

        -  A template will be placed on the palate to mark the extent of the graft, after local
           anesthesia is administered.

        -  A single incision 2 mm apical to the gingival margin will be done. The blade will be
           placed approximately parallel to the long axis of the palate to provide the first
           incision.

        -  The partial thickness flap will be raised as far apically as required, in accordance
           with the graft size, as measured by the template, using a periosteal elevator. The
           thickness of the flap will be sufficient to reduce the probability of tearing and
           sloughing.

        -  Following this, the blade will be angled perpendicular to the palate through the same
           incision and continued to the bone. After the incision to the bone, the connective
           tissue will be elevated from the underlying bone with a periosteal elevator. Then two
           vertical incisions on the mesial and distal ends of the graft and one horizontal medial
           incision will be performed (under the partial thickness flap), to release it from the
           surrounding tissue.

        -  The graft will be harvested through that single incision and pressure applied to the
           donor site with gauze soaked in saline after the graft was taken. The donor site will be
           sutured using a 4-0 silk suture.

      For the peCTG, the CTG will be furtherly prepared by creating the papillary extensions using
      a tissue punch, according to the number of teeth with gingival recession.

      Surgical protocol:

      The surgical area will be prepared and adequately anesthetized using 4% articaine
      hydrochloride 1/100 000 epinephrine by giving block and/or infiltration anesthesia. After
      attaining adequate anesthesia, at a point apical to the papilla tip, vertical incisions will
      be made lateral to the area of recession extending into alveolar mucosa. The alveolar mucosa
      between the two vertical incisions will then be undermined by sharp dissection with
      undermining going into the vestibule while remaining parallel with the surface. Then, a
      sulcular incision will be used to reflect the coronal portion of the flap by sharp dissection
      close to the periostium until reaching the split thickness incision

      previously made in alveolar mucosa. A gingivoplasty of each papilla adjacent to the recession
      will then be performed. This excision will not reduce the height of the papilla, but is
      designed to create a bleeding surface which will serve as a bed for the connective tissue
      graft (Allen and Miller, 1989).

      A triangular flap will be elevated by a sharp dissection with no. 15c scalpel blade to raise
      a combined full-partial thickness flap to the level of the MGJ.

      In the test group (group A), peCTG will be placed over the recession defect leaving the
      coronal margin of the graft at the level of the CEJ, and the papillary extensions are
      inserted interdentally covering the de-epithelized papillae, while in the control group
      (group B), CTG will be also placed over the recession defect leaving the coronal margin of
      the graft at the level of the CEJ. In both groups, all graft material will be sutured to the
      periosteum using 6-0 resorbable suture. Finally the flaps will be positioned coronally to the
      CEJ without tension using 6-0 polyglycolic acid suture material. Hemostasis will be achieved
      by applying gentle finger pressure for 4 minutes.

      Post-surgical protocol:

        -  Postoperative oral analgesics (Ibuprofen 600 mg t.d.s) will be prescribed to the
           patients for the first 3 days then whenever desirable. Systemic antibiotic will be
           prescribed (Amoxicillin 500mg t.d.s) for 5 days to prevent the infection postsurgical.

        -  Patients will be instructed to rinse with 0.12% Chlorhexidine oral rinse twice daily for
           2 weeks.

        -  Participants will be instructed to avoid excessive muscle tractioning or trauma to the
           treated areas for the first 3 weeks and will be told not to brush teeth involved in the
           surgery.

        -  After 10-14 days the sutures will be removed.

        -  Three weeks post surgically the patients will be instructed to gently brush the operated
           area with a soft tooth brush using roll technique.
    
  