
    
      Heidelberg Retina Tomograph (HRT) in vivo Confocal Microscopy to Evaluate the Ocular Surface
      Disorders of Healthy and Diseased Individuals

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the cornea of healthy persons and cases of
      differ-ent systematic diseases as well as etiologies of ocular surface diseases.

      1. In vivo confocal microscopy (IVCM)

      Three main confocal systems have been developed for IVCM:

        1. the Tandem Scanning Confocal Microscope (TSCM) [4-6]

        2. the ConfoScan 4 (Nidek Technologies Srl, Padova, Italy) [7-8]

        3. the Heidelberg Retinal Tomograph with Rostock Corneal Module (HRT-RCM, Heidelberg
           Engineering, Ges.m.b.H., Dossenheim, Germany [9-10] The HRT-RCM is a laser scanning
           confocal microscope, operating by scanning a 670 nm laser beam in a raster pattern over
           the field of view. The system uses a high numerical aper-ture 63x objective lens (0.9
           NA), and produces images with high contrast and better axial resolution (7.6 µm) than
           other in vivo confocal systems (9 µm for the TSCM and 24 µm for the ConfoScan). The
           HRT-RCM provides new built-in software for 3D imaging of the corneal structure.

      Quantitative imaging of the subbasal nerve plexus could be performed by CCMetrics sys-tem, a
      custom software program developed at the University of Manchester. [11-12] The IVCM has the
      advantage of imaging through moderately opaque tissues (scarring or edema of the cornea) and
      also observes the dynamic process in the cornea, i.e. inflammatory reaction monitoring in
      infectious keratitis, wound healing after refractive surgery.[13-14]

      The use of IVCM in the scientific research has been expanding rapidly over the past years. It
      has also been implemented for the clinical diagnosis of different ocular surface conditions
      as well as screening tool for patients undergoing treatment. The following are indication of
      IVCM:

        1. Normal central cornea (aging, contact lens wear-related changes)

        2. Dry eye disease

        3. Corneal ectatic disorders, dystrophies, degenerations

        4. Iridocorneal endothelial syndrome (ICE) syndromes

        5. Keratitis (microbial, fungal, parasitic, viral)

        6. Post-surgical evaluation of the cornea (cataract surgery, Laser ASsisted In situ
           Keratomileusis-LASIK, Laser Epithelial Keratomileusis-LASEK, Photorefractive
           keratectomy, keratoplasty)

        7. Corneal deposits (pseudoexfoliation syndrome, drug-induced )

        8. Systemic diseases (DM, Parkinson's disease, systemic lupus erythematosus, Rheumatoid
           arthritis, Alzheimer's disease and dementia)

        9. Evaluation of the conjunctiva ( conjunctivitis, neoplasia )

       10. Limbal stem cell deficiency ( chemical or thermal injury, Stevens-Johnson syndrome )

      Study procedures Before examination, each patient signs the written informed consent. The
      patients undergo HRT in vivo confocal microscopy. Theses exam will be repeated every 3-6
      months according to the disease status. In vivo confocal microscopy is routinely used
      examination modality for ocular surface disorders.

      (1) In vivo confocal microscopy In vivo confocal microscopy was performed with the HRT in
      vivo confocal microscopy real-time confocal microscope (Heidelberg Engineering, Ges.m.b.H.,
      Dossenheim, Germany) . Its auto-scan software provides the automatic alignment and recording.
      The results would be analyzed using CCMetrics system, a custom software program developed at
      the University of Manchester.

      Before examination, one drop of topical anesthetic solution (proparacaine 0.5%, Alcaine) was
      instilled onto the ocular surface. After proper preparation, one drop of Vidisic gel (Bausch
      & Lomb, Ges.m.b.H., Berlin, Germany) was applied. The patients were instructed to gaze in the
      direction opposite to the region of measurement. The scanning was performed continuously from
      the superficial conjunctiva to the stromal layer
    
  