
    
      This is a phase IIb multicenter, randomized, double-blind trial in which enrolled subjects
      with abscess or cellulitis will be treated with either DOXY or TMP-SMX.

      The overall objective is to provide a clinically relevant treatment strategy for uSSTI in
      children and adults in areas where CA-MRSA is prevalent. Out-patient subjects, both children
      and adults with abscess and/or purulent cellulitis will be enrolled into a randomized,
      double-blind trial in which enrolled subjects will be treated with either DOXY or TMP-SMX.

      Background: Staphylococcus aureus is the most commonly identified cause of skin infections.
      In the last 15 years, there also has been an large increase in Staphylococcus aureus skin
      infection attributable to CA-MRSA (Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus) throughout
      the United States. However, optimal treatment remains unclear and several commonly used
      antibiotics such as doxycycline are commonly used but understudied. As resistance among
      CA-MRSA strains to commonly used antibiotics such as clindamycin continues to increase, there
      is a need to understand the relative safety and efficacy of alternative treatments, such as
      doxycycline. This clinical trial will evaluate DOXY and TMP-SMX for the outpatient management
      of uSSTI in two metropolitan areas, Los Angeles and St. Louis, cities with high prevalence of
      CA-MRSA. This trial will test important unanswered hypotheses relating to the treatment of
      CA-MRSA uSSTI and it will advance healthcare providers' ability to successfully manage adults
      and children with uSSTIs in areas where CA-MRSA is prevalent.

      Methods: Out-patient subjects, both children and adults with abscess and/or purulent
      cellulitis will be enrolled into a randomized, double-blind trial in which enrolled subjects
      will be treated with either DOXY or TMP-SMX. Using a 1:1 randomized controlled trial of 462
      subjects, the investigators aim to 1) compare the cure rate of DOXY to that of TMP-SMX for
      the treatment of patients throughout the study 2) compare rates of adverse events and of
      adverse events that are treatment limiting between DOXY and TMP-SMX 3) estimate relapse and
      recurrence of uSSTI among patients treated with DOXY and of TMP-SMX 4) estimate treatment
      failure among patients with uSSTI colonized with S. aureus at the anterior nares and
      oropharynx.
    
  