
    
      BACKGROUND:

      This document outlines the study design and procedures to be used to evaluate a series of
      corrective statements to augment consumer knowledge and beliefs about smoking as related to
      past actions of tobacco companies. The statements were ordered by a U.S. Federal Court in
      U.S. v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., and are intended to target potential misperceptions
      resultant of past marketing and promotion practices undertaken by the tobacco industry.

      OBJECTIVES:

      The U.S. Department of Justice has asked NCI to take the lead on developing and testing
      corrective statements with adult and youth audiences to ensure both message comprehension and
      avoidance of unintended consequences of message exposure, such as boomerang effects, smoking
      triggers, or knowledge gaps.

      The court has identified five areas that the statements shall address:

        1. The adverse health effects of smoking;

        2. The addictiveness of smoking and nicotine;

        3. The lack of any significant health benefit from smoking low tar, light, ultra light,
           mild, and natural cigarettes;

        4. The tobacco industry s manipulation of cigarette design and composition to ensure
           optimum nicotine delivery;

        5. The adverse health effects of secondhand smoke.

      ELIGIBILITY:

      Message testing will be undertaken with the following audiences:

        -  Current smokers (with an oversample of low socioeconomic status individuals)

        -  General population nonsmokers and former smokers (with an oversample of low
           socioeconomic status individuals)

        -  Spanish-speaking Hispanics

        -  Youth age 14-17

      DESIGN:

      Both qualitative and quantitative methods (focus groups and post-test comparison group
      Web-enabled surveys) will be used to develop and test a range of corrective statements in the
      five areas outlined by the court.

        -  Focus group participants: 48-64

        -  Survey participants: 2500
    
  