
    
      Term newborns have anatomic and sonographic evidence of in utero estrogen exposure. Over the
      first six months to a year of life, as the influence of maternal hormone wanes, these
      findings recede. Soy infant formula contains large amounts of isoflavones (daidzein and
      genistein) that can occupy estrogen receptors and act as estrogens in the laboratory. A food
      substance with estrogen activity might prolong the effect of maternal hormones, or interfere
      with hormonal homeostasis in the child. This cross-sectional pilot study will be undertaken
      in order to establish methods for a future multi center study designed to assess the
      potential effects of soy formula on estrogen activity in infants. In this pilot study (SEAD
      1), 156 examinations on full-term infants, ages 0-12 months and on one of three feeding
      regimens (soy formula, breast milk or cow's milk formula) will be completed to see if their
      exposure to soy estrogen compared to breast milk and non-soy formulas prolongs anatomical
      evidence of estrogen exposure and response. A schedule of visits for SEAD 1 is included in
      Appendix A. In addition to SEAD 1, two other cross-sectional studies (SEAD 2 and SEAD 3) will
      be undertaken to evaluate anatomical evidence by physical examination (SEAD 2) and assess the
      hormonal and biochemical status of full-term infants ages 0-12 months (SEAD 3). These studies
      will be conducted at Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP) in parallel with the SEAD 1
      study. Further details of SEAD 2 and 3 will not be presented in this protocol. The purpose of
      the SEAD 1 pilot study is twofold. The first is to develop and finalize recruitment and
      collections procedures in preparation for a larger, comprehensive trial of biological
      response in children to soy formula with and without the estrogenic isoflavones. The second
      is to study the natural history of estrogen activity in infants on a variety of feeding
      regimens.
    
  