
    
      NODE-301 is a two-part, multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to
      evaluate the efficacy and safety of etripamil NS self-administered by patients who experience
      an episode of paroxysmal ventricular tachycardia (PSVT) in an at-home setting. Each episode
      will be documented by an ambulatory Cardiac Monitoring System (CMS) that will be placed on
      the chest by the patient or caregiver when symptoms begin and will record at least 5 hours of
      continuous electrocardiogram (ECG).

      This is an event-driven study. The study is comprised of 2 parts: Part 1 and Part 2.

      Part 1 comprised the conduct of NODE-301 up to the date of the adjudication of the 150th
      positively adjudicated PSVT episode (January 15th, 2020). Part 1 had the same general study
      design as Part 2 of the study, with the key differences being that Part 2 includes a repeat
      dosing option during the randomized treatment phase, as well as during an added open-label
      treatment phase.

      Part 2 (the RAPID Study) describes the conduct of NODE-301 following the completion of Part
      1. RAPID will enroll patients enrolled during Part 1 who had not dosed with the double-blind
      study drug, or had not discontinued the study before the adjudication of the 150th positively
      adjudicated PSVT episode in Part 1, and patients enrolled into the study following the
      completion of Part 1.

      Before randomization in the RAPID study, all patients will receive a test dose of an
      etripamil NS dosing regimen (an initial dose of etripamil NS 70 mg followed by a second dose
      of etripamil NS 70 mg not earlier than 10 minutes and not later than 15 minutes after the
      first dose) to evaluate tolerability and to train patients on the study procedures.

      The RAPID Study includes a Screening Visit, a Test Dose Randomization Visit, Monthly
      Follow-up Visits, a Randomized Treatment Period, a Randomized Treatment Period Follow-Up
      Visit, an Open-Label Treatment Period, and a Final Study Visit.

      Study comprised of 4 arms:

        -  2 arms consisting of patients enrolled during Part 1 randomized 2:1 to a single dose of
           study drug (etripamil NS 70 mg or placebo) to treat a perceived episode of PSVT

        -  2 arms consisting of newly enrolled patients who pass a test dose regimen of etripamil
           NS 70 mg, randomized 1:1 to a dosing regimen of etripamil or placebo that allows
           patients to self-administer a second dose (not earlier than 10 minutes and not later
           than 15 minutes after the first dose) of study drug if symptoms are still present at 10
           minutes, to treat a perceived PSVT episode.

      Safety will be monitored during the treatment periods.

      To ensure the safety of trial participants in RAPID, new processes or modification of listed
      processes may be put in place to reduce the risks associated with the COVID-19 pandemic.
      These potential changes include, but are not limited to, the use of tele-medicine to conduct
      study visit procedures, conduct of study procedures outside of the clinical site (i.e., at a
      patient's home) by site personnel or by trained but non-study personnel, and the distribution
      of investigational products by alternative secure delivery methods.
    
  