
    
      This longitudinal observational study will investigate the relationship between patients'
      asthma control and emotional states and quality of life in patients and their partners where
      patients have severe eosinophilic asthma. The study will consist of three phases.

      Phase 1 In order to extend our pilot study findings and help inform the second stage,
      investigators will gather Geneva Emotional Wheel (GEW) data from 30 patients currently
      treated and benefitting from mepolizumab (Nucala速). This data will be compared to the GEW
      data investigators have already gathered from patients with severe asthma not receiving
      treatment with mepolizumab (Nucala速). This will provide timely data to support a publication
      on the GEW findings in severe asthma and allow the description of the impact of mepolizumab
      (Nucala速). In addition, it will help provide power calculations for a prospective study.
      Parallel assessment of quality of life (SGRQ and SAQ) and anxiety and depression (HADS) will
      be made to evaluate the relationship between GEW, SGRQ, SAQ and HADS scores.

      Phase 2 In the second stage, invetsaigators will conduct a prospective study of 60 patients
      newly prescribed mepolizumab (Nucala速) and their partners measuring participants' emotional
      composition before and 6 and 12 months after starting treatment. The choice of 60 is based on
      likely power requirements but will be adjusted upwards if needed, based on the first study
      findings. Investigators will also compare the outcomes from the GEW with other standard
      outcome measures (HADS, ACQ, SGRQ, SAQ), to establish relationship between changes in these
      measures and changes in GEW scores, to evaluate the utility of the GEW. This will help
      determine if the GEW reflects changes in asthma control or whether it is reflecting
      improvements that the current established instruments do not recognise and allow us to
      quantify the magnitude of that effect. As these patients will receive mepolizumab as part of
      their clinical care for a year, whilst assessment of clinical efficacy is being established,
      investigators will gather data on oral steroid dependent exacerbations (severe exacerbations)
      during this year and relate to their historic exacerbation history in the year before.
      Evaluation will be made as to whether the 6-month improvement in GEW scores predicts impact
      of mepolizumab on exacerbation reduction over the first year of administration. In addition,
      improvements in the GEW will be explored in relationship to systemic inflammatory impact,
      with measures of blood eosinophils and serum inflammatory biomarkers (Olink inflammatory
      panel) at baseline, 6 months and 1 year.

      Phase 3 Finally, in addition, investigators will conduct qualitative research in the form of
      semi-structured interviews with a sub-set of couples (20 couples or less if no new
      information emerges from the interviews) to gain a more detailed insight and identify common
      key aspects in their subjective experiences, quality of life and emotional processes before
      starting treatment and after being on treatment with mepolizumab for 6 months.
    
  