
    
      Fetal gonadal development is essential for adult reproductive health. Experimental studies
      strongly suggest that maternal use of mild analgesics (e.g. paracetamol and non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)) during pregnancy affect fetal gonadal development with
      possible severe reproductive repercussions.

      In rodents, paracetamol and NSAIDs administered in therapeutic doses in early and
      mid-pregnancy are endocrine disruptive in the fetus causing reduced prostaglandin synthesis
      and delayed transition from germ cell mitosis to meiosis resulting in fetal germ cell
      apoptosis in both female and male gonads. Female offspring were born with reduced ovarian
      weight and concerning reduction (40-50%) in number of ovarian follicles. Females are born
      with a defined number of follicles that depletes throughout their reproductive lifespan,
      inevitably leading to menopause. Establishment of the primordial follicle pool during fetal
      life is therefore essential for female reproductive health and disruption of this process has
      important and lasting consequences. Although spermatogenesis is not restricted to fetal life,
      essential aspects of male gonadal development are tightly regulated in utero and in rodents
      exposure to mild analgesics causes decreased testosterone production and decreased fertility
      in male offspring.

      In adulthood, exposed animals exhibited longer time to conceive and gave birth to fewer pubs
      per litter compared with controls. Furthermore, studies of rodents suggest that in both males
      and females, adverse reproductive effects are passed on to the next generation indicating
      altered genetic programming, i.e. epigenetic changes.

      Analgesics are sold over the counter and up to 56% of pregnant women use mild analgesics
      during pregnancy. The bioavailability of acetaminophen is high (app. 90%), and the reactive
      metabolite passes freely over the placenta to the fetus.

      Declining fertility has become a growing problem in developing countries, potentially
      resulting in severe socioeconomic challenges.

      The anogenital distance (AGD) is defined as the distance from the anus to genital tubercle
      and is strongly affected by androgens in fetal life resulting in a longer AGD in males than
      in females.

      The AGD has shown to be a sensitive marker of androgen exposure in fetal life, and remains
      the most sensitive parameter when evaluating prenatal exposure to endocrine disruptive
      environmental agents. Therefore, AGD has been identified as an endpoint in the US
      Environmental Protection Agency guidelines for reproductive toxicity studies.

      In humans, use of mild analgesic during the first and second trimester was associated with
      reduced male AGD, congenital cryptorchidism and hypospadias suggestive of insufficient
      androgenic action. In male infants born with hypospadias, the reduction in AGD can be seen as
      early as in the third trimester where fetal AGD is below the fifth percentile compared to
      normative fetal AGD data. Thus, fetal AGD may assist in early detection of insufficient
      androgenic action and genital abnormalities.

      In adult life, consequences can be impaired testosterone production, sub- and infertility as
      well as testis cancer.

      Assessment of reproductive function in early life - minipuberty Minipuberty is a term used to
      describe the transient activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis during
      infancy in both boys and girls and is a window of opportunity for diagnosis of endocrine
      disorders as well as future reproductive function. Reproductive hormones exert effects on
      target tissue resulting in follicle maturation, growth of breast tissue and thickening of
      uterine endometrium (females) as well as testicular- and penile growth (males). The
      minipuberty is followed by a quiescent period during mid childhood until pubertal
      reactivation of the HPG axis at pubertal onset.

      To date, no prospective human studies have assessed the effect of analgesic exposure on
      reproductive function. The few retrospective studies that are published are hampered by
      recall bias and/or lack of thorough reproductive evaluation, and no studies have in detail
      assessed human female reproductive function after the use of mild analgesics during
      pregnancy.
    
  