
    
      Androgenetic alopecia (AGA) is a common form of hair loss in both men and women,
      characterized by progressive patterned loss of hair from the scalp. The prevalence of AGA
      increases significantly with age, 30% to 50% men are affected by the age of 30 and 50 years,
      respectively. 3 Further, women also suffer from different degrees of alopecia, 50% women are
      affected by the age of 60. AGA becomes a medical problem when the hair loss is subjectively
      considered as excessive, premature and distressing. Current treatment options for AGA include
      medications such as finasteride, dutasteride, spironolactone, flutamide, minoxidil etc.
      However, these medicines are suitable either for men or women only or they can only maintain
      existing hair but have no effect on hair regeneration. In addition treatment is expensive and
      requires prolonged usage of drugs, and if treatment is stopped any benefits gained will be
      lost. Therefore, a better solution is required that can stimulate the hair follicles to
      promote hair restoration in both sexes with long lasting effects. Recently, stem cell based
      therapies have revolutionized the field of regenerative medicine by providing treatment
      options for several diseases and disorders.

      The current study has been designed for restoration of hair in AGA by implanting a
      combination of stromal vascular fraction (derived from the adipose tissue) and human platelet
      rich plasma.

      The growth of human hair is an extremely complex process. Hair growth begins under the skin
      in structures called hair follicles. In AGA the size of hair follicles decreases due to loss
      of hair follicle stem or progenitor cells as a result hair follicles become inactive. Due to
      the inactivation of hair follicles large, pigmented terminal hairs are replaced by barely
      visible and de-pigmented vellus hairs. External factors can stimulate inactive hair
      follicles, as a result hair growth cycle can begin. other studies indicate that proteins and
      growth factors released by stem cells can play an important role in hair growth cycle.
      Considering these facts, current study has been designed as a possibility in the treatment of
      AGA by using a combination of autologous SVF and platelet rich plasma. In the current
      study,SVF derived from adipose tissue will be applied to restore hair growth.

      Further, stem cells may also secrete various growth factors which can perform several
      functions including hair follicle stimulation.

      Conventional approaches for hair refurbishment include medication and hair follicle
      transplantation surgery. However, these strategies are mostly ineffective in patients due to
      drawbacks including high cost, several side effects, unsatisfactory results, requirement for
      long lasting use of medicines and their efficacy is limited to either males or females.
      Therefore, contemporary therapies with promising results are required that should be
      effective in both sexes and outcomes should be long lasting. Stromal vascular fraction(SVF)
      based treatment for AGA can open a new avenue for the development of therapies for hair
      restoration. SVF can have multiple effects on miniaturized hair follicles by homing to the
      hair follicles and by their paracrine effects. The study will not only help the patients with
      hair loss but will also promote stem cell based regenerative medicine research in Pakistan by
      providing promising results.
    
  