
    
      The Oncology Department at the Royal Stoke University Hospital is a state of the art
      facility. It has radiotherapy (RT) facilities such as IMRT and rapid arc, leading the way in
      RT planning and delivery. The Investigators want to further their expertise and public
      involvement in RT planning with this proposal.

      This study follows a pilot study in which patients receiving RT were shown how treatment is
      planned and given using a 3 dimensional (3D) imaging system. It was noticed that patients
      with prostate cancer entering the pilot study might have been more compliant (holding water
      before each treatment session) than those with prostate cancer not entering the study. On
      this basis, the investigators wish to run this project in which prostate cancer patients will
      be shown how RT is planned and given using 3D images prior to start RT (study arm, 170
      patients) or after completion of RT (control/standard arm, 170 patients). A sample size
      calculation was performed (see below) in order to distinguish a 10% improvement in retention
      of bladder volume over the course of treatment.

      RT planning will be carried out using standard procedures at the Oncology Department.
      However, each study patient's CT Scan image will be placed in the Virtual Environment for
      Radiotherapy Training (VERT) system. The original images will not be altered and will be
      presented using the established JImage Dicom libraries. 3D models will be constructed from
      the CT Images. The system allows moving the 3D images using a mouse. Planning CT Scans will
      be taken prior to RT, on the first 3 days, and once weekly during RT to measure bladder
      volumes (this is standard practice and no patients will have extra CT Scans). The
      investigators will assess whether patients in the study arm were more compliant in holding
      water when compared to control cases.
    
  