
    
      This trial is designed as a multi-national, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled
      prospective trial with three parallel groups.

      One hundred twenty (120) patients, 40 per treatment arm, with relapsing-remitting (RR)
      multiple sclerosis will be enrolled in this trial. Eligible patients must have a diagnosis of
      MS as per the McDonald Criteria. In addition, patients must have a diagnosis of
      relapsing-remitting course of MS defined as periods of worsening of neurological function
      with full recovery or with sequelae and residual deficit upon recovery; periods between
      disease relapses characterized by lack of disease progression. Patients must also have active
      disease with at least 1 defined documented relapse in the last year.

      During a 2 month run-in period, 2 MRIs will be performed 6 weeks apart and patients will be
      stratified based on the presence or absence of 1 or more Gadolinium enhancing lesions on the
      first MRI (Gd-enhancing lesion yes-no) and will be randomized to one of two dose regimens of
      IGIV-C or matching placebo. Patients will receive study drug infusions every 4 weeks for 48
      weeks for a total of 12 infusions. Patients will be evaluated by MRI every 6 weeks and by
      clinical assessments every 3 months. A follow-up visit will occur 4 weeks after the last
      infusion.

      The treatment groups are as follows:

        -  IGIV-C - 0.2 g/kg body weight (bw)/infusion (2 ml/kg bw)

        -  IGIV-C - 0.4 g/kg bw/infusion (4 ml/kg bw)

        -  placebo (0.1% albumin) - 4 ml/kg bw/infusion

      For blinding purposes, at each infusion, all patients will receive a total volume of 4 ml/kg
      bw. For patients receiving 0.2 g/kg bw of IGIV-C, the final volume of 4 ml/kg bw will be
      adjusted by the addition of dextrose 5%. Placebo will be supplied as Albumin 5% or Albumin
      25% and diluted with either dextrose 5% or saline to a final concentration of 0.1% albumin.

      Dose adaptation will be performed for subsequent infusions in case the patient's body weight
      has changed > 10%. The maximum amount available per infusion will be 400 ml (8 vials)
      calculated for a patient with a body weight of 100 kg. The suggested initial infusion rate
      will be 0.02 ml/kg/min for the first 15 minutes. If there is no evidence of a
      hypersensitivity reaction, the infusion may be given at a slowly increasing rate over the
      next 30 minutes up to a maximum allowable rate of 0.08 ml/kg/min. As such, the infusion for a
      70 kg patient will take approximately 1hour 15 min. The overall infusion time may have a
      range from 1 to 2 hours.
    
  