
    
      People with disabilities experience a staggering incidence of secondary conditions that can
      result in death or negatively impact their health, participation in the community, and
      quality of life. Many of these chronic secondary conditions are preventable. The Institute
      for Healthcare Improvement has advocated for optimizing care through programs that
      simultaneously improve health and the patient experience of care, while reducing cost, called
      the "Triple Aim." Studies have shown that the Triple Aim can be achieved through programs
      that facilitate community integration; however the U.S. healthcare system lacks a paradigm of
      care for individuals with disabilities that promotes community integration.

      Living in the community affords many benefits for individuals with disabilities and chronic
      conditions. Studies have shown that higher integration into the community is associated with
      better health outcomes, longevity, higher quality of life, and lower cost of care. For
      example, it is estimated that the social support networks of the elderly saves the U.S.
      Government over 190 billion dollars annually through positive impacts on health.

      The U.S. healthcare system, however, currently lacks a paradigm of care for individuals with
      disabilities that facilitates their integration into the community. Impactful research
      studies will be those that investigate delivery models that incorporate community-based
      services and that are funded through non-traditional means. One example of an innovative
      model of care is a wellness intervention wherein community-based interventions are delivered
      by non-profit organizations. For example, a recent study showed that using community-based
      peer health coaches to conduct telephone interventions for individuals with chronic spinal
      cord injury (SCI) resulted in greater confidence toward health goals and a greater connection
      to resources. Another recently published study on the "Living Well" program used health
      facilitators to conduct weekly health workshops. This program was implemented by 279
      community-based independent living centers funded under Title VII of the Rehabilitation Act
      in 46 states, served approximately 9 million participants, and saved an estimated 30 million
      dollars. Many other studies have also demonstrated a positive impact of wellness
      interventions in a wide variety of chronic and disabling conditions.

      Community Living and Support Services (CLASS) is a non-profit organization in Pittsburgh, PA,
      that provides a host of programs that aim to achieve community integration for individuals
      with disabilities. One such program is Community Partners which began in 1986. Community
      Partners offer non-traditional case management services which involved physically meeting
      with consumers in the community and telephonic support. The services provided included
      assisting clients in managing their personal care needs (e.g. activating attendant care
      services, or learning how to prepare meals), medical needs (e.g. taking medications on time
      or ensuring follow up at medical appointments), wellness needs (e.g. eating a balanced diet
      or engaging in adaptive exercise), and social needs (e.g. connecting with vocational
      rehabilitation or support groups)

      A second example of an innovative model of care is the Program for All Inclusive Care for the
      Elderly (PACE). A PACE organization is a unique capitated managed care program provided by a
      non-profit, public entity, and in some cases a for-profit entity. The PACE model is a dually
      capitated, multidisciplinary approach to delivering both medical services and LTSS in
      accordance with a participant's needs. The services are delivered in the community whenever
      possible, usually integrate into a primary care medical home, and offer non-medical services
      including an adult day health center and in-home support services where appropriate. These
      organizations are typically responsible for all traditional Medicare-covered services
      (hospitals, physicians, and post-acute care), as well as supportive care.

      The services are delivered in the community whenever possible, usually integrate into a
      primary care medical home, and offer non-medical services including an adult day health
      center and in-home support services where appropriate. These organizations are typically
      responsible for all traditional Medicare-covered services (hospitals, physicians, and
      post-acute care), as well as supportive care. The services include, but are not limited to,
      all Medicare and Medicaid services. At a minimum, a PACE organization must provide 16
      different types of services including social work, medications, personal care, nutritional
      counseling, recreational and other therapies, transportation, and meals. The care team is
      comprised at a minimum of a primary care physician who works a substantial amount of time at
      the PACE, a nurse, social worker, physical therapist, occupational therapist, recreational
      therapist or activity coordinator, dietitian, PACE center supervisor, home care liaison, and
      health workers/aides. These organizations also provide support and respite care for families
      and other caregivers of participants. Today, 119 PACE programs in 31 states serve over 38,000
      participants.

      The overall goal of this project is to evaluate the impact of the Community LIFE program (a
      PACE model) on the Triple Aim for individuals with disabilities (health improvement,
      satisfaction of care, and cost).

      The study findings will provide evidence as to whether these types of community-based
      delivery system could be scaled to larger populations and adopted by an integrated delivery
      system through an innovative funding mechanism.
    
  