
    
      Primary mitral regurgitation (MR) is the second most frequent valve disease requiring
      surgery.

      In these patients, mitral repair is associated with excellent outcomes in terms of
      post-operative left ventricular (LV) function, and long-term survival when performed before
      the onset of severe symptoms, LV dysfunction or dilatation, pulmonary hypertension, and
      atrial fibrillation.

      Thus, it is important to identify patients whose outcome could be improved with surgery by
      considering the risks and benefits.

      The current guidelines recommend surgery in patients with symptomatic severe mitral
      regurgitation or in asymptomatic patients who develop early signs of left ventricular (LV)
      dysfunction as a result of the MR. LV dysfunction has been defined as LV ejection fraction
      (EF) 30% to 60% and/or LV end-systolic dimension (ESD) up to 45 mm.

      However, it remains difficult to determine optimal timing for surgery with the current
      guidelines.

      LVEF and LVESD, parameters proposed in the guideline, are difficult to interpret due to the
      influence of hemodynamic parameters of MR.

      In asymptomatic patients who consider undergoing surgery, LVESD is rarely more than 45 mm.

      In addition, LVEF in patients with severe MR often remains normal or higher, and subclinical
      LV dysfunction might be masked due to MR lowering of LV afterload.

      Early-stage LV dysfunction with normal LVEF predicts post-operative LV decompensation and
      poor prognosis.

      Therefore, it is a great challenge to identify potential LV dysfunction at an early stage and
      to perform surgery to prevent the development of irreversible LV dysfunction in patients with
      chronic severe MR.

      Longitudinal myocardial function has been considered more sensitive than radial function and
      is therefore suitable for detection of minor myocardial damage in patients with MR.

      A 2017 study proved that pre-operative GLS ≤ -18.4% can predict a preserved post-operative
      LVEF >50%.

      Therefore, invetsigators want to study the value of LV global longitudinal strain (GLS) to
      predict postoperative LV dysfunction in patients with chronic severe MR and preserved
      pre-operative LVEF.

      The principal aim is to prove that the optimal timing for surgery, in asymptomatic chronic
      severe primary MR with preserved LVEF, is before GLS alteration, and that investigators
      should not wait for LV dilatation of dysfunction.

      Thus, investigators will recruit patients before surgery, measuring GLS during pre-operative
      conventional echography, and follow-up patients at 8 days, 1 month and 6 months to determine
      whether LVEF is preserved or not.
    
  