
    
      Tension-type headache (TTH) is the most prevalent type of primary headache. Unlike migraine,
      however, there have been no significant treatment advances for chronic TTH in the past few
      decades, probably due to the limited understanding of its pathophysiology compared with that
      of migraine. The objective of the present study is to investigate the cerebral function
      imaging changes in patients with chronic tension headache trough comparing that in healthy
      people, focus on the regional homogeneity (ReHo) of ROIs of brain. In addition, the effect of
      acupuncture and Fu's subcutaneous needing (FSN) on the cerebral function will also be
      studied. This is a clinical trial study, randomized, in parallel, single-blinded assessor,
      and with a sham placebo control.

      The study will be carried out in the （Traditional therapy center, Guangdong Hospital of
      Traditional Chinese Medicine）. Patients will be collected according to the inclusion criteria
      (conform to diagnose criterion for headache ICHD-3), with age between 18 and 45 years old.
      Healthy people will be collected too according to the inclusion criteria for healthy people,
      with age matching with the patients. The participants will respond to questionnaires at the
      beginning and end of the first, fifth and last therapeutic intervention and their fMRI of
      brain will be acquired. The therapeutic intervention will include: 8 acupuncture sessions, 8
      FSN sessions and 8 placebo sham acupuncture sessions (twice per week for 4 weeks). The
      measurements taken will be: impact of headache on daily life, severity of headache, emotional
      problem of headache, the cerebral function of ROIs (by means of fMRI) of headache and so on.

      Through these interventions it is hoped that patients will present an improvement in their
      pain presentation, quality of life and emotional problem, as well as cerebral function
      imaging in certain region of brain. Evidence for these hypotheses will provide the cerebral
      function effect mechanism of acupuncture and FSN to CTTH, and some evidence in the research
      will perhaps support that acupuncture and FSN are two type minimally-invasive treatment
      methods, with few side-effects and low cost.
    
  