
    
      For patients completing at least 6 months of anticoagulant therapy in whom the cancer is
      active, the thrombotic risk is arguably ongoing and indefinite anticoagulation seems
      required.

      Given apixaban 5 mg bid is an alternative for the first 6 months of treatment, we intend to
      assess whether it is possible to lower the dose of apixaban (2.5 mg bid) after completing at
      least 6 months of anticoagulant treatment in a specific population of patients with cancer
      associated thrombosis (CAT) requiring extended anticoagulant treatment and with significant
      life expectancy. There are 2 conditions to be met : demonstrate the non-inferiority of the
      2.5 mg bid regimen on the efficacy endpoint and then demonstrate the superiority of the 2.5
      mg bid regimen as compared to the 5 mg bid on the safety endpoint.

      It is a multicenter, international, prospective, randomized, parallel-group, double-blind
      non-inferiority trial with blinded adjudication of outcome events (approximately 160 centers
      in approximately 10 countries (France, Italy, Spain, Belgium, Greece, Netherlands, UK,
      Switzerland, Poland, Austria), with a number of expected inclusions of 11 patients per site.

      Subjects should be randomized within 7 days after the last dose of their initial 6-month
      treatment, defined as the treatment ongoing after completing at least 6 months of
      anticoagulant treatment from the beginning of the anticoagulant treatment for the index
      event. This treatment may be low-molecular weight heparin (LMWH), direct oral anticoagulant
      (DOAC) or vitamin K antagonist (VKA). If a VKA was used as standard anticoagulant therapy,
      then an INR must be documented as 2 or less before randomization. Every attempt should be
      made to randomize subjects as soon as possible after the initial treatment has been
      discontinued.

      Subjects will be stratified based on the cancer site and the type of disease treated (PE
      with/without DVT or DVT alone). If a subject had both symptomatic DVT and symptomatic PE, the
      subject will be stratified as having symptomatic PE.
    
  