
    
      Definition: Extended description of the protocol, including information not already contained
      in other fields, such as comparison(s) studied. The patients that will participate in the
      study will be suffering or suspected suffering from MYH9 syndrome.

      The study of MYH9 gene will be proposed to the patients but also to both parents of the
      propositi and other family members (children and adults), whether symptomatic or not. The
      relatives who will be proved to be heterozygotes for a MYH9 mutation will be considered as
      new cases and therefore included in the cohort of patients.

      Four groups of controls (individuals who are not affected by a decrease in the platelet
      count) will be constituted:

      A1: controls for proplatelets production study A2: controls for platelet proteome study B:
      controls for MYH9 gene analysis C: controls for leukocytes immunofluorescence study

      Patients Patients will be included at the 6 sites of the national Reference Center for
      Inherited Platelet Disorders (CRPP) after signing an informed consent form. During the visit
      of inclusion (V1), data usually required for the diagnosis of MYH9 syndrome will be
      collected: clinical examination, auditory and ocular check, blood tests including MYH9 gene
      analysis, and search for proteinuria.

      Among patients with a MYH9 mutation, a limited number will be recruited in a second step for
      participating to specific studies focused on the consequences of MYH9 mutations on the
      proplatelets production and the platelet proteome. The selected patients should be
      representative of the different phenotypes of MYH9 syndrome. They should be adults and have a
      platelet count above 50 G / L. A blood sample will be drawn for this purpose during a second
      visit (V2).

      An annual control will be offered at year 1, year 2 and year 3 after inclusion to all the
      patients confirmed to have MYH9 syndrome (with MYH9 mutation). Each control will include:
      clinical examination and record of bleeding episodes, if any, during the past year, blood
      tests, search for proteinuria. The last control (end of the study) will also include auditory
      and ocular tests.

      Relatives The relatives will be included in the study after signing informed consent form
      during an inclusion visit (VAP) at one of the 6 sites of CRPP. During the visit, a blood
      sample will be drawn for platelet and MYH9 gene study.

      Controls The controls will be included in the study after signing informed consent at 6 sites
      of the CRPP. During their inclusion visit (VT), a blood sample will be drawn for platelet and
      MYH9 gene study.
    
  