
    
      BACKGROUND

      Aging substantially increases the risk of edentulism and sleep disturbance. These two chronic
      conditions have serious adverse consequences for the functioning and quality of life of
      elders and place a significant burden on the Canadian health care system. Edentulism can
      disturb sleep through the alteration of the craniofacial structure and surrounding soft
      tissue. However, the effect of prosthetic rehabilitation of edentulism on sleep quality is
      still not well understood. While there is some evidence suggesting that not wearing dentures
      at night can worsen sleep quality and lead to severe sleep disturbance in edentate elders,
      there are also studies that have suggested the opposite. The current controversy does not
      permit clinicians to engage in evidence-based clinical decision-making. To enable development
      of clinical practice guidelines, solid evidence is required. This proposed randomized trial
      represents the logical next step of the clinical investigations conducted by our
      multidisciplinary expert team of oral health and sleep researchers from the University of
      Montreal, McGill University, University of British Colombia, and Laval University. Our pilot
      data suggest that edentate elders who wear dentures at night experience more daytime
      sleepiness than those who do not. Furthermore, we found that the nocturnal use of dentures
      may increase the risk of apneic events in seniors affected by mild sleep disturbance.

      OBJECTIVES

      The primary objective of this study is to test whether nocturnal denture wear has an effect
      on sleep quality and daytime sleepiness of edentate elders with moderate to severe sleep
      apnea. Our secondary objective is to test whether nocturnal denture wear affects on the
      oral-health-related quality of life of edentate elders with moderate to severe sleep apnea. .
      The third objective is to identify moderators of effect of nocturnal denture wear so as to
      determine patient subgroups where the intervention is more efficacious.

      METHODS

      We will carry out a single-blind randomized cross-over clinical trial, into which 70 edentate
      elders will be enrolled. Study participants will be assigned to wear and not wear their
      denture in alternate orders for two periods of 30 days. The primary outcome will be sleep
      quality (as measured by the apnea-hypopnea index). The secondary outcomes will be daytime
      sleepiness and oral health-related quality of life. Outcome assessments will be carried out
      with portable polysomnography, the Epworth Sleepiness Scale, and an oral health-related
      quality of life questionnaire. Explanatory variables will include socio-demographic factors,
      medical, and anthropometric (weight, height) variables, oropharyngeal morphology, oral and
      prosthesis characteristics, as well as perceived general health quality of life. These
      characteristics will be assessed by clinical examination, 3D imaging (Cone Beam Computed
      Tomography) of the cranio-facial structure, as well as validated questionnaires. Assessments
      will be done at baseline and at the end of each of the 30-day intervention periods. Linear
      mixed-effects regression models for repeated measures will be fitted to test the study
      hypotheses. The main analyses will be based on the intention-to-treat principle. To assess
      the robustness of the findings to potential incomplete adherence, sensitivity analyses will
      be conducted while applying the per-protocol principle.

      SIGNIFICANCE

      Our findings will have important clinical implications and will help to resolve the current
      uncertainty about the effects of nocturnal wearing of dentures in the edentate elderly
      population. This practice-relevant evidence could enable the development of preventive
      approaches to improve sleep quality of the older population and, thereby, improve their
      well-being and quality of life. This evidence will be shared with the Canadian Dental
      Association, the Canadian and the American Academy of Dental Sleep Medicine, and the Canadian
      Sleep Society to assist these agencies in producing practice guidelines for primary care
      providers, dentists, and sleep medicine specialists involved in the care of edentate elders.
    
  