
    
      Participants are recruited from the specialized sleep outpatient facilities of the Río
      Hortega University Hospital from Valladolid (Spain). All patients are referred from primary
      care due to moderate-to-high clinical suspicion of suffering from sleep apnea-hypopnea
      syndrome (SAHS). The final population is randomly split into two independent datasets: 1)
      training set (50%), which is used to design and build/train the screening algorithms; and 2)
      the test set (remaining 50%), which is used to further assess performance using unseen data.

      The American Academy of Sleep Medicine rules are used to score respiratory events and to
      obtain the apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) from ambulatory PSG at home, which is used to
      definitively diagnose SAHS.

      A portable wrist-worn pulse oximeter (WristOX2 3150, Nonin) is used for at-home NPO. Portable
      NPO is carried out simultaneously to ambulatory PSG (Embletta MPR, Natus) at patient's home.
      In addition, attended portable in-lab NPO (WristOX2 3150, Nonin) and in-lab PSG (E-Series,
      Compumedics) are performed simultaneously in the hospital in a different consecutive/previous
      night for comparison purposes. Participants are randomly assigned to carry out unattended
      sleep studies at home before or after in-hospital recordings.

      SpO2 and PR from NPO are recorded simultaneously at a sampling rate of 1 Hz (1 sample every
      second). All recordings are saved to separate files and processed offline. An automatic
      signal pre-processing stage is carried out to remove artifacts due to patient movements
      (signal loss).

      The signal processing methodology is divided into three automated stages: (i) feature
      extraction, (ii) feature selection, and (iii) pattern recognition.

      Firstly, NPO recordings are parameterized by means of a wide set of variables, which
      previously demonstrated a high discriminative power in the context of SAHS detection. All
      features are computed for each whole portable overnight recording. The following feature
      subsets are composed:

        -  Time domain statistics from SpO2 recordings. First to fourth-order statistical moments
           in the time domain, i.e., arithmetic mean, variance, skewness and kurtosis, which
           quantify central tendency, amount of dispersion, asymmetry, and peakedness,
           respectively.

        -  Time domain features from PR recordings: average, standard deviation, and root mean
           square of standard deviation of the pulse-to-pulse interval time series.

        -  Frequency domain statistics from SpO2 recordings. First to fourth-order statistical
           moments, median frequency, and Shannon spectral entropy from the power spectral density
           function.

        -  Frequency domain statistics from PR recordings. First to fourth-order statistical
           moments, median frequency, and Shannon spectral entropy from the power spectral density
           function.

        -  Conventional spectral measures from SpO2 recordings. Total signal power as well as peak
           amplitude and relative power in the frequency range 0.014 - 0.033 Hz.

        -  Conventional spectral measures from PR recordings. Normalized power in the low (0.04 -
           0.15 Hz) and in the high (0.15 - 0.40 Hz) frequency bands, as well as the low frequency
           to high frequency ratio (sympathovagal balance).

        -  Nonlinear features from SpO2 recordings. Sample entropy, central tendency measure, and
           Lempel - Ziv complexity, which measure irregularity, variability, and complexity of SpO2
           recordings.

        -  Nonlinear features from PR recordings. Sample entropy, central tendency measure, and
           Lempel - Ziv complexity, which measure irregularity, variability, and complexity of PR
           recordings.

      Then, the optimum feature subset composed of the most relevant as well as complementary
      variables are composed. In order to achieve this goal, the following feature selection
      methods are applied:

        -  Forward stepwise feature selection

        -  Genetic algorithms

        -  Fast correlation-based filter

        -  Minimal-redundancy maximal-relevance criterion

      Finally, the third stage corresponds to patter recognition. The aim of this stage is
      two-fold: (i) to design and optimize binary classification-oriented models trained to discern
      between SAHS negative and SAHS positive subjects using optimum features from NPO; (ii) to
      design and optimize regression-oriented models trained to estimate the AHI using optimum
      features from NPO. In order to achieve this goal, the following pattern recognition
      algorithms are assessed:

        -  Binary classification: logistic regression, artificial neural networks, Bayesian
           networks, decision trees, ensemble learning (AdaBoost).

        -  Regression models: multiple linear regression, artificial neural networks, Bayesian
           networks, ensemble learning (least squares boosting).

      These models are subsequently combined to optimize the following 2-stage screening protocol:
      stage-1) true negative screening stage, which is aimed at detecting the maximum number of
      non-SAHS subjects while minimizing the number of false negative patients (ideally 0% false
      positive rate); stage-2) true positive screening stage, which is aimed at detecting (among
      patients not identified as true negative in the first stage) the maximum number of true
      positive patients while minimizing the number of false positive cases (ideally 0% false
      positive rate). Both stages are complementary and they are implemented consecutively, such
      that:

        -  Patients identified as true negative in the first stage are referred to the sleep
           specialist to finally discard SAHS taken into account symptoms, comorbidities and past
           clinical history. These patients are no longer derived to the sleep unit unless
           requested by the sleep specialist due to persistent and/or additional symptoms.

        -  Patients identified as true positive in the second stage are referred to the sleep
           specialist to finally confirm SAHS and decide the most suitable treatment option. These
           patients are no longer derived to the sleep unit unless requested by the sleep
           specialist.

        -  Non-conclusive cases are finally derived to the sleep unit for a standard PSG in order
           to confirm/discard SAHS.
    
  