
    
      Children will be recruited through local school districts and early intervention service
      providers, approximately 20 children per year for a total of 80 children. Parents interested
      in the study will call the lab and be screened. If children pass the screen, they will be
      invited to go to UCLA for a series of assessments. The process will take 2-3 days. The
      following assessments and data will be collected: ADOS-2, ADI-R, Mullen Scales of Early
      Learning (MSEL), Demographic & Medical Questionnaires, Vineland-III Interview, ELSA Language
      Sample, PLS-5,SPA, Repetitive Behaviors RBS-R, SSP, ABC-2, ESCS, BOSCC, KSPT, EEG, and saliva
      sample. Eligibility for the study will then evaluated. Each child's clinical diagnosis of ASD
      will be validated by administration of the Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule-2 (ADOS-2)
      and the Autism Diagnostic Interview-Revised (ADI-R) by a research-reliable lab staff.
      Children will participate in a language sample (eligible if < 20 words), and the Mullen
      Scales of Early Learning (MSEL) to evaluate nonverbal mental age (eligible if > 12 months).

      After qualifying to the study, the screening data will be entered into Biostatistics and
      Epidemiology Data Analytics Center (BEDAC), secured website. Randomization will then occur.
      Children will be randomly assigned to one of two intervention options: JASPER + PROMPT versus
      JASPER only.

      JASPER is a naturalistic, developmental, behavioral intervention (NDBI) that focuses on
      developing social communication and language skills in the context of a play based
      intervention.

      Intervening on oral motor skills may improve speech. In Los Angeles, a fairly common
      community intervention delivered by certified speech language pathologists (SLP) is Prompts
      for Restructuring Oral Muscular Phonetic Targets (PROMPT). PROMPT has a growing evidence base
      among a number of clinical populations with language delays related to oral motor deficits
      (although not ASD).

        1. JASPER only: Child will receive 2, 60 minute sessions per week at UCLA. or

        2. JASPER + PROMPT: Child will receive 2, 60 minute sessions per week at Santa Monica's
           SSLP, Inc.

      Recruitment, screening assessments, consents, and treatment will occur in this Santa Monica
      location for this group. All these procedures will be done by the UCLA staff, except the
      PROMPT treatment. PROMPT will be done by the SLPs in the Scheflen Speech-Language Pathology,
      Inc.

      All assessments, consent forms, measures, recruitment material will be the same for both
      conditions.

      Interventions will occur for 12 weeks, 3 months. After the 3 months, there will be exit
      assessments (ELSA Language Sample, PLS-5, ESCS, BOSCC and EEG). There will also be assessment
      follow up at 3-months post exit, and when the child turns 6 years of age. The following
      assessments will be done at these time points: ELSA Language Sample, ESCS, BOSCC, PLS-5 at 3
      mo-FU and ELSA Language Sample, ESCS, BOSCC, PLS-5 when child turns 6.
    
  