
    
      The key initiating factors for reproductive development remain among the great mysteries of
      pediatric and reproductive endocrinology. The onset of puberty is initiated by pulsatile
      secretion of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) from the hypothalamus. The neuroendocrine
      events leading to increased GnRH secretion and the resultant onset of puberty remain largely
      unknown.

      Isolated deficiency of GnRH results in the rare clinical syndrome of idiopathic
      hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (IHH), where decreased secretion of GnRH results in impaired
      gonadotropin secretion. The resultant hypogonadism presents with delayed, incomplete, or
      absent sexual maturation. Human and animal models have identified a number of genes
      responsible for IHH, but more than half of patients with clinical evidence of the disorder do
      not have a detectable mutation. In addition, there is significant clinical heterogeneity
      among affected individuals, including members of the same family harboring the same
      mutations. Careful human phenotyping of such patients and families has expanded our
      understanding of this spectrum of disorders to include oligo-digenic inheritence, as well as
      reversibility of the condition, and has provided insight into developmental pathways involved
      in the ontogeny of GnRH neurons. In particular, hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (HH) exists
      along a genetic and phenotypic spectrum that includes milder forms of GnRH dysregulation,
      precocious and delayed puberty, and onset of reproductive dysfunction after puberty.

      Genetic analysis of subjects with unknown mutations is likely to yield important insights
      into additional pathways involved in the regulation of GnRH secretion. Here, we propose a
      genetic investigation of subjects with IHH to characterize further the phenotypic effect of
      previously described genetic variants, as well as to identify novel genes involved in
      congenital GnRH deficiency. We will use both candidate gene and whole exome approaches, as
      well as linkage analysis.

      This protocol will utilize the disease model of IHH to increase our understanding of the
      physiology of GnRH secretion, including the neuroendocrine regulation of GnRH pulsatility.
      Examining the genetic characteristics of subjects with isolated GnRH deficiency will reveal
      insights into the mechanisms underlying the reawakening of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal
      axis at puberty, providing opportunities for new diagnostic capabilities and therapeutic
      interventions for disorders of puberty and fertility.
    
  