
    
      Background: Vegetarian and/or vegan dietary patterns have been shown in prospective cohort
      and cross-sectional studies to be associated with lower diabetes risk and all-cause
      mortality. Evidence from systematic reviews and meta-analyses of controlled trials also
      suggest that vegetarian diets may be beneficial for glycemic control, blood lipids, weight
      loss, and blood pressure. On the contrary, evidence from previous meta-analyses of
      prospective cohort studies, as well as more recent prospective cohort studies have shown that
      diets higher in animal protein, specifically in red meat, are associated with an increased
      incidence of T2D. The effect of following a vegetarian/vegan dietary pattern on
      cardiometabolic risk factors in individuals with diabetes is less clear. Furthermore, not all
      diabetes guidelines recommend following a vegetarian and/or vegan dietary pattern for the
      management of diabetes or they provide a low-grade evidence rating.

      Need for proposed research: High quality systematic reviews and meta-analyses of randomized
      controlled trials represent the highest level of evidence to support dietary guidelines and
      public health policy development. As dietary guidelines and public health policy have shifted
      toward food and dietary-pattern based recommendations, there is a need for systematic reviews
      and meta-analyses comparing the role of vegetarian/vegan diets in the prevention and
      management of diabetes.

      Objective: To improve evidence-based guidance for diabetes guidelines and public health
      policy development, the investigators will conduct a series of systematic reviews and
      meta-analyses of the effects of vegetarian/vegan diets on cardiometabolic risk factors in
      individuals with diabetes including measures of (1) glycemic control, (2) blood lipids, (3)
      adiposity and (4) blood pressure.

      Design: Each systematic review and meta-analysis will be conducted according to the Cochrane
      Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions and reported according to the Preferred
      Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA).

      Data sources: MEDLINE, EMBASE, and The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials
      (Clinical Trials; CENTRAL) will be searched using appropriate search terms supplemented by
      manual searches of references of included studies.

      Study selection: Dietary randomized controlled trials conducted in humans with a follow-up
      duration ≥ 3 weeks investigating the effect of vegetarian/vegan diets on measures of (1)
      glycemic control, (2) blood lipids, (3) adiposity, and (4) blood pressure will be included.
      Studies that are not conducted in humans, not randomized, have an acute feeding design (<3
      weeks), lack a suitable control (non-isocaloric) and/or do not report viable endpoint data
      will not be included.

      Data extraction: Two or more investigators will independently extract relevant data and
      assess risk of bias using the Cochrane Risk of Bias Tool. All disagreements will be resolved
      by consensus. Standard computations and imputations will be used to derive missing variance
      data.

      Outcomes: The proposed syntheses will each assess a set of outcomes related to a different
      area of cardiometabolic risk: (1) glycemic control (HbA1c, fasting glucose, fasting insulin),
      (2) blood lipids (LDL-C, non-HDL-C, HDL-C, triglycerides), (3) adiposity (body weight, BMI,
      waist circumference), (4) blood pressure (systolic and diastolic blood pressure).

      Data synthesis: Separate pooled analyses will be conducted for each area of cardiometabolic
      control using the Generic Inverse Variance method. Random-effects models will be used even in
      the absence of statistically significant between-study heterogeneity, as they yield more
      conservative summary effect estimates in the presence of residual heterogeneity. Exceptions
      will be made for the use of fixed-effects models where there is <5 included trials
      irrespective of heterogeneity or small trials are being pooled with larger more precise
      trials in the absence of statistically significant heterogeneity. Paired analyses will be
      applied to all crossover trials. Heterogeneity will be tested by Cochran's Q statistic and
      quantified by the I2 statistic. To explore sources of heterogeneity, the investigators will
      conduct sensitivity analyses, in which each study is systematically removed. If there are
      >=10 studies, then the investigators will also explore sources of heterogeneity by a priori
      subgroup analyses by study design (parallel or crossover), follow-up duration (<12 weeks or
      ≥12 weeks), comparator diet, baseline measurements, risk of bias and diabetes duration.
      Significant unexplained heterogeneity will be investigated by additional post hoc subgroup
      analyses (e.g. age, sex, level of feeding control [metabolic, supplemented, dietary advice],
      washout in crossover trials, energy balance of the background diet, composition of the
      background diet [total % energy from fat, carbohydrate, protein], change in cholesterol
      intake, change in glycemic index, etc.). Meta-regression analyses will assess the
      significance of categorical and continuous subgroups analyses. When >=10 studies are
      available, publication bias will be investigated by inspection of funnel plots and formal
      testing using the Egger and Begg tests. If publication bias is suspected, then the
      investigators will attempt to adjust for funnel plot asymmetry by imputing the missing study
      data using the Duval and Tweedie trim and fill method.

      Evidence assessment: The strength of the evidence for each outcome will be assessed using the
      Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE).

      Knowledge translation plan: The results will be disseminated through interactive
      presentations at local, national, and international scientific meetings and publication in
      high impact factor journals. Target audiences will include the public health and scientific
      communities with interest in nutrition, diabetes, obesity, and cardiovascular disease.
      Feedback will be incorporated and used to improve the public health message and key areas for
      future research will be defined. Applicant/Co-applicant Decision Makers will network among
      opinion leaders to increase awareness and participate directly as committee members in the
      development of future guidelines.

      Significance: The proposed project will aid in knowledge translation related to the role of
      vegetarian/vegan diets in the prevention and management of diabetes, strengthening the
      evidence-base for guidelines and improving health outcomes by educating healthcare providers
      and patients, stimulating industry innovation, and guiding future research design.
    
  