
    
      All interventions were done in a specialized well-equipped unit at Assiut University hospital
      and continuous hemodynamic monitoring with pulse oximetry, blood pressure and ECG applied for
      each patient. Light sedation by using midazolam 5mg bolus. In a supine position with slightly
      extended head and under fluoroscopic control, C arm rotated caudo-cranially and ipsilateraly
      to produce an oblique submental view and visualize foramen ovale beside the ramus of the
      mandible. The point of entry varied according to the affected branch, but it ranged from
      0.5-1.5 cm from the corner of the mouth. The point of entry cleaned by aseptic solution and
      anaesthetized with 1% of Lidocaine. C arm has been rotated laterally to confirm the depth of
      penetration once the needle entered into Meckel's cavity. RF electrode (22-G, 10 cm needle,
      with a curved 5 mm active tip, Neurotherm 1100) was used and the exact position of the needle
      confirmed by sensory stimulation, motor stimulation and negative aspiration as the following
      criteria:-

        1. Sensory stimulation (50 Hz) threshold between 0.1-0.3 V which made paresthesia and/ or
           tingling in the affected painful area. Patient was awake to respond to the sensory
           stimulation

        2. Motor stimulation at 2Hz with 0.1-1.5V caused muscle contraction of the lower mandible.

      After confirming the position of the RF electrode, each patient received 0.5 ml of 1% of
      Lidocaine to avoid discomfort during treatment. Then the type of intervention determined by
      the person who was responsible for randomisation process and who did not involve in assessing
      eligibility or interventional technique and divided into:-

        -  Group A: pulsed radiofrequency was applied for 4 cycles of 120 seconds ( 8 minutes in
           total) at 45 V and temperature was set at 42 C. then conventional radiofrequency thermal
           lesion was applied for 3 cycles of 90 seconds at 60 c.

        -  Group B: thermal energy was applied gradually for 3 cycles of 90 seconds at 70 C.
    
  