
    
      This innovative study will be the first to assess the feasibility, process measures, and
      estimate cost-effectiveness of a rapid Universal Testing and Treatment (rUTT) intervention in
      a large urban jail located in Washington, DC - 1 of the 50 communities targeted for End the
      HIV Epidemic (EtHE) efforts ("What is", 2019). The aim is to determine the most effective HIV
      diagnostic test to use for routine opt-out testing in the correctional setting.

      The investigators hypothesize that the combination of opt-out POC and Ag/Ab tests offered at
      intake will maximize the yield of PLWH detected, provision of test results, ART initiation,
      viral suppression, and cost-effectiveness.

      The investigators will examine administrative, de-identified, aggregate data for
      approximately 3000 individuals (based on 500 individuals currently accepting HIV testing per
      month) over 6 months. For individuals who provide consent to release their jail medical
      records after incarceration, the investigators will retrieve the mean time from: 1) positive
      test to receipt of test results, 2) receipt of test results to first dose of ART in jail, 3)
      receipt of post-test counseling to meeting the discharge planner, and 4) ART initiation to
      viral suppression defined as a viral load <200 copies/mL. The investigators will calculate
      the implementation costs of each strategy using observation of staff time, market values for
      items used in the intervention, and process measure data collected through chart review (for
      individuals who consent to release their jail medical records after incarceration). Units of
      resource items, such as staff time and diagnostic tests, will be multiplied by their unit
      costs to calculate total costs.

      Please note: This protocol does not constitute research involving prisoners (as outlined by
      the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services Office for Human Research Protections -
      https://www.hhs.gov/ohrp/regulations-and-policy/guidance/faq/prisoner-research/index.html)
      since the investigators will not be:

        1. Obtaining identifiable private data or information about prisoner subjects through
           intervention or interaction with them while incarcerated.

        2. Seeking the informed consent of prisoners to be subjects in research;

        3. Using, studying or analyzing, for research purposes, identifiable private information
           about prisoners, or identifiable specimens obtained from prisoners; or

        4. Surveying prisoners for this research study.

      The overarching goal of this pilot study is to assess 3 HIV testing strategies as the entry
      point into a rUTT jail-based intervention to promote HIV viral suppression among individuals
      with undiagnosed and diagnosed HIV infections. Among individuals within the DC Department of
      Corrections (DC DOC) the investigators will examine whether opt-out Point-of-Care (POC) rapid
      testing, 4th generation laboratory-based antigen/antibody testing (Ag/Ab), or POC and Ag/Ab
      testing are most effective in identifying HIV infection upon entry into the jails, linking
      persons to care and obtaining viral load suppression. During the medical intake, jail nurses
      will sequentially use, for 2 month each: 1. POC only; 2. POC + Ag/Ab; 3. Ag/Ab only as part
      of standard clinical care (POC: INSTI® rapid test; Ag/Ab: ARCHITECT® laboratory-based test).
      Upon anticipation of release, those who are on ART will be invited to participate in a
      follow-up study regarding their coordination of care while in the DC DOC system and
      post-release, as well as their current viral load status.

      The specific aims are: (1) Compare the feasibility of 3 testing strategies using
      administrative, de-identified, aggregate data to measure the number/percentage of entrants
      who do not opt out of testing and receive their test results in jail. (2) Compare 3 testing
      strategies for time to return of preliminary and confirmed test results, jail-based ART
      initiation (or reinitiation in known PLWH), and referral to discharge planners among
      justice-involved PLWH who consent to release their jail medical records after incarceration.
      (3) Assess the cost of implementing each testing strategy and relative cost-effectiveness of
      the 3 testing strategies in terms of process measures, time to ART initiation, and viral
      suppression.

      This observational study is being conducted by Dr. Anne Spaulding, MD MPH of Emory
      University's Rollins School of Public Health and Dr. Matthew Akiyama, MD MSc of Albert
      Einstein College of Medicine and Montefiore Medical Center through the support of the
      National Institute of Health (NIH) via New York City (NYC) Center for AIDS Research (CFAR).

      Setting and location The DC DOC is a large urban jail with nearly 8000 intakes per year and
      an average daily population of approximately 2000 individuals. It is estimated that the HIV
      prevalence in this system is approximately 4% with a mean of 60 known PLWH in the population
      at any given time. About 1-3 new HIV diagnoses are made each month with the current POC HIV
      testing program in place. The patient population is predominantly racial/ethnic minorities
      (97% overall; 88% Black, 20% Hispanic - not mutually exclusive due to more than 1
      race/ethnicity), and 91% are at or below the 200% poverty level (HRSA, 2017). As part of the
      Unity Health Care (UHC) clinical program, individuals with newly diagnosed HIV will be
      offered rapid ART initiation, ideally within 24-72 hours of diagnosis with an integrase
      inhibitor-based regimen as per Department of Health and Human Services(DHHS) guidelines
      ("Guidelines",2019). Individuals who are known to be HIV-positive through the electronic
      medical record (EMR) or self-report do not undergo HIV testing. For those who are
      ART-experienced, the individual's existing ART regimen is restarted. If ART-naïve, an
      integrase inhibitor-based regimen will be started within 24-72 hours. Community follow-up is
      offered within 1-2 weeks of reentry and supported by jail discharge planners and community
      health workers (CHWs). UHC recently began a new 5-year contract to provide jail health
      services, ensuring a consistent healthcare provider for the duration of this study. DC has
      expanded Medicaid, which is an essential to developing an rUTT model since it is imperative
      to ensure no break in ART coverage. Potential participants for this study will be recruited
      from the DC DOC system

      It is estimated that aggregate-level data will be collected for 3,000 individuals who are
      admitted to the DC DOC system over the 6-month study period and accept HIV testing upon
      entry. Of those tested, preliminary eligibility will be based on the following criteria:

        1. Admitted to DC DOC between October 14th, 2019 and October 31st, 2020

        2. Has initiated ART by time of release

        3. Being HIV-positive: confirmed either through HIV testing upon entry, was known to be
           HIV-positive through the EMR, or self-reported being HIV-positive

      For the past 12 years DC DOC has offered opt-out POC testing with the INSTI® finger stick
      test at entry. During booking (in the intake medical evaluation unit, prior to processing
      individuals into jail) jail nurses will sequentially use, for 2 month each: 1. POC only; 2.
      POC + Ag/Ab; 3. Ag/Ab only as part of standard clinical care (POC: INSTI® rapid test; Ag/Ab:
      ARCHITECT® laboratory-based test). To assist UHC with this transition, the investigators have
      secured in-kind donation of INSTI® rapid test kits (see letter of support). Over 6 months of
      testing the investigators anticipate approximately 3000 individuals will be tested (based on
      500 individuals currently accepting HIV testing per month). The number of new HIV diagnoses
      that will be made is not known; however, the investigators anticipate the number will be
      higher using Ag/Ab testing than the 1-3 new diagnoses that are made each month using the
      current POC rapid testing strategy.

      After each of the 3 testing phases the project team will request, from DC DOC, data from
      their EMR. Specifically, they will request administrative, de-identified, aggregate data that
      does not contain any of the 18 Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)
      identifiers for: 1) the total number of entrants, 2) the number of entrants with HIV test
      results (indicating they have not opted out of testing), 3) the number of post-test
      counseling visits (indicating receipt of test results), 4) the number of positive HIV tests,
      and 5) the median and mean length of stay for the entire population. The individuals for whom
      these data are available and are on ART at time of jail release are considered "EMR-eligible
      participants." Aggregate-level data will be collected on all individuals admitted to DC DOC
      beginning January 15th, 2019.

      Participants for the post-release portion of the study will be recruited at exit from the DC
      DOC system. Currently the DC DOC provides all patients who are on ART with a 30-day supply
      upon release. Inmates who are released and have entered the jail during the study period will
      receive an invitation letter to participate in the study that will be attached to their
      30-day supply of ART, which they will pick up at release.

      'Invitation to Participate Letters' from UHC will inform EMR-eligible participants that they
      may be eligible to participate in a paid observational research study about the effectiveness
      of opt-out rUTT strategies for HIV (see attached letter). Potentially eligible participants
      are instructed to contact the UHC research coordinator (RC) if they are interested in being a
      part of the study, or to find out more information. The letter will state that for this
      observational study participants will only have to continue their standard HIV care with
      their provider. They will only have to meet with the study team once in order to conduct the
      eligibility screening and sign the informed consent authorizing the study team to receive the
      participants EMR from DC DOC and their community provider for two years following their
      release.
    
  