
    
      Laser stimulation, similar to what is being used in the DLss, has been used in pain clinics
      and research since 1975 as a diagnostic test for pain sensitivity. It is widely considered to
      be both useful and safe. Laser irradiation /stimulation simultaneously can activate either
      the heat-sensitive A-delta or C never fibers, with the difference in affected nerves being
      primarily on the basis of different pulse duration and different diameter of the simulation
      target. The laser for both type of simulation is set to 980 nanometers.

      Laser irradiation intensity is measured as the milli-amperes (mA) required to generate that
      laser intensity. The pain sensitively of A-delta and C fibers are assessed by specific
      protocols (A-delta protocol: 60 millisecond duration, 980 nm stimuli, 1 mm diameter
      simulation target. C protocol: 2 second duration, 5 mm diameter simulation target).

      Pain sensitivity is assessed as the ratio of painful laser intensity between the A-delta and
      C fibers (A-delta:C pain ratio).

      Participants with ovarian cancer, with either painful (Group A) or painless (Group B)
      chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN), were to be assessed for pain sensitivity
      after 9 and 21 weeks of chemotherapy with Diode Laser fiber type Selective Stimulator (DLss).
      Both painful or painless CIPN are undesirable chemotherapy-induced side effects. The same
      testing protocol was used for these groups (ie, any difference between the groups would be
      attributed to differences in pain sensitivity between the groups). Patients would report the
      stimulation on a 0 to 100 scale, with 0 = no sensation; 10 = definite sensation; 0 to 40 =
      "painful"; and 100 = worst imaginable pain.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine if there is a difference in the A-delta:C pain threshold ratio for patients
           with painful chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) compared to patients with
           painless CIPN.

        -  Determine the A-delta:C ratio over time in patients with CIPN.
    
  