
    
      Postpartum depressive symptoms are common among women following the birth of a child and can
      adversely impact a mother's ability to care for her child. Evidence-based parent coaching
      programs have been developed to guide mothers with caring for their infants but do not
      address the effects of depression on parenting, can be expensive to administer, and are not
      available in a format that facilitates participation by women with depressive symptoms. We
      have adapted a previously validated parent coaching intervention, the Parents Interacting
      with Infants (PIWI) program, for use with depressed parents by inclusion of educational
      material based on Beardslee's cognitive psycho-educational family model. The program spans 8
      weeks, each week focusing on a specific topic. The topics covered are: psychoeducation
      regarding depression and behavioral activation for coping with high levels of stress, sleep,
      play, laughter, feeding, temperament, safety, and reading with infants.

      We will conduct a pilot randomized controlled trial comparing two versions of the parent
      coaching program: social media and traditional in-person group formats. We've modified the
      PIWI program to address barriers to participation through social media format using secret
      Facebook user groups. We will assess the feasibility and acceptability of the social media
      program compared to a traditional group format by examining the proportion of subjects who
      attend group sessions or "like" Facebook sessions. Women who consent to participate in the
      study will be assigned by randomization to one format or the other in blocks of 20.

      Women will complete measures of feasibility and acceptability and measures of depressive
      symptoms, Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II - Appendix 2) Scale and parenting competence,
      Parenting Sense of Competency (PSOC - Appendix 3 scales) prior to (time 0) and after the
      intervention (time 8-12 weeks post enrollment). In addition, mothers and infants in phase III
      will be videotaped during a 16-minute free play using a standardized measure of parenting
      interaction (PICCOLO) following completion of the intervention. The measures will provide
      important information on the effects of parent coaching formats on a new mother's depressive
      symptoms, her sense of parenting confidence, and her parenting interactions with her infant.
    
  