
    
      Retinitis Pigmentosa (RP) is a rare genetic disorder albeit the most common cause of
      inherited blindness. With progressive loss of function and cells in the outer retina,
      individuals with RP can progress to complete blindness of Light Perception or No Light
      Perception. There is no known cure or treatment for RP individuals at the Light Perception or
      No Light Perception phase of this progressive degenerative disease. The RETINA IMPLANT Alpha
      AMS is an investigational device designed to restore limited visual function and functional
      vision in this subset of patients suffering with RP whose visual acuity has deteriorated to
      the level of Light Perception or No Light Perception.

      The RETINA IMPLANT Alpha AMS has been designed to replace the non-functioning and absent
      photoreceptor cells with a functional device to stimulate the remaining components of the
      retina to restore limited visual function and functional vision in patients with RP. The
      RETINA IMPLANT Alpha AMS device is surgically implanted subretinally to replace the
      non-functioning pathologic photoreceptor/RPE layer (or absent photoreceptor cells and
      defective pigment epithelium). The focusing lens system of the eye directs the visual image
      onto the device. When turned "ON" the device then stimulates the remaining visual cells of
      the inner layers of the retina and this visual information is subsequently transmitted by the
      remaining retinal network via the optic nerve to the visual cortex in the Central Nervous
      System (CNS).

      This investigation is an Early Feasibility Study and will seek to implant five (5) to eight
      (8) patients. One surgical team, highly experienced in similar vitreoretinal procedures will
      be trained and will implant the enrolled patients. Follow-up visits for each patient will
      include an evaluation of safety and effectiveness at various time periods with follow-up
      continuing through five (5) years.

      The use of masking in this clinical trial will be employed at the level of implanted subjects
      undergoing effectiveness evaluations during the follow-up visits as further described.
      Implant "ON" and "OFF" modality will be randomized and unknown to each subject undergoing
      functional vision tests during the follow-up visit. The "ON" and "OFF" will be encoded as
      either mode-1 or mode-2; for each test run, mode-1 and mode-2 will be differently encoded.
      The subject's visual performance will be evaluated and recorded for both "ON" and "OFF"
      implant conditions.

      Each potential subject will undergo screening and evaluation to document that the eligibility
      criteria have been met and for proper surgical planning for implantation of the RETINA
      IMPLANT Alpha AMS. Qualifying subjects will undergo surgical implantation of the RETINA
      IMPLANT Alpha AMS in one eye and will be followed immediately in the post-operative period.
      Follow-up will continue for five (5) years.
    
  