
    
      Background: Comorbidity of Emotional Instability Personality Disorder (EIP) and Attention
      Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is common, and the two patient groups partially exhibit
      similar problems. The main hypothesis is that the two disorders are mechanistically related.
      The investigators believe that the mechanisms underlying the problems are linked to two
      parallel regulating systems in the brain. Here, prefrontal and anterior cingulate systems are
      in focus. The first system - including the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) and the
      caudal anterior cingulate cortex (cACC) - regulates non-emotional (and exteroceptive)
      information. The other system - including the lateral orbitofrontal prefrontal cortex (lObfc)
      and rostral anterior cingulate cortex (rACC) - regulates emotional (and interoceptive)
      information. The hypothesis is that the non-emotional/exteroceptive regulatory system is more
      affected in ADHD, while the emotional/interoceptive regulatory system is more affected in
      EIP.

      Aims: The aim of this study is to differentiate between dysfunctional emotional regulation
      processes related to emotional instability symptoms (when controlling for non-emotional
      ADHD-like symptoms), and dysfunctional non-emotional regulation processes related to ADHD
      symptoms (when controlling for emotional instability symptoms).

      Procedure:

        -  Participants: 30 young women from the Emotional Instability Unit at Child and Adolescent
           Psychiatry in Stockholm (Dialectic Behavioral Therapy unit ("DBT-teamet")), with traits
           of emotional instability and with varying levels of ADHD symptoms. 30 matched healthy
           controls.

        -  Tests:

      Behavioral task: Stop Signal Task: measures participant's ability to inhibit a motor
      response. Outcome measures are Stop Signal Reaction Time (SSRT) and Go Reaction Time (GoRT)

      fMRI task 1: Stroop task. Divided into 2 sessions of 10 minutes with 2 blocks in each. There
      are two types of blocks: Emotional Stroop task blocks (happy or fearful faces, with the word
      "HAPPY" or "FEAR" written across them) and Neutral Stroop task blocks (neutral faces of men
      and women with the word "MAN" or "WOMAN" written across them). Every other block is Emotional
      and every other is Neutral (balanced order between participants) so that each participant
      performs two emotional blocks and two neutral blocks. The task is to decide what emotion or
      gender is shown in the picture and ignore the word. Responses are made using a button box and
      reaction time is recorded for all the trials. Blood Oxygen Level Dependent (BOLD) signal is
      recorded in the brain during the task. Outcome measures are reaction times for the different
      trial types (incongruent(I) and congruent(C), also order dependent) as well as BOLD signal
      during these different types of trial.

      fMRI task 2: Monetary Incentive Delay task (MID). Divided into 2 session of 10 minutes.
      Reward task in which the participant may win money (0 Swedish kronor (SEK), 10 SEK or 50 SEK
      in each trial). There is an anticipation phase in each trial, a response cue during which the
      participant needs to press a button as fast as she can, and an outcome phase in which
      feedback is presented of whether the participant has won the anticipated money or not.
      Outcome measures are BOLD activation during the anticipation phases of different levels of
      reward, and BOLD activation during the receipt/outcome phase of the different levels of
      reward. Reaction times for the different reward levels are also recorded.

      The overall step-by-step procedure for each participant:

        -  Telephone screening (both participant and guardian): information about the study, MRI
           safety screening, check initial inclusion/exclusion criteria are met.

        -  Informed consent: sent by post to all legal guardians and the participant. Returned by
           post to test leader.

        -  The Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ) and socio-economic status
           questionnaires sent to one legal guardian and returned to test leader upon completion.

        -  Visit/Day 1: Assessment with questionnaires, interviews and behavioral testing (For
           selection of participants: Structured Clinical Interview for Diagnostic and Statistical
           Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM)-IV (SCID)-II interview Borderline and Antisocial parts,
           SDQ, Adult Self-Report Scale (ASRS), Autism Spectrum Quotient (AQ), Toronto Alexithymia
           Scale (TAS)-20, Ravens SPM, reading test, color vision test, questionnaire with
           additional questions. For characterization of participants: Brown-Attention Deficit
           Disorder (ADD), Mood and Feelings Questionnaire (MFQ), State and Trait Anxiety
           Inventory-Trait (STAI-T), Barratt's Impulsivity Scale (BIS)). Frankfurter Test und
           Training des Erkennens von fazialem Affekt (FEFA) 2 test (face recognition) and Stop
           signal test (SST). Approximately 3 hours.

        -  DAWBA computerized interview at home. Both participant and one legal guardian complete
           this.

        -  Additional information from patient records gathered, to verify current and previous
           diagnoses.

        -  Visit/Day 2: Assessments with questionnaires (STAI-S, last menstruation, sleepiness
           rating, motivation rating). MRI-scan: session 1: T1, Stroop session 1, Stroop session 2,
           T2. Break. Session 2: MID session 1, MID session 2. Break. Session 3: resting state,
           DTI. Assessments after scan: debriefing questionnaire, "After MID task" questionnaire.
           Approximately 3 hours.
    
  