
    
      Background:

      During the last years, the worldwide prevalence of diabetes mellitus type II (DM2) has
      increased dramatically, impacting the cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. It has been
      estimated that more than 171 million people suffer this disease (2.8% of the worldwide
      population) and it's predicted that it will increase to 366 million (6.5 %) in 2030, from
      which 298 million will be from developing countries. Currently, in Latin America, the DM2
      prevalence ranges are between 1.2% and 8%, and it is expected to increase 38% during the next
      10 years, with higher levels in the urban zones.

      Recently, we have demonstrated that the Colombian population with a lower abdominal
      circumference than those reported in Caucasian populations presented an increased risk of
      developed metabolic syndrome and coronary artery disease. Moreover, abdominal obesity in our
      population is associated with higher levels of inflammatory markers, as C-reactive protein
      (CRP) and proinflammatory cytokines. Nowadays, the relationship between abdominal obesity,
      inflammation, insulin resistance, diabetes mellitus type 2, metabolic syndrome and
      cardiovascular disease is a crucial aim of research, especially in populations as the
      Colombian, that is in high risk of being affected by the epidemic of diabetes mellitus and
      cardiovascular disease. The occurrence of DM2 is associated with a 2 to 4 fold increase in
      the risk of developing coronary disease. The diabetic patients that present unstable angina
      have a greater risk of developing acute myocardial infarct (AMI) and the diabetic patients
      with AMI have more risk of death than the non-diabetic patients. Additionally, the subjects
      with DM2 have an increased risk of experiencing cardiovascular events (1.5 to 3 times), and
      greater recurrence and mortality for these causes. The incidence and severity of the
      peripheral arterial disease are also increased from 2 to 4 times in diabetic patients.

      The current criteria for DM2 diagnosis established by the American Association of Diabetes is
      a glucose level in fasting >126 mg/dl, which has been established based on the risk of
      suffering ophthalmic and renal micro-vascular complications with values superior to this
      limit. Nevertheless, several works have shown that patients with altered fasting glucose
      levels (≥100 mg/dl - <126 mg/dl) have an increased risk of cardiovascular morbidity and
      mortality.

      We recently reported in Colombia, the existence of a strong association between the presence
      of cardiovascular risk factors and altered fasting plasma glucose, this association being
      greater with the presence of abnormal glucose blood levels after the glucose overload test.
      This association has been explained since the hyperglycemia per-se may be implicated in the
      development of atherosclerosis due to metabolic and structural changes at the endothelial
      level. At long term it may result in irreversible alterations; a "non-returning" point
      leading to cardiovascular complications typical of diabetes. According to these observations,
      our group has recently shown that patients with altered glycemia in fasting, regardless of
      other classic factors of cardiovascular risk, present a greater risk of coronary disease,
      supporting the hypothesis that the hyperglycemia leads to structural changes in the
      endothelial wall.

      It is well known that people with insulin resistance present less vasodilatation mediated by
      insulin and an altered endothelium dependent vasodilatation. Additionally, it has been
      described that insulin causes a physiologic vasodilatation in the skeletal muscle of healthy
      subjects, an effect that is blocked in insulin-resistance obesity. In our population, we find
      that obesity, hypercholesterolemia and diabetes are related with a flow-mediated
      vasodilatation reduction. The endothelial dysfunction is strongly related with the insulin
      resistance syndrome. At the same time, the endothelial dysfunction worsens the resistance to
      insulin, increases the vascular reactivity and predisposes to cardiovascular disease. It has
      been proposed that the vasodilator effect of the insulin is primarily due to a greater
      expression of mRNA for endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) due to a probable increase of
      the transcriptional rate. There are elements to support the fact that this activity is
      modulated by C-kinase protein (PKC). The inhibition of PKC increases the mRNA levels for
      eNOS. Prolonged incubation of endothelial cells with a selective inhibitor of the PKC beta
      isoform increase the mRNA levels of eNOS. This observation may have important clinical
      implications since the PKC activation in the vasculature of diabetic subjects in alteration
      of the vascular wall. The existing relationship between endothelial dysfunction and insulin
      resistance is dependent on multiple factors. Obesity generates an alteration of the
      endothelial function in the metabolically active capillary bed, altering the lipase
      lipoprotein (LPL) that is linked to the endothelium by glycosaminoglycans. The ultimate loss
      of these caused by aggressive factors such as smoking and oxygen free radicals, alters the
      endothelial function and also impairs the action of the LPL causing hypertriglyceridemia
      which is an insulin resistance factor. At the same time, the alteration of endothelial
      function in the capillary beds reduces the interstitial flow, carrying less insulin or
      delaying its delivery to the muscular tissue. Additionally, it has been proposed that there
      is less surface of endothelium functionally normal in the vessels that are irrigating the
      skeletal muscle. It has also been shown that hyperinsulinemia predicts the appearance of
      atherosclerosis and cardiovascular events, independently of other risk factors.

      The increase of adipocytes at the abdominal level is directly related with a condition of
      insulin resistance and hyperinsulinism. The hyperinsulinemia promotes the release of free
      fatty acids by the adipocyte and its later hepatic transformation to oxidized LDL, which have
      a great atherogenic potential. Also, the abdominal adipocytes in response to the increase of
      free fatty acids, oxidized LDL or any other non-well defined metabolic factor increase the
      production and release of proinflammatory cytokines such as the tumor necrosis factor alpha
      (TNF-α) and interleukin-6 (IL-6), which have shown to be able to reduce the expression and
      activity of the nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) in human cultivated umbilical endothelium cells,
      suggesting that this could be the mechanism by which the abdominal obesity is related with
      endothelial dysfunction. In this sense, we have recently demonstrated that in cultured
      endothelial cells, the angiotensin II, through receptor AT1, stimulates the TNF-α production,
      which at the same time activates the metalloproteinase 2, enzyme which induces changes in the
      endothelium structure and in the stability of the atherosclerotic plaque. This effect of
      angiotensin II is mediated by the AT1 receptor, since we have shown that the CANDESARTAN
      inhibited the production of TNF-α induced by Angiotensin II.

      The increase in the production and storage of free fatty acids may be the mechanism by which
      angiotensin II relates with the development of insulin resistance. It has been demonstrated
      that the elevated levels of free fatty acids induce insulin resistance through the inhibition
      of the transport and phosphorylation of glucose at a muscular level, followed by a reduction
      of the glycogen synthesis and glucose oxidation. Additionally, it has been suggested that
      free fatty acids may interfere in the stimulation of insulin in the GLUT 4 and hexokinase
      activity. Also, angiotensin II has a stimulating effect on the transcription rate of the ob
      gene in human adipocytes. The ob gene is in charge of codifying the leptin protein, which
      inhibits the appetite and regulates the thermogenesis. The chronic and sustained increase in
      leptin levels leads to a leptin-resistance condition, a condition in which the hormone loses
      its physiological actions. The increase in the leptin levels produces a greater expression of
      UPC 2 (Uncoupling protein 2) in an action mediated by Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated
      Receptors (PPARs), which interferes with the mitochondrial respiration chain in the
      pancreatic beta cells, getting to a reduction in the ATP generation and blocking the first
      peak of insulin secretion. This offsetting mechanism seems to be opposed to the insulin's
      lipogenic effect and avoids greater lipid storage. Unfortunately, the derived consequences of
      this alteration in the insulin secretion are a lower efficacy to maintain the euglycemia and
      to maintain a glucidic homeostasis. On the other hand, the hyperleptinemia, by mediating the
      sympathetic activity and increasing the sodium renal resorption, leads to the increases of
      blood pressure, which adds to the greater expression of the angiotensinogen produced by
      hypertrophied lipid cells. These cells generate angiotensin II to activate the adipocyte
      differentiation and to regulate the fat storage in response to nutritional changes.

      Recently, some clinical trials have demonstrated that the angiotensin converting enzyme
      inhibitors (ACEIs) and ARA II, reduce the risk of presenting new cases of DM2 as compared
      with other antihypertensive therapies. However, no clinical trials have addressed
      specifically the study of the effects of the ARA II in the improvement of the dysglycemia and
      in the prevention of the diabetes type 2. Additionally, the treatment with ACEI and ARA II
      has shown to improve the resistance to peripheral insulin both in animal models and clinical
      studies. The mechanism by which the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system blockade has a
      beneficial effect on the responsiveness to insulin has not been totally cleared. In obese
      Zucker-type rats, it was demonstrated that the chronic treatment with a selective ARA II
      receptor produced a significant increase in the GLUT 4 transporter expression in skeletal
      muscle and a reduction in the concentrations of plasma fatty acids associated with an
      improvement of the responsiveness to insulin.

      Although the mechanisms are still speculative, the beneficial effects of the
      renin-angiotensin system blockade, demonstrated in several studies such as HOPE, LIFE, VALUE,
      on the responsiveness to insulin and in the prevention of the development of new cases of
      DM2, suggest that angiotensin II produced in the adipocytes of obese subjects is associated
      to the insulin resistance syndrome and supports the execution of clinical trials oriented to
      establish the beneficial effect of ARA II in the prevention of DM2 in susceptible individuals
      coming from populations at high risk of developing CVD and diabetes mellitus, as the
      Colombian one.

      Hypothesis:

      In non-diabetic non-hypertensive subjects with dysglycemia and abdominal obesity:

      The treatment with candesartan 16/32 mg/d during 6 months improves carbohydrate metabolism
      measured by HOMA insulin sensibility index, oral glucose tolerance Test (OGTT), fasting
      plasma glucose levels, and glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c).

      The effects of the treatment with candesartan over carbohydrate metabolism is related to a
      reduction in the plasma concentration of adipocytokines such as IL-6, CRP, Leptin and
      Adiponectin; and oxidative stress markers such as plasma concentrations of Malonaldehyde and
      urinary concentration of 8-Isoprostanes.

      These effects over carbohydrate metabolism, inflammatory adipocytokines or oxidative stress
      markers are independent of changes over arterial blood pressure.

      Study Objectives:

      General Objectives:

      To study the impact of the treatment with candesartan over the carbohydrate metabolism,
      inflammatory adipocytokines and levels and oxidative stress markers in non-diabetic
      non-hypertensive subjects with dysglycemia and abdominal obesity.

      Specific Objectives:

      In non-diabetic non-hypertensive subjects with abdominal obesity and dysglycemia:

      To establish the impact of the treatment with candesartan (16/32 mg/d) in the carbohydrate
      metabolism assessed through the HOMA index, fasting glucose plasma levels, OGTT, and HbA1c
      levels.

      To study the effects of candesartan 16/32 mg/d during 6 months over fasting plasma levels of
      adipocytokines such as Leptin, Adiponectin, IL-6 and CRP.

      To determine if the treatment with candesartan (16/32 mg/d during 6 months) decreases the
      concentration of oxidative stress markers such as plasma levels of malonaldehyde and urinary
      levels of 8-Isoprostanes.

      To determine if the effects of candesartan on the carbohydrate metabolism, adipocytokines and
      oxidative stress marker concentrations, are independent of its effect upon the blood
      pressure.

      Study Design:

      A randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over clinical trial, to assess the
      effects of candesartan (16/32 mg/d during 6 months) over metabolic, oxidative, and
      inflammatory parameters, in non-diabetic non-hypertensive subjects with dysglycemia and
      abdominal obesity.

      Study treatments:

      Treatment A: Candesartan 16 mg (one tablet per day) taken with breakfast during 4 weeks,
      depending on the subject's tolerance the dosage will be increased to 32 mg/d (two tablets)
      during the next 20 weeks.

      Treatment B: Placebo tablets administered similarly to treatment A (one tablet during 4 weeks
      and then 2 tablets per day during the next 20 weeks).

      All subjects will be included in a hygiene-dietary measures program (MHD; educational,
      nutritional and exercise support) during the study.

      Study groups:

      The study embraces two arms

      Group 1: Will receive treatment A first during the first 24 weeks and then treatment B during
      the last 24 weeks.

      Group 2: Will receive treatment B during the first 24 weeks and then treatment A during the
      last 24 weeks.

      Population:

      The study is going to be integrated by non-diabetic non-hypertensive subjects of both
      genders, older than 18 years with abdominal obesity and dysglycemia .

      Abdominal obesity is defined as a waist diameter greater than 90 cms in men and 80 cms in
      women.

      Dysglycemia is defined as having plasma glucose levels in fasting between 100 and 125 mg/dL
      and/or on glucose tolerance test at 2 hours between 140 mg/dL and 200 mg mg/dL.

      Size of sample:

      The size of the sample was estimated considering a crossover, clinical trial design and
      following the proposal by Hills and Armitage accepting a type I error of 0.05, a power of
      90%, and assuming a difference of 20% in the HOMA index after 6 months of treatment with
      candesartan (3 to 2.4) and a maximum standard deviation of 1.5, sample size of 84 subjects
      was estimated. By adjusting the rate of losses of 8%, the final sample size is 100 subjects
      (50 in each group).

      This sample size ensures a power of 90% to detect differences in the fasting glycemia of at
      least 8mg/dL (0.44mmol/L), with a standard deviation (SD) of 20mg/dL. (1.1mmol/L) or a
      difference of 14mg/dL (0.77mmol/L) in the 2 hours post load glycemia SD of 40mg/dl
      (2.2mmol/L).

      Statistical Analysis:

      The study is fundamentally set forth as an efficacy study on the prevention of the
      development of diabetes mellitus and on the changes of the carbohydrate metabolism. The
      averages and proportions with their corresponding 95% confidence intervals for clinically
      relevant variables measured during the baseline evaluation will be obtained in a descriptive
      analysis. In order to evaluate the presence of differences between the groups, the Student's
      t test, the Mann-Whitney test, the CHI2 test or the Fisher´s exact test according to the
      variable under study will be used. A Linear multiple regression will be used with the purpose
      of comparing the treatment groups from baseline and its changes up to month end 6 of each
      treatment. The possibility of performing adjustments by required baseline parameters and risk
      factors and prior treatment in each one of the treatment groups is considered.

      The analysis will be performed by the intention-to-treat approach. A p value under 0.05 will
      be considered as statistically significant.The primary endpoint for analysis will be made on
      the change in HOMA index value, baseline glucose, and post-charge glucose plasma levels. The
      secondary endpoint for analyses will include the possible changes in serum insulin, leptin
      and adiponectin, inflammatory markers and oxidative stress markers .

      Treatment safety register and analysis will be made through the clinical review and
      statistics of the adverse events reported.

      Safety Committee and Events Assignation Committee:

      A safety and events assignation committee will be created, according to the Harmonized
      Tripartite Guidelines of the International Conference of Harmonization for Good Clinical
      Practices.

      Ethical Aspects:

      The clinical trial will be conducted according to the Helsinki's Declaration, Good Clinical
      Practice Guidelines and the Colombian legislation (Resolution 8430-93 of the Ministry of
      Health). The patient will provide written informed consent in a form designed for such a
      purpose.

      The information generated by the study will be confidential and strictly used for the
      purposes stipulated within the protocol.

      Finally, the patient may refuse to continue participating in the study at any moment after
      providing his/her consent. The study will be approved by the FVC ethics committee. All
      assessments will be performed by trained staff. The blood samples will be collected in
      aseptic conditions by an expert bacteriologist.

      Study Timeline:

      The study period will be 36 months. The initiation will be defined by the project's financial
      approval.
    
  