
    
      Background: Keloids are a disorder of wound healing characterized with excessive scar
      formation affecting upto 16% of Africans. These are often associated with functional and
      cosmetic disfigurement with resultant psychosocial distress and reduced quality of life.

      Available treatment options are associated with high recurrence and highly variable symptom
      relief. Autologous Adipose Derived Stem cells (ADSCs) have been recognized to have effect on
      scar remodeling including regression and remission thus becoming a promising alternative
      novel therapy. Investigators hypothesize that these ADSCs have a comparable efficacy to
      Triamcinolone Acetanoide (TAC) which is the existing standard of care in sub-Saharan Africa
      and therefore intend to evaluate the efficacy and acceptability of ADSCs as a therapy in the
      treatment of keloids. More specifically they shall evaluate the efficacy and acceptability of
      ADSCs versus TAC in non-surgical treatment of keloids as well as the efficacy of ADSCs to TAC
      as post-surgical excision adjuvant therapy in preventing recurrence.

      Methods: Investigators shall conduct a single center parallel randomized control trial at
      Mulago National Referral Hospital following the approval of the Research Ethics Committee of
      SOM-MakCHS.

      For the intervention arm, ADSCs will be obtained by processing lipoaspirate obtained from the
      abdominal fat-pad of the participants. The control arm will receive TAC. Both arms will
      receive intra-lesional infiltration of either treatments and followed up at 3 months after
      therapy. The primary outcome will be the scar regression, remission and acceptability.
      Two-way Repeated Measures Anova will be used to determine the difference in the treatment
      arms and time. The All Pair Wise Multiple Comparison Procedure (Holm-Sidak method) will be
      used to determine the specific differences for both time and treatment factors with an alpha
      gain set at 0.05.

      Potential impact: This project promises to introduce Adipose Derived Stem-cells as a readily
      available alternative or adjuvant to existing therapies for keloids.
    
  