
    
      Study design: Prospective longitudinal study

      Methods and Materials: The investigators planned to assess at baseline and at scheduled
      follow up visits :

        1. Ankle-Brachial Index measurement

        2. Anamnestic clinical information and Anthropometric measurements

        3. Echocardiogram (volume size), electrocardiogram (AF type)

        4. Outcome events such as nonfatal or fatal acute myocardial infarction, target lesion or
           vessel revascularization nonfatal or fatal ischemic stroke, transient ischemic attack,
           death from any cardiac or vascular cause, death from any cause Study duration: 3 years
           follow-up Statistical methods: The prevalence will be calculated by exact confidence
           intervals (Wilson method). The cumulative incidence will be calculated by the
           product-limit estimator of Kaplan-Meyer and presented with confidence intervals at 95%.
           The incidences and prevalences will be then adjusted through appropriate multivariate
           analysis (using the Cox proportional hazards model and logistic model) that will take
           into account the effect of potential confounders. Similarly, the effect-center presence
           will be checked and possibly removed. Secondary endpoints will be assessed by using
           Log-rank test method, and by the Cox model (with time-dependent effects) multivariate
           analysis.

      Subgroups analysis will be also conducted for patients with first onset of AF or recurrent AF
      Sample size: The investigators plan to include in the study n = 3,000 AF patients, with
      competitive recruitment between centers involved in the study. The sample size was calculated
      assuming an expected prevalence of 19% at time zero, and in order to obtain a confidence
      interval 95% to prevail at time zero whose distance from the edge is less than or equal to
      1.4%. This sample size yields a power greater than 99.9% for the secondary endpoint, assuming
      an event rate of 19% for patients with ABI <=0.9, and 10% for patients with ABI >0.9.An
      interim analysis showed an ABI prevalence, calculated by exact confidence intervals, of 21%
      in patients with AF, it is considered to interrupt the enrollment, as the observed prevalence
      is greater than two percentage points higher than that assumed. The sample size is amended as
      follows: a sample of 2027 patients leads to the expected prevalence of 21% with a confidence
      interval width of 3.5. This sample size has no impact on the power of the secondary
      objective.
    
  