
    
      Although the current two-drug regimen has been successful in many places, it is clear that
      augmented treatment regimens, other alternative strategies, or both are needed to accelerate
      global elimination. Fortunately, recent scientific studies, led by the DOLF project at
      Washington University in St. Louis, found that a three-drug regimen, using all three of the
      medicines typically delivered as a standard two-drug regimen to prevent LF (ivermectin +
      albendazole or diethycarbamazine + albendazole), is dramatically more effective for achieving
      sustained clearance of microfilariae from infected persons [2]. WHO conducted a rigorous and
      thorough review process of data from safety and efficacy trials of the triple drug regimen.
      In November, 2017, WHO endorsed and provided updated treatment guidelines that endorsed the
      use of IDA as a MDA regimen for LF elimination programs [3]. Following WHO's formal approval
      and release of the alternative treatment guidelines, in late November Merck & Co. committed
      to increase its Mectizan donation by 100 million treatments annually to eliminate LF [4],
      making the IDA regimen financially feasible for countries to adopt.

      According to the recently published guidelines, WHO recommends the use of annual IDA in
      settings where onchocerciasis is not co-endemic with LF in districts have not yet started
      MDA, in areas that have received fewer than 4 effective rounds of MDA, and in areas where MDA
      results have been suboptimal. These guidelines call for the current epidemiological criteria
      (<1% microfilaremia or <2% antigenemia) to be applied to sentinel and spot check sites to
      determine whether the IU is eligible to proceed with the transmission assessment survey (TAS)
      and for the TAS to be used to base MDA-stopping decisions [3]. While the TAS has proven to be
      an effective tool for basing stopping decisions under the standard two-drug regimens, it is
      unclear whether the target age group (6-7 year olds) and epidemiologic target (<2%
      antigenemia in areas with W. bancrofti and <2% BmR1 antibodies in areas with Brugia spp.
      infections) are appropriate when IDA is used. Because IDA will result in an accelerated
      interruption of transmission and because the effects of this regimen on adult worms are not
      yet fully understood, it is possible that new target populations, infection indicators,
      sampling strategies, and/or thresholds will be required to determine when it is safe to stop
      IDA.

      The purpose of this protocol is to describe the operational research (OR) that is necessary
      to develop a set of recommendations for WHO to consider regarding appropriate monitoring and
      evaluation (M&E) strategies for countries implementing IDA. Generating the information
      necessary to establish robust M&E guidelines requires a significant OR effort to ensure that
      all relevant information is collected, innovative strategies are considered, and that the
      ultimate recommendations are supported by evidence across multiple countries. It is important
      to emphasize that the study design described in this protocol is not what would be
      recommended of all countries implementing IDA. This protocol is for OR purposes only, with
      the goal that study findings will lead to a simplified M&E framework that is feasible for use
      by national LF elimination programs.
    
  