
    
      Small vessel disease is a risk factor of ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke and a direct cause of
      lacunar and hemorrhagic infarcts. Moreover, it is associated of cognitive impairment, like
      psychomotor retardation, deficits of attention, planning, and set-shifting, and dysexecutive
      syndrome.

      This disease affects the cerebral vessels of small diameters. Magnetic Resonance Imaging
      (MRI) is the gold standard for the diagnosis and the screening of this pathology. However it
      is an imaging with limit access and high cost.

      Vessels of bulbar conjunctiva have a small caliber like the small cerebral vessels and have
      the same origin: carotid arteries. They are easy to study with photography. The analysis of
      these vessels may be a new way of screening the small vessel disease, easier to use than MRI.

      Retinal vascularization is also easier to study with photography of fundus without dilatation
      by retinograph. Several studies already demonstrated an association between retinal
      abnormalities and load of small vessel disease. However, no relation was established between
      these modification and impairment of conjunctival vascularization in this cerebral pathology
      although those have the same arterial origin and vascular diameters.

      The strategy is to take a picture of temporal bulbar conjunctiva and fundus for patients with
      symptoms of TIA and minor stroke with all etiologies. Patients will be classified according
      to Fazekas staging and presence of lacunar infarcts. First, photography of bulbar conjunctiva
      will be analyzed by an artificial intelligence in " deep learning " to demonstrate a
      correlation between abnormalities of conjunctival vessels and staging of small cerebral
      disease. After that, photography of fundus will be analyzed with the same AI to search a
      correlation between conjunctival and retinal vascularization in small vessel disease.

      The present study will include patients with symptoms of TIAs and minor strokes coming at
      clinic of TIA in University Hospital Toulouse. A consultation by a neurologist will be done,
      than MRI will be prescribed for each of them. After a therapeutic care, they will go to the
      ophthalmologist for a photo of their bulbar conjunctival of each eye and photography of
      fundus without dilatation. The follow up will be realized the same day.
    
  