
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the efficacy of multiepitope autologous dendritic cell vaccine, trastuzumab
           (Herceptin^®), and vinorelbine by measuring the change in the largest dimension of
           metastatic lesions, in women with locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer that
           does not overexpress human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)/neu.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the ability of this regimen to induce functional antigen-specific T cells in
           these patients by measuring ex-vivo antigen-specific T-cell activity against
           peptide-pulsed dendritic cells and tumor targets by tetramer staining and intracellular
           cytokine assays.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Autologous dendritic cell mobilization and harvest: All patients undergo autologous
           dendritic cell mobilization with filgrastim (G-CSF) and/or sargramostim (GM-CSF)
           subcutaneously daily for 4 days followed by apheresis. Mobilized peripheral blood is
           processed for the production of dendritic cells by cluster of differentiation
           (CD)34-positive cell selection. The dendritic cells are expanded and then pulsed with
           E75 and E90 peptides.

        -  Treatment: Patients receive vinorelbine IV over 6-10 minutes and trastuzumab (Herceptin
           ^®) IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Patients also receive autologous dendritic cells pulsed
           with E75 and E90 peptides subcutaneously over 2-5 minutes on day 1*. Treatment repeats
           every 14 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      Note: *If treatment is given locally, the vaccine therapy will be given at University of
      North Carolina (UNC) -Chapel Hill the following day.

      Patients are followed every 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 17-37 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  