
    
      After having a stroke, people often have trouble remembering to do something, solving
      problems, or following conversations. They can also have trouble concentrating, following
      instructions, and multitasking. These can all due to the stroke affecting a brain function
      called "working memory". Working memory is defined as the ability to hold a thought in one's
      mind for a few seconds in order to remember a task or solve a problem. People have difficulty
      returning to their normal lives because of these working memory problems. Currently, there no
      proven medical treatments for working memory problems.

      Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a painless, noninvasive brain stimulation
      technique that has been shown in some studies to improve working memory in healthy subjects.
      TDCS involves sending a weak electrical current through the head, thereby exciting the brain
      underneath. TDCS is not an FDA-approved treatment for any condition, but previous trials have
      shown it may benefit movement and language recovery after stroke, as well as improve thinking
      ability. Studies have shown tDCS to be very safe with no serious adverse events in over
      10,000 subjects studied.

      This pilot study will involve four visits to Stony Brook University Hospital. The first is a
      baseline session where subjects perform all outcome measures but no tDCS is performed other
      than for familiarization. The other three sessions are the stimulation sessions where
      subjects undergo the intervention for 20 minutes to test tDCS effects on the outcome
      measures. The effects of tDCS for a single session are expected to only last for few hours.
      Subjects will be receiving all three different types of stimulation. If this study finds a
      short term benefit of tDCS for post-stroke working memory deficits, it will support a full
      clinical trial where multiple sessions of tDCS will be given and may provide a long-term
      benefit.
    
  