
    
      Heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) is a common cause for admission within
      the Veterans Affairs (VA) Health Care System. It is associated with severe impairment of
      physical and mental health status and carries a high 5-yr mortality rate of ~75%. Even though
      significant progress has been made in understanding its pathophysiology, currently, its
      management and treatment is based on therapeutic targeting of a limited number of receptors
      and pathways.

      The investigators' team and others have made great progress in the last few years by
      understanding and harnessing the Transient Potential Receptor superfamily as regulators of
      cardiovascular function. Specifically, the investigators' laboratory has explored the role
      the vanilloid 2 (TRPV2) subtype plays in regulating calcium handling and contractility. This
      work has led researchers to understand that TRPV2 modulates contractility via increasing
      calcium cycling in myocytes on a beat-to-beat basis.

      The investigators have used probenecid, a generic, globally available drug with an extremely
      safe profile that has been used for decades as a treatment for gout, as a TRPV2 agonist. The
      investigators' work with this drug has demonstrated it to be a potent inotrope without
      apoptotic, chronotropic or arrhythmogenic effects in cardiomyocytes in vitro as well as in
      vivo murine and porcine models. These findings have been taken to the bedside with a recently
      published small phase 2 study of 20 adult patients with HFrEF (the ReProsper HF pilot study)
      where the investigators demonstrated a mean improvement in left ventricular systolic and
      diastolic function with no adverse effects after only 1 week of treatment. The use of
      probenecid in HFrEF was also indirectly supported by a recent retrospective study of
      approximately 40,000 patients in the Medicare database that found treatment with probenecid
      (not specifically for heart disease) was associated with a 9% decreased risk of HF
      hospitalization. These studies strongly argue for the safety and potential efficacy of
      probenecid to improve systolic function and the need for a larger study, and of longer
      duration that also evaluates functional and health status outcomes in addition to systolic
      function.

      The overall objective of this study is the treatment of outpatient Veterans with NYHA II-III
      heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) with probenecid to improve systolic and
      health function. Specifically, the investigators are proposing a three-site double-blinded,
      randomized, placebo-controlled, trial that will assess whether oral probenecid administered
      at 1 gr. orally twice per day for 180 days in patients with NYHA II-III HFrEF improves
      systolic function as measured via ejection fraction with echocardiography (aim 1); improves
      functional status as measured by exercise stress testing (aim 2); and improves self-report
      heart failure specific health status as measured by Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire
      (KCCQ) and overall health status measured by EQ5D (aim 3).
    
  