
    
      The study is a randomized controlled, non-blinded, experimental trial. The population of the
      study consisted of all 7-12 year-old children who came to the venipuncture room in the state
      hospital.It is stated in the literature that the sample size should be determined as minimum
      30 in both experimental and control groups in the experimental studies and parametric
      measurements. Therefore, in the study, each group included 30 children including three
      experimental groups and a control group and in the power analysis, power of the study was
      found as 0.95 at the confidence level of 95%. In order to prevent bias and increase the
      validity of the data, the pain and fear scores of the children before and after the procedure
      were assessed by three different groups as children participating in the study (n:120), their
      parents as the people who know the children best (n:120), and a researcher specialized in
      pediatric nursing (n:1), and the inter-observer agreement was examined. The level of pain was
      assessed by the Wong Baker Faces Scale and the fear of pain was assessed by the Children's
      Fear Scale.

      In this experimental study, the children and their parents who came to the venipuncture room
      for venous blood sampling were evaluated in terms of the inclusion criteria and the children
      and parents who did not meet the criteria were excluded from the study. The children and
      parents complying with the inclusion criteria were informed about the study and their written
      and verbal consents were received. The children were included in one of the 4 study groups,
      including the balloon blowing, coughing, ball squeezing, and the control group without any
      intervention. In the studies, it was determined that gender had an important effect on
      evaluation of pain.39,40 In order to control the effect of gender on pain, the children were
      stratified into study groups based on their gender and selected by using block randomization
      method in four study groups. The children were randomized to the related study group by
      drawing one of the study groups in the cloth bags prepared for the girls (pink) and the boys
      (blue). Papers with the same color and folding pattern representing the four groups (1,2,3,4)
      were thrown in the bags. In order to provide a randomized distribution and to reduce all
      negative effects, the children were asked to take randomly a paper from the bag according to
      the gender after making the necessary explanation to the parents and their children so that
      the groups became self-balancing. A total of 30 children including 15 girls and 15 boys were
      included in each group after intervention and control groups were matched in themselves in
      terms of gender. The study followed the CONSORT guideline for reporting randomized controlled
      trials.
    
  