
    
      PRG Science & Technology Co., Ltd. (PRG S&T) is developing Progerinin (SLC-D011) for the
      treatment of the rare aging diseases Hutchinson-Gilford Progeria Syndrome (HGPS) and Werner
      Syndrome (WS).

      Progerin, an abnormal splice variant of the inner nuclear membrane protein lamin A is
      implicated in the pathology of HGPS and WS. It is believed that the extremely strong binding
      between lamin A and progerin is responsible for the nuclear abnormality phenotype observed in
      HGPS. WS is caused by functional defect of WRN, RecQ4L DNA helicase and rapid accumulation of
      progerin in WRN deficient condition is thought to be the cause of premature aging in WS. PRG
      S&T has shown that Progerinin binds specifically to progerin reduces its expression in both
      HGPS and WS cells, Progerinin further prevents progerin-lamin A in HGPS cells. In a progeria
      mouse model (LmnaG609G/G609G), treatment with Progerinin via intraperitoneal (i.p) injection
      (20 mg/kg, twice per week) could increase the body weight and extend the life span of
      LmnaG609G/G609G mice up to 21 weeks. In the LmnaG609G/+ mouse model, improved morphology such
      as status of coat hair and body size, increased body weight and extended life span for about
      16 weeks was noted following Progerinin treatment. In addition, Progerinin can suppress
      muscle weakness including the heart muscle. Safety pharmacology studies did not indicate any
      Progerinin-related effects on vital organs and systems including respiratory, cardiovascular
      and central nervous system.

      Prior to studies in the disease states, this study PRG-PRO-001, an initial first-in-human
      study, will be conducted in healthy volunteers to assess the safety, tolerability and
      pharmacokinetics of Progerinin. PRG-PRO-001 is a Phase I, Randomized, Double-blind,
      Placebo-Controlled, Single Ascending Dose (SAD) Study including a food interaction study,
      followed by a Multiple Ascending Dose (MAD) Study to Evaluate the Safety, Tolerability,
      Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamic Profile of Progerinin in Healthy Volunteers. This is a
      first-in-human study. The study aims to determine the safety and tolerability of Progerinin
      after single and multiple doses in healthy volunteers and to evaluate the pharmacokinetics
      (PK) of Progerinin after single and multiple dose administrations in healthy volunteers. The
      estimated enrollment is around 56 healthy volunteers, with 40 subjects estimated for the SAD
      phase and 16 subjects for the MAD Phase at one site in the USA.

      Expanded Access Program is available. For more details, please use the link in the References
      Section below to access our company's main webpage on Expanded Access Program.
    
  