
    
      Background and rationale for the study: Type 1 Diabetes, Hypoglycaemia, IAH and Islet
      Transplantation

      Type 1 diabetes is caused by autoimmune destruction of beta cells within the islets of the
      pancreas. Those with Type 1 diabetes are dependent on daily insulin replacement for survival
      and despite major advances in treatment (3), life-expectancy is reduced significantly due to
      metabolic crises and increased risk of major atherosclerotic vascular events (4). All
      complications of chronic high glucose can be prevented by tight glycaemic control (5) but
      this is, however, counter-balanced by a high risk of severe hypoglycaemia leading to a
      reduced ability to perceive the onset of hypoglycaemia, with disabling confusion and collapse
      without warning, termed Impaired A Awareness of Hypoglycaemia (AIH). IAH affects up to 25% of
      people with established Type 1 diabetes every year (10-15 million people world-wide) (6, 7).
      Approximately 30,000 people in Scotland have Type 1 diabetes and the prevalence is increasing
      (8). Those with recurrent hypoglycaemia with severe IAH, often experience fluctuations in
      blood glucose and may be eligible for islet transplantation (5). Islets are transplanted in
      high numbers via the portal vein under radiological guidance into the liver with
      glucocorticoid free immunosuppression ("Edmonton protocol"). Two or more transplants are
      usually necessary to regain insulin secretion to allow adequate control of glucose
      concentrations and restore awareness of hypoglycaemia.

      UK Islet Transplant Consortium (UKITC), Scottish National Islet Programme and anthropometric
      changes post islet transplantation

      Our transplant programme is one of seven in the UKITC; other sites include Newcastle, Oxford,
      London (Kings, Royal Free), Manchester and Bristol. The primary goal in the UK is to reduce
      the frequency and restore awareness of hypoglycaemia. Referred patients are assessed in depth
      by a multidisciplinary team pre-transplant, at the time of transplant and then serially
      post-transplant. In the UK from April 2008-September 2013 there have been 96 transplants in
      76 recipients. Graft survival is >88%, as defined by a stimulated c-peptide of >100pmol/L (90
      min following a Fortisip meal), and there have been significant decreases in the frequency of
      hypoglycaemia: pre- vs. post-transplant, median (interquartile range): 21(7-79) vs. 0(0-1)
      episodes of hypoglycaemia per annum with significant reductions in HbA1c and insulin dose
      (all p<0.01)(9). Body weight at 1 year in the UKITC cohort is significantly diminished;
      pre-transplant: mean (±SEM) 66.3(±1.2) vs. 62.3(±1.1) kg (p=0.001). In common with many
      programmes (10) peak function is seen at 3 months following the first transplant often with
      insulin independence but a variable degree of attrition in function may be seen following
      this with many patients on insulin 1 year following their transplant, although at a much
      reduced dose versus pre-transplant. In Scotland we have performed 47 transplants in 29
      recipients. Those patients with Type 1 diabetes and normal renal function have been assessed
      previously (≥3<30 months) post-transplant (n=14; 6 males, 8 females; age (range: 30-57
      years); all have functioning grafts. Following islet transplantation we have observed
      significant reductions in body weight, pre versus post-transplant: median(interquartile
      range) 70.9(64.9-82.5) vs. 66.0(59.8-79.9)kg, p=0.01; BMI: 26.2(24.4-28.6) vs.
      24.5(22.2-26.1) kg/m2, p=0.01; %fat mass: 30.0(21.2-35.2) vs. 24.1(18.4-31.2)%, p=0.004; and
      waist circumference: 85.5(77-89.7) vs. 77.5(73.5-88.3)cm, p=0.01. Total calorific intake
      assessed via 7 day dietary histories were not different pre- versus post-transplant
      1700(1581-1842) vs. 1528(1319-1708) kcal, (p=0.09), although frequency of hypoglycaemia
      (10(6-18) vs 1(0-3)) episodes per week and calorific intake for hypoglycaemia were reduced.
      Concurrently HbA1c has improved p<0.001 (11).

      Consistent with our observations, significant reductions in body weight of >4kg (10, 12),
      waist circumference and body fat mass, the latter measured using bioelectrical impedence,
      within a year of islet transplantation, have been previously reported, despite no significant
      changes in caloric intake post-transplant (12). In the latter study 30 subjects had all
      assessments completed and 12 subjects were not on insulin at the time of their last data
      collection. Insulin use reduced 10 fold and glycaemic control improved. Regression analyses
      adjusting for confounding variables including exogenous insulin dose and glucagon-like
      peptide-1 agonist use, confirmed the association of weight loss with islet transplantation.
      Of note in this cohort of islet transplant recipients, no measurements of energy expenditure
      were made and the patients including those with islet transplants following kidney
      transplants were on a variety of immunosuppressant agents which may affect energy balance.
      More recently the same group published a retrospective study in islet transplant recipients
      and found a decrease in BMI in their cohort of 33 recipients at 3 years post-transplant
      versus pre-transplant (13). Dietetic habits and caloric intake and activity, both assessed by
      open ended questionnaires, were not significantly altered pre- versus post-transplant.

      We hypothesise that other components of energy expenditure are increased following islet
      transplantation secondary to the diminished ratio of systemic to portal insulin
      concentrations. The energy expenditure components that may be modulated in this way include
      REE and PPT.

      Our proposed study aims to prospectively assess energy intake and food choices using the
      "gold standard" of serial 7 day weighed food diaries (14, 15) and assess the multiple
      components of energy expenditure pre- and post-islet transplantation versus subjects
      commencing insulin pump therapy who have relatively high ratios of systemic to portal insulin
      concentrations along with control subjects with normal glucose tolerance.

      Maintenance of body weight and relationship with energy intake and energy expenditure

      Bodyweight reflects the balance between food intake and energy expenditure. Total energy
      expenditure may be separated into three main components: REE, PPT and physical activity. REE
      may be defined as energy expenditure at rest in the fasted state measured in a thermoneutral
      environment. PPT or diet induced thermogenesis is an increase in metabolic rate above REE;
      PPT demonstrates more variability between people than REE (16, 17). It is the energy
      generated following food ingestion and has an obligatory component reflecting the energy
      required to digest, absorb, interconvert and store fuels and a facultative component in which
      the sympathetic nervous system has a major role (17). The increment in energy expenditure may
      be accounted for in part by the cost of glucose storage as glycogen but often the measured
      cost of glucose storage is much higher than this and it is this increment above this
      "obligatory component" that is termed "facultative thermogenesis" (18). This facultative
      component can compromise 50% of the thermic effect of food and large inter individual
      variations may be present (19, 20). With a sedentary lifestyle, REE constitutes 75 to 80%,
      PPT 10 to 15% and physical activity 10 to 15% of total daily energy expenditure.

      Modulators of energy expenditure

      The lean body mass, thyroid status and protein turnover of a subject determines the REE (21).
      We and others have shown that PPT is negatively related to insulin sensitivity in a group at
      risk for Type 2 diabetes (22). PPT may be affected by beta-adrenergic blockade and other
      drugs (23, 24). Insulin, a known vasodilator, may also affect energy expenditure (25).
      Intraportally transplanted islets may become revascularised by tributaries from both the
      portal vein and the hepatic artery (26) or perhaps by tributaries from just the hepatic
      artery (27). It is untested if PPT increases as a consequence of islet transplantation
      secondary to increased insulin concentrations in the portal and splanchnic circulations (28).
      There has been much progress in the induction agents and immunosuppression therapy used over
      the last 10 years with improved insulin independence rates (29). Our centre uses the
      monoclonal antibody alemtuzumab at induction (30) and maintenance immunosuppression is with
      the calcineurin inhibitor tacrolimus and mycophenolate. Liver transplant patients on
      tacrolimus have diminished REE, suggesting an inhibition of mitochondrial respiration (31)
      although in liver transplantation hepatic denervation occurs with autonomic nerve dysfunction
      which may also decrease energy expenditure (32, 33). It is unlikely therefore that the
      immunosuppressive therapies increase energy expenditure although there may certainly be
      negative effects on appetite and energy intake (34).

      Hepatic fatty acid oxidation.

      Free Fatty Acids (FFA) are oxidised within mitochondria which are present within the whole
      body with large concentrations in the liver, muscle and heart. Most methodologies measure
      whole body fatty acid oxidation rates and cannot distinguish between these sources. Hepatic
      fat oxidation may be altered following islet transplantation and may influence hepatic
      insulin sensitivity. It is not known whether hepatic fat oxidation is increased following
      islet transplantation which may explain the weight loss.

      Assessment of mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation in the liver:

      The assessment of hepatic mitochondrial function has been hampered by invasive and complex
      techniques, which have in general lacked specificity. Recently, breath testing using stable
      carbon isotopes has been proposed as a safe, non-invasive and non-radioactive method to
      assess mitochondrial oxidative capacity. Sodium13C-octanoate can be employed as a substrate
      used in assessing hepatic mitochondrial oxidative function, particularly, β-oxidative
      pathway. Sodium octanoate is a medium chain fatty acid, which is metabolised through
      mitochondrial β-oxidation, producing acetyl Coenzyme A (acetyl Co-A). Acetyl Co-A enters the
      Krebs cycle to undergo further oxidation leading to the production of CO2 that can be
      measured during the breath test (35a).

      The purpose of this proposal is to understand the mechanisms of the weight loss and fat mass
      observed. No study has examined energy expenditure prospectively in this detailed way in a
      cohort of pre- and post-islet transplant and insulin pump therapy recipients.

      Detailed plan of investigation:

      Hypothesis: Islet transplantation is associated with increased energy expenditure as a
      consequence of the reduction in the ratio of systemic to portal insulin concentrations.

      The aims are to assess:

        1. Anthropometric measures: body weight, waist circumference, skin fold thickness, body
           composition using air displacement plethysmography (Bod Pod).

        2. Total energy intake, including the excess energy intake required in the treatment of
           hypoglycaemia, using 7 day weighed food diaries, The Fear of Hypoglycaemia Survey, Gold
           and Clarke Score.

        3. The activity component of energy expenditure using accelerometry.

        4. REE and PPT (using meal tolerance tests) and total metabolic rate (TMR) using doubly
           labelled water.

        5. Hepatic fat oxidation using Sodium 13C octanoate.

        6. Liver fat, abdominal subcutaneous and visceral fat using MRS and MRI.

      In the islet transplant recipients and insulin pump patients MRS of liver and MRI of liver
      fat; abdominal subcutaneous and visceral fat; glycaemic lability; frequency of hypoglycaemia
      assessed using continuous glucose monitoring systems (CGMS); awareness of hypoglycaemia
      assessed subjectively with the Gold Score and Clarke Scores (35), and mixed meal tolerance
      tests will continue as per the UKITC protocols, including pre-transplantation. In the glucose
      tolerant controls all the above will be done except the MR imaging studies, the Fear of
      Hypoglycaemia Survey (36), the Gold and Clarke scores and CGMS.

      STUDY DESIGN In the islet transplant programme recipients are assessed pre-transplant and at
      1, 3, 6, 12 months post-transplant and then 6 monthly. The investigations in the transplant
      or insulin pump subjects, will be based around these timelines. Specifically, we anticipate
      peak islet function at 3 months.

      We aim to recruit 3 groups of participants: those with Type I diabetes that are on the
      waiting list for islet transplantation, those with Type I diabetes that are on the waiting
      list for insulin pump therapy, and controls who do not have diabetes (glucose tolerant).

      The study contains 3 parts as described below. The participants will be expected to complete
      all 3 parts at each time point. The 3 parts are completed over 5 separate time points
      totalling 13 visits:

      The following visits are for the patients with type 1 diabetes:

      Pre- intervention and then 1,3, 6 and 12 months post intervention.

        -  Pre-intervention there are 3 study visits over a 4 week period

        -  Month 1 post intervention there are 2 visits over 2 weeks

        -  Months 3 post invention there are 3 visits over a 4 week period

        -  Month 6 post intervention there are 2 visits over 2 weeks

        -  12 months post intervention there are 3 visits over 4 weeks

      Patients with diabetes normally have 1 routine clinic visit at each time point described as
      part of their normal follow-up post-intervention. The other visits will be surplus to their
      usual follow-up following intervention, apart from during their first month post-intervention
      where they would be followed-up weekly.

      Glucose-tolerant controls will only have one set of examinations carried out which will
      involve 3 visits over 4 weeks.

      Pre-intervention, 3 & 12 months

      Part 1:

      Blood tests (FBC, LFTS, U&Es, Coagulation Screen, Lipid Profile, Thyroid function,HbA1c,
      Glucose, post-transplant Tacrolimus level) this is approx 18ml (3 ½ teaspoons). This is part
      of the routine follow-up for islet transplant patients.

      Anthropometry -body weight, waist, calf and arm circumference, skin fold thickness (including
      bicep, tricep, scapula, illiac crest and calf), body composition using air displacement
      plethysmography (BODPOD). These examinations are study specific and not part of the routine
      follow-up.

      A continuous glucose monitoring (CGMS) device and accelerometer will also be fitted to
      measure energy expenditure over seven days. The participant will be given a food diary and a
      set of weighing scales to record food intake over this seven day period (including the excess
      calories required in the treatment of hypoglycaemia) at home. CGMS is frequently used during
      the follow-up of patients with diabetes. Glucose tolerant controls will not have a CGMS
      fitted or complete the following surveys.

      The participant will complete "The Fear of Hypoglycaemia Survey". This is a questionnaire
      asking how/whether they modify their behaviour in order to avoid hypoglycaemia and how
      frequently they worry about their hypoglycaemia in different circumstances. The participants
      will also be asked about their degree of impaired awareness of hypoglycaemia using specific
      scoring systems (Gold and Clarke Score).

      Subjects within the islet transplant cohort and pump therapy cohort will be asked to go to
      the clinical research imaging centre and will have magnetic resonance scanning done of their
      abdomen including their liver and their abdominal fat.

      Part 2 (week 2):

      The participant will be invited back a week later to assess their resting energy expenditure
      (REE). At this visit all the equipment from week 1 will be returned. The participant will be
      weighed on arrival and have a cannula inserted into an arm. Blood samples for glucose,
      insulin and c-peptide will be taken (15mls). The participants will then be given a "mixed
      meal" in the form of "Fortisip concentrate" which tastes like a milk shake. Their energy
      expenditure after this mixed meal will be measured for two hours by a device called an
      indirect calorimeter which is an open hood ventilation device which measures the amount of
      oxygen breathed in and the amount of carbon dioxide breathed out. The energy expended after a
      meal is called post-prandial thermogenesis (PPT) and represents the calories burnt after a
      meal. Simultaneously blood samples will be taken every 30 minutes for three hours to measure
      insulin, c-peptide and glucose levels (150 mls). This is the gold standard test for assessing
      islet function.

      "Doubly-labelled Water" studies will be carried out on a proportion of participants. The
      participant will be given "doubly labelled water" to drink at their second visit, a urine
      sample will be collected just prior to drinking the water and then they will be instructed to
      collect further urine samples at home on day 1, 5, 10 and 14 following this, the research
      nurse will call them regularly during this time period. The samples will be stored in the
      freezer in a zip locked bag contained in a plastic tub with tight-fitting lid.

      Part 3 (week 4):

      The participant will be invited back two weeks after part 2 for a study specific visit. The
      urine samples will be collected. Hepatic Mitochondrial studies will carried out this involves
      the participant drinking a solution containing Sodium 13C Octanoate which is a fatty acid
      found in foods. They will then be asked to blow into a bag intermittently over a period of
      two hours (0, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 40, 60, 90 and 120 mins) in order to measure how their
      liver handles the fatty acid and whether they "burn" it quickly or slowly.

      1 month and 6 months post intervention

      Only blood test, anthropometry, accelerometer, weighed food diary and CGMS will be carried
      out. Islet transplant recipients will have a clinical mixed meal tolerance test carried out
      to assess islet function. These visits will coincide with routine visits.
    
  