
    
      This study is a multicenter, randomized, open-label, active-control, efficacy and safety
      study of VERU-111 for the treatment of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer in
      patients who have failed prior treatment with at least one androgen receptor targeting agent.

      Subjects will have failed treatment with at least one prior androgen receptor targeting agent
      and be eligible for treatment with an alternative androgen receptor targeting agent (as per
      the current standard of care for these patients).

      Subjects will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive VERU-111 or Active Control (alternative
      androgen receptor targeting agent).

      Subjects in the VERU-111 treated group will receive VERU-111 32 mg per day orally with an
      option to reduce the dose to 26 mg per day based on tolerability to the 32 mg dose until
      radiographic progression (blinded independent central read) in observed. Subjects in the
      Control treated group will receive an alternative androgen receptor targeting agent with dose
      and dosing regimen defined in the FDA approved prescribing information until radiographic
      progression in observed.

      Randomization will be stratified by measurable disease vs. bone-only disease. A significant
      proportion (>30%) of the patients randomized into the study will have measurable disease at
      baseline.

      Randomization will also be stratified by if the patient has failed one vs. more than one
      prior androgen targeting agent.

      The primary efficacy endpoint of the study will be radiographic progression free survival.

      After radiographic progression (by RECIST 1.1) is observed in the subjects in the Control
      treated group, these subjects will be crossed over to VERU-111 treatment (32 mg per day).
      Treatment will continue in this population (VERU-111 Post-study Group (VPG)) until
      radiographic progression (by RECIST 1.1) is observed. The efficacy data for the extension
      group will be analyzed separately.
    
  