
    
      Cocaine use in the general population is a significant and costly problem. Novel and
      innovative interventions targeting cocaine abuse are needed. The Transtheoretical Model of
      behavior change (TTM) offers a comprehensive framework for understanding, measuring, and
      intervening in behavior change and provides a strong theoretical foundation upon which
      effective treatments for substance abuse can be developed. The proposed Stage 1 research will
      pilot test a novel and innovative behavioral group therapy for cocaine users based on the
      TTM. In Phase 1, investigators will modify the newly developed Group Treatment for Substance
      Abuse: A Stages-of-Change Therapy Manual (Velasquez, Maurer, Crouch & DiClemente, 2001) to
      specifically target cocaine abuse resulting in a twelve-session, group intervention and
      accompanying therapy manual based on the TTM stages and processes of change: six "early
      stage" sessions targeting the experiential processes of change, and six "later stage"
      sessions targeting the behavioral processes of change. Phase 2 will consist of a pilot trial
      to evaluate the TTM group therapy with cocaine abusing patients. A randomized, controlled,
      between groups design will be used in which cocaine abusers (N=80) are assigned to one of two
      group treatment conditions: TTM therapy or Education/Advice. Participants will be recruited
      from Houston and surrounding communities through the Substance Abuse Research Center at the
      University of Texas Health Science Center Mental Sciences Institute. We expect the delivery
      of the TTM therapy for cocaine users to be feasible and acceptable, and to produce
      significant patient improvement. Cocaine outcomes will be assessed via objective (urine and
      drug analysis) and self-report measures. This Stage I research will contribute important
      theoretical and empirical information concerning the promise of a new and innovative
      intervention for cocaine abusers, and will provide the basis for a larger efficacy trial.
    
  