
    
      The aim of the study is to examine whether the pathologic status of SLNs in patients with
      early-stage cervical cancer correlates to the HPV status in the SLNs and also, whether
      cervical cancer recurrence correlates to the histopathologic status of the SLNs and/or the
      SLN HPV status.

      In Denmark, staging and treatment of cervical cancer are performed according to the
      recommendations of the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO). Cervical
      cancer is the only gynecological cancer that is clinically based on tumor size, vaginal or
      parametrial involvement, bladder/rectum extension and distant metastases. It requires
      examination under anesthesia and imaging, which in Denmark includes positron emission
      computed tomography (PET-CT) to detect pathological lymph nodes (LNs) and to accurately
      delineate the extent of the disease and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to determine tumor
      size, degree of stromal penetration, parametrial involvement, vaginal and corpus extension.
      Tumor risk assessment includes tumor size, stage, depth of tumor invasion, LN status,
      lymphovascular space invasion (LVSI) and histological subtype, of which LN status and number
      of LNs involved are the most important prognostic factors. In Denmark, patients at FIGO
      stages 1B1 to 2A undergo radical hysterectomy and radical pelvic lymphadenectomy (PL), and
      they are offered adjuvant oncological treatment with radiotherapy and concomitant
      chemotherapy if specific risk factors are present. A national protocolled study on the
      implementation of SLN mapping in women with early-stage cervical cancer is currently being
      conducted in Denmark at Rigshospitalet, Odense University Hospital and Aarhus University
      Hospital (The Sentirec study). In this study, we want to examine the remains from these
      analyzed SLNs. According to the Sentirec protocol, SLNs are examined by means of
      ultrastaging, which entails cutting the SLNs in more sections and all levels of the LN and
      examining these levels histologically by an experienced pathologist. In this study, we
      examine the remains from the SLNs; that is the sections between the tissue used for SLN
      mapping. These sections are analyzed for HPV.
    
  