
    
      The treatment of Dutch GIST patients is centralized: almost all patients are referred to one
      of the five collaborating centers forming the Dutch GIST consortium, UMCG, NKI-AvL, Radboud
      UMC, Erasmus MC and LUMC. To further optimize treatment for all patients, these centers have
      implemented a standard-of-care diagnostic and treatment plan that assures collection of
      homogenous phenotypic and treatment data for the bio-databank. The consortium is supported by
      and works in close collaboration with the Dutch sarcoma and GIST patient organizations.

      A prospective, longitudinal bio-databank will be set up. Data regarding multi-morbidity, drug
      pharmacokinetics and serial tumor genotypic data will be collected prospectively from all
      (new) GIST patients during TKI treatment. Our standard-of-care plan includes primary tumor
      mutation analysis, performed by pathology laboratories on site. At each follow up visit
      during treatment, blood will be collected to assess TKI plasma exposure and to perform
      mutation analysis on circulating tumor DNA. All patients will be followed for tumor RECIST
      1.1 progression assessed by CT scans and asked to undergo a tumor biopsy at progression to
      detect secondary resistance mutations.

      The development of a model predicting secondary imatinib resistance based on patient
      phenotype and tumor genotype, will be achieved by analyzing GIST patients with progressive
      disease on imatinib (index patients; n=30) in our bio-databank. These patients will be
      matched 1:1 with non-progressive patients treated for the same duration as the index
      patients. Regarding the index patients, next-generation gene-targeted mutation analysis will
      be performed on archival tumor material and on a tumor biopsy at progression to identify
      patient's unique secondary mutations. The mutations that will be studied are: KIT exon 9,
      exon 11, exon 13, exon 14, exon 17 and exon 18; PDGFRA exon 12, exon 14 and exon 18 and BRAF
      exon 10 en exon 15.

      In-depth analysis regarding mutation analysis in circulating tumor DNA and imatinib drug
      concentration assessment will be performed for these 60 patients.
    
  