
    
      Previous reports suggest that starting palliative care early in patients with breast,
      colorectal, prostate and lung cancers appear to improve quality of life, symptom management,
      depression, anxiety and perhaps even survival, but it has never been tested in patients with
      esophageal cancer.This study aims to assess the impact of the introduction of early
      palliative care services on the esophageal cancer population, as opposed to traditional
      palliative care, which is provided on an as-needed basis, usually in end-of-life situations.

      The study is a prospective one-armed pre-post intervention evaluation. Eligible patients that
      have consented will receive an early consultation with the palliative care group. In addition
      to this, the patients will be administered appropriate oncological care including surgical,
      brachytherapy, chemotherapy or radiotherapy services. The patients will be referred to the
      palliative service at the time of consent, with a consultation taking place within one week
      of referral receipt. The nurses and physicians involved in the palliative service will not
      only provide symptom management, psychosocial support, assistance with treatment related
      decisions and other patient needs. Information about symptoms, anxiety and depression, and
      quality of life will be collected through surveys at two timepoints - at baseline, when the
      patient consents and at 12 weeks post diagnosis of metastatic disease. The primary outcome of
      the study is the change in quality of life perceived by esophageal cancer patients at the two
      timepoints. Secondary outcomes include differences in esophageal cancer specific symptoms and
      anxiety and depression scores at the two timepoints, as well as patient survival information.

      This study is integrated into the currently operational Esophageal Diagnostic Assessment
      Program (EDAP) conceptualized and implemented at St. Joseph's Healthcare Hamilton. It is
      hoped that this study will also help to establish the full integration of palliative care
      into the overall care of patients with esophageal cancer.
    
  