
    
      Cardiac rehabilitation is fundamental in the treatment of patients undergoing cardiac surgery
      regarding the educational, physical exercise and quality of life dimensions. Considering the
      competences of Specialist Nurses in Rehabilitation Nursing and the current prevalence of risk
      factors associated with cardiovascular disease, it is essential to implement programs in this
      area.

      Participants of both sexes will be included, between 25 and 64 years of age, meeting the
      criteria for low or moderate risk, class B for participation and exercise supervision,
      absence of signs/symptoms after cardiac surgery, with a left ventricular ejection fraction
      greater than 40%, according to the American Heart Association and the American Association of
      Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Rehabilitation.

      Inclusion criteria will consider patients with stable chronic heart failure (class I-III
      according to New York Heart Association), with dyslipidemia, controlled hypertension, without
      arrhythmias, without motor or psychic alterations, with previous acceptance of the informed
      consent of the intervention program. Participants will be excluded if present non-controlled
      arrhythmias, severe Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease, uncontrolled high blood pressure,
      unstable angina, uncontrolled Diabetes Mellitus, decompensated coronary insufficiency, and
      pericarditis.

      Supervised interventions will be provided during hospitalization, pre- and post-cardiac
      surgery, and 1 month after hospital discharge, considered phase I. In phase II, a physical
      exercise program will be performed, according to the norms of the American College of Sports
      Medicine, comprising 3 sessions of physical exercise per week lasting between 30 to 60
      minutes, including heating, aerobic exercise and recovery/stretching. Hemodynamic data (blood
      pressure, heart rate, peripheral oxygen saturation) and the Borg scale will be recorded in
      the initial, intermediate and final periods of each session. The aerobic capacity will be
      evaluated through the 6-Minute Walk Test and health-related quality of life will be assessed
      through the Short Form Health Survey 36 (SF-36V2) questionnaire. No control will be assessed.
    
  