
    
      This is an investigator-blinded, bilateral comparison study in 30 subjects with atopic
      dermatitis. It is designed to assess and compare the efficacy of Elidel® (pimecrolimus) cream
      1% and Hylatopic™ Plus Emollient Foam™ in subjects with atopic dermatitis. Subjects will
      apply Elidel® (pimecrolimus) cream 1% twice daily for four weeks on a chosen target
      eczematous area located on one side of the body and then apply Hylatopic™ Plus Emollient
      Foam™ three times daily on a symmetrical target eczematous area on the opposite side of the
      body. A randomized list will be created to determine which side the subject applies each
      medication.

      Subjects will be consented prior to any study evaluations or procedures. After signing the
      consent and meeting all inclusion/exclusion criteria, qualified and enrolled subjects will
      apply study medication (Elidel® and Hylatopic™ Plus Emollient Foam™) to chosen affected areas
      for four weeks. Photography will be used to record the location of target lesions at the
      baseline, week two and week four/final visits. Subject's disease status will be assessed by
      two methods: 1) Physician's Global Assessment (PGA) and 2) Target Lesion Symptom Score (TLSS)
      (see sections V.B.2 and V.B.3). PGA as well as TLSS will be made at baseline (Day 0), week
      two (Day 14 +/- 2 days) and week 4/final visit (Day 28 +/- 2days) visits for each of the
      target lesions. Half scales (i.e. 0.5, 1.5) will not be used. The presence or absence of skin
      atrophy and telangiectasias will be noted at each study visit as well.

      Additionally, subjects' self-assessments of their perception of degree of disease and itching
      severity control will be collected at each visit for each target lesion. This assessment will
      be made using a four point scale and Itch Severity Scale (visual analogue score) respectively
      (see section V.B.4). Lastly, subjects will take a Product Preference Survey at week 4/final
      visit (Day 28 +/- 2days). Parents (or guardians) will moderate Product Preference Surveys for
      subjects that are younger than 12 years of age.
    
  