
    
      Main Objective:

      Compare the improvement of knowledge about sexual harassment, prevention and sanction
      policies of the UPCH of the asynchronous virtual course with the face-to-face course in
      students of the UPCH.

      Study Design:

      A randomized control trial will compare the improvement of knowledge among who received
      asynchronous virtual classes and those who received face-to-face classes by applying a
      pre-test and 2 post-test. The pre-test and the first post-test will be taken the day of the
      intervention and the second post-test will be taken after a month to measure knowledge
      retention.

      To measure the degree of satisfaction with the course modality, the intervention's day the
      students will take a survey with Likert scale. And separately, some students of the
      intervention and control group will be interview in focus groups to know their appreciations
      about the satisfaction perceived with the modality of the course taken.

      Population:

      Undergraduate university students enrolled in the 2019-II period of the Faculty of Public
      Health and Administration (FASPA).

      Sample:

      For the randomized control trial, a sample of 67 participants per group was calculated with a
      significance of 95%, a power of 80% and a loss of follow-up rate of 6%, to show a difference
      of 7% in the scores of knowledge of sexual harassment between the two groups.

      For the qualitative analysis of the focus groups, for each course modality, there will be two
      sessions of 6 people who completed the course. However, focus groups will continue to be
      carried out until the sample becomes saturated, that is, until the information obtained from
      these meetings is redundant or the objectives of the study are clarified.

      Group assignment:

      Students of FASPA will be invited to participate by flyers and invitations in classrooms.
      Also, by e-mail they will receive an invitation with the informational consent form and a
      link to fill out a registration form for the ones who are interested in participating. If
      inclusion and exclusion criteria are met, students will be accepted to participate in the
      study and they will be randomly assigned to one of the two groups. Finally they will receive
      an e-mail confirming their participation and the available schedules for the classes.

      Ethical considerations:

      Students who are registered and want to participate but do not meet the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria of the study, will be offered the virtual course restricting the access to
      the evaluations.

      Every participant will receive the informational consent form. Data confidentiality will be
      maintained. Personal identifiers will be stored in a separate database, which will be
      password protected and accessible only to the research team. At the end of this project, UPCH
      will be able to dispose of the virtual course developed in this study for the purposes that
      may be appropriate.
    
  