
    
      This study will utilize a crossover design to study autonomic nervous system responses in
      healthy subjects. Prior to commencing data collection, Institutional Review Board approval
      has been obtained from the Mount St. Mary's College Committee for the Protection of Human
      Subjects. Once obtained subjects will be recruited from faculty, students, and staff of the
      College. A snowball methodology will be used to recruit friends, family, and acquaintances of
      these initial connections. To be included in this study, candidates must be between the age
      of 18 and 55 years of age. They must not have pain in any area of their body that is chronic
      in nature (has been present for greater then three months). Subjects who are pregnant or have
      a history of spinal surgery will be excluded from participation in this study. All subjects
      who fulfill the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be informed of the intent, methods and
      risks associated with the study and given an opportunity to ask questions. Following this
      information session, and if agreeing to participate in the study, subjects will be asked to
      fill out the attached informed consent form. All subjects will be notified and given the
      opportunity to withdrawal from the study at any time without repercussions.

      Once accepted into the study, subjects will fill out a personal history questionnaire to
      gather demographic information such as age, medical history, gender, and current pain levels.
      The subject will also be asked to fill out the General Anxiety Disorder 7-Item Scale
      Questionnaire. Once collected, subjects will be assigned a confidential subject number and
      all personal identifiers will be removed from subject information. All data will be scanned
      and stored in a personal computer that is password protect. Also at this time, subjects will
      be randomly assigned to a treatment group. Since this is a crossover design, all subjects
      will receive all interventions, but the order of these interventions will be predetermined
      and randomized.

      At this point, subjects will be taken to a quiet room located within the Department of
      Physical Therapy. This room is used as a lab and data collection room and has a physical
      therapy treatment table. The subject will be asked to lie prone on the table and an
      electrocardiographic recording sensory will be placed upon each wrist (two total). This
      sensory will feed data regarding heart rate to a laptop computer that will be collected using
      the Biocomm HRV Live! Heart Rate Variability (HRV) Data Acquisition program. Once the
      strength and stability of the signal is verified, the subject will be instructed to rest
      quietly for five minutes in order to gather baseline heart rate data. Following this
      five-minute timeframe, the subject will receive one of three interventions based upon the
      previously mentioned randomization process. The three interventions utilized in the study
      will be a posterior to anterior spinal manipulation delivered to T4-5 spinal segment,
      posterior to anterior spinal mobilization applied to the T4-5 spinal segment for 30 seconds,
      or sham therapeutic ultrasound applied to the T4-5 spinal region bilaterally for 30 seconds
      (the ultrasound machines will not be turned on). Between each of these interventions,
      subjects will be instructed to rest quietly for five minutes in order to stabilize the body's
      cardiovagal responses. Following completion of these three interventions, subjects will
      allowed to ask additional questions and will be given the number of the principal
      investigator and the IRB office to contact if they have questions or concerns in the future.
    
  