
    
      Development and pilot evaluation of a web-supported programme of Constraint Induced Therapy
      following stroke (LifeCIT) PB-PG-0909-20145

      Jane H. Burridge PhD1, Claire Meagher MSc1, Ann-Marie Hughes PhD1, Sean-Ewings PhD2,
      Ana-Carolina Gonçalves BSc1, Claudia H. S. Alt PhD1, Sebastien Pollet BSc1, Lucy Yardley PhD3

        1. Rehabilitation and Health Technologies Research Group, Faculty of Health Sciences,
           University of Southampton, United Kingdom.

        2. Faculty of Statistical Sciences, University of Southampton, United Kingdom.

        3. Faculty of Health Psychology, University of Southampton, United Kingdom.

      Lay Summary

      Background:

      Following stroke people often lose their motivation and ability to move their hemiplegic arm.
      Intensive exercise assists recovery, but people often get into the habit of not using their
      arm.

      Constraint-Induced Therapy (CIT) overcomes this habitual 'non-use'. CIT involves wearing a
      mitt on the unaffected hand to prevent it from being used. Use of the weak arm is encouraged
      by intensive exercises. CIT is not generally available in the NHS because of lack of
      therapist time to supervise the intensive exercises. We found that patients lack the
      confidence and motivation to carry out CIT alone at home.

      We developed a web-based therapy programme ('LifeCIT') to support patients carrying out CIT
      at home with online therapy support. We developed LifeCIT working closely with patients,
      their carers and therapists. Their feedback and ideas ensured LifeCIT satisfied their needs.
      The first working version of LifeCIT was tested with 12 patients who had recently had a
      stroke and their feedback was used to make further improvements. A pilot trial with 19
      patients tested whether LifeCIT affected recovery. We randomly allocated each patient to
      receive either 'LifeCIT' or 'usual care'. We tested patients before the study and repeated
      measurements after treatment (3 weeks) and 6 months later. We asked the patients who had used
      LifeCIT for their views on it - what was good and bad, and whether it had affected their
      ability to use their arm and hand.

      Summary of research

      Background:

      Conventional therapy to improve upper limb function following stroke is not effective. <50%
      of people who survive a stroke but have moderate to severe hemiparesis regain upper limb
      function. Learnt non-use has been identified as an important factor in poor recovery.
      Constraint-Induced Therapy (CIT) [1; 2], proposes that constraint of the unaffected arm and
      hand, coupled with intensive training of the hemiplegic limb, leads to behavioral changes
      towards greater use of the hemiplegic limb, neuroplastic cortical changes and the return of
      function [3].

      Despite evidence from a large RCT (n=222), which showed improvement in function maintained at
      12 months post-treatment [4], CIT has not translated into clinical practice, due partly to
      the cost of intensive (minimum 4 hours/day for 10 days) one-to-one treatment. An alternative
      approach in which CIT was used at home without intensive therapy showed in an A-B-A trial,
      but patients reported lack of motivation to wear the C-MIT (Constraint Mitt) and comply with
      the exercise programme [5].

      LifeGuide is a set of software resources to create and modify programmes of personalized
      online support for therapy, without the need for costly dedicated programming. It was used in
      this study to address the motivational barriers to home-based CIT.

      Aims and Objectives:

        1. Working with patients, carers and therapists, create an accessible and engaging
           web-supported programme of CIT for home-based upper limb stroke rehabilitation -
           LifeCIT.

        2. Conduct a Phase II single-blinded RCT of LifeCIT to:

             1. Generate preliminary data on the effect size of the intervention compared with
                usual care for the purposes of calculating the power of a future phase III trial.

             2. Assess patients' views and adherence to the intervention and identify issues
                affecting the acceptability and feasibility of implementing and trialing the
                LifeCIT intervention.

      Methods:

      Phase 1. Intervention development:

      The LifeCIT web-based programme for CIT combined with personalized activities, automated
      progress-relevant advice intervention content and format was co-designed with patients,
      carers and healthcare professionals. We held a series of meetings in which participants were
      shown mock-up webpages. Pages, structure, content, and activities were revised through a
      systematic response to feedback and then further revisions were made through in-depth
      think-aloud sessions with four chronic stroke patients.

      During the development, process tape-recorded interviews and observational ('think aloud')
      studies [6-8] were used. Data collection and analysis was concurrent with intervention
      development, allowing immediate modification and re-testing of intervention components as
      potential improvements were identified.

      The prototype web-based programme was then trialed with 12 sub-acute patients and their
      carers/ healthcare professionals and further revisions were made. The final version of the
      web-support programme was designed to:

        1. Provide personalized treatment protocols (including targets for C-MIT wearing, web-based
           repetitive and functional activities). The patient was encouraged to log-on each morning
           to plan a programme of C-MIT wearing and activities and to complete a set of repetitive
           exercises. They were asked to log-on again later in the day to report on adherence to
           the activities, any difficulties encountered, and to complete the second set of
           repetitive exercises.

        2. Provide structured support on progress and activities and automated support, based on
           activities and performance, including reminders (e.g. email or text messages to the
           patient and/or carer); motivational messages and suggestions for overcoming barriers.

      Phase II Clinical trial:

      A 6-center 3-week pilot trial compared usual care with LifeCIT. Computer block-randomization
      stratified into three ability groups. Participants randomized to the LifeCIT group were asked
      to wear the C-MIT for between 6 and 9 waking hours and aim for up to 6 hours activities per
      day on 5 days/week. A programme of activities was designed with them.

      Participants Two cohorts of participants were recruited: One, sub-acute patients following
      discharge from hospital and one of the participants who had experienced a stroke more than 16
      weeks previously.
    
  