
    
      Modern cancer treatments, while more effective at prolonging life, are associated with some
      long lasting effects, especially nerve pain. This occurs in up to 90% of patients and 50% of
      patients still experience nerve pain a year after treatment. Not only is this distressing in
      itself but the investigators now understand that this treatment-related pain is exacerbating
      other pains, making cancer pain more difficult to control. The problem with managing nerve
      pain caused by treatment is that there is no predictable and effective treatment.

      Our team has discovered that menthol cream or gel applied to the skin in the area of nerve
      pain can be effective. This trial seeks to provide better evidence of using this simple,
      cheap, non-toxic treatment. Participants will be given either menthol gel to the affected
      area or a placebo gel which smells, looks like and has the same texture as menthol but has no
      active drug. The gel will be applied twice a day for 6 weeks.

      Participants will initially be assessed for pain and its impact on function, mood and quality
      of life and, if possible, will also have an fMRI scan immediately before starting menthol
      treatment and after 6 weeks of treatment. They will also have some assessments a further 6
      weeks after treatment finishes. As part of impact on function assessment, participants will
      be asked to wear a physical activity monitor for a few days prior to each of the three main
      assessment points.

      Our group has used special scans of the brain called fMRI to help identify if a treatment has
      real potential for patients. Sometimes, in early studies of a new treatment, patients can
      believe that the treatment has a real effect, but in fact it is a placebo effect. FMRI scans
      in this study will help to identify if menthol gel is having a true pain relieving effect, by
      comparing the patient's reports of pain with their scan findings. This will be very helpful
      in aiding the decision of how the research team conduct any future larger clinical trial.
    
  