
    
      Detailed: DiGeorge Syndrome is a complex of three problems, 1) cardiac defects, 2)
      parathyroid deficiency, and 3) absence of the thymus, resulting in profound T-cell
      deficiency. There is a spectrum of disease in DiGeorge syndrome with respect to all three
      defects. There is no safe and effective treatment for DiGeorge Syndrome and most patients die
      by the age of two. For patients with a severe T cell defect, the PI has shown that thymus
      transplantation is safe and efficacious under other clinical protocols. Subjects with
      complete typical and atypical DiGeorge syndrome were eligible for this study. Subjects with
      athymia and profound hypoparathyroidism were eligible for parental parathyroid
      transplantation in this protocol. DiGeorge syndrome infants, who have successful thymus
      transplants but have hypoparathyroidism, must go to the clinic for frequent calcium levels
      and to the hospital for calcium infusions; infants with hypoparathyroidism are at risk for
      seizures from low calcium. Approximately ½ of infants with profound hypoparathyroidism will
      develop nephrocalcinosis. Depending on T cell phenotype and function, subjects were given one
      of two different immunosuppression regimens. Typical complete DiGeorge subjects (with
      proliferative T cell function < 50,000 cpm) received Thymoglobulin pre-transplantation.
      Typical complete DiGeorge subjects (with proliferative cell response to PHA > 50,000 cpm) and
      atypical DiGeorge subjects (with proliferative T cell response to PHA < 75,000 cpm) received
      Thymoglobulin (pre-transplantation) and cyclosporine (pre-transplantation and
      post-transplantation). Thymoglobulin was used in part to prevent graft rejection and also to
      deplete any T cells in the donor parathyroid. Cyclosporine was used to deplete activated T
      cells in the recipient. For all subjects, acetaminophen, diphenhydramine, and
      methylprednisolone were given concurrently with the rabbit anti-human thymocyte globulin. The
      thymus was cultured in standard medium for 10-21 days to deplete mature thymocytes which
      could cause GVHD. In the operating room, thymus tissue was placed in the quadriceps muscle in
      one or both legs. The parathyroid donation was preferably done at the same time as the thymus
      transplantation. Parathyroid tissue was placed in the quadriceps muscle in only one leg,
      using the same incision as the thymus transplantation. Depending on post-transplant immune
      status, subjects may have received cyclosporine and steroids.

      For 3 months after thymus transplantation, T cells were monitored by flow cytometry
      approximately every 2-4 weeks. Alternatively, absolute lymphocyte count was used as the
      maximum possible T cell number. At 2-3 months post-transplant, the subject may have had a
      thymus allograft biopsy, done under general anesthesia in the operating room. The biopsy was
      approximately 4 pea-sized (3x3mm) portions of muscle tissue where the thymus transplant had
      been inserted. Using immunohistochemistry, the biopsy determined thymopoiesis and any graft
      rejection. The parathyroid was not biopsied because it is very small; doing a biopsy could
      remove all of the parathyroid tissue. A research skin biopsy (at site of skin incision at the
      time of transplantation) was done to determine whether T cells were present
      pre-transplantation. A skin biopsy was also done at the time of thymus graft biopsy to look
      for clonal T cell populations. For all subjects who developed T cells, post-transplantation
      pneumocystis prophylaxis was used for approximately 1 year and IV immunoglobulin for
      approximately 2 years.
    
  