
    
      In order to determine the best method for bowel preparation before Capsule Endoscopy, this
      study seeks to determine in patients undergoing small intestine Capsule Endoscopy if split
      dose Polyethylene Glycol or single morning dose of Polyethylene Glycol have a benefit in
      Visualisation quality when compared to clear fluids only. A co-primary outcome will also be
      the diagnostic yield, as measured by the aggregate of all the active preparation groups
      compared to than clear fluids only group. Secondary outcome measures will include tolerance
      of preparations, cleanliness as assessed by a validated 4 point scale, distal small bowel
      visualization (the last 1/4 of small bowel examination by time) and small bowel transit time
      (measured as time from first duodenal image to first cecal image).

      Group Assignment:

      The groups will have some common instructions: all groups will be instructed to stop iron
      supplements five days prior to the exam. On the day prior to the exam, patients will be
      instructed to have a light breakfast and lunch, followed by only clear fluids. Over the day,
      patients will be encouraged to have at least two litres of clear fluids. On the day of the
      exam, 80 mg of oral simethicone will be given 10 minutes prior to the exam. The capsule will
      be ingested at 9:00am, after which fluids may be consumed 2 hours later, and solid food 4
      hours later. Patients will be randomly assigned to in a one to one fashion to one of three
      groups using a central online randomization program. The groups for this project include:

      A. Control: no additional instructions beyond those above will be given. B. Single dose
      Polyethylene Glycol: Patients will take 2 litre of Polyethylene Glycol at 6am the day of the
      exam.

      C. Split dose Polyethylene Glycol: Patients will take 1 litre of Polyethylene Glycol at 7pm
      the evening prior to the exam and 1 litre at 6am the day of the exam.

      Recruitment of patients will be performed from outpatient gastroenterology clinics at
      Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust. After a request for Capsule Endoscopy from a
      referring physician, the patient will be contacted by telephone by one of the Capsule
      endoscopy nurse specialists (who are also involved in the study) as per normal practice. The
      study will be discussed, the procedure explained and a convenient date for the procedure will
      be agreed with the patient. The patient will be invited to meet with one of the research
      staff at a mutually agreed time in order to go through the study once more and provide
      written consent should they agree to participate. Should they wish to participate but would
      prefer to complete a postal consent form, this will be arranged. The procedure will be
      completed according to normal practice. Patients will be advised that they can withdraw from
      the study at any point and choose a preferred option for bowel preparation
    
  