
    
      The American guideline have recommended that if the patient with low risk of thromboembolism,
      warfarin consumption can be quit 3~5 days before colon polypectomy and resume within 24 hours
      after polypectomy. However, if the patient were high risk of thromboembolism, the patient
      should take heparin bridging therapy during temporal quit of warfarin consumption for colon
      polypectomy. There have been very limited evidences about the bleeding complication during
      colon polypectomy for the patients with warfarin taking.

      Moreover, there have been lack of evidence that how to prevent the bleeding complication in
      the patients with high risk of thromboembolism who should take heparin bridging therapy
      during temporal stopping of warfarin for colon polypectomy.

      This study is aimed to analyse the effect of prophylactic hemo-clipping during colon
      polypectomy for the patients with warfarin consumption.

      The investigators will enroll the subjects who should take heparin bridging therapy (quit
      warfarin 3~5 days before colon polypectomy and check the INR, if the INR <2, heparin or low
      molecular heparin should be start. If the INR <1.5 on the day before colon polypectomy, the
      patient will undergo bowel preparation and colon polypectomy. Warfarin will resume within 24
      hour after polypectomy) after quit warfarin for during colon polypectomy over 19 years old.

      Exclusions are as follow; patients who don't have to take bridging heparin therapy after quit
      warfarin, patients have low a platelet count (<80,000/mm3), patients who take anti-platelet
      agents, patients who have GI malignancies. The investigators will randomize into two groups;
      the patient enrolled into group 1 will be performed hemoclipping for all polypectomy lesion
      irrespective of the presence of immediate bleeding. And the patients enrolled into group 2
      will be performed hemoclipping only for the lesion of immediate bleeding during colon
      polypectomy. Including polyps for colon polypectomy are 6~ 20 mm size and polypectomy
      procedure is defined as EMR after injection with blended electrical current.

      The lesion which immediate bleeding is occurred during the polypectomy will be performed
      hemoclipping irrespective of group and will not be counted as delayed bleeding even though
      delayed bleeding is occurred on this lesion.

      The primary endpoint is to compare the rate of delayed bleeding between two groups. The
      secondary endpoint is to analyse the effect of hemoclipping for immediate bleeding.

      This study will be performed during 3 years after 1st patient enrollment and the target size
      of enrollment is 356 (176 in each group).
    
  