
    
      Amputations are common vascular surgery procedures performed on patients with multiple
      medical comorbidities. Historically, morbidity and mortality following major amputation of
      the lower extremity in this patient population has been high. Recent studies have cited
      30-day mortality rates ranging from 6% to 17%, with greater risk among patients with
      transfemoral vs transtibial amputation. Postoperative goals after amputation include
      uncomplicated wound healing and, for appropriate candidates, progression to use of a
      prosthesis for ambulation or transfer. Perioperative wound complications can be devastating
      in this already debilitated population and can range from 13% to 40%.

      Postoperative wound complications, such as infection, dehiscence, and formation of haematoma
      or seroma, are common complications of surgical procedures; particularly among patients with
      risk factors such as obesity and diabetes. Wound complications may delay recovery, increase
      patient discomfort and reduce overall quality of life. Increased healthcare costs may be
      incurred due to prolonged inpatient stay, repeat surgery and the need for increased
      follow-up.

      Wounds that are secondary to amputation are reported in 13-40% of cases and are one of the
      most challenging types of lower extremity wounds to heal. These patients often have
      compromised healing capacity. Kayssi et al studied Canadian readmission rates, early (<30
      days) and late (30-365) readmissions were attributed to stump complications in 13% and 10% of
      patients respectively.

      Wound complications in major limb amputation frequently result in the need for further major
      surgery in a group of patients with significant co-morbidity and enhanced operative risk. 1,
      3, and 5 year reamputation rates for diabetics who have had major amputations are 4.7%,
      11.8%, and 13.3% respectively. Henry et al suggested that undergoing multiple amputation
      revisions may indicate aggressive measures to treat critical limb ischemia or chronic
      infection that precede conversion to a more proximal amputation. Kono et al studied the
      incidence and risk factors for reamputation after forefoot amputation. They found that 16/116
      (14%) patients developed postoperative infection, and 10 of these required reamputation
      (62.5%). Five of the ten reamputations occurred within 30 days after the patients developed
      postoperative infections.

      In addition to the morbidity from infection there is also an increased rate of phantom pain
      as well as a delay to mobilisation with prosthesis. Minimizing postoperative infections would
      likely have improvements in clinical outcomes, quality of life, and utilization of resources.
      Currently, all patients are given prophylactic broad spectrum antibiotics to reduce the
      incidence of wound infection. Sadat et al investigated whether a prolonged 5 day course of
      antibiotics wound reduce stump infections, their results were positive however this treatment
      is associated with the increased risk of antimicrobial resistance and c. difficile infection.

      Negative-pressure wound therapy (NPWT) has traditionally been used for the treatment of open
      wounds. In recent years, the indication for NPWT has been extended to include treatment of
      closed surgical incisions. Armstrong et al conducted a randomized controlled trial to
      determine whether NPWT delivered by the VAC system was clinically efficacious in treating
      amputation wounds of the diabetic foot to improve the proportion of wounds with complete
      closure. Treatment with NPWT resulted in a higher proportion of wounds that healed, faster
      healing rates, and fewer re-amputations than with standard treatment. No randomized
      controlled trials have been performed to assess NPWT and infection rates after major lower
      limb amputation.

      There is a paucity of scientific literature reporting outcomes following major amputation in
      patients with critical limb ischemia, particularly with regards to wound problems and
      infection. The purpose of this study is to provide Level I evidence on whether negative
      pressure wound therapy is an effective strategy to significantly reduce postoperative
      infections after major lower extremity amputation, thereby reducing patient morbidity and
      mortality from this procedure.
    
  