
    
      Ventilator Assisted Individuals (VAIs) on HMVs are an ideal population for a virtual care
      platform that offers a comprehensive bundle of virtual care solutions, sophisticated enough
      for the complex care demands of this population. A first complex care demand is the
      challenging clinical follow ups that impose significant financial and medical costs
      associated with travel to healthcare appointments, and which can predispose these patients to
      adverse events during travel periods due to an inability to maintain access to some vital
      technology such as suctioning.

      A second complex care demand is the multiple transitions in care as some VAIs on HMVs move
      between and within healthcare sectors due to changing health status or care needs, and
      multi-morbidity. Formalized handovers between providers are lacking. This results in
      information gaps and additional and sometimes unnecessary time spent by healthcare providers
      searching for care plan documentation.

      A third demand is the lack of timely access to respiratory health professionals experienced
      in HMV and availability of home follow-up, particularly in the early stages of transition
      which impedes the transition process.

      Virtual Care can be defined as any interaction between patients and/or members of their
      circle of care, occurring remotely, using any form of communication or information
      technology, with the aim of facilitating or maximizing the effectiveness and quality of
      patient care. It includes electronic messaging, tele-consultations and tele-monitoring. The
      advantages of virtual care include the following: 1) enabling the preconditions for truly
      empowered patients and patient/family-centered care; 2) overcoming the silos of care, and 3)
      reducing redundancy within the healthcare system by greater knowledge sharing across
      healthcare sectors. Virtual care provides an opportunity to make healthcare better by
      overcoming constraints of distance, cost, and time.

      In TTLive Study, a multi-component platform delivered on an electronic tablet developed for
      complex care management at home is used in partnership with the patient, family and
      healthcare team to enable the following: 1) virtual home visits; 2) customizable care plans;
      3) basic clinical workflows that incorporate reminders, completion of symptom profiles and
      tele-monitoring, and 4) secure communication via messaging, audio, and video calls.
      Investigators hypothesize that this virtual transition intervention will reduce emergent
      healthcare utilization, improve the experience of care, reduce caregiver burden, become more
      cost-effective than usual care, and enable more efficient use of healthcare provider time.
    
  