
    
      In May 2018, Urgences-Santé (i.e., EMT corporation for the Montreal area) implemented PFA as
      a peer-support intervention for EMT affected by traumatic events in the course of their work.
      In collaboration with Urgences-Santé, this project aims to evaluate the feasibility of PFA as
      a post-traumatic peer-support intervention among EMT. Feasibility studies are used to
      determine whether an intervention should be recommended for efficacy testing when there are
      few previously published studies or existing data using a specific intervention technique.
      This catalyst project relies on participatory research principles. With Urgences-Santé
      stakeholders, three specific research objectives were elaborated in order to answer the
      question "Can PFA work for EMT?":

        1. To assess the acceptability of PFA for EMT;

        2. To assess the implementation of PFA in Urgences-Santé;

        3. To test the limited-efficacy (i.e., efficacy within limitations such as small sample
           size and convenience sampling of PFA among Urgences-Santé trauma-exposed EMT).

      Based on the few studies that assess different aspects of the feasibility of PFA in high-risk
      organizations, this project relies on three working hypotheses. First, we expect that PFA be
      acceptable among EMT. Second, we stipulate that few obstacles limited the implementation of
      PFA in Urgences-Santé given that this organization followed Forbes' implementation framework
      and favored a train-the-trainer approach. Third, we foresee that PFA will accelerate the
      recovery process of EMT, as measured by a greater decrease in PTSI, heart rate and
      absenteeism in the days following the traumatic event among those who received PFA compared
      to those who received the standard intervention (i.e., reference to employee aid program). If
      confirmed, these hypotheses will allow us to affirm that PFA can work as a post-traumatic
      intervention among EMT for the prevention of PTSI. Our results would therefore represent a
      catalyst towards a larger RCT that would answer the question "Does PFA work for EMT?" with an
      adequate sample size.
    
  