
    
      Three million (1 in 10) Canadians suffer from Osteoarthritis (OA). Total knee arthroplasty
      (TKA), i.e. knee replacement surgery is the definitive treatment for knee osteoarthritis
      which alleviates pain and restores physical functioning. However, it can be associated with
      excessive postoperative bleeding leading to increased mortality and morbidity. The current
      blood conservation techniques, i.e. preoperative erythropoietin and autologous blood
      donation, do not reduce bleeding from the surgical site. As a result, many patients require
      blood transfusion with the associated risks and costs. In TKA, postoperative bleeding is
      attributed to diffuse microvascular bleeding as a result of increased fibrinolytic activity
      caused by releasing of the tourniquet which is routinely applied to provide appropriate
      surgical exposure during surgery. Therefore, tranexamic acid (TA), an antifibrinolytic agent
      which blocks the dissolution of hemostatic fibrin, can decrease blood loss following TKA. The
      systemic administration of TA, however, carries the risk of thromboembolic events such as
      deep vein thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE). In TKA, this is of greater importance,
      as the patients are at higher risk of thromboembolic events. Topical application of TA in the
      surgical field is a cost-effective and simple route of administration that has been shown to
      reduce bleeding in dental, cardiac, and spine surgeries while minimizing systemic absorption
      and thromboembolism. Another major advantage of this approach is to prevent diffuse
      microvascular bleeding at the site of raw tissue surfaces resulting in decreased infection
      rate, pain, and increased range of motion (ROM) of the knee joints. In spite of these
      potential benefits, the innovative idea of topical application of TA has not been studied in
      TKA. However, if it is shown to be efficacious in decreasing postoperative bleeding, it can
      be incorporated into routine clinical practice with immediate beneficial impacts on patient
      care and quality of life.

      Hypothesis:

      In patients undergoing unilateral primary/revision TKA, intraoperative application of 1.5 g
      or 3 g topical TA into the surgical wound for five minutes before closure reduces
      perioperative bleeding as depicted by the maximal drop in systemic hemoglobin concentration
      during the postoperative period.

      General Objective:

      To study the role of tranexamic acid as a therapeutic tool, applied intraoperatively into the
      surgical wound, to reduce perioperative blood loss in patients undergoing a unilateral
      primary/revision TKA.

      Specific Objectives:

      To determine:

        -  the efficacy of topical application of TA to reduce perioperative transfusion
           requirements.

        -  the safety of topical application of TA (complications such as DVT).

        -  the systemic absorption of TA after topical application into the surgical wound.

        -  the impact of postoperative hemoglobin (Hb) reduction on patients' quality of life.

        -  the impact of topical application of TA on the length of hospital stay.

        -  the impact of topical application of TA on ROM, pain, and surgical infection rate of the
           knee joint.

        -  the incidence of autologous and allogenic blood transfusion in patients receiving the
           standard.

        -  multimodal blood conservation techniques for TKA surgery at our institution

        -  to compare the efficacy and safety of high dose (3 g) of TA versus low dose (1.5 g) of
           TA.
    
  