
    
      A cornerstone of treatment uniformly recommended for individuals with bipolar disorder (BD)
      is mood stabilizing medication. However, approximately one in two individuals with BD are
      non-adherent with medication, often leading to severe and negative consequences.
      Unfortunately, there is no widely used evidence-based approach to target poor adherence in
      BD.

      Customized Adherence Enhancement (CAE), developed by this study team, is a brief, practical
      BD-specific approach that identifies individual adherence barriers and then targets these
      areas for intervention using a flexibly-administered modular format. A prospective, 6-month,
      randomized controlled efficacy trial (RCT) of CAE vs. a rigorous control, BD-specific
      education (EDU) found that medication adherence and functional status were improved in CAE
      vs. EDU for poorly-adherent patients. Remarkably, the benefits of CAE occurred in individuals
      who had been living with BD, on average, for over 2 decades. While promising, the original
      efficacy RCT was limited by the fact that it was performed in an academic medical center, did
      not make use of existing web/text messaging technology, and did not address potential
      challenges to scale-up in standard clinical settings.

      In response to PA-18-722 "Improving Patient Adherence to Treatment and Prevention Regimens to
      Promote Health", this Type 1 hybrid effectiveness-implementation project will adapt CAE for
      use in community/public-sector care settings, test effectiveness in high-risk, poorly
      adherent individuals in these settings, and gather evidence on barriers and facilitators to
      implementation of the intervention in order to inform subsequent scale-up. The project will
      examine putative mechanistic engagement targets suggested by previous work and include
      implementation elements that will inform future dissemination should findings be positive.
      The project will be implemented in 4 specific aims: 1) Refine the CAE intervention guided by
      stakeholders at a community mental health clinic (CMHC) and a safety-net county healthcare
      system, 2) Test the effectiveness of technology-facilitated CAE vs. enhanced treatment as
      usual (eTAU) using a prospective, 2-site RCT, 3) Test the effects of CAE vs. eTAU on
      functional status in poorly adherent individuals with BD, and 4) Identify barriers and
      facilitators to CAE implementation in order to inform subsequent scale-up and spread using
      qualitative methods and guided by implementation conceptual models. Additional exploratory
      analysis will assess whether changes in patient-level adherence barriers and facilitators
      mediate the treatment effects on adherence. Finally, the project will evaluate on-site
      (outpatient visits, no-show rates) and off-site (emergency department visits,
      hospitalizations) health resource use to help characterize relative value and inform future
      sustainability efforts. An over-arching goal of this project will be to provide a
      curriculum-driven adherence enhancement approach that can be implemented in public-sector
      care settings and which can improve outcomes for the most vulnerable groups of people with
      BD.
    
  