
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the value of anastrozole vs tamoxifen, in terms of preventing recurrence (i.e.,
           local, regional, and distant recurrences and contralateral breast cancer), after
           lumpectomy and radiotherapy in postmenopausal women with ductal carcinoma in situ
           (DCIS).

        -  Compare subsequent disease occurrence, in terms of invasive breast cancer (local,
           regional, distant, or contralateral), ipsilateral and contralateral breast cancer
           (invasive and DCIS), and non-breast second primary malignancies, in patients treated
           with these drugs.

        -  Compare quality of life and symptoms of patients treated with these drugs.*

        -  Compare quality-adjusted survival time of patients treated with these drugs.*

        -  Compare the occurrence of osteoporotic fractures in patients treated with these drugs.

        -  Compare disease-free and overall survival of patients treated with these drugs. NOTE:
           *The quality of life study closed to accrual as of 12/28/04.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to age (under 60 vs 60 and over). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms (arm I and arm II closed to accrual as of 6/15/06).

        -  Arm I (closed to accrual as of 6/15/06): Patients receive oral tamoxifen and oral
           placebo once daily for 5 years.

        -  Arm II (closed to accrual as of 6/15/06): Patients receive oral anastrozole and oral
           placebo once daily for 5 years.

      Beginning within 8 weeks of randomization, all patients also undergo whole breast
      radiotherapy, unless the patient is enrolled in protocol NSABP-B-39 and randomized to the
      partial breast irradiation group.

      Patients are followed every 6 months for 5 years, and then annually thereafter.

      For patients enrolled in the quality of life study, quality of life is assessed at baseline
      and then every 6 months for 6 years.*

      NOTE: *The quality of life study closed to accrual as of 12/28/04.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3,000 patients (1,500 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      this study within 5 years (arm I and arm II closed to accrual as of 6/15/06).
    
  