
    
      Surgical reconstruction to restore oral function and aesthetics after major ablative surgery
      in the oral cavity forms a challenge to maxillofacial surgeons, and greatly impacts patient'
      quality of life (QOL). The "Oncological-bridge (O-bridge®)" protocol, which offers
      (immediate/delayed) fixed prosthetic rehabilitation in a minimum of sessions and a strongly
      reduced two-week treatment time.

      Objective: The investigators aim to demonstrate the added value of the "O-bridge® protocol"
      in a larger sample size of at least 20 patients eligible for (immediate/delayed) fixed
      prosthodontic rehabilitation at time of oral cavity (mandibular) reconstruction study design:
      a prospective, observational cohort study. The "O-bridge® protocol", in which the
      standardized concept of implant loading and that of oral cavity (mandibular) reconstruction
      are combined with an adapted prosthetic manufacturing protocol, will be offered to eligible
      patients requiring ablative surgery because of a benign or malignant tumour of the oral
      cavity or stage 3-4 osteonecrosis.

      All patients will be screened by the local maxillofacial surgeon and the prosthodontist to
      determine eligibility for the procedure. Imaging will be performed as part of routine
      surgical preparation. Clinical function, as measured with the 11-item scale by Rogers and
      intelligibility of speech will be assessed by the speech therapist and/or appointed health
      care employee prior to surgery, 3 months post-surgery and/or at time of implant placement,
      and at 6 weeks after placement of the O-bridge®. In addition, EORTC quality of life C30 and
      HN35 questionnaires will also be completed at those time-points, and at 6 months after
      placement of the O-bridge®. Speech-, food- and prosthetic fit-related items from the Oral
      Health Impact Profile (OHIP) questionnaire will be completed at 6 weeks and at 6 months after
      placement of the O-bridge®. Parameters related to implant and bridge stability and patient
      satisfaction, measured through a 10-point visual analogue scale, will be assessed at 6, 12,
      24, 36, 48 and 60 months at routine follow-up consultation after placement of the O-bridge®.

      As a primary endpoint, the investigators aim to demonstrate that the O-bridge® protocol
      significantly improves short-term patient' quality of life.

      Moreover, the investigators aim to demonstrate the validity and reliability of the O-bridge®
      protocol, based on its short- and long-term biologic implant stability and mechanical
      stability of the prosthesis. In addition, they aim to measure the impact of the O-bridge® on
      speech intelligibility.
    
  