
    
      The dose-finding phase will determine recommended dose (RD) for durvalumab in combination
      with lenalidomide (LEN) with and without dexamethasone (dex) in a 28-day treatment cycle.
      Three treatment Cohorts (A, B, and C) will be enrolled in parallel:

        -  Cohort A: durvalumab + LEN + dex in high risk transplant non-eligible (TNE) newly
           diagnosed multiple myeloma (NDMM) participants;

        -  Cohort B: durvalumab + LEN + dex (dex for up to 12 cycles) in ≥ 65 years old TNE NDMM
           participants who are not high risk;

        -  Cohort C: durvalumab + LEN as maintenance in post-transplant high risk NDMM
           participants.

      Based on experience with durvalumab for other indications, the initial dose of durvalumab
      will be 1500 mg for each treatment cohort. The dose of durvalumab might be de-escalated to
      750 mg level.

      The dose of LEN will be 25 mg (adjustable per the creatinine clearance [CrCl] value) on Days
      1 to 21 of each 28-day treatment cycle for participants in Cohort A and B. The dose of LEN
      will be 10 mg on Days 1 to 21 of each 28-day treatment cycle for participants in Cohort C.

      The dose of dex will be 40 mg/day (for participants ≤ 75 years old) or 20 mg/day (for
      participants > 75 years old) on Days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of a 28-day cycle for Cohort A and
      Cohort B (for up to 12 cycles).

      Initially, 6 participants will be enrolled into each cohort and each will receive 1500 mg
      durvalumab.

      The dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) evaluation period will be the first treatment cycle.

        -  If ≤ 1 of the 6 initial participants experience a DLT within the first cycle, then the
           dose expansion phase may be initiated with durvalumab 1500 mg as the recommended dose
           (RD);

        -  If 2 or more of the 6 initial participants experience a DLT within the first cycle, then
           the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) has been exceeded and de-escalation to durvalumab 750
           mg level after review of safety and pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/Pd) of the
           initial 6 participants by the Dose Review Team (DRT).

      Any of the cohorts may be removed from the study based on emerging PK, Pd, efficacy or safety
      data.

      Dose de-escalation will only occur after review of safety (DLT) and possibly PK/Pd data by
      the Dose Review Team ( DRT).

      Note: In the US, two treatment arms (A and B) will be enrolled in parallel. Cohort C will
      enroll upon completion of at least 4 cycles of follow-up for safety assessment of Cohorts A
      and B.
    
  