
    
      N. lactamica (Nlac) has been shown to be safe to use in human challenge experiments. Even at
      a very low dose of 10,000 colony forming units (cfu) long lasting colonisation with Nlac is
      easily induced in 35-65% of volunteers. The investigators have previously showed that
      increasing the inoculum to 100,000 cfu increased the subsequent carriage of Nlac to 50%. In
      80-90% of those volunteers successfully colonised, this is detectable by 1-2 weeks.

      Data regarding earlier detection of colonisation is currently lacking.

      Colonisation has a clear effect on the volunteers nasal mucosal microbiome, in that
      meningococcal acquisition is effectively inhibited in volunteers who carry the organism.
      Colonisation is immunogenic, with an increase in specific serum IgG by 2 weeks and specific
      salivary IgA by 4 weeks.

      No antibiotic eradication therapy has previously been given following experimental
      inoculation but Ciprofloxacin has been shown to be effective in the eradication of N.
      meningitidis.

      To design future planned studies using Nlac nasal inoculation and colonisation in order to
      prevent invasive N. meningitidis disease, it is necessary to further evaluate the
      colonisation kinetics and efficacy of the eradication following antibiotic treatment. In
      previous challenges the investigators inoculated volunteers with Nlac and followed those
      volunteers for prolonged periods of time (over 6 months).

      This study will compare the effect of short (4 days) versus longer (14 days) periods of nasal
      carriage of Nlac in volunteers on immunogenicity, and confirm the efficacy of antibiotic
      eradication therapy with ciprofloxacin.

      Healthy adult volunteers will receive a nasal inoculation of Nlac with an antibiotic given on
      day 4 or 14. This information will be used to inform the design of future research into the
      colonisation and immunogenicity of related organisms.

      Before designing future protocols the study investigators need to know whether a short
      containment of the volunteers will be sufficient for immunogenicity, and how quickly the
      volunteers can be discharged after antibiotic treatment.

      A wild-type strain of Nlac (Y92-100) will be used for this study, selected because the
      investigators have previously used it safely in experimental challenge of over 340 human
      volunteers.

      The same strain will be the parent strain for any future GMO work.
    
  