
    
      Several studies have shown that changes in host gene expression may occur pre-
      symptomatically in response to infection in any part of the body, with the continuous
      interaction between blood and tissue allowing blood cells to act as biosensors for the
      changes (Manger and Relman, 2000, Liew et al., 2006). Genome wide analysis reveals coordinate
      expression that develop networks causally linked through pathways.

      Earlier studies from our group investigating optimal methods for the sampling and extraction
      of neonatal whole transcription products (RNA) demonstrated the first feasibility studies for
      using genome wide RNA analysis as a methodological approach for identifying host biomarkers
      of infection and vaccination in early life (Smith et al., 2007, Flanagan et al., 2013). The
      sampling methods were further refined in 2015 with the development of a single drop
      methodology that has been extensively tested in a wide range of settings including the
      collection of neonatal samples in the home, at the point of Guthrie testing by mid-wives.
      Details of these methods have been recently submitted to the Nature Protocols journal.
      Further, we conducted early on virtual clinical trials using a super computing framework that
      simulated several 100,000 neonatal whole blood samples for predicting infection (Khondoker et
      al., 2010). Those investigations showed the requirement for multiple markers and ideally in
      discrete biological pathways underpinning causality (Khondoker et al., 2010, Watterson and
      Ghazal, 2010). Those investigations provided a strong foundation for initiating a
      case-control of neonatal sepsis (Dickinson et al., 2015). Accordingly, we were the first
      group to publish studies investigating the systemic immune response in neonates to sepsis by
      measuring the activity of all known human genes (Smith et al Nature comm. 2014). These
      computationally intensive investigations led to uncovering, for the first time, the pathway
      biology underlying neonatal sepsis with blood samples taken at the first clinical signs of
      suspecting an infection. A combination of machine learning, statistical and deep pathway
      biology analyses led to the identification of a 52-gene panel of biologically connected
      network modules. The modules comprise three central pathways, innate-immune or inflammatory,
      adaptive-immune and unexpectedly metabolic. The expression levels of particular combinations
      of biomarkers, and specifically those of a pathway previously unconnected to immune
      responses, gives an unusually high diagnostic quality. Despite patient heterogeneity, the
      52-node dual biomarker network had greater than 99% accuracy for detecting bacterial
      infection with 100% sensitivity showing superior performance to previously characterised
      markers. Furthermore, these specific combinations of biomarkers allowed the detection of
      neonatal sepsis in samples which had displayed blood-culture negative results, illustrating
      the specific diagnostic benefits of the particular combinations of biomarkers. The
      unexpectedly high accuracy and sensitivity values could not have resulted from the
      investigation of any of the individual biomarkers alone, nor could they have been predicted.
      A critical part of these findings is the requirement of metabolic pathways for increasing
      both sensitivity and specificity. A subset of the metabolic markers encompass ligands
      (specifically small and medium chain fatty acids) that are derived from microbial metabolism,
      in particular from commensals and which are reflected in the faecal microbiome. To date these
      studies provide a proof of concept but need independent confirmatory studies as well as
      investigating specificity against non-bacterial (viral and fungal) infections and sterile
      inflammation. The urgent unmet medical question is whether predictive host pathways of
      infection can be used to first identify whether a patient is infected at or before clinical
      presentation and, to further discriminate between the type of infection (in particular
      bacterial or viral) and predictability of sepsis.
    
  