
    
      The tests will consist of one main study (I) and one sub-study (i):

      I) Experiments in the painlaboratory in the gastroenterology clinic, where 40 healthy
      subjects will be examined with different pain tests i) Experiments in the MRI scanner, where
      only 20 of the 40 from the main study will be investigated in a more simple pain model. The
      individuals who also participate in MRI studies, will consist of those who first sign up

      An equal distribution of men and women is wanted. The trial will be a double-blind,
      placebo-controlled crossover study in which all subjects will be investigated on two seperate
      days and receive respectively placebo or morphine in random order

      Skin stimulation

      Skin will be stimulated with thermal and electrical stimuli. Stimulated by:

        -  Thermal stimuli by the skin stimulated with heat with an approved termotester (Medoc
           termotest) or with cold, by a hand or foot immersed in ice water. This harmless ice
           water test is further possible to evaluate DNIC (diffuse noxious Inhibitory controls)
           which is part of the pain system descending inhibitory system.

        -  Electrical stimulation of the skin will be done by: 1) to the skin of the forearm
           stimulated electrically through two small surface electrodes (each approx. One cm2).
           There are stimulated to pain threshold, 2) via surface electrodes placed under the foot.
           This activates the nociceptive avert reflex as recorded by electrodes placed on the leg.

      Muscle stimulation

      The muscles can be stimulated by:

      • mechanical stimuli by pressing the muscle with an approved pressure algometer (Somedic
      produktion AB, Sweden). There is an upper limit for the pressure to avoid injury.

      Bone stimulation

      Bone associated pain can be studied by:

      • mechanical stimuli by pressing the right shin bone 15cm below the patella, medial of the
      tibia. Pressed with a handheld trykalgometer (Type 2, Somedic produktion AB, Sweden) with a
      probe size of 2mm in diameter until trial participants reach their pain tolerance threshold.

      Visceral stimuli Stimuli to the rectum will be performed through the probe specifically
      designed for this purpose.

        -  mechanical stimuli will be applied by water filling a balloon which is glued on the
           probe. The balloon on the probe is extended to moderate pain. The expansion is done by
           slowly filling the balloon with 37 degrees hot water.

        -  Thermal stimuli will be applied by flushing the balloon with hot water (60 ° C)

        -  Electrical stimuli will be applied by stimulation of the mucosa with weak electrical
           currents (Less than 80 mA) through electrodes on the probe. This stimulus is also used
           for recording of evoked brain potentials.
    
  