
    
      The purpose of this study is to test the feasibility of the newly developed Trial My App
      platform to conduct an efficient RCT of an mHealth app that targets hypertension, a CV risk
      factor, without the need for in-person visits. Trial stages, including screening, consent,
      randomization, and collection of patient-important outcomes, will be performed virtually
      using the TMA platform. A combination of passive and active recruitment will begin in fall
      2020 after ethics approval. A variety of recruitment materials will be distributed by a
      research assistant to partner newsletters, websites, community practices and primary care or
      speciality clinic waiting rooms. These materials include videos, paper and online
      posters/postcards, emails, as well as posts advertising on social media. Social media
      recruitment will consist of general posts and targeted ads. The primary goal at this stage is
      to determine whether TMA, the innovative, efficient, web-based methodology, can be used to
      conduct RCTs evaluating mHealth interventions. The primary feasibility outcome is study
      completion. Other feasibility outcomes are recruitment rate, eligibility rates, consent
      rates, retention rates, intervention adherence, and appropriateness of data collection
      processes. Descriptive analysis will be performed on the dataset using appropriate
      statistical methods. The secondary objective is to test the clinical efficacy of the chosen
      mHealth app in reducing BP in patients with sub-optimally controlled hypertension when
      compared with an educational control group. Efficacy outcomes include clinical assessment
      changes, self-management adherence, and patient-reported outcomes. This is a pilot,
      non-blinded, feasibility RCT, comparing use of a hypertension tracking app versus an
      education control in participants with hypertension that is sub optimally controlled. The
      investigators will later include a sub-study to validate the blood pressure data inputted
      into the online platform through in-person blood pressure measurements. Participants will be
      asked to register on the TMA site and will complete user profile and screening questionnaires
      and consent for participation in the pilot trial. The participants that meet inclusion
      criteria will be asked to electronically consent to take part in the pilot trial, and input
      clinical and patient-important data at 0, 1, 3, and 6 months into the web application.
    
  