
    
      Methamphetamine (MA) abuse is the fastest growing drug problem in the United States and is
      responsible for significant public health complications, including HIV infection1. As a
      result effective treatments for MA dependence are urgently needed. There are currently no
      efficacious medications for MA dependence, although results from preliminary randomized
      trials of bupropion for MA dependence found bupropion to be more effective than placebo, but
      only among subgroups of participants, including those with lower frequency of MA use at
      baseline 2, 3. A growing body of preclinical and clinical studies suggest that cholinergic
      mechanisms play an important role in the neurobiology of MA and other stimulant dependence,
      such as nicotine dependence 4. Mechanistically, cholinergic medications may alleviate
      MA-associated cognitive dysfunction, thereby improving outcomes of treatment for MA
      dependence 5. Varenicline is a partial agonist at α4β2 nicotinic receptors and a full agonist
      at α7 nicotinic receptors that has been approved as an anti-cigarette smoking medication. In
      order to assess the potential efficacy of varenicline for methamphetamine dependence, we will
      perform a clinical trial to assess the following aims:

        1. To determine if varenicline results in significantly greater reductions in
           methamphetamine use than placebo, as determined via the proportion of
           methamphetamine-free urine specimens provided by participants throughout treatment, when
           provided to methamphetamine dependent participants in conjunction with cognitive
           behavioral therapy.

           Exploratory Aim 1a. To determine whether reductions in methamphetamine use with
           varenicline versus placebo are greater among methamphetamine dependent participants with
           baseline light MA use (MA use on 18 or fewer of the past 30 days at baseline) versus
           heavy MA use (MA use on more than 18 of the past 30 days).

           Exploratory Aim 1b. To determine if varenicline results in a greater proportion of
           methamphetamine dependent participants achieving methamphetamine abstinence defined as
           self-reported MA abstinence, confirmed via urine drug screens (all available urine drug
           screens are MA-metabolite free and at least one urine drug screen available per week and
           no more than two missed visits between urine drug screens) during the final two weeks of
           the study medication period (weeks 7 and 8) relative to placebo when provided in
           conjunction with cognitive behavioral therapy.

        2. To determine if varenicline results in significantly greater treatment retention than
           placebo among MA dependent participants when provided in conjunction with cognitive
           behavioral therapy.

      To address these aims, we recruited 20 MA dependent participants who will be randomized to
      receive treatment with varenicline (n=10) or placebo (n=10) for 8 weeks, in combination with
      cognitive behavioral therapy, followed by 4 weeks of follow up observation.

      Results of this study have the potential to provide additional safety data and to yield
      preliminary evidence that may support a fully powered late Phase II trial of the efficacy of
      varenicline for the treatment of methamphetamine dependence. Findings also have potential to
      provide insights into the influence of cognitive dysfunction, and medications with potential
      cognitive enhancing effects, on the pathogenesis of MA dependence and treatment outcomes.
    
  