
    
      In this study, MRI will be used to determine the effects of pre-surgical chemotherapy on
      breast cancer. MRS looks at the chemical components of tissue. MRS may be helpful in
      understanding how pre-surgical chemotherapy works.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have "screening tests." These tests
      will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this study. Blood (about 1
      teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests. Women who are able to have children must have a
      negative blood (about 1 teaspoon) pregnancy test.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will have 3 MRI with MRS
      scans on both breast including the affected breast. The scans will be performed before
      chemotherapy, 21 days (plus or minus 3 days) after you start chemotherapy (Day 1 = your first
      day of chemotherapy), and at the end of the chemotherapy/before surgery. If you have never
      had an MRI scan before, you will be given the opportunity to watch a 10-minute video to
      prepare you for the procedure.

      You will have specialized MRI scans: MRS, DCE, and DW. The DCE is a Dynamic Contrast Enhanced
      MRI. DCE-MRI is used to create a 3-D image of the breast tumor, so that the small blood
      vessels can be seen. The Diffusion-Weighted (DW) MRI may possibly be used to study the
      structure of tumor cells based on the movement of water molecules in tumor tissue.

      For this, you will lie still on your stomach with your breasts positioned within the openings
      of the detector. A contrast drug, which helps the MRI scanner to show the breast lesion, will
      be injected through a needle in your vein. The procedure will take about 1 hour.

      The tissues removed during the surgery will be collected as part of this study. Small pieces
      of tissues will be stained with special stains to give more information about the tumor (such
      as invasiveness, blood vessel supply, number of positive lymph nodes, tissue changes).
      Multiple sections of the tissues will be stained to make sure that all tissue areas of
      interest will be able to be compared with MRI/MRS images. The tissues then will be
      photographed and x-rayed.

      You will be considered off-study 6 months after surgery. If you are unable to have surgery,
      you will be considered off-study 6 months after the last MRI with MRS.

      This is an investigational study. The MRI with MRS scans are FDA approved and commercially
      available. The first and third scans will be part of routine patient care. The second scan is
      not part of routine care. Up to 28 participants will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  