
    
      Specific Aims:

        1. To show that the dysphagia screening tool achieves greater than 90% positive and
           negative predictive values relative to the gold standard for dysphagia defined in this
           study as the Fiberoptic Endoscopic Evaluation of Swallowing (FEES) as performed by
           speech-language pathologists.

        2. To show that the risk of aspiration pneumonia is less than 10% during hospitalization in
           patients undergoing the dysphagia screening tool.

        3. To show that the dysphagia screening tool is applicable across the spectrum of stroke
           severity, as defined by the NIH stroke scale score.

        4. To assess specific components and combinations of components of the dysphagia screening
           tool with respect to positive and negative predictive values.

        5. To show that the dysphagia screening tool has excellent inter-rater reliability and can
           be performed in under 5 minutes.

      Methods: The investigators will recruit 18 patients with a clinical diagnosis of acute
      ischemic stroke. Patients with a clinical diagnosis of stroke will initially be screened with
      the dysphagia screening tool within 24 hours of last known well admission by two separate
      evaluators performed no more than 2 hours apart. The first evaluator will be either a nurse
      (e.g. emergency medicine nurse) or physician (e.g. neurology resident) certified in use of
      the screen. The second evaluator will be the nurse research coordinator for the study. The
      first screen is part of routine clinical care and will be used to determine the patient's
      eating status (NPO or full diet). Timing between evaluations will be recorded. Patients will
      include those with an NIHSS of 8-16 inclusive. Patients with primary intracerebral hemorrhage
      and those who are unable to read the consent form due to language barrier (not aphasia) will
      be excluded from this study. Consent for aphasic patients will be obtained from an authorized
      representative. Lesion side (right, left), lesion location (hemispheric, brainstem,
      cerebellar), and TOAST classification (a validated method of stroke mechanism classification)
      will be recorded. The results of patients who are initially enrolled in the study but later
      excluded because of brain imaging findings will be recorded. Patients who are studied by FEES
      within 6 hours of the first bedside screen by ASHA certified speech-language pathologists
      will be included. Time from screening to FEES examination will be recorded. A patient studied
      more than 6 hours after the first bedside screen will be excluded. Patients who passed the
      initial screen but later failed FEES examination will be made NPO because of the potential
      implications for clinical outcome. Patients who fail the initial screen but who later pass
      the FEES examination wil be released from NPO status. Results of brain imaging will also be
      recorded. Patients with negative brain imaging will also be included because diagnostic
      imaging with CT may not be sensitive in the first 24 hours and MRI may not be available
      within hours of arrival. Patients included in the study will also be followed during their
      hospitalization for clinical evidence of aspiration pneumonia up to 7 days. A 90-day phone
      call will be made to determine the patient's level of function according to the modified
      Rankin scale, a standard outcome tool for stroke. Patients whose final diagnosis is not
      stroke will be excluded from analysis.

      Statistical analysis:

      Inter-rater reliability between bedside screeners will be calculated. Results of the screen
      performed by the last bedside screener will be compared to findings on FEES. Sensitivity,
      specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value scores will be
      calculated using 2 by 2 table analysis. Likelihood ratios will be calculated. Aspiration
      pneumonia rates will be described with descriptive statistics.
    
  