
    
      One of the most important and frequent adverse effects of spinal anesthesia is post procedure
      hypotension. The emerging hypotension does not affect only the pregnant, it also does harm to
      the newborn. Therefore, an anesthesiologist should avoid and take precautions to prevent
      maternal post spinal hypotension. There is a growing body of evidence about noradrenalin
      application in the management of hemodynamic optimization of patients undergoing cesarean
      section with spinal anesthesia. However, there is no conclusive decision about the dosage and
      application protocol of noradrenaline in this patient population. In a study comparing the
      incidence of post spinal maternal hypotension given noradrenaline versus phenylephrine, the
      authors reported that both of drugs effectively controlled maternal blood pressure. The
      incidence of maternal hypotension was 30% and 32% (p= 0.8) in noradrenaline and phenylephrine
      study arms, respectively. Therefore, one can speculate that the incidence of maternal post
      spinal hypotension remains high even in patients receiving noradrenaline or phenylephrine. In
      the noradrenaline arm, only noradrenaline infusion with a dosage of 0.05 microgram/kg/minute
      without any bolus was applied to the patients. In another study, the effects of different
      noradrenaline infusion dosages with 5 microgram bolus dosage on maternal post spinal
      hypotension were investigated. The frequencies of maternal hypotension were 42.1%, 24.7% and
      26% in patients receiving 0.025, 0.05 and 0.075 microgram/kg/minute with a bolus 5 microgram
      noradrenaline, respectively. As a conclusion of this study, addition of a bolus dose of 5
      microgram noradrenaline may lower the incidence of post spinal hypotension. However, as in
      the previous study, approximately one fourth of patients still may have a post spinal
      hypotension episode. Regarding these results, the present study is planned to answer the
      question of which approach including increasing infusion or bolus dosage of noradrenaline is
      superior to ameliorate the incidence of hypotension in this population.

      In conclusion, the aim of this study is to compare three different noradrenaline protocols
      including different bolus and infusion dosages to decrease the rate of hypotension in
      patients undergoing cesarean section with spinal anesthesia.
    
  