
    
      The idea of an occluding thrombus and its dissolution had been stated since the 1950s.1
      Thrombus is present in the infarct-related artery in 88% of patients undergoing coronary
      artery angiography within the first 4 h of acute myocardial infarction (AMI).

      The finding of ST segment elevation in a patient presenting with chest pain allows rapid
      identification of those who benefit from emergency reperfusion.

      Primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PPCI) is now the preferred strategy for emergency
      reperfusion in patients presenting with ST elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI).

      Thrombus aspiration (TA) might be an effective procedure for reducing distal embolization and
      improving microvascular perfusion in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI),
      especially in patients with high thrombus burden.

      Despite the class III recommendation for routine Thrombus Aspiration use before balloon
      angioplasty or stenting. manual Thrombus Aspiration might still remain a useful strategy for
      the interventional cardiologist when treating selected patients with significant thrombus
      burden during PPCI.

      Thrombus grading is classified as:

      Grade 0: No angiographic characteristics of thrombus are present. Grade 1: Possible thrombus
      is present with a such characteristics as: Reduced contrast density, haziness, irregular
      lesion contour Or smooth convex meniscus at the site of total occlusion Suggestive but not
      diagnostic of the thrombus.

      Grade 2: There is a definite thrombus with greatest dimension <1/2 the vessel diameter.

      Grade 3: There is a definite thrombus but with greatest linear dimension>1/2 but <2 vessel
      dimension.

      Grade 4: There is a definite thrombus but with greatest linear dimension >2 vessel dimension.

      Grade 5: There is a total occlusion (unable to assess thrombus burden due to total vessel
      occlusion.

      The analysis of ST-segment resolution on the electrocardiogram (ECG) consists of a simple
      tool, of easy use and low cost, able to document success of the epicardial reperfusion and
      tissue reperfusion after primary PCI.

      The persistence of ST-segment elevation on the ECG, despite the restoration of a normal
      epicardial flow, signifies a poor prognosis; such persistence is known to be associated with
      larger infarct size and higher combined rate of severe cardiovascular adverse events.
    
  