
    
      1) Obesity is a global pandemic with debilitating consequences. It affects both adults and
      children; however, the prevalence of overweight and obesity among children and adolescents
      aged 5-19 has risen dramatically from just 4% in 1975 to just over 18% in 2016, highlighting
      the seriousness of this problem. The rise has occurred similarly among both boys and girls:
      in 2016 18% of girls and 19% of boys were overweight. While just under 1% of children and
      adolescents aged 5-19 were obese in 1975, more 124 million children and adolescents (6% of
      girls and 8% of boys) were obese in 2016.

      Obesity is a major risk factor for noncommunicable diseases such as:

        1. Cardiovascular diseases (mainly heart disease and stroke), which were the leading cause
           of death in United States of America(USA);

        2. Diabetes Mellitus

        3. Musculoskeletal disorders (especially osteoarthritis - a highly disabling degenerative
           disease of the joints);

        4. Some forms of malignancy (including endometrial, breast, ovarian, prostate, liver,
           gallbladder, kidney, and colon);

        5. Infertility in both women and men. The risk for these noncommunicable diseases
           increases, with increases in Body Mass Index (BMI).

      2) Liraglutide is a derivative of human incretin (metabolic hormone) glucagon-like peptide-1
      (GLP-1) that is used as a long-acting glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist, binding to
      the same receptors as does the endogenous metabolic hormone GLP-1 that stimulates insulin
      secretion. Liraglutide is licenced in USA and in European Union (EU), including United
      Kingdom (UK) for the management of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) and Obesity or overweight
      when one or more metabolic co-morbidities are present.

      Saxenda (3mg Liraglutide once daily) is an Food & Drug Administration (FDA)-approved,
      prescription injectable Glucagon Like Peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist that, when used with
      a low-calorie diet and increased physical activity, can reduce excess weight in patients who
      are overweight (BMI ≥27Kg/m2) and additionally have weight-related medical problems (such as
      high blood pressure, high cholesterol, or insulin resistance/pre-diabetes), or obesity (BMI:
      >30Kg/m2) to lose weight. Saxenda is licensed and available in the UK for the management of
      obesity and overweight.

      3) Metabolomics is the scientific study of chemical processes involving metabolites, the
      small molecule intermediates and products of metabolism. Specifically, metabolomics is the
      "systematic study of the unique chemical fingerprints that specific cellular processes leave
      behind", the study of their small-molecule metabolite profiles. The metabolome represents the
      complete set of metabolites in a biological cell, tissue, organ or organism, which are the
      end products of cellular processes. This in emerging area of metabolic research and in this
      study, will provide insight into the mechanisms through which 3mg Liraglutide improves weight
      and other metabolic sequelae (i.e glucose and lipids homeostasis) in humans during treatment.
      To the extend of our knowledge, there is a very limited number of such studies; none of which
      reporting on the effects of 3mg Liraglutide. Our collaborator Professor Gyanendra Tripathi
      has kindly agreed to fund costs for metabolomics analysis of our human samples. Metabolomics
      analysis of human serum or plasma samples is going to be performed by applying Ultra
      Performance Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (UPLC-MS). UPLC-MS assay will provide
      untargeted study of water-soluble metabolites (HILIC LCMS) and untargeted study of lipid
      metabolites (C18 reversed phase LCMS). Analysis is going to be performed at School of
      Biosciences, University of Birmingham.

      4) MicroRNA (abbreviated miRNA) is a small non-coding RNA molecule (containing about 22
      nucleotides) found in plants, animals and some viruses, that functions in RNA silencing and
      post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression. While most miRNAs are located within the
      cell, some miRNAs, commonly known as circulating miRNAs or extracellular miRNAs, have also
      been found in extracellular environment, including various biological fluids and cell culture
      media. MiRNAs play crucial roles in the regulation of stem cell progenitors differentiating
      into adipocytes. Studies to determine what role pluripotent stem cells play in adipogenesis,
      were examined in the immortalized human bone marrow-derived stromal cell line hMSC-Tert20.
      Decreased expression of miRNA-155, miRNA-221, and miRNA-222, have been found during the
      adipogenic programming of both immortalized and primary human Mesenchymal Stem Cells (hMSCs),
      suggesting that they act as negative regulators of differentiation. Conversely, ectopic
      expression of the miRNAs 155,221, and 222 significantly inhibited adipogenesis and repressed
      induction of the master regulators Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma(PPARγ)
      and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha (CEBPA). This paves the way for possible genetic
      obesity treatments. Our goal is however to see if treatment with 3mg Liraglutide will
      influence circulating miRNA levels. To the extent of our knowledge there is currently no
      study reporting this.
    
  