
    
      Background: Lung transplantation induces surfactant dysfunction that may be a contributing
      factor for primary graft dysfunction (PGD) and graft failure. Animal studies and limited
      human reports suggest that surfactant administration may prevent primary graft dysfunction.

      Working hypothesis and aims:

      The purpose of the trial is to study the effect of exogenous calf surfactant (calfactant) on
      the prevention of primary graft failure due to ischemic-reperfusion lung injury in lung
      transplant patients.

      Methods: The trial is an open randomized controlled prospective study. Patient population: 42
      patients eligible for lung transplant according to hospital criteria.

      Study medication: Calfactant intratracheal suspension -an extract of natural surfactant from
      calf lungs, which includes phospholipids, neutral lipids and surfactant-associated proteins B
      and C (SP-B and SP-C).

      Study design: Patients randomized to receive calfactant will have the drug administered
      through a fiberoptic bronchoscope distributing the drug evenly across the lung immediately
      after connection. The other patient will not have any administration to avoid any excessive
      flushing. When 2 lungs will be used from the same donor for 2 recipients one patient
      receiving one lung will be treated with calfactant while the other patient receiving the
      other lung will not be treated and serve as the control. Otherwise lungs will be treated with
      surfactant in every other case.

      Expected results: We expect surfactant instillation during lung transplantation to improve
      oxygenation, prevent primary graft dysfunction, make intubation time shorter and to enhance
      early post transplantation recovery. In a pilot study that we already performed results are
      encouraging.

      Importance: PGD could cause substantial morbidity and mortality among transplanted patients.
      In a pilot study we already found that surfactant instillation during lung transplantation
      improves oxygenation, prevents primary graft dysfunction, shortens intubation time and ICU
      stay. We believe that surfactant treatment enhances early post transplantation recovery, and
      may also be cost effective by shortening expensive ICU stay.
    
  