
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is abbreviated as COPD and includes both emphysema and
      chronic bronchitis. COPD is currently the fourth leading cause of death in the United States.
      Unlike most major medical diseases, the morbidity and mortality from COPD continue to rise in
      the US. In 2000, over 10 million Americans carried a physician diagnosis of COPD and 120,000
      Americans died from this disease. Additionally, from the year 1980 to the year 2000, the
      number of cases of COPD among women nearly doubled and the prevalence among African Americans
      increased by 61%. Unlike the other leading causes of death, no medical therapies currently
      available improve the course of disease or affect survival in COPD. Current therapies for
      COPD that improve survival in COPD are limited to smoking cessation, oxygen therapy, and
      possibly surgery. Medical therapies such as inhalers and pills improve symptoms and reduce
      COPD exacerbations ("attacks"), but have not been shown to slow down the progression of the
      disease.

      Recent investigations suggest that endothelial dysfunction and chronic inflammation is
      fundamental to COPD. Fish oil intake improves endothelial dysfunction and lowers levels of
      inflammatory intermediaries. These inflammatory intermediaries can be measured in the blood
      and are potentially important in the development of COPD. Large observational studies
      demonstrate that participants who eat high amounts of fish oil develop less COPD and have
      lower levels of these inflammatory intermediaries.

      The Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Fish Oil (COD-Fish) Pilot Trial will enroll 40-45
      participants with COPD. These participants will be randomized to receive Omax3[TM] or placebo
      (containing corn oil). Omax3[TM] (Cenestra Health) is a 1 gram softgel capsule containing
      94.5% omega-3 fatty acids. Each participant will be taking 3 capsules of either Omax3[TM] or
      matching placebo. The investigators and the subjects will be blinded, meaning that neither
      the investigators nor the subjects will know if they are taking Omax3[TM] or placebo. All
      participants will perform a number of noninvasive tests at study entry as well as every two
      months for a total of six months. They will also undergo pulmonary function testing,
      flow-mediated dilation (FMD), peripheral arterial tonometry (PAT), six minute-walk tests
      (6MWT), blood drawing and answer questionnaire data. Thirty participants who agree to it will
      undergo a separate procedure to collect cells from inside a forearm vein for analysis to be
      compared to 30 controls. The main purpose of this trial is to examine the effect of Omax3[TM]
      on endothelial function as measured by change in FMD in patients with COPD. We hypothesize
      that in subjects with COPD, treatment with Omax3[TM] will increase FMD.
    
  