
    
      The effects of vitamin D supplementation on pregnancy outcomes and metabolic status of
      overweight and obese pregnant women remain uncertain. In particular, the dosage of vitamin D
      supplementation has not been defined in this high risk group of women. This study aims to
      examine whether oral supplement of vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) in total dosage of 800
      IU(prenatal multivitamin containing 400 IU vitamin D3 + 400 IU vitamin D3 alone) given to
      overweight and obese pregnant women since early pregnancy until delivery can improve maternal
      and neonatal outcomes, compared with those given prenatal multivitamin containing 400 IU
      vitamin D3 supplementation, a commonly given antenatal supplement in Singapore. The
      investigators' hypothesis is that higher dose vitamin D supplementation would lead to better
      outcomes in overweight and obese pregnant women. The investigators will conduct a two-arm,
      parallel non-blinded randomized controlled trial. Women with body mass index ≥25kg/m2 will be
      randomly assigned into groups with a 1:1 randomization ratio, receiving either 800 or 400 IU
      vitamin D3 supplementation. The study will be conducted at the antenatal clinics, KK Women's
      and Children's Hospital, Singapore. Measurements of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD), lipid
      profile and lifestyles information will be taken for all women at baseline (≤16 weeks
      gestation) and after three months of intervention (26-30 weeks gestation). All women will
      continue with the vitamin D3 supplementation until delivery. Primary outcomes include levels
      of maternal serum 25OHDconcentration and lipid profile at 26-30 gestation weeks as compared
      with the controls, adjusting for baseline measurements. Secondary outcomes include
      preeclampsia, gestational hypertension, gestational diabetes, glycaemic levels, caesarean
      section, gestational weight gain, preterm birth, low birth weight and
      small-for-gestational-age. This study will fill up the gap of knowledge regarding the role of
      vitamin D supplementation on pregnancy outcomes and metabolic status in overweight and obese
      pregnant women.
    
  