
    
      This study includes a non-randomized, open-label, Phase 1/2 dose escalation portion, and a
      Phase 2 randomized, controlled, masked dose expansion portion.

      Approximately 30 participants will be enrolled into the dose escalation portion of the study.
      Each participant will receive the study agent by subretinal injection in one eye on a single
      occasion. Enrollment will begin with the lowest dose and will proceed to higher doses only
      after review of safety data by a Data and Safety Monitoring Committee (DSMC). Within groups 1
      through 3 and 5 and 6, enrollment of participants will be staggered by at least 2 weeks to
      allow adequate time for review of safety information by the investigators and sponsor. Within
      Group 4, enrollment of the first 3 pediatric participants will be staggered by at least 2
      weeks to allow adequate time for review of safety information by the investigators and
      sponsor. Study agent administration will occur on Day 0. There are a total of 15 visits over
      approximately 36 months, and long-term follow-up evaluations annually at years 4 and 5.

      After the phase 1/2 portion of the study is completed, approximately 12 participants, who
      were not part of the Phase 1/2 portion of the study, will be enrolled into the dose expansion
      portion of the study. These participants will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to 1 of 2
      treatment groups (i.e., Group 1 [low dose, 300 μL containing 1.2 x 1011 vg/mL] and Group 2
      [high dose, 300 μL containing 1.1 x 1012 vg/mL]). Each participant will receive the assigned
      dose of AGTC-501 in one eye on a single occasion. Randomization to dose groups will be
      stratified by age (8-17 years, 18-50 years). To minimize bias in the assessment and reporting
      of outcomes, both the investigators and the study subjects will be masked to the dose of
      AGTC-501 received. Study agent administration will occur on Day 0. There are a total of 15
      visits over approximately 24 months, and long-term follow-up evaluations annually at years 3,
      4 and 5.

      Safety will be measured by the number and proportion of participants experiencing ocular and
      non-ocular adverse events and abnormal clinically relevant hematology and clinical chemistry
      parameters. Efficacy will be measured by evaluation of changes in visual structure, function,
      and quality of life.
    
  