
    
      Standard treatment for patients with locally advanced rectal cancer consists of a long course
      of (CRT) followed by surgical resection. Although the aim of neoadjuvant treatment in these
      patients is not organ preservation, but rather to provide improved local control, in the
      tumour disappears completely. Studies from Maastricht, the UK and Brazil have shown that in
      selected patients with a clinical complete response after CRT, a "wait-and-see" policy
      without any surgery could be a safe alternative with comparable long-term outcome and better
      functional outcome compared to patients who had surgery.

      The main objective of the study is to provide short and long term oncological and functional
      outcome data on organ preserving treatment in good responders after a standard indication for
      neoadjuvant (chemo)radiation. Additional aims are: to set up a national network with
      expertise centres in the 'wait-and-see' treatment of rectal cancer; to set up a national
      registry for organ preservation treatment that will generate more evidence on the management
      and oncological outcome of patients evaluated and treated with organ preservation and [3] to
      offer through this network to all patients who are considered good candidates this
      'wait-and-see' approach using the most up to date tools for selection and follow-up.

      Study design: multicenter prospective observational cohort study and implementation study.
      Study population: The population will consist of patients, aged 18 years or older, with
      rectal cancer who after a long course of CRT or a short course of radiation with a long
      waiting interval have a clinical complete response (ycT0N0).

      The main study endpoint is 2-year non-regrowth disease-free survival. Secondary endpoints are
      [1] the number of fully operational centres who can deliver high quality organ preserving
      care in rectal cancer in the Netherlands, [2] 2-year regrowth rate, [3] 2-year local control,
      [4] 2-year overall survival, [5] determination of the optimal follow-up schedule and [6]
      quality of life.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: In the majority of patients who participate in the study, major surgery and the
      associated morbidity can be avoided. Although scientific proof shows "wait-and-see" only
      comes with a small risk with adequate selection and follow up, the exact risk is not yet well
      established and needs to be confirmed by this study. The benefit-risk ratio for this study is
      regarded as favourable.
    
  