
    
      Protocol Summary

      Study Title: SSAT 058 - A phase IV, open-label, multi centre pilot study to assess the
      prevalence of objective neurocognitive abnormality in patients without perceived Central
      Nervous System (CNS) symptoms on tenofovir/emtricitabine/efavirenz Atripla® and the effect of
      switching to a fixed dose combination of tenofovir/emtricitabine/rilpivirine (Eviplera®).

      Proposed Sponsor: St Stephen's AIDS Trust

      Chief Investigator: Dr Mark Nelson

      Name of Investigational Product: Eviplera®

      Name of Active Ingredients: Rilpivirine, tenofovir, emtricitabine

      Name of Non Investigational Medicinal Product : NA

      Name of Active Ingredients: NA

      Phase of Study: Phase IV

      Objectives: The objectives of this study are:

      Primary objectives

        -  To describe prevalence pattern, in patients without self-perceived CNS symptoms related
           to tenofovir/emtricitabine/efavirenz, of the following parameters assessed at baseline:

             -  Objective neurocognitive function testing.

             -  Self-reported central nervous system symptoms by questionnaire

             -  Reported Sleep quality Secondary objectives

        -  change in measured neurocognitive parameters from baseline to week 4 and 24

        -  change in sleep scores from baseline to week 4 and 24

        -  change in symptoms related to CNS toxicity from baseline over 24 weeks

        -  change in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and spectroscopy of brain between baseline
           and week 24.

        -  the rate of maintained virological suppression at <50 copies/ml at each visit over 24
           weeks

        -  changes in fasting lipids from baseline over 24 weeks

        -  change in reported adherence from baseline and to week 24 in:

             -  adherence

             -  Quality of life

             -  Reported anxiety and depression

      Study Design: Multi-centre, open-label, single pilot study of 24 weeks. Study visits will
      take place at screening, baseline (within 36 days of screening visit), weeks 4, 12 and 24.

      Substudy of 10 volunteers - MRI scan at baseline and week 24

      Indication: HIV-1-infection

      Methodology:

        -  Neurocognitive function testing measured by computerised tasks.

        -  CNS symptoms and sleep quality determined by questionnaire.

        -  Changes in CNS metabolites by 1H-MR spectroscopy imaging.

      Planned Sample Size: 40 (across 4 centres)

      Summary of Eligibility Criteria: HIV-infected individuals on Atripla with a viral load < 50
      copies/mL and a CD4 count > 50 cells/mm3.

      Number of Study Centres: 4

      Duration of Treatment: 24 weeks

      Dose and Route of Administration: A single-pill fixed dose combination of tenofovir 245mg,
      emtricitabine 200mg and rilpivirine 25mg once daily.

      Primary Endpoint: Summary of overall prevalence and categorised descriptions of the following
      measures will be determined at baseline:

        -  Neurocognitive function scores calculated as composite scores and individual domains.

        -  Reported CNS symptoms assessed using questionnaire based on Summary of Product
           Characteristics (SPC) will be scored for severity and reported as both individual and
           composite scores.

        -  Sleep Quality assessed by questionnaire at baseline.

      Secondary Endpoint:

        -  change in measured neurocognitive parameters from baseline to week 4 and 24

        -  change in sleep scores from baseline to week 4 and 24

        -  change in symptoms related to CNS toxicity from baseline over 24 weeks

        -  Change in magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy of brain between baseline and week
           24.

        -  the rate of maintained virological suppression at <50 copies/ml at each visit over 24
           weeks

        -  changes in fasting lipids from baseline over 24 weeks

        -  change in reported adherence from baseline and to week 24 in:

             -  adherence

             -  Quality of life

             -  Reported anxiety and depression
    
  