
    
      Major orthopedic surgery (hip, knee replacements and hip fracture) represents only a small
      part of all orthopaedic surgery procedures. Procedures for trauma patients and orthopaedic
      lower limb surgery without trauma are much more frequent (tibia osteotomy, arthrodesis,
      ligament repair….).

      The incidence of trauma patients requiring surgery and prolonged immobilisation is rising,
      mainly because of the increasing popularity of recreational sports. However, the epidemiology
      and prevention of VTE after such injuries have been poorly studied. The combination of limb
      surgery with or without trauma in orthopaedic surgery is responsible for an increase in
      venous thromboembolism (VTE). Usually, surgery of lower limb is considered as moderate or
      high risk for DVT with different duration related to immobilisation. For instance tibia
      osteotomy is at very high risk during at least 6 weeks and knee arthroscopy for ligament
      repair is at moderate risk during 10 days. However LMWH is recommended in both surgeries.
      Non-major orthopaedic surgery represents a major additional risk factor by itself; therefore
      such patients undergoing surgery deserve to receive VTE prophylaxis.

      Rivaroxaban is a new oral anticoagulant developing a potent anti-Xa activity. In major
      orthopaedic surgery, it has shown to be more effective and as safe as LMWH (Enoxaparin 4000
      IU once daily) in THR and TKR patients (RECORD program). Up to now, pending the limited
      number of surgical settings in which it has been developed in orthopaedic surgery, it is only
      approved for the prevention of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in THR and TKR procedures, which
      represent only 20% of all orthopaedic interventions. Non-major elective lower limb surgery
      and traumatology population is younger as compared to prosthetic orthopaedic surgery
      patients. Fewer VTE and cardiovascular events are to be feared. These patients receive quite
      often injectable thromboprophylaxis for a total duration lying between approximately 6 weeks
      to 3 months. In the one hand, the risk of major bleeding is low in this younger population.
      On the other hand, compliance and cost should be in favour of Rivaroxaban, because no
      injection and no platelets counts are needed.

      The results of Xamos descriptive sub-analysis in non-elective (fracture related) orthopaedic
      surgery are consistent with the overall results of Xamos and are in favour of further
      investigations in this area. In this small subset of patients (n=790), the incidence of
      symptomatic thromboembolic events observed was low in patients treated with Xarelto and the
      overall frequency of treatment emergent major bleedings was low in both groups and serious
      adverse events occurred less frequently in patients treated with Xarelto. Therefore,
      collection of clinical data in this population is needed and awaited by many orthopaedic
      surgeons and anaesthetists in charge of VTE prophylaxis.

      The population with femoral neck and trochanteric fracture is a specific one with different
      characteristics, elderly, frail and with a higher bleeding risk. This population will be
      excluded.
    
  