
    
      Neuropathy affects approximately 30-50% of all diabetic patients and is the commonest form of
      neuropathy in the developed world. Pain is the most distressing symptom of neuropathy and the
      main factor that prompts the patient to seek medical advice. About 16-26% of diabetes
      patients experience chronic neuropathic pain. An animal study revealed that treating rats
      with α-tocopherol and tocotrienol for 10 weeks significantly improved all the biochemical and
      behavioral outcomes of alcohol-induced neuropathy in a dose-dependent manner with more potent
      effects observed with tocotrienols. The study demonstrates the effectiveness of tocotrienols
      in attenuation of alcoholic neuropathy.

      Cognitive dysfunction is a less addressed and not as well recognized complication of
      diabetes. Patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus have been found to have cognitive
      deficits that can be attributed to their disease. Both old age and diabetes are independently
      associated with an increased risk of cognitive dysfunction; the risk is even greater for
      older adults with diabetes. Cognitive Function is the term used to describe a person's state
      of consciousness (alertness and orientation), memory, and attention span. It has been
      suggested that Vitamin E, including tocopherols and tocotrienols, can help to improve
      cognitive function and stall cognitive decline through its antioxidant effects. A reason for
      this nutrient's success at preventing oxidative damage in brain cells is its fat-soluble
      criteria. During the World Alzheimer's Congress held in July 2001, it was reported that high
      intakes of vitamin E effectively lessened memory loss and cognitive dysfunction among more
      than 6,000 elderly subjects who were generally taking Vitamin E between 200 to 400 IU per
      day.

      Tocotrienols, in particular α-tocotrienol have been shown to possess neuroprotective effect
      independent of anti-oxidant activity. Using cell-based studies, α-tocotrienol but not
      α-tocopherol was shown to prevent glutamate-induced neuronal cell death at nanomolar
      concentrations. Later studies showed that α-tocotrienol conferred protection against
      glutamate and stroke-induced neurodegeneration in rats.

      In view of the above neuroprotective property of tocotrienols, researchers have proceeded to
      demonstrate that tocotrienols supplementation helped to reverse neuropathic pain in diabetic
      rats. It has been postulated the beneficial properties of tocotrienols are due to their
      suppressive effects on the oxidative-nitrosative stress, inflammatory cytokine release and
      caspase-3 which are implicated in the pathogenesis of diabetic neuropathy.

      In the same year, tocotrienols were shown to prevent cognitive deficits and attenuate
      alcoholic peripheral neuropathy associated with selective neuronal damage due to chronic
      alcohol consumption. Moreover, the beneficial effects were found to be more pronounced with
      tocotrienols compared to tocopherols. It has been postulated that the anti-oxidants property
      of tocotrienols, the suppression of nitrosative stress and elevated cytokines levels together
      with acetylcholinesterase activity in the brain regions contributes significantly in
      preventing the chronic alcohol-induced cognitive deficits in rats.

      Yuen and his group are currently conducting a clinical study in human subjects on
      neuroprotective effects of tocotrienols (NCT00753532). In the study, subjects were followed
      up for 2 years to determine the volume of white matter lesions on repeated MRI after
      treatment with tocotrienol as compared to placebo. White matter lesions are related to
      vascular events in the brain and represent subclinical infarcts, resulting in death/
      degeneration of neurons and are positively correlated to cognitive impairment. Preliminary
      results from an interim analysis are encouraging; patients on tocotrienols shown significant
      reduction in volume of white matter lesion (confidential communication).
    
  