
    
      Open fractures of the tibial diaphysis are known to have high rates of nonunion or delayed
      union, with widely varying nonunion rates reported to be between 15% and 60% even in lower
      Gustilo Anderson grade (types I, II, and IIIA) open fractures. Nonunions are costly as they
      require more healthcare services and result in increased patient pain and disability. A
      previous study has demonstrated that the use of bone morphogenic protein (BMP) at the time of
      definitive tibial shaft fracture fixation significantly reduced the risk of delayed union.
      However, BMP is costly and is rarely used for this purpose. Intramedullary bone graft (IMBG)
      collected by the reamer-irrigator-aspirator (RIA) technique has been shown to be effective
      for producing bone graft to stimulate healing and treat larger defects in long bones as well
      as in the treatment of nonunions. However, the RIA apparatus also introduces and extra
      expense to the operation and produces more bone graft than would be needed for packing of the
      open cortex in non-segmental fractures without bone loss. The investigator's study aims to
      determine if packing the exposed fracture cortex with a small volume of IMBG collected from
      the tip of a standard reamer during intramedullary nailing can effectively reduce rate of
      delayed union and nonunion in open tibia shaft fractures.

      This will be a prospective interventional study with two randomized, parallel groups.
      Patients with an open diaphyseal tibial fracture will be considered for study inclusion.
      Patients who consent to participate in the study will be randomized to one of two groups. The
      first will be the control group. This group will receive the standard of care for their
      injury, which consists of irrigation and debridement of the open fracture, reamed
      intramedullary nailing and primary wound closure. The second group, the intervention group,
      will also undergo irrigation and debridement of the open fracture with reamed intramedullary
      nailing, but will also receive a bone graft on the exposed cortex of the tibial fracture
      before primarily closing the wound. The bone graft will be made up of the product of the
      intramedullary reaming prior to the insertion of the intramedullary nail. This bone graft
      will be collected by wiping the reamings from the reamer tip into a sterile, pre-weighed
      container after each pass of the reamer through the medullary canal. Prior to introducing the
      graft into the exposed cortex, the graft will be weighed so that a record may be kept of the
      amount of graft collected and subsequently used in the procedure.

      Each group will then receive identical follow-up care with clinic visits at 2, 8, 16, and 24
      weeks post operatively, and will receive X-rays at the 8, 16, and 24 week visits. Each
      radiograph will be evaluated and assigned a Radiographic Union Scale in Tibial fractures
      (RUST) score by an independent evaluator. Additionally, the Lower Extremity Functional Scale
      (LEFS) questionnaire will be administered at enrollment, 8, 16, and 24 week visit to
      objectively measure patient progress in functional outcomes. The primary outcome measurement
      will be the rate of union of the fracture in both groups at 3 and 6 month follow up.
      Radiographic union of the fracture will be defined as the presence of cortical bridging on at
      least 3 of the 4 cortices or RUST score >10. Delayed union will be defined as failure to
      achieve cortical bridging on 3 of 4 cortices or a RUST score >10 by 6 months. Nonunion will
      be defined as a fracture that in the opinion of the treating surgeon has no possibility of
      healing without further intervention.
    
  