
    
      For many obese diabetics, medical treatment and lifestyle modification fail to provide
      acceptable glucose levels or durable weight loss. Bariatric surgical procedures have been
      proven to provide better glycemic control and to improve life expectancy and quality of life.
      But these are invasive procedures with significant complications, and notwithstanding the
      strong clinical evidence and consensus guidance, less than 2% of patients who would benefit
      from bariatric surgery choose to undergo the invasive procedures. There is therefore a
      significant unmet clinical need for metabolic/bariatric therapies that result in durable
      improvement in glycemic control, decreased anti-diabetic medication requirements, and weight
      loss, with fewer and less severe complications than invasive bariatric surgery.

      Human clinical data suggests that partial diversion through a side-to-side jejunoileal
      anastomosis results in an absolute decrease in HbA1c of 1.9 to 3.6 percentage points and a
      decrease in total weight of 9.6 to 14.6% at 12 months. Although these studies used other
      methods, they provide good evidence that the anastomosis created by Neujia should be expected
      to safely improve glycemic control.

      A minimally invasive anastomosis device (Neujia) and endoscopic delivery system have been
      developed to create a side-to-side jejunoileal anastomosis. One device is deployed in the
      jejunum, approximately 30 to 100 cm distal to the ligament of Treitz, and the other in the
      ileum, approximately 30 to 100 cm proximal to the ileocecal valve. The devices are mated
      under endoscopic guidance with fluoroscopic visualization and create a compression
      anastomosis. Neujia has the potential to provide a fully endoscopic, incisionless procedure
      that achieves durable weight loss and glycemic control without the risks of bariatric
      surgery. The proposed single arm study is designed to assess the feasibility and safety and
      efficacy of the Neujia device when used to treat T2DM and obesity. Subjects are followed for
      12 months and annually thereafter for up to 5 years to assess change in metabolic parameters,
      medications, weight, and adverse events.
    
  