
    
      Hypophosphatasia (HPP) is caused by mutations in the tissue non-specific alkaline phosphatase
      (TNSALP) gene with deficiency in TNSALP activity. This leads to accumulation of inorganic
      pyrophosphate, a potent inhibitor of bone mineralization, which causes rickets and
      osteomalacia, and of pyridoxal 5-phosphate (PLP) which causes seizures in neonates but no
      harm in adults. HPP is also associated with muscle weakness (which is very severe in
      perinatal and infantile forms) and early tooth loss. The most severe forms of HPP present in
      infancy, and were fatal until the recent development of TNSALP enzyme replacement therapy,
      Asfotase Alpha. Adult-onset HPP is less severe. It often presents with fractures of the femur
      or metatarsals, and so is likely to be misdiagnosed as osteoporosis. Correct diagnosis of HPP
      is important as the usual osteoporosis treatments, for example bisphosphonates, may be
      harmful and increase the risk of fracture.

      High resolution peripheral quantitative computed tomography (HR-pQCT) is an imaging technique
      that allows the detailed assessment of BMD, microstructure and strength. HR-pQCT could reveal
      important information about the effects of HPP on bone microstructural properties.

      HPP can also have a significant effect on physical functioning. In infantile HPP, motor
      function delay is usual but in adult-onset HPP effects on physical functioning are less
      apparent. These effects can be explored through the use of physical function testing and
      clinical gait analysis. Cognitive function may be affected by low levels of or inactivity of
      ALP in the neural tissue (TNALP). Patients with HPP have reported forgetfulness and
      'fogginess'.

      The aims of the study are to examine the effects of HPP on (i) bone structure and strength,
      (ii) physical functioning, (iii) cognition and (iv) quality of life (QoL). Researchers will
      study adults with HPP and healthy individuals. The results will help to determine if there
      should be a trial of a new drug treatment for adults with HPP. This study forms part of our
      wider programme of research into HPP.

      Researchers will recruit 7 patients with childhood- or adult-presenting HPP (cases), who are
      known to the Metabolic Bone Clinic at the Metabolic Bone Centre (MBC), Northern General
      Hospital (NGH), Sheffield. Researchers will also recruit 7 healthy controls matched to the
      cases by gender and age. Researchers will approach first degree relatives (with their
      permission) of patients with HPP to offer them genetic testing for HPP. If HPP is confirmed,
      approach these first degree relatives to invite them to participate in the study, Fasting
      blood samples will be obtained for measurement of serum or plasma bone alkaline phosphatase
      (bone ALP), PLP, procollagen type I N-propeptide (PINP), C-terminal telopeptide (CTX) and
      genetic testing (if not already performed).

      Medical history and lifestyle, quality of life and cognitive function will be assessed using
      questionnaires.

      Bone mineral density (BMD) of the lumbar spine, proximal femur and whole body will be
      measured using dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA). Whole body composition will also be
      determined by DXA. Trabecular and cortical BMD and bone microstructure and strength will be
      examining using HR-pQCT of the distal radius and tibia.

      Physical functioning will also be assessed. Participants will undergo a series of physical
      performance tests/gait analysis tests. Chair rises (sit to stand), a timed up and go test. A
      10 m walking test and a 4 stair climb will be used to assess muscle strength. A modified
      performance oriented mobility assessment-gait (MPOMA-G) will also be performed. Recordings of
      the kinematics, ground reaction forces, electromyography (EMG) data and muscle function will
      be made using a motion capture system. This will allow the quantification of joint kinematics
      and kinetics and of muscular pattern activation during the execution of a number of different
      motor skills. Lower limb magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), with the participants dressed in a
      set of MRI visible markers, will allow the registration of the MRI and physical
      functioning/gait data enhancing the participant's specific musculoskeletal modelling.

      Cognitive function tests (a Montreal Cognitive Assessment) will be performed to assess the
      burden of disease of HPP on cognitive and mental health as forgetfulness and 'fogginess' have
      been reported by patients.

      The results from the various assessments performed will be compared between the age-gender
      matched cases and controls using paired samples t-tests. For each test, the mean difference,
      95% confidence interval and associated p-value will be reported. In the event of the
      normality assumption of the paired samples t-test being violated comparisons will be made
      using the non-parametric Wilcoxon signed rank test. The burden of disease of HPP on bone
      quality (i.e. BMD, bone structure and strength), mental health, cognition, QoL, pain,
      physical functioning and gait will be examined using Spearman Rank Correlation.
    
  