
    
      Preeclampsia is a frequent complication of pregnancy. The chief concern is that preeclampsia
      may progress to end-organ damage, with resultant deterioration of both the mother and the
      fetus. As a result, women with significant preeclampsia may have their labor accelerated or
      even require caesarian section. The diagnosis is made based on a constellation of
      non-specific symptoms, including headache, vision changes, proteinuria, and hypertension. The
      diagnosis becomes even more difficult to establish when the patient has chronic hypertension
      prior to her pregnancy.

      In many Emergency Departments across the country, emergency physicians are faced with
      patients that have had either sporadic or non-existent prenatal care. Patients may often not
      know what their blood pressure was before their pregnancy. Records may not exist or be
      available for the emergency physician to make an accurate decision. Patients are often
      transferred to a tertiary care center for obstetrical admission when the diagnosis is
      unclear, as outlying areas are increasingly without obstetrical coverage. The availability of
      a sensitive and specific test for the presence of preeclampsia, or gestational hypertension
      superimposed on chronic hypertension, would allow the emergency physician to avoid costly
      hospital admissions or transfers while provide safe and effective care for the patient.

      B-type or brain type natriuretic peptide (BNP) is a 32-amino acid peptide secreted primarily
      by the cardiac ventricles under conditions of ventricular wall strain. In addition, it has
      been demonstrated that BNP is also secreted in the human amnion during pregnancy. Small
      studies in the international literature suggest that serum BNP is elevated in preeclamptic
      patients and patients with chronic hypertension in pregnancy. A novel fluorescent immunoassay
      technique, the Biosite Triage BNP assay, utilizes murine fluorescent labeled antibodies to
      detect and quantify serum BNP levels. The Triage assay is designed for clinical use, with an
      estimated laboratory turnaround time of fifteen minutes (Biosite Triage BNP product insert).
      The Triage assay has gained acceptance as a highly sensitive and specific tool to assist in
      the rapid diagnosis of congestive heart failure exacerbation; its utility in the preeclamptic
      population has not been assessed.
    
  