
    
      Cyclopropane fatty acids (CPFA), as cis-9,10- methyleneoctadecanoic and cis- 11,12-
      methyleneoctadecanoic acids, are unusual alicyclic fatty acids which occur in plants, fungi,
      or microorganisms both Gram-negative and Gram-positive as well as protozoa and Myriapoda.
      Some papers suggest that cyclopropane fatty acids are involved in the bacterial pathogenesis
      of infections and in the resistance of some bacterial strains as Lactobacillus sp.,
      Escherichia Coli, Salmonella enterica, Staphilococcus aureus and Pseudomonas to different
      environmental stresses such as temperature changes, high osmolarity, solvents, acid pH and
      others as the presence of antibiotics or heavy metals in the culture medium. However, little
      is documented about the presence of CPFA in mammals. Recently, they were detected in milk and
      several dairy products, in bovine meat, in fish and in mushrooms. Our previous results showed
      that the most important food sources of CPFA were dairy products (mainly Grana Padano cheese)
      and bovine meat reaching concentration of 1g/kg order, while food processing, manufacturing,
      seasoning steps, fermentation as well as cooking did not affect CPFA content in the analyzed
      food matrices. Furthermore, CPFA intake from these foodstuffs should be considered dietary
      relevant in view of a possible physiological effect.

      Actually, CPFA (mainly cyclopropaneoctanoic acid 2-hexyl) have been recently identified in
      both human serum and adipose tissue, suggesting that these fatty acids are efficiently
      absorbed and may play a physiological role in the human body.

      Moreover, fatty acids containing cyclopropane rings have been reported to exert biological
      effects on lipid metabolism, kidney function, inflammation, and enzymes activity as
      cyclooxygenase and stearoyl-CoA desaturase. Previous results suggested that the synthesis of
      CPFA in microorganisms and in plants is regulated by the expression of CPFA synthase, which
      catalyse the addition of the methylene group from S-adenosylmethionine to double bond of the
      unsaturated fatty acids precursor. However, this enzyme has still not been identified in
      animals and humans. To the best of our knowledge, no information is present in literature
      about the fate of CPFA within the human body, and a thorough investigation of how CPFA can be
      metabolised and accumulate in humans is needed.

      The aim of this investigation is to determine CPFA presence in human plasma after a CPFA-rich
      diet (with controlled intake of Grana Padano cheese and whole milk containing CPFA). Plasma
      of the volunteers will be collected at eight different timepoints for lipid extraction, CPFA
      identification and quantification by GC-MS. A preliminary pilot in vivo acute study will be
      performed (involving only 1 subject) for investigating the post-prandial response curve of
      CPFA after a portion of Grana Padano cheese.
    
  