
    
      This study is a single centre, single arm, non-randomized, non-blinded study. All eligible
      subjects will receive MR-HIFU therapy, and no blinding is necessary.

      All patients will receive one session of MR-HIFU treatment with the Philips Sonalleve MR-HIFU
      device on the most painful of their bone metastases.

      Will be enrolled in the study consecutive patients with painful skeletal metastases from any
      solid tumours. Patients with all severity grade of pain (mild, moderate and severe pain) will
      be included in the study.

      At HIFU day (day 0) before treatment patient will be performed a bone lesion MRI and a
      functional brain MRI. The functional brain MRI is not clinical practice: it is not dangerous
      for the patient, it only involves a longer time of exam for the patient in the MRI site.

      A Brief Pain Inventory, a EORTC-quality of life questionnaire-C15-paired-associate learning
      and information about pain medication recording will be collected always before treatment.

      During the treatment procedure, an intravenous catheter will deliver MR contrast media and
      medications (such as sedation and analgesics if required) within the MR room. The body
      temperature of the patients will be measured prior to the procedure. In the MR room the
      patients will lie still on the HIFU patient table inside the MRI magnet. The operator will
      locate the target tissue and mark the volume to be treated using MRI images. The operator
      starts the treatment and monitors the progress of the treatment with MR thermal and dose maps
      according to the Sonalleve Instructions for Use to ensure safety. Following the MR-HIFU
      procedure, a set of MR images of the target region will be acquired with the use of a MR
      contrast agent, together with a functional brain MRI. The functional brain MRI is not
      clinical practice: it is not dangerous for the patient, it only involves a longer time of
      exam for the patient under the MRI tunnel. Patients will return for follow-up appointments on
      Day 14, 30, 60 and 90 for clinical examination. Clinical examination will include inspection
      and palpation of the treated area and assessment of functionality (e.g. walking pattern or
      range of movement). The Brief Pain Inventory and the EORTC-quality of life questionnaire will
      also be administered (to be completed by the patient), and pain medication usage and any
      possible adverse events will be recorded. Additionally, bone MRI of the treated site and
      functional brain MRI images will be acquired at 30 and 90 days after treatment.

      STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS To calculate the sample size the optimal two-stage design
      developed by Simon is used (Richard Simon, Controlled Clinical Trials 1989). Considering a 2
      stage study, with a difference p1-p0=20% between a standard treatment (p0=40%) and the
      investigated treatment (p1=60%) and setting alfa error probability at 0.10 and beta error
      probability at 0.10, 28 patients will have to be treated in the 1st stage of the trial. If
      less or equal than 11 responses are observed among the 28 patients, then the study will be
      stopped. Otherwise the study will continue to a total of 41 patients will be treated in the
      second stage. If there are more than 20 responses in 41 patients in the second stage, this
      treatment could be considered active.

      The Intent-to-treat (ITT) population is defined as the population of all enrolled patients.
      The per-protocol population is considered as all patients in the ITT population except those
      who prove non to be eligible after enrollment, who withdraw before the MR-HIFU treatment or
      who commit major protocol violations. The safety population as considered as all patients in
      the ITT population who underwent to MR-HIFU treatment.
    
  