
    
      The purpose of the study is to refine the PK model for planning a future definitive study.
      This is a pilot study to obtain preliminary data on the pharmacokinetics of VCR and the way
      it differs in the AYA population compared to the younger children as defined by Tanner
      staging. Additionally, we want to determine if Calpain levels correlate with vincristine and
      its PK and to determine if it can be used as biomarker for VRNT.

      Specific Aim 1: Develop a non-parametric population model of vincristine and M1 PK in
      children and adolescents.

      Hypothesis: The PK of vincristine and its metabolite M1 will differ between young children
      and AYA as defined by Tanner stage

      Specific Aim 2: Measure repeated serum calpain with initiation of vincristine and again after
      four weeks of therapy.

      Hypothesis: Compared to baseline, serum calpain will increase after administration of
      vincristine.

      For the first time, patients will be classified based on their physiologic maturity-rather
      than age-to determine whether having a more adult phenotype is associated with prolonged
      vincristine exposure. This will increase our likelihood of detecting a developmentally-driven
      difference in vincristine metabolism and, if successful, provide evidence that Tanner staging
      is a more reliable method for classifying adolescents for purposes of chemotherapy dosing.
      Further, we will not only characterize vincristine PK differences between the two groups, but
      will for the first time examine differences in the PK of M1.We are analyzing calpain levels
      as a separate entity from Tanner staging. We are trying to establish if there is an
      association between calpain and vincristine administration, as well as vincristine induced
      peripheral neuropathy. However, in evaluating the association between vincristine dose, PK
      and calpain levels, we will be adjusting for age and Tanner stage in the analysis.

      To account for enzyme polymorphism in the metabolism of vincristine, we will analyze each
      patient for CYP3A5 genotype, which has been associated with increase in clearance of
      vincristine and less peripheral neuropathy and decrease severity of vincristine induced
      peripheral neuropathy. Additionally, we will determine the vincristine's PK which will allow
      us to probe the impact of polymorphism with regards to VCR disposition.

      For all of the following aims, we will enroll a total of 30 patients with a unified diagnosis
      of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL),6 months to 21 in Induction phase or in Maintenance
      phase of therapy. Patients will be stratified by phase of treatment, and they will be
      classified into Tanner stage ≤ 2 or ≥ 4, based on physical examination. We plan to have 15
      patients in Tanner staging ≤ 2 and 15 patients in Tanner staging ≥ 45. Each patient will
      receive vincristine weekly x 4 (Induction) or monthly (Maintenance), at a standard dose
      specified by the treatment protocol. Since PK measurements will be obtained around a single
      VCR dose; it is appropriate to include patients with ALL from two phases of treatment. The
      study will be conducted at a single institution, Children's Hospital Los Angeles (CHLA). From
      the newly diagnosed patients in Induction phase, we will collect optimally timed blood
      samples prior to and 10 minutes, 30 minutes, 1 hour, 12 hours and 24 hours following the
      first dose of vincristine. We will also measure serum calpain, a candidate biomarker for
      nerve injury, before and after the first dose of vincristine, and again after the 4th weekly
      dose. For the ALL patients in the Maintenance phase, we will collect optimally timed blood
      samples prior to and 10 minutes, 30 minutes, 1 hours and 24 hours following the dose of
      vincristine. In ALL patients in Maintenance, a 12 hour blood sample will not be feasible
      since these patients are treated in the outpatient setting. We will also measure serum
      calpain levels prior to vincristine dose, 24 hours after and 4 weeks after the measured
      vincristine level. The study period for ALL patients in Maintenance phase will be completed 4
      weeks after initial measured VCR PK level.
    
  