
    
      A multicenter Phase III, randomized, double-blinded, parallel group placebo-controlled study.

      2 groups:

        -  Control arm = pts. with placebo

        -  Experimental arm = pts. with Solifenacin succinate 5 mg - Vesicare® All patients with an
           OAB sub-score using the USP scale greater to 5 during prostate cancer radiotherapy will
           be included, receiving either a placebo or Solifenacin succinate (5mg) for duration of 3
           months.

      The randomization will be stratified on the radiotherapy dose (1 to 40 Gy or 40 to 70/80 Gy).

      Screening:

      For all patients, OAB items of the USP scale will be completed before each standard weekly
      assessment during prostate radiotherapy. Patients who reach an OAB sub-score greater to 5
      will be addressed to an urologist in order to confirm absence of Qmax < 10ml/sec at initial
      assessment, or post-void residual urine > 100 milliliter (ml).

      Inclusion & treatment:

      A week at most after pre-screening, patients will be randomized to receive either
      Vesicare®-5mg or a placebo. In both study arms, the treatment should be continued for 3
      months.

      Follow-up:

      The radiation oncologist will perform patients' follow-up for the study at the treatment
      initiation, 6 weeks and 3 months after start of the treatment (Vesicare or placebo).

      The questionnaires for the evaluation of OAB syndrome, acute urinary toxicity and quality of
      life should be completed for each follow-up visit. The voiding diary will be completed during
      3 days before (or if not, 3 days after) all the evaluation times.

      An urologist will perform an uroflowmetry and a post-voiding echography (or a bladder scan)
      before initiation of the treatment, and after 6 weeks of treatment.

      Statistics and sample size PATIENTS ENROLMENT 70 patients will be included (considering 66
      patients completing the full study) within 3 recruitment centers
    
  