
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune inflammatory arthritis that causes local bone
      destruction and systemic bone loss. The systemic inflammatory state, frequent use of
      glucocorticoids and decreased functional ability in these participants all contribute to the
      development of osteoporosis. These participants exhibit decreased strength, poor posture, and
      impaired balance and stability. Because of this, participants with both rheumatoid arthritis
      and osteoporosis are particularly vulnerable to falls and fractures, which can dramatically
      affect their overall morbidity and mortality. Exercises are a known intervention that can
      mitigate some of these factors and improve physical function. Often in Rheumatology clinic,
      participant's will be given handouts concerning posture and exercise to complete, with little
      follow-up of their progress or evaluation of their technique. In this study, investigators
      will determine if the addition a video-based exercise intervention with handouts and limited
      physical therapist instruction and monitoring help this population increase adoption of a
      regular exercise program designed to improve strength, dynamic posture, and balance.

      The purpose of this study is to determine if the addition of computer-based video
      instructions with handouts and limited physical therapist (PT) instruction helps adoption and
      performance of an intervention designed to improve strength, dynamic posture, and balance in
      individuals with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoporosis (OP). Investigators will perform
      all measurements and interventions via web-based and telecommunication technology.
      Twenty-four participants will be recruited for this feasibility study using flyers posted in
      the Rheumatology and Osteoporosis clinics at the University of Alabama at Birmingham (UAB).
      The investigators, who help staff these clinics, will also alert other clinic physicians of
      this study via flyers designed for these health care professionals to help recruit study
      participants. The participants will consent to participate in this study. The UAB
      Institutional Review Board will approve this study.

      After consenting, a physical therapist (PT), blind to group assignment, will perform outcome
      measurements. Outcome measurements will be assessed at baseline and within a week after the
      12-week intervention is completed. Measurements include five times sit-to-stand-to sit
      (5xSTS), Arm curl (bicep) test (ACT), 4-stage balance test, and a dynamic posture test.
      Participants will also complete a questionnaire that examines demographics, medical history,
      exercise and fall perceptions, and functional activity performance. The pre- and
      post-intervention questionnaires will be similar except the post-intervention questionnaire
      will not include demographic, medical history questions, and perceived readiness to exercise
      item. SurveyMonkey will be used to deliver and collect all questionnaire data. The
      post-intervention questionnaire will contain items assessing intervention satisfaction.

      Prior to enrolling participants, investigators will develop a script and checklist for the PT
      performing the measurements to increase consistency of outcome measurement. The PT will also
      practice these measurements using Zoom and intra-rater reliability will be determined.
      Intra-rater reliability will also be assessed from the data collected. Finally, investigators
      will perform quality control by reviewing recordings of the measurement sessions.

      After baseline measurements, participants will be randomly assigned to one of two groups: one
      group will receive handouts that provide program instructions with PT coaching (HO) or a
      group who receives the same instructional delivery plus links to web-based videos instructing
      all elements of the program intervention (HO+). Participants will be asked to perform
      moderate level exercise/posture activity 6 sessions/week for 35 to 40 minutes per day
      (duration of activity/session by the end of the intervention). By email, the HO+ group
      participants will receive handouts with links to access the safe exercise posture
      instruction, posture warm-up, balance exercise resistance exercise and marching. The HO group
      will also receive an email that with the same attachments minus the video links. In both
      groups, the first intervention instruction email will instruct the participants to not start
      the program until the intervention PT (not the same PT who performs the measurements) guides
      them through the program via a Zoom videoconference. In week two, the intervention PT will
      finish the initial instructions in another 30-minute session. The PT will meet with
      participants during the third week of the intervention for a 15-minute meeting and will
      continue to meet with participants for 15-minutes every two weeks thereafter via Zoom. During
      these 15-minute sessions, the intervention PT will help individuals progress exercises,
      monitor symptoms, answer questions, and make performance recommendations. All participants
      will be instructed to track their posture and exercise activity by using a monitoring log
      provided by the research group. These logs will be shared with the investigators.

      Resistance exercise will be performed three times a week with a one to two-day rest between
      each session. Resistance will be provided through elastic bands. The resistance of the
      elastic bands will be increased by color in the order of yellow (least resistant), red,
      green, blue, and black (most resistant). Initially, the participants will use the yellow
      band. Two weeks after the start of exercise, and if the participant can perform two sets of
      12 of an exercise, the red band will be used. The intervention PT will make this
      determination via video conferencing with the participants in both groups. The PT will make
      this determination based not only on the successful completion of the exercise but also by
      the quality of movement and if the participant is no longer reporting, fatigue or burning in
      the targeted muscle(s). At this second visit, the PT will also discuss how to progress
      resistance, so that the participant can progress the program on his or her own in the future.
      In this way, the exercise intensity will be safely increased. Participants will be sent
      elastic bands of one-yard length of each color prior to starting the intervention.

      On the days that they are not performing the resistance exercises, both groups will perform
      marching in place three times a week. Participants will be instructed to slowly progress to a
      goal of performing 30 minutes of marching in place per session. They will be instructed to
      lift their knees to a height that is between their waist and knee when marching. Participants
      will start performing at 5 minutes of marching twice a day. Every two weeks they will
      progress the goal of marching time by 5 minutes. They will march two times per day until they
      reach 20 minutes. At this time, they will march one time per day. They will be instructed to
      march between a rating of 10 -14 on the 20-point Borg scale for rate of perceived exertion.
      The intervention PT will help participants in both groups progress safely when she
      teleconferences with each participant every two weeks.

      Posture training will be performed daily. The participants will be taught over two 30-minute
      sessions by the intervention PT how to hold good posture with activity. In the first visit,
      the intervention PT will discuss holding dynamic posture basics, finding and holding good
      posture in sitting and sit to stand. In the next visit, she will teach them how to progress
      to standing activities while holding good posture. The PT will instruct the participant to
      use the posture activities as a warm-up on all days of exercise. She will also encourage
      participants to incorporate these skills in daily activities.

      Balance exercise will also be performed daily. The position chosen by the intervention PT
      will be based on the four-stage balance test. The position that the participant failed at
      will be the position that will be starting point for the participant. For example, if they
      were unable to hold the modified tandem stance for 10 seconds they will start at that
      position. They will be instructed to stand by a kitchen counter or table so they steady
      themselves if needed. They will hold this position for 60-seconds. If they are practicing
      balance in a modified tandem or tandem stance, they will switch what foot is in front after
      thirty seconds and hold another 30 seconds. The participant will switch feet after 30 seconds
      when practicing balance in the standing on one-foot position. If participant performs
      perfectly on the 4-stage balance test, they will perform the same test but eyes closed on
      testing day. Selection of starting position and progression will be the same as practicing
      balance with eyes open. The intervention PT will help the participant progress their balance
      exercise.

      The intervention PT will use scripts and checklists developed prior to participant enrollment
      to ensure consistency of instruction between participants. The intervention PT will practice
      instructing participants prior to participant enrollment via Zoom with other investigators.
      These sessions will be taped so that they can be reviewed and scripts and checklists refined.

      Demographic, satisfaction data, perception items and scales will be analyzed using
      appropriate descriptive statistics. Descriptive statistics, such as means and standard
      deviations, will also be used to describe data from 5xSTS, ACT and balance tests. These tests
      will also be analyzed using Cohen d to determine effect size. To determine within and between
      group differences over time, mixed-factor ANOVAs will be used. Finally, a Wilcoxon-Signed
      Rank test will be used to determine differences between the groups for the dynamic posture
      test.
    
  