
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of donor-derived allogeneic anti-CD3 X anti-CD20
           bispecific antibody (CD20Bi)-armed activated T cells (ATC) when given with low-dose
           aldesleukin and low-dose sargramostim (GM-CSF) after allogeneic stem cell
           transplantation in patients with relapsed or refractory CD20-positive non-Hodgkin
           lymphoma.

        -  Perform trafficking studies using indium I 111-labeled unarmed ATC and ATC armed with
           CD20Bi in patients with evaluable lymphoma sites to determine whether armed ATC
           specifically traffic to tumor sites and correlate these data with CT and PET scans.

        -  Evaluate immune responses and immune reconstitution of T and B cells.

      OUTLINE: All patients receive high-dose chemotherapy that is standard of care for their
      disease. Peripheral blood lymphocytes are obtained from the HLA-identical sibling donor and
      cultured to obtain activated T cells (ATC), some of which are subsequently armed with CD20
      bispecific antibody (CD20Bi) and cryopreserved for later use. Patients then undergo
      allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (SCT).

      Patients receive ATC-CD20Bi IV on days 40, 70, 100, 130, and 160 after SCT. Patients receive
      low-dose aldesleukin subcutaneously (SC) once daily for 7 days beginning within 24 hours
      after each ATC-CD20Bi infusion and low-dose sargramostim (GM-CSF) SC every other day for 3
      doses beginning within 24 hours after each infusion of ATC-CD20Bi. Patients also receive
      tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil as standard graft-vs-host disease prophylaxis. Treatment
      continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      Some patients with well-defined or evaluable masses receive indium I 111 (^111I)-labeled
      ATC-CD20Bi IV and ^111I-labeled unarmed ATC and then undergo whole-body imaging for
      trafficking studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 6 months, 12 months, and then
      annually thereafter.
    
  