
    
      Progressive memory loss and impairment of reasoning and judgment are the main symptoms of
      dementia (including Alzheimer's Disease). For this reason, people in the early stages of
      dementia are encouraged to engage in advance care planning (ACP) while they are still
      competent to appoint a surrogate decision maker and meaningfully participate in ACP
      discussions with the surrogate.

      The most common type of ACP is completing a medical power of attorney or living will, which
      does not require the patient and/or the family to understand the complexity of the medical
      decision-making process faced by the surrogate as the patient progresses to advanced disease.
      The failure to engage in ACP before the window of opportunity closes (i.e., before loss of
      decision making capacity) has serious adverse consequences with the greatest impact on the
      surrogate. As a matter of course in dementia, family members are left to make decisions
      regarding care transition, tube feeding, and other life-sustaining treatment without input
      from the patient and in the absence of a full understanding of the wishes, values and
      preferences of the patient.

      To make an impact on the state of ACP for patients with dementia and their surrogates, the
      researchers will adapt and pilot test an efficacious ACP intervention, SPIRIT (Sharing
      Patient's Illness Representations to Increase Trust), with patients with mild dementia and
      their surrogates to promote open, honest discussions while such discussions about end-of-life
      care are possible. SPIRIT is a brief, scalable patient- and family-centered ACP intervention
      based on the Representational Approach to Patient Education with a goal to promote cognitive
      and emotional preparation for end-of-life decision making for patients with a serious or
      life-threatening illness and their surrogates. SPIRIT focuses on having both the patient and
      the surrogate fully understand end-of-life decision making in anticipation of a loss of
      decision-making capacity.

      During Phase I of the study, a panel of seven experts will provide feedback on adapting
      SPIRIT to persons with dementia and their surrogates. SPIRIT will also be adapted to a video
      conference format so that patients and surrogates can receive the intervention in their home.
      To pretest the adapted SPIRIT intervention, the first 10 patient and surrogate dyads will be
      randomly assigned to SPIRIT-in person or to SPIRIT-remote. After completion of each session
      the interventionist will make field notes to document what did or did not go well, reasons
      for interruptions or difficulties, and contextual factors that cannot be captured in the
      audio-recording. During the post-intervention assessment each participant will complete the
      preparedness outcome questionnaires and will be asked about the overall experience with
      SPIRIT, any facets of the intervention that the participant found helpful or not helpful and
      the reasons (pacing, length, and modality), and suggestions for improvement. The researchers
      will alter or refine the intervention before pretesting a second set of 10 dyads.

      Phase II of the study is a randomized clinical trial with three groups: SPIRIT-in person,
      SPIRIT-remote, and usual care. The researchers will recruit 120 dyads of patients with mild
      dementia and their surrogates. The groups will be stratified by race (white vs non-white).
      The primary outcomes are patient and surrogate self-reported preparedness for end-of-life
      decision making which will be measured at baseline and shortly after the intervention (by
      phone in the next 2-3 days). Additionally, the researchers will compare the completion rates
      of advance directives among the three groups and the impact of the three treatment conditions
      perceived by surrogates at 1-year post intervention.

      As of July 2020, recruitment of Phase II participants into the SPIRIT-in person study arm
      ceased in consideration of social distancing guidelines due to the severe acute respiratory
      syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) pandemic. Participants enrolled after this date will will
      be randomized to the SPIRIT-remote or usual care study arms.
    
  