
    
      Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) spreads rapidly and causes a
      pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19, the disease caused by SARS-CoV-2). Protecting
      and supporting caregivers is essential to maintain the workforce in the hospital to treat
      patients.

      The use of recommended barrier precautions such as masks, gloves and gowns is of highest
      priority in the care of all patients with respiratory symptoms. However, given the long
      incubation period of 5 days there will be undiagnosed but infected patients with clinically
      mild cases, atypical presentations or even no symptoms at all. Thus, healthcare workers are
      on the one side at risk to get infected by asymptomatic patients and on the other side are
      critically needed for later phases of the epidemic, when the resources will in all likelihood
      be scarce or depleted.

      One potential strategy to maintain workforce throughout an epidemic is to reduce the
      workforce in the early phases. Reducing workforce at early phases might potentially reduce
      in-hospital infection of the caregivers and reduces early burnout. One way of reducing the
      active workforce is to postpone all elective and non-urgent medical interventions to later
      phases of the epidemic.

      Desynchronization of infection rates in healthcare workers will potentially reduce the early
      infection rates and therefore maintain workforce for late time points of the epidemic. Given
      the current threat of the COVID-19 epidemic, the department for Visceral Surgery and
      Medicine, Bern University Hospital, has decided to limit its elective interventions to
      oncological and life-saving procedures only. At the same time, the medical team were split in
      two teams, each working for 7 days followed by 7 days off, called a desynchronization
      strategy. Contacts between the two teams are avoided. This new regulation took effect on
      March 16th 2020.

      Currently available resources to perform tests for SARS-CoV-2 infection are limited for the
      clinical routine and are therefore not available for research purposes. Thus, in the context
      of a clinical study the investigators aim to perform additional testing of SARS-CoV-2 of
      healthcare workers and patients in order to determine the clinical consequences of such
      desynchronization strategy, firstly within the current epidemic and secondly for future
      outbreaks.

      The main aim of present study is to determine if the infection rate between the two
      populations (at work versus at home) is different. Secondary aims are to determine if the
      workforce can be maintained for longer periods compared standard of care, and if the
      infection rate among patients hospitalized for other reasons varies compared to the
      community.
    
  