
    
      Low back pain is a prevalent problem all over the World. low back pain prevalence is 84% by
      lifetime Chronic low back pain prevalence is 23%. Low back pain causing disability prevalence
      is also11% (1). Increasing sedentary lifestyle and obesity, aging of the population and
      inappropriate ergonomic work activities and working environment in the working society
      contribute to this increase (2).

      Chronic low back pain is an important cause of labor losses and also it is the most common
      functional insufficiency under 45 years of age (3). Treatment approaches such as exercise and
      education in which the patient is actively involved in the treatment are recommended for the
      treatment of non-specific acute, subacute and especially chronic low back pain (4).

      Whole body vibration (WBV), which is a new treatment method and applied through the device,
      is defined as mechanical repetitive motion or oscillatory motion occurring around a balance
      point (5). Chronic nonspecific low back pain is still a serious clinical, social and economic
      health problem. There are few studies and limited evidence evaluating the effectiveness of
      WBV exercises in chronic nonspecific low back pain. Different protocols are used for wbv
      exercise in studies (6). Our aim is to compare the effects of whole body vibration exercise
      modality on pain, functional recovery, laboor impact, quality of life with control group in
      patients with chronic nonspecific low back pain.

      MATERYAL METHOD

      This prospective, randomized and controlled study include 70 patients who were diagnosed
      chronic nonspecific low back pain. Patients were randomized into two groups using the 1:1
      method. The first group was the treatment group in which applied the whole body vibration
      exercise and classical lumbar home exercise program. The second group (control) only received
      classical lumbar home exercise program.

      Inclusion criterias are non-specific LBP (LBP other than those excluded, see exclusion
      criteria below) of a more than 3 months in patients aged 20 to 50 years, with average pain
      intensity evaluated Visaual Analog Scale (VAS) (1-10) that is higher than 5 Exclusion
      criterias are participants with likely specific causes of LBP This includes exclusion of
      history of malignancy, history of recent spinal surgery, dislocation, fracture, rheumatoid
      arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis and history of weakness of lower extremity or loss of
      sensation in lower extremity. Additionally, current pregnancy, , lactation, uncontrolled
      hypertension and history of diagnosed mental health conditions that would limit adherence to
      the trial procedures will be excluded.

      Patients in the TVT exercise group; 24 sessions of TVT exercise 3 days a week (with at least
      1 day of rest between each session) was performed under the supervision of a physician for a
      total of 8 weeks. . The vibration was given by the Power Plate® (pro5TM; Power Plate North
      America, Inc., Northbrook, IL, USA) device where a three-plan oscillation took place (most
      vertical, Z-axis).The Istanbul Low Back Pain Disability index is a self-reported measure of
      functional disability . The Istanbul Low Back Pain Disability index has reliability and
      validit(7). Quality of life was assessed using Short form-36 (SF-36). SF-36 is a widely used
      and validated scale in assessing quality of life. It is not specific to any disease group.
      Health and Labor Questionnaire (HLQ) was used in our study to evaluate job performance. HLQ
      is designed to collect quantitative data on the treatment of disease and its relationship to
      work performance. Intercultural adaptation was made to Turkish. HLQ data allow to estimate
      the production losses (costs) of paid and unpaid labor (8).
    
  