
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the frequency of expression of epithelial markers CK19, CK20, MUC1, and MUC5
           (by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction) in lymph node tissue and blood
           samples of patients with resectable stage IB-III non-small cell lung cancer treated with
           neoadjuvant vinorelbine and gemcitabine followed by surgery.

        -  Determine the expression of the multidrug resistance-associated protein gene before and
           after treatment with this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the global expression profile of genes (by microarray technology) in tumor
           tissue of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the frequency of loss of heterozygosity at several loci on chromosomes 3p, 9p,
           and 11p before and after treatment with this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the percent positivity of cells that stain for MCM2 and CDC6 (prereplicative
           complex) by immunohistochemistry before and after treatment with this regimen in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the feasibility of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the pathological response rates in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the side effects of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the disease-free and overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the autologous immune response in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive vinorelbine IV over 6-10 minutes and gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes
      on days 1, 8, 22, and 29 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients with no disease progression by scans or bronchoscopy undergo surgical resection
      between days 57-70 (weeks 8-10).

      Loss of heterozygosity (LOH) at loci on chromosomes 3p, 9p, and 11p is assessed in blood
      specimens, tumor tissue, and noncancerous tissue before and after chemotherapy. Specimens are
      also examined for molecular markers of occult metastasis using reverse
      transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Multidrug resistance-associated protein gene
      expression is also determined using microarray technology.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 5 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    
  