
    
      Background:

        -  The incidence of esophageal cancer continues to increase with an estimated 16,900 new
           cases and 15,700 deaths in 2016. Esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) is the dominant
           histology in the United States and accounts for the rising incidence; the incidence of
           esophageal squamous cell cancer (ESCC) remains stable.

        -  Neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (nCRT) followed by esophagectomy is now a standard
           approach for locally advanced, operable esophageal cancer.

        -  A survival advantage compared to surgery alone was demonstrated in the phase III Chemo

      Radiotherapy for Oesophageal cancer followed by Surgery Study (CROSS) trial.

        -  Patients who experience a pathological complete response (pCR) following neoadjuvant
           therapy are most likely to have long-term survival.

        -  Presently, accurate assessment of pathologic response requires esophagectomy.
           Positron-emissions tomography (fludeoxyglucose (FDG-PET)) and endoscopic evaluation with
           biopsies fail to detect cancer in a significant percentage of patients with residual
           disease following neoadjuvant therapy.

        -  Currently there are no validated tissue or serologic biomarkers which can be used to
           guide surgical management of esophageal cancer patients based on response to nCRT.

      Primary Objective:

      -To determine whether a metabolomic signature in tumor, blood, or urine or whether BH3
      profiling of pre-neoadjuvant tumor biopsies correlates with the outcome of pathological
      complete response after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy for patients with esophageal
      adenocarcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma.

      Eligibility:

      -Patients with locally-advanced, histologically confirmed EAC or ESCC who are candidates for
      nCRT and esophagectomy.

      Design:

        -  Patients will receive standard of care nCRT either at the National Cancer Institute
           (NCI) or at referring institutions.

        -  Specimens of plasma, urine, and esophageal tumor with matched normal esophagus will be
           obtained before neoadjuvant therapy for metabolomic profiling and BH3 profiling.

      Blood, urine, normal esophagus, and tumor (if present) will be obtained after neoadjuvant
      therapy.

        -  Patients will undergo an esophagectomy as a robotically-assisted, minimally-invasive
           esophagectomy (RAMIE) or a traditional open approach for contraindications to
           minimally-invasive approaches or based on institutional expertise.

        -  Analysis will be performed to determine if pathological complete response (pCR) after
           chemoradiotherapy (CRT) correlates with pretreatment metabolomic signatures or BH3
           profiling in tumor, blood or urine.

        -  Patients with EAC and ESCC will be evaluated independently.

        -  The accrual ceiling will be set to 120 patients for the entire study - 80 patients for
           EAC and 40 patients for ESCC to allow for unevaluable patients. The accrual is expected
           to be completed in 4 years.
    
  