
    
      Tuberculosis (TB) and HIV are dual pandemics occurring in South Africa. Prevention of TB and
      the subsequent decline in immune function in HIV-infected children is an important strategy
      to reduce mortality. Isoniazid (INH) prophylaxis reduces TB incidence in HIV-infected adults,
      but the efficacy in HIV-infected children has not been studied. In 2003, the investigators
      therefore began a double blind placebo controlled trial to investigate the impact of INH
      prophylaxis on mortality, morbidity and TB incidence in HIV-infected children. Interim
      analysis found a striking reduction in mortality and TB with a decrease in mortality in
      excess of 50% and 60% respectively, in children on INH. Based on this, the placebo arm was
      terminated; the study continued as a trial of thrice versus daily INH and cotrimoxazole
      (CTX). Although the results indicate an important benefit in children on INH, it is unknown
      what the long term efficacy and safety of INH prophylaxis is, what the optimal regime is and
      whether this pertains to children on HAART (who formed a minority of the cohort but who are
      still at risk for TB).

      Aim To investigate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of INH and CTX as prophylactic
      strategies for HIV-infected children in a high TB prevalence area.

      Objectives

        1. To compare the long term impact of two different INH preventive regimens (daily versus
           thrice weekly) on TB incidence, occurrence of INH resistance in patients with
           culture-confirmed TB, mortality, incidence of adverse reactions and adherence

        2. To compare the long term impact of two different CTX prophylactic regimens (daily versus
           thrice weekly) on mortality, frequency and duration of hospitalization, type of serious
           infections, nasopharyngeal carriage of bacteria and development of antimicrobial
           resistance, adherence and incidence of adverse reactions

        3. To investigate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of INH compared with placebo for
           prevention of TB in children receiving HAART

      Methods A prospective randomized double blind placebo controlled study of INH versus placebo
      in newly recruited HIV-infected children who are stable on HAART. In addition, an extended
      follow-up study of children already randomised to thrice weekly or daily INH and CTX.
      Children will be followed for 2 years with regular clinical evaluation, adherence assessment
      and laboratory monitoring. Outcomes measured will be mortality, TB incidence, morbidity,
      adherence and tolerability.
    
  