
    
      Kidney transplantation is the best treatment for most patients with end-stage kidney disease,
      but it is an extremely complicated process. To become active on the transplant waitlist,
      patients must learn new information, navigate the healthcare system and undergo several
      specialized tests. After the transplant, another set of challenges emerge. Transplant
      recipients must commit to lifelong therapy with immunosuppressive medications and adapt to
      lifestyle changes. Up to half of all patients have difficulty taking the medications as
      prescribed, which can lead to transplant rejection, kidney loss, and death. The transplant
      process is challenging and confusing; however, increasing education and support to transplant
      candidates demands greater use of care providers' time and resources in a health care system
      that is already stretched.

      A patient-oriented video series has been developed according to best practices for transplant
      education, featuring an animated character embarking on a transplant journey. Animated
      segments illustrate difficult concepts for patients with poor health literacy, and patient
      narratives provide support and encouragement.

      A multi-center, randomized, controlled clinical trial will be conducted to test the
      effectiveness of a home-based video intervention on improving kidney transplant candidate's
      knowledge, self-efficacy, quality of life and beliefs in medications as compared to usual
      care. Participants will be randomized (1:1) to the control group, or the intervention group,
      who will be provided access to the video series, in addition, to standard of care.
      Differences in changes in transplant knowledge, self-efficacy, beliefs about medicines,
      quality of life, and education satisfaction will be evaluated by a pre-and post-intervention
      survey. A thorough assessment of video-viewing habits and satisfaction with the intervention
      will provide insight on the feasibility of expanding home-based education to other health
      settings.
    
  