
    
      Patients who are undergoing elective colon resection with Dr. Kraemer and Dr. Raman will be
      offered participation in the study. This will include robotic, laparoscopic and open
      procedures.

      In the pre-operative area prior to surgery, the surgical resident will inform the patient of
      the opportunity to participate in the research study. The resident will consent the patient
      at that time, if the patient chooses to participate, they will be randomized to an exparel or
      non-exparel group. The randomization will be done by having the resident pick an envelope
      that will state whether or not the patient is randomized to the exparel or non-exparel group,
      this will randomize to 50% in each group. The patient will not be notified of the type of
      local anesthetic they receive. The attending surgeon will also be blind to the type of local
      the pt will receive; only the resident and Operating Room (OR) staff will know what type of
      local anesthetic was given. Unfortunately the opaque color of the exparel precludes the
      physician injecting the local anesthetic from being blinded to the type of anesthetic given.

      The patient will be taken to the operating room as usual, and the surgery will proceed as it
      normally would. At the end of the surgery the patient will receive either exparel or
      bupivacaine depending upon which the patient was randomized to. The attending surgeon will
      not be in the operating suite while the local anesthetic is being injected. 30 milliliters
      (mL) of either exparel or bupivacaine will be injected into the subcutaneous tissues at the
      end of surgery.

      The patient will be taken to the post operative care unit (PACU), the medications for
      post-operative pain will be standardized between the two groups, a standard starting dose on
      the patient controlled analgesia (PCA) will be used, and will be adjusted as needed. The
      postoperative care will attempt to be standardized in regard to diet, discharge (dc) of
      foley, not using nasogastric (NG) tubes, however this will be based on the individual patient
      was what is best for their care. This data will then be analyzed to determine if exparel has
      a beneficial effect on surgical care.
    
  