
    
      The induction of anesthesia will follow the standard operating procedures of the pediatric
      anesthesia division at the children's hospital for the use of supraglottic airway devices.
      After loss of eyelash reflex and proper bag-mask ventilation provided, the SGA will be
      introduced into the mouth under standardized anesthesia to guarantee the same depth of
      anesthesia. This includes either propofol 2.5 mg/kg for older children, or sevoflurane
      inhalation in younger children at an end-tidal sevoflurane concentration of 6%. The time
      necessary to insert the airway device and the success rate will be recorded. We will also
      check at what airway pressure the SGA starts leaking. A fiberscope will be inserted through
      the airway port and through the gastric tube to obtain a view of the vocal cords and evaluate
      the position of the SGA. The gastric catheter will then be placed after insertion; the size
      will be according manufacturers' recommendations. After surgery, the SGA will be checked for
      evidence of mucosa lesions (blood stains on device). One day after surgery, the patient
      (and/or the parents) will be interviewed about sore throat, hoarseness, dysphagia,
      postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV), rescue medication, pain, time of hospital discharge
      and any unscheduled re-hospitalization.

      Before and during the operation, the following data will be recorded: Sex, age, weight,
      surgical procedure and duration, medications needed, cardiovascular parameter, depth of
      anesthesia. Secondary outcome data include:

        -  The insertion time necessary to airway device placement.

        -  Success rate of SGA device to ventilate patient

        -  Fiberscope view through the airway port on the glottis opening (1 full vision on the
           vocal cords - 4 no structure distinguishable)

        -  Fiberscope view through the airway gastric tube channel on the upper esophageal
           sphincter (rating 1-4)

        -  Placement of the gastric catheter (yes, no)

        -  Postoperative: Device will be checked for evidence of mucosa lesions (blood stains on
           device).
    
  