
    
      Hypotheses:

        1. Participants in the intervention (DEP + SVC) group will demonstrate greater immediate
           and delayed (4-6 weeks) post-consent knowledge of the risks, benefits, alternatives and
           expected outcomes for the LC operation as compared to participants in the control (SVC)
           group.

        2. Participants in the intervention (DEP + SVC) group will demonstrate equivalent
           satisfaction with the consent process as compared to participants in the control (SVC)
           group.

      Methods:

      Study Design and Setting:

      This study will be a prospective non-blinded randomized control trial conducted on inpatients
      at Kingston Health Sciences Centre (Ontario, Canada) who are admitted to undergo an emergent
      laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC). Patients will be randomly allocated in a 1:1 ratio to a
      control group (SVC) or an intervention group (DEP+SVC).

      Inclusion Criteria:

      All individuals over 18 years of age who are admitted to Kingston Health Sciences Centre to
      undergo an emergent LC. Individuals must be able to read, write and speak English, and
      provide informed consent.

      Exclusion Criteria:

      Individuals with acute (delirium) or chronic cognitive decline (dementia) who are not able to
      provide informed consent for LC. Individuals who are not able to access and view the
      interactive digital education platform (DEP); and who cannot read, write or speak English.

      Recruitment and Randomization:

      Once the clinical decision to recommend laparoscopic cholecystectomy has been made, patient
      will be made aware of the current study and will be invited to participate. Randomization
      will occur 1:1 to either an intervention (DEP+SVC) or a control group (SVC) using a sealed
      envelope technique.

      Baseline Data:

      The investigators will use the online Qualtrics platform to collect all of the demographic
      and outcomes data for this study. For baseline data, the investigators will collect
      demographic data including age, sex, level of education ("did not complete high school",
      "high school", "college", "university"), background in a medical field (yes/no), previous
      consultation with a surgeon regarding laparoscopic cholecystectomy (yes/no). The
      investigators will also document the setting of the clinical encounter (emergency room or
      surgery ward) as well as admission diagnosis (biliary colic, acute cholecystitis, gallstone
      pancreatitis, choledocholithiasis, cholangitis).

      The investigators will ask study participants to complete a baseline basic English literacy
      reading test, a self-reported rating of their understanding of the LC operation, and a
      multiple-choice test (MCQ, 20 questions, maximum score 20) assessing baseline knowledge of
      LC, indications for surgery, alternatives, risk, complications, and anticipated recovery.

      Standard Verbal Consent (control group):

      Study participants who are randomized to the control (SVC) group will discuss the LC
      procedure, indications for surgery, alternatives, risk, complications, expectations and
      anticipated recovery with a member of the surgery team. The study participant will be given
      the opportunity to ask questions and once all of the questions have been answered, a standard
      informed consent form for LC will be signed.

      Digital Education Platform (intervention group):

      Study participants who are randomized to the intervention (DEP+SVC) group will be presented
      with an iPad with a link to an interactive DEP module discussing the indications for LC,
      alternatives, risks, complications, expectations and anticipated recovery. The participants
      will be asked to review the DEP module at the participants own pace and will be required to
      confirm understanding of all of the material presented on the DEP. The participants will have
      an opportunity to move back and forth within the module until they are satisfied. Upon
      completion of the module, a member of the surgery team will ask the patient if they have any
      additional questions or require further clarification regarding the LC procedure, indications
      for surgery, alternatives, risk, complications, expectations and anticipated recovery. Once
      all of participant's questions are answered, a standard informed consent form for LC will be
      signed.

      Primary Outcome:

      Knowledge of LC procedure, indications for surgery, alternatives, risk, complications,
      expectations and anticipated recovery will be measured using the same MCQ (20 questions,
      maximum score 20) as for baseline assessment. The MCQ test will be completed at the end of
      the consent discussion after signing the consent form for LC.

      Secondary Outcomes:

      Self-reported understanding of the LC operation after signing of the informed consent will be
      assessed by asking study participants to rate their understanding on a scale from 0 to 10 (0
      - no prior knowledge / 10 - I know everything).

      Retention of knowledge about LC procedure, indications for surgery, alternatives, risk,
      complications, expectations and anticipated recovery will be assessed in 4-6 weeks using a
      the same MCQ test (20 questions, maximum score 20) as for baseline assessment. This test will
      be administered on the day of patient's follow-up appointment with the surgeon, which is
      usually in 4-6 weeks after their discharge from hospital.

      Participant's satisfaction with the clinical encounter will be assessed using a modified
      Client Satisfaction Questionnaire (CSQ-8, maximum score 32) - a literature-validated
      assessment tool of patient satisfaction - at the end of the consent discussion after signing
      the informed paper-based consent form for LC.

      Sample Size:

      Based on the results from our previous study, assuming a standard deviation of 9.0 and medium
      Cohen's d effect size of 0.66 for the MCQ test, we will plan to recruit 36 patients per group
      to detect a 1.2 point difference in MCQ score (6%) change between two groups, with 80% power
      for the two sample t test (α=0.05).

      Statistical Analysis:

      Demographic data will be compared between groups using the Student's t test (continuous
      variables) and Chi squared test (categorical variables). Participant satisfaction scores and
      MCQ scores will be compared between groups using a Student's t test. Within group changes in
      MCQ test scores with be compared using a paired t-test. Effect sizes will be calculated using
      Cohen's d. Statistical significance will be set to α = 0.05.
    
  