
    
      MATERIALS & METHODS A population of 270 patients of >12 yrs old (pediatric and adults) with
      new diagnosis of osteosarcoma and Ewing sarcoma will be included. A detailed dietary intake
      assessment will be done with EPIC-COS food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) and anthropometric
      measures (Weight, Height, body fat/lean mass composition) will be taken at diagnosis before
      treatment and compared to 540 controls matched by age, sex, and italian geographic area.

      In addition, inside this main study a pilot study of 55 patients and 110 controls of same
      age, sex, geographic area will be performed for analysis of metabolome, microbiota, and
      immune profile.

      At diagnosis, before any treatment , a blood sample will be obtained for metabolomics
      analyses (untargeted approach with over 100.000 of metabolites, (Mass Spectrometry method)
      and to evaluate lymphocyte subpopulations (CD3, CD4, CD8, NK) in blood. Microbiota will be
      analyzed in donated stool samples using the S16 method. All data will be analyzed for
      inter-correlations among the different parameters and to investigate putative associations
      with EPIC-COS Food Frequency questionnaires and anthropometric data .

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS Conditional logistic regression analyses will be used to calculate odds
      ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) to investigate associations between dietary
      habits and bone sarcoma risk in the case control study. An odds ratio of 1.6 with a potency
      of 85% was considered in the sample size calculations, leading to a target sample size of 270
      cases with 540 matched healthy controls.

      For the pilot cohort samples of 55 cases and 110 controls will be analyzed for metabolome,
      microbiota and immune profile. According to the results of this pilot study further cases
      among the population of FFQ study will undertake further analysis of metabolome and/or
      microbiota and/or lymphocyte subpopulation to confirm the results of pilot study.

      OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY

        1. Compare the diet habits and anthropometric measures in bone sarcoma patients at
           diagnosis with matched controls

        2. Pilot study: in the first 55 pts and their matched 110 healthy voluntary controls will
           be explored:

             1. the occurrence of altered or more recurrent metabolites in patients' blood compared
                to controls

             2. different microbiota diversity and composition between patients and case controls

             3. different lymphocytes subpopulations composition.

      Bioinformatics analysis will be performed to investigate these objectives
    
  