
    
      Gait disorders represent one of principal hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD). Typically, PD
      patients demonstrate reduced stride length and walking speed during free ambulation, while
      double support duration and cadence rate are increased. Gait disorders are generally poorly
      responsive to dopaminergic treatments and are related to reduced quality of life and
      augmented risk of falls. Different rehabilitation techniques based on compensatory and
      learning strategies, which principally exploit the use of cues to bypass the defective basal
      ganglia and to ameliorate performance through practice, have been demonstrated to be
      effective in improving gait in patients with PD. Cueing techniques represent the central core
      for the rehabilitation of parkinsonian gait. In this context, it has been demonstrated that
      treadmill training can improve gait performance in PD patients. It probably acts as an
      external cue exerting a normalizing effect on the spatiotemporal gait parameters and leading
      to an enhanced gait rhythmicity and a reduced gait variability. The use of a treadmill with
      visual and auditory cues (treadmill-plus) seems to lead to a better improvement in gait
      parameters when compared to treadmill alone. Recently, the application of virtual reality
      (VR) has been introduced in the rehabilitation of PD. The use of VR is based on the
      interaction of the person with a virtual environment with the aim to promote motor learning
      through enhanced perceptions (visual, auditory, and haptic inputs).

      It has been widely demonstrated that a multidisciplinary, intensive, goal-based,
      motor-cognitive and aerobic treatment (MIRT), specifically designed for PD patients, provide
      parkinsonians with motor and functional benefits. Nevertheless, the contribution provided by
      treadmill, treadmill-plus and VR on gait parameters has not been previously addressed within
      MIRT.

      This study aims at investigating the superiority or the non-inferiority of these different
      devices in improving gait in PD patients in the context of MIRT.
    
  