
    
      The objective of this study is to evaluate the performance of a miniaturized sleep apnea
      test, called NightOwl. The system consists of a sensor placed on the fingertip and a
      cloud-based analytics software. The sensor acquires accelerometer and photoplethysmographic
      data. The software derives actigraphy from the former, and blood oxygen saturation and
      peripheral arterial tone (PAT), among other features, from the latter. In order to assess
      NightOwl's performance, The investigators will compare the respiratory event index (REI),
      defined as the number of respiratory events per hour of sleep, derived by the NightOwl
      system, to the AHI obtained from manual analysis of the polysomnography (PSG), which is the
      gold standard for sleep apnea diagnosis. The investigators will also compare the total sleep
      time (TST) derived by both systems. This study will be performed in a sleep lab environment.

      As of March 2017, the new clinical practice guideline for diagnostic testing for adult sleep
      apnea of the American Academy of Sleep Medicine (AASM) for the first time formulates a strong
      recommendation that both polysomnography (PSG) and home sleep apnea testing (HSAT) are
      appropriate diagnostic testing options for uncomplicated adult patients who are at increased
      risk of moderate to severe sleep apnea.

      Collop et al. performed a comprehensive analysis of the evidence for HSAT devices to diagnose
      obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) in out-of-center settings. The authors concluded that testing
      devices that analyze changes in peripheral arterial tone (PAT) in combination with actigraphy
      and blood oxygen saturation (SpO2) are adequate to diagnose OSA in patient populations with a
      high pre-test probability.

      In this study, the investigators wish to assess the performance of a system for the diagnosis
      of OSA that measures and analyzes the abovementioned parameters, called NightOwl. The system
      consists of a small sensor device which is placed on the fingertip and a cloud-based
      analytics platform.

      It is designed to be self-applied and initiated by the patient by attaching the sensor to the
      fingertip by means of an adhesive patch.
    
  