
    
      Each year approximately 2,200 children in the United States are diagnosed with neuroblastoma,
      osteosarcoma, Ewing sarcoma family of tumors (ESFT), retinoblastoma, soft tissue sarcomas,
      adrenocortical tumors and liver malignancies. These aggressive pediatric solid tumors are
      developmental tumors that initiate during periods of tissue growth and morphogenesis in the
      neural crest, bone and soft tissues. The overall survival rate of these tumors in the
      advanced stage is less than 30%. Despite intensive efforts over the past three decades using
      multiple therapeutic modalities including chemotherapy, surgery, radiation, autologous bone
      marrow transplant and biological agents there has been modest improvement in the long-term
      survival of these advanced stage pediatric solid tumors. A better understanding of the
      molecular, cellular and genetic changes that occur in the developing tissues as tumors form
      could improve the treatment of these devastating cancers. In particular, chemotherapeutic
      agents may be more effectively targeted to key regulatory enzymes or proteins if the study
      had a better understanding of the pathways that are disrupted as cells progress from
      preneoplastic lesions to metastatic disease. The specific aim of this proposal is to identify
      the changes in gene expression that occur in neuroblastoma, retinoblastoma, osteosarcoma,
      Ewing sarcoma family of tumors [ESFT] and soft tissue sarcoma cells and to correlate these
      changes with genetic and cellular changes in the tumor cells. [RNA] ribonucleic acid and
      genomic [DNA] deoxyribonucleic acid will be isolated from neuroblastoma, retinoblastoma,
      osteosarcoma, ESFT [Ewing sarcoma family of tumors] and soft tissue sarcomas (both primary
      and metastatic lesions) following surgery or bone marrow aspiration of previously untreated
      patients. Additional testing will be conducted on tumor samples at any point during or
      following therapy in which a surgical specimen is obtained. When there is sufficient tumor
      sample remaining after pathological analysis and banking, fresh primary tumor cells will be
      used to prepare orthotopic xenografts and to establish models of each disease that
      recapitulate the advanced forms of neuroblastoma, osteosarcoma, Ewing sarcoma family of
      tumors [ESFT], retinoblastoma and soft tissue sarcomas. For a small group of these excess
      samples, this study will perform fixation for electron microscopy and process the samples for
      [TEM] transmission electron microscopy analysis. These studies will complement our active
      research program characterizing the molecular, cellular and genetic features of genetically
      engineered mouse models of each of these diseases. Biological samples from the cohort of
      patients treated at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital will be complemented with samples
      collected and processed by collaborating institutions around the world. Samples collected
      from international collaborators will be used for analysis of [DNA] deoxyribonucleic acid and
      [RNA] ribonucleic acid to complement the St. Jude Children's Research Hospital cohort.
      Through this collaboration the study anticipates that they will be able to obtain enough
      fresh tumor samples to improve their understanding of multistage tumorigenesis in pediatric
      solid malignancies.
    
  