
    
      Fifth cancer in terms of incidence in France, tumor pathologies of the upper aero-digestive
      tract, due to their location, impact the speech abilities of affected subjects. Speech
      therapy in paramedical clinical assessments consist of two parts.

        -  The analytical part to highlight the anatomical and dynamic deficits of segments
           involved in speech.

        -  The functional part characterizes the pathophysiological impact by means of an "ear"
           assessment.

      The link between anatomy and functional speech deficit is very close in oncology (the
      location and the size of the tumor, the structural changes due to the treatment who modify
      the oropharyngeal dynamics and the mechanisms involved in the production of the speech), but
      the correlation is weak between functional intelligibility scores and analytical motor
      scores. Indeed, the perception of speech by a human listener is not a simple "recording" of
      the production, but a representation of this production after implementation of individual
      mechanisms for restoring the acoustic information linked to the lexicon or to the context by
      the listener. The listener's degree of familiarity with the speaker or his pathology is also
      a source of variability.

      The bridging of the gap between speech production and perception by the interlocutor would be
      made possible by the use of a more suitable and automatic task. An acoustic-phonetic decoding
      test (or DAP in French, i.e. the production of isolated pseudo-words in repetition or
      reading), created within the framework of the InCA C2SI project, avoids the effects of
      cognitive restoration by the interlocutor. An automatic score from the DAP would lead to an
      overall score per patient, but also to scores specific to each phonetic segment, to be
      correlated with the analytical scores from each anatomical oropharyngeal segment.

      The study hypothesis is that the automatic processing of an acoustic-phonetic decoding task
      during the assessment in current practice is a valid and reliable tool for diagnosing
      oropharyngeal analytical and dynamic deficits by highlighting deficient linguistic units.
    
  