
    
      Individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) commonly experience variances in tactile
      behaviors, such as hypersensitivity to light touch stimuli, altered texture discrimination
      and hyporesponsivity to pain. The degree of this somatosensory impairment correlates with
      increased anxiety behaviors as well as impairments in social behavior among ASD patients.

      There remains an unmet need for suppressing the tactile hypersensitivity, which may improve
      anxiety and other core symptoms of ASD; however, methodologies for measuring tactile
      sensitivity vary widely across clinical and basic research fields. There is an urgent need
      for direct and objective sensory reactivity metrics in clinical studies to assess deficits in
      specific patient populations and for designing effective therapeutic strategies. As compared
      with traditional behavioral methods, the investigators propose to test novel, objective and
      quantitative metrics of somatosensory sensitivity in individuals with ASD.

      In addition, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) provides a method of measuring cortical
      reactivity offering the advantage of providing behaviorally independent results that are
      largely unaffected by attention or cognitive ability. Therefore, a TMS-based physiologic
      biomarker may be applicable to all individuals across the autism spectrum. A form of TMS
      known as paired associative stimulation (PAS) can be used to study the suggested impairment
      in integration of sensory input into cortical function that underlies tactile
      hypersensitivity in ASD. Thus, the investigators aim to investigate somatosensory sensitivity
      and sensorimotor integration utilizing novel, objective behavioral assays and TMS.

      Participation in the study will consist of up to seven visits: one screening visit, two
      sensory testing visits, and two - four TMS sessions. The screening visit is expected to last
      between 2-3 hours, during which participants will first provide informed consent.
      Participants will then receive a thorough medical examination by a neurologist, and a
      neuropsychological evaluation (including IQ measures and ASD specific evaluations). If
      eligible to continue, participants will then come back for two sensory visits and two - four
      TMS visits that are spaced a minimum of 1 week apart.
    
  