
    
      This study was prospective, unicentric, controlled with comparison to a placebo, randomised
      and double-blinded. Patients were stratified into three groups: prostatic cancers,
      gynecologic cancers without chemotherapy and gynecologic or rectal cancers with chemotherapy.

      Patients were block-randomized by the research nurse and received a standard dose of
      Bifilact® probiotics or placebo according to the random list generated by blocks of 2, 4, or
      6 patients according to random permutations. A preliminary internal pilot study was performed
      when the half of the expected sample size were recruited. The goal of this analysis was to
      test assumptions that lead to chosen sample sizes (N0) and thus, validate the feasibility of
      the study. Following preliminary results, the sample size re-calculated at the interim
      analysis is similar to that originally intended. It would be advisable to continue the
      recruitment as planned. No adjustment to the critical level of the test would be required in
      analyzes carried out at the end of study. However, another random block using higher
      probiotics dosage to the randomization was added with preservation of double bind. New random
      list were generated for each strata with a 3:1:1 ratio (higher dose, standard dose, placebo)
      to compensate for the starting of the latest higher dose group. All the bottles had a similar
      aspect, they were all identified by the commercial brand Bifilact. Also the group, either A,
      B or C, was circled on that bottle, depending on if that bottle belong to the placebo group,
      standard dose group, or high dose group. Only the nurse knew the coding system, it was also
      her who would assign the patient to a group, according to the randomization list. She would
      also hand out the bottle to the patient every week. The two registered dietician, caregivers,
      were totally excluded of this processes (preliminary study and randomisation) to preserve the
      double blind.
    
  