
    
      Background

      Bevacizumab is a monoclonal antibody directed against vascular- endothelial growth factor
      (VEGF), the major angiogenesis factor involved in high-grade glioma-mediated angiogenesis.
      Preclinical studies in our laboratory and others have shown potent antiglioma activity in
      vivo and early clinical trials of bevacizumab in combination with irinotecan and alone
      (National Institutes of Health (NIH) study) have demonstrated significant anti-vascular
      permeability and anti-glioma effects in patients with recurrent gliomas.

      Tandutinib (MLN518) along with bevacizumab represents an attempt to further capitalize on the
      concept of targeting the tumor vasculature. Tandutinib is a small molecule inhibitor of
      fms-like tyrosine kinase receptor-3 (FLT3), platelet derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR),
      and cKIT (type III receptor tyrosine kinases). It has demonstrated anti-leukemic activity in
      patients with relapsed and refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML) whose blasts contain an
      activating internal tandem duplication mutation of FLT3. However, in this study tandutinib is
      being added to bevacizumab primarily for its activity against the PDGFR and cKIT. Hannahan
      and colleagues have demonstrated the additional anti-tumor activity that results in vivo with
      combined inhibition of the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR) and PDGFR. The
      activity of PDGFR inhibition is hypothesized to result from its effect on pericytes, the
      cells that surround and support endothelial cells. These cells have abundant expression of
      PDGFR and require platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-PDGFR interaction for their normal
      function.

      Objectives

      To establish data regarding the anti-tumor activity of the combination of bevacizumab and
      tandutinib in patients with recurrent high-grade gliomas, as determined by
      progression-free-survival.

      Eligibility

      Patients with histologically proven recurrent malignant glioma are eligible for this study.

      Design

      Patients will receive tandutinib as a single agent at a daily dose of 500 mg PO bid for the
      first 14 days of treatment. Radiology: Prior to the first dose of tandutinib patients will
      undergo an MRI-perfusion scan and an FDG-PET scan. An MRI-perfusion scan will then be
      repeated between days 12-14 of the first 14 days of tandutinib monotherapy. On day 15,
      treatment with bevacizumab will be added to the ongoing treatment with tandutinib.
      Bevacizumab will be given intravenously in a dose of 10 mg/kg, repeated once every 2 weeks.
      After completion of the first 4 weeks of combined tandutinib and bevacizumab therapy (6 weeks
      after initiating treatment with tandutinib) considered the first cycle of therapy) the
      MRI-perfusion and fludeoxyglucose 18F-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) scans will be
      repeated before the next dose of bevacizumab is given. Patients who are
      clinically/neurologically stable, and who have radiographically stable or responding disease
      at the end of that first cycle and every cycle thereafter (every 4 weeks), will continue
      treatment with tandutinib and bevacizumab. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-perfusion scans
      will be repeated after the completion of every 4 weeks of therapy. A total of 80 patients
      will be enrolled to this study (GBM (glioblastoma multiforme)=40, AG=40)
    
  