
    
      Radiation therapy is a well-established treatment modality for clinically localized prostate
      cancer. Current techniques include conventional external beam radiotherapy and intensity
      modulated radiation therapy (IMRT). The efficacy of conventional external beam radiation
      treatment (60-70 Gy in 2 Gy fractions) using several uniform fields has been documented. The
      10-year disease-free survival rate for patients with disease confined to the prostate in the
      pre-Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) era was approximately 50-70%. Analysis of these data
      suggested that dose escalation could improve local control in prostate cancer.

      On average, men who choose to undergo radiation therapy treatments for prostate cancer will
      have to live with the side effects of therapy for many years. Chronic proctitis may occur
      after radiotherapy (RT) to the pelvic region. According to a published series, it clinically
      occurs after radiation therapy of localized prostate cancer at a frequency of 5-20%. It
      occurs months to years after treatment (average 8-12 months) with a large majority within two
      years following radiation therapy. Patient characteristics, such as a history of inflammatory
      bowel disease or chronic anticoagulation therapy, may increase an individual patient's risk
      of clinically significant proctitis. Patients with radiation-induced proctopathy have
      described symptoms of rectal pain, diarrhea, urgency, rectal bleeding, and increased
      frequency of bowel movements. Endoscopic evaluation shows telangiectasia, congested mucosa
      and ulcers. Rectal bleeding occurs from the neovascular telangiectasia seen in about 60% of
      patients receiving conventionally fractionated radiation therapy. The other symptoms probably
      develop from the decreased rectal compliance associated with rectal wall fibrosis. These
      symptoms are, in current reports, most often classified according to the NCI Common Toxicity
      Criteria grade for late gastrointestinal side effects. Due to the proximity of the rectum and
      bladder to the prostate, using conventional techniques, the prescription dose is limited to
      65-70 Gy. Although attempts were made to protect the rectum, the incidence of rectal bleeding
      was unacceptable at doses greater than 70 Gy (20%).

      The risk of proctitis and rectal bleeding appeared to be dependent upon both the radiation
      dose and the volume of the rectum in the high dose area. Radiation Oncologists' efforts to
      optimize the therapeutic ratio for prostate cancer treatment have therefore been directed
      toward limiting the high dose volume to the prostate while escalation the dose within that
      volume. Intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) is a widely used technology to achieve
      this goal. It is accomplished by modulating the radiation beam intensity within each
      radiation field in accordance with an optimization algorithm. This has allowed greater
      dose-escalation without evident increase in acute complications, although follow-up is too
      short to fully assess control and complication rates. Whether IMRT will provide a degree of
      conformity that proves to eradicate prostate cancer with a high probability while sparing
      local structures is as yet unresolved.

      Late Rectal Mucosal Injury Following CyberKnife RadioSurgery for Clinically Localized
      Prostate Cancer. The type, extent and incidence of rectal mucosal injury following CyberKnife
      radiosurgery are currently unknown. The severity of clinical proctitis following radiation
      therapy is commonly documented using the NCI Common toxicity criteria/Radiation Therapy
      Oncology Group/EORTC. Unfortunately, clinical proctitis has a low sensitivity for detecting
      rectal mucosal injury. Endoscopy gives the most accurate estimate of the extent and incidence
      of rectal mucosal injury. The Vienna rectoscopy score (VRS) was developed to quantify rectal
      mucosal changes following radiation therapy. In this study, endoscopic evaluation of mucosal
      damage from CyberKnife treatment will be documented and correlated with gastrointestinal side
      effects and treatment planning parameters.
    
  