
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the safety, tolerability, and recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of uproleselan
      combined with cladribine + low dose cytarabine (LDAC) in patients with treated-secondary
      acute myeloid leukemia (AML) (ts-AML).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the efficacy (overall response rate [ORR], complete response [CR], complete
      response without blood count recovery [CRi], CR with partial hematologic recovery [CRh],
      partial response [PR], or morphologic leukemia-free state of uproleselan combined with
      cladribine + LDAC in patients with ts-AML.

      II. To assess the rate of minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity by flow cytometry at
      response.

      III. To assess overall survival (OS), remission duration (CRd), and progression-free survival
      (PFS) in patients with ts-AML treated with uproleselan combined with cladribine + LDAC.

      IV. To assess the rate of complete cytogenetic response (CCyR) in patients with ts-AML with
      abnormal baseline karyotype, treated with uproleselan combined with cladribine + LDAC.

      V. To assess toxicity and induction mortality of patients with AML treated with uproleselan
      added to cladribine + LDAC.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore biomarkers of response and resistance in patients with ts-AML treated with
      uproleselan combined with cladribine + LDAC.

      II. To examine the correlation of E-selectin ligand-forming glycosylation genes of leukemic
      blasts with clinical outcome.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of cladribine and cytarabine followed by a
      phase II study.

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive uproleselan intravenously (IV) over 20 minutes on day 1
      and every (Q) 12 hours on days 2-12, cladribine IV over 1-2 hours on days 1-5 and cytarabine
      subcutaneously (SC) twice daily (BID) on days 1-10 in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients who do not achieve a CR or CRi after cycle 1 may receive a
      second induction cycle.

      CONSOLIDATION/MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive uproleselan IV over 20 minutes on day 1
      and Q12 hours on days 2-1. Patients who have achieved at least CR/CRi or morphologic
      leukemia-free state after induction therapy receive uproleselan IV once daily (QD) on days
      1-12. Patients also receive cladribine IV over 1-2 hours on days 1-3 and cytarabine SC BID on
      days 1-10. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6-12 months.
    
  