
    
      The study will contrast and compare the effectiveness and costs of two forms of behavioral SU
      treatment services for a total of 300 opioid dependent patients seeking bup/nx treatment at
      the Kaiser Sacramento Chemical Dependency Recovery Program (CDRP). The design is a
      between-groups clinical trial using blocked randomization to the two treatments (IOT and SMM)
      with analyses based on an intent-to-treat model.

      Patients are recruited into the study and randomized after induction at the time of program
      intake. A full battery of background, concurrent status and diagnostic information will be
      collected at baseline, and repeated 6 and 12 months later to assess change in drug use, 30
      day and 6-month abstinence, and quality of life at each point. The study will test for
      illicit drug use and presence of buprenorphine with random urinalysis throughout treatment.
      In addition to urinalysis, bup/nx adherence will be measured using prescription drug refills
      and self-report. Investigators will collect self-report of prescription opioid use and
      abstinence. Finally, the number and types of services received by during treatment will be
      available from the EMR.

      Patients seeking bup/nx receive a 30-minute medical exam from a CDRP physician (e.g., for
      symptoms of alcohol or other drug withdrawal, hypertension, acute infections related to
      intravenous drug use, mental status, acute psychosis or suicidal tendencies) to assess
      appropriateness for bup/nx and discuss the treatment. After this initial evaluation, the
      induction is managed by the clinic nurse, in consultation with a clinic physician. Induction
      follows the standard of care, and occurs over 2-3 days. The average daily dose of bup/nx
      ranges from 12-24mg, but is typically 16 mg.

      After induction, the patient will be scheduled for an intake interview for admission into the
      treatment program. Following the intake session, a research staff member will describe the
      study and assess eligibility criteria. For patients who agree to participate, the research
      associate will proceed to enroll the patient in a private room. During enrollment/baseline
      appointment, the research associate will obtain informed consent and administer a baseline
      questionnaire using a laptop computer (see below). Patients will then be randomized to either
      the IOT or SMM arm using a block randomization procedure which will ensure that equal numbers
      of patients will be assigned to each treatment arm. Patients unwilling or unable to be
      randomized will meet with the intake therapist and treated in the standard manner designated
      by the treatment program's regular intake counselors, and will not be part of the study.

      At baseline, following recruitment and consent, participants will complete a computerized
      interview in a private place at the CDRP (with a research associate available for any
      computer or content questions). A full battery of background, physical and mental health and
      SU disorder information will be collected.

      Study investigators will conduct two follow-up telephone interviews whether or not patients
      complete the CDRP treatment program. At the follow-up, participants will be reminded of the
      study and permission to conduct the interview will be obtained verbally. Interviews will be
      conducted at 6 and 12 months by research staff with the same baseline measures to assess
      treatment adherence, substance use and abstinence, and quality of life. Also, patients will
      be asked to present at the CDRP within 48 hours of the 6 and 12 month interviews for a urine
      test and additional brief questions on drug use.
    
  