
    
      Primary Aim

        1. To study the proof of concept in the improvement of impairment in cognition as assessed
           by PHES (psychometric hepatic encephalopathy score) in patients of MHE by means of
           pharmacological intervention by Sildenafil (a phosphodiesterase(PDE)-5 inhibitor) before
           and after treatment.

        2. To study the impact of treatment with Sildenafil administration on the improvement in
           health-related quality-of-life of patients as assessed by Sickness impact profile (SIP)
           before and after treatment.

      Secondary Aim

        1. To study the impact of treatment with Sildenafil on CTP and MELD scores before and after
           treatment.

        2. To study the impact of treatment with Sildenafil on blood ammonia and Interleukin-6
           levels before and after treatment.

      Study Population: The study population comprises of male adult (age 18-70 years) with
      cirrhosis of liver. Patients with cirrhosis of liver have been divided into two groups - with
      MHE and without or no MHE (NMHE) based on the test result of PHES, i.e., abnormal (MHE group)
      or normal (NMHE group).

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Male patients aged 18-70 years diagnosed to have cirrhosis of liver at Liver Clinic of
           Department of Hepatology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education &
           Research(PGIMER), Chandigarh by means of clinical, biochemical and ultrasonographical/CT
           or liver biopsy.

        -  MHE will be defined by PHES ≤-5 and normal Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score of
           ≥24.

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  Patients unable to give informed consent.

        -  H/O alcohol intake during last 12 weeks.

        -  Significant comorbid illness such as heart disease, respiratory disease, or renal
           failure.

        -  Any neurological disease such as Alzheimer disease, Parkinson's disease, stroke, non-
           hepatic metabolic encephalopathy's.

        -  Any anatomical deformities or disease of the penis such as Peyronie's disease.

        -  Patients having psychiatric illness and taking treatment with antidepressant, sedative
           or neuroleptics.

        -  Patients who start taking alcohol during the study period will be excluded.

        -  Patients taking vasodilators such as nitrates.

        -  Hepatocellular carcinoma.

        -  Recent history of upper GI bleed in last 6 weeks.

        -  Active ongoing infection.

        -  Electrolyte abnormality precipitating MHE.

        -  Color vision abnormalities.
    
  