
    
      Up to one half of older patients with major depression develop Late-Life Treatment Resistant
      Depression (LL-TRD). Consequences of LL-TRD include suicide, worsened medical conditions,
      increased caregiver burden, and higher all-cause mortality. The development and testing of
      novel-mechanism pharmacotherapies is a public health priority embraced by National Institute
      of Mental Health (NIMH). Among the neuropeptidergic transmitters, opioids are known to
      modulate mood, and this system is often altered in patients with major depression. Targeting
      the opiate system in LL-TRD may positively modulate a system in which there is age-associated
      imbalance between circulating opiates and the density and binding affinity of mu and kappa
      opiate receptors. Buprenorphine (BPN) is an antagonist at the kappa opiate receptor and a
      partial agonist at the mu opiate receptor. Either, or both, of these pharmacodynamic actions
      may underlie its putative antidepressant effects. Our research group has open pilot data from
      15 older adults with prospectively demonstrated treatment resistance to venlafaxine who were
      exposed to low-dose BPN, suggesting a clinically meaningful antidepressant effect. In
      addition, since BPN: 1) is available in sublingual formulation and 2) has a favorable safety
      and pharmacokinetic profile, it is an attractive candidate to re-purpose as a molecule for
      LL-TRD. Thus, the overarching aims of this project are to examine the feasibility, safety,
      tolerability and clinical effect of low-dose BPN as a novel treatment for LL-TRD and to
      develop preliminary data about mechanism of action (MOA).

      The overarching aims are to examine the feasibility, safety, and tolerability of
      buprenorphine (BPN) as a novel treatment for late-life treatment resistant depression
      (LL-TRD). This also involves using translational tools of modern neurobiology (fMRI) to
      rapidly obtain proof-of-concept support for further clinical development. Formal dosing
      schedules in the use of buprenorphine have yet to be thoroughly established. This study hopes
      to determine optimal dosing strategies to improve acceptability.
    
  