
    
      The study is a population study and 6 month randomised control trial (RCT) of men and women
      aged 70 to 80. The supplement and placebo will be provided in the form of a small 200 mL
      sealed TetraPak carton and is presented in a highly-palatable, juice-based (pomegranate and
      apple) formulation. The study groups (n=25 per group) for the RCT are:

      Control - a control group receiving a placebo nutrient support (200 mL juice; energy ~ 100
      kcal per day)

      Supplement - a nutrient group receiving a liquid nutrient support (quantity 200 mL per day;
      energy 200 kcal per day):

      Carbohydrate 28.5 g Protein 8 g as Whey Protein Isolate (i) ω-3 PUFA (ii) 3000 mg, as DHA
      1500mg, as EPA 1500mg Vitamin D3 (iii) 10 μg Resveratrol (iv) 150 mg

      (i) Whey protein isolate - increasing protein intake in elderly individuals is widely
      proposed as key preventing the decline in muscle mass with aging, (ii) ω-3/EPA/DHA fatty
      acids - increasing ω-3 consumption is associated with improvements in inflammatory status,
      blood lipid profile and cognitive function in various populations (iii) A relative deficiency
      in vitamin D is widely reported in Western populations, whereas recent reports have suggested
      vitamin D3 supplementation as efficacious for muscle function, (iv) Resveratrol, a polyphenol
      derived from grape skin that shows promise as a supplement to improve muscle function,
      metabolic health, prevent wasting and promote longevity.

      Participants will undertake a first preliminary screening, which will take part at the Human
      Performance Laboratory at the University College Dublin (UCD) Institute for Sport and Health,
      or, alternatively, in a home-based environment, according to participants preferences, in
      order to assess inclusion/exclusion criteria.

      After having examined the participant information leaflet, participants will provide informed
      consent in writing, complete the medical history examination, a food intake diary and food
      frequency questionnaire as well as habitual physical activity level questionnaire (CHAMPS).

      Next, they will have their stature, body composition, and functional capacity assessed as
      described below. If fulfilling the eligibility criteria, subjects will undertake 3 assessment
      sessions (at baseline, 12 wk & 24 wk) at the Human Performance Laboratory at the UCD
      Institute for Sport and Health, consisting of body composition, functional capacity, and
      cognitive performance assessment.

      In detail:

      i. Body composition (fat, muscle and bone mass by Dual Energy X-Ray Absorptiometry (DXA)
      (Expected time ~ 15 min)

      ii. Provide a blood sample taken via venepuncture to a superficial antecubital vein to be
      later analysed to assess lipidemic profile, plasma glucose, insulin, and inflammatory markers
      (Expected time ~ 5 min)

      iii. Measurement of muscle strength and lower extremity muscle function in simulated
      activities of daily living by hand grip, usual walking speed, chair rise test, sit and reach
      test, and balance test [Short Performance Battery Test (Guralnik et al. 1994)]. (Expected
      time ~ 40 min)

      iv. Assessment of cognitive function by the following battery modeled upon that used in Witte
      et al. (2013) (Expected time ~ 45 min):

        -  Timed Up and Go test

        -  Trail Making Test (TMT) part A and B

        -  Auditory Verbal Learning Test

        -  Stroop Colour-Word Test

        -  Verbal Fluency

        -  Forward and Backward Digit Spans

        -  Cognitive Failures Questionnaire
    
  