
    
      Interested subjects will be informed that they will be randomly assigned to either receive
      the BGATHome program or will be placed in a wait-list control group. Respondents will be
      informed that if they are in the control group, they are expected to complete the pre- and
      post-assessments (HHC and questionnaires), but once these are complete, they will be given
      free access to the BGATHome program. Respondents will be informed that being in the control
      group will delay their access to the program by approximately 5 months.

      A hand held computer (PDA) will be provided for use during this study. Subjects will be asked
      to first estimate their blood glucose level and enter this estimate into the PDA. They will
      then actually measure their blood glucose level and enter this actual value into the PDA
      also. This process of first estimating the blood glucose level and then taking an actual
      reading will be repeated 70 times during the 4-week period. The time estimated for this task
      is approximately 3 minutes for entering each estimate and measurement, or a total of 3.5
      hours over the 4 weeks. The PDA device will be returned (postage paid) after the first 4
      weeks of the study. At 12 weeks, the device will be sent to study subjects again and the
      process of obtaining data about blood glucose levels by first estimating and then taking an
      actual reading will be repeated over the next 4 weeks, as before. The PDA device will again
      be returned (postage paid) after 4 weeks of data collection. The total amount of time
      estimated to enter data into a PDA for this study is approximately 7 hours.

      Subjects will be asked to respond to a series of four questionnaires on the Internet, taking
      approximately 30-45 minutes. These questionnaires will be completed 3 times over the course
      of the study - before beginning the BGATHome program, at 12 weeks and at one year after
      completing the BGATHome program. The total time estimated to complete the three sets of
      questionnaires is approximately 2 hours, 15 minutes.

      Experimental subjects will be asked to complete a total of eight units of the BGATHome
      program, completing one unit a week except for the first week when two units will be
      completed. Each unit will take approximately one hour to complete. Subjects will have a
      maximum of 12 weeks to complete BGATHome. The total time is estimated at 8 hours.

      The wait-list control subjects will be offered access to the BGATHome program approximately
      five months after consenting to be in the study. They will then complete the series of four
      questionnaires on the Internet 12 weeks after using the BGATHome program. If the control
      subjects do not choose to use the program, a one year follow assessment will occur like the
      experimental subjects.
    
  