
    
      There is currently very limited information available on the incidence of venous
      thromboembolism (VTE) in patients undergoing lung cancer resection and the utility of
      extended thromboprophylaxis (ET) in this patient population. Furthermore, in contrast to
      patients undergoing orthopaedic surgery where ET has become standard of care, duration of
      thromboprophylaxis is not well defined in this patient population. Therefore, there is a
      clear need to systematically evaluate the effects of extended VTE prophylaxis on the
      incidence of VTE in the post-op population.

      As a pilot study, the primary outcome will involve feasibility measures. The investigators
      aim to measure the proportion of recruitment within each centre, compliance, loss to
      follow-up, and tolerability of the intervention, defined as the number and severity of
      per-defined adverse events. The primary outcome of interest for the future full-scale trial
      is the 30-day incidence rate of VTE following extended 30-day prophylaxis (defined as
      pulmonary emboli or deep venous thromboembolism of the lower limb as detected by CT (Computed
      Tomography) pulmonary angiography and full leg Doppler ultrasound, respectively) following
      lung resection for malignancies.

      The proposed pilot project is a multicenter blinded placebo-controlled randomized controlled
      pilot clinical trial assessing the feasibility and effectiveness of extended-duration VTE
      prophylaxis (30 days post-operatively) vs. short-term prophylaxis restricted to in-hospital
      stay with outpatient injected placebo, in patients undergoing lung resection for lung cancer
      or metastatic disease. All patients will receive both a peri-operative dose followed by
      postoperative VTE prophylaxis for the duration of their hospital stay. Those who were
      randomized to prolonged prophylaxis will continue the same dosage regime for an overall of 30
      days, whereas the control group will receive placebo injections for the same duration of
      time.
    
  