
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Research on heart disease in the 196Os and 197Os was primarily concerned with risk factors
      for 'premature' atherosclerosis, which was most dramatically apparent in working middle-aged
      men who suffered heart attacks or died suddenly. This focus on 'premature' disease was an
      important initial step, but it resulted in a relative neglect of studies in older adults and
      in all women. Coronary heart disease remains nonetheless a major cause of morbidity and
      mortality among women.

      Given the consistent findings from clinical trials that calcium-channel blockers administered
      following myocardial infarction do not decrease the risk of death or reinfarction, and that
      some drugs of this class may actually increase the risk, it is unlikely that future trials of
      this therapy in women will be conducted. Yet the calcium-channel blockers are used with
      increasing frequency in women following myocardial infarction. The only ethical method of
      conducting studies of the safety of these drugs in women is through observational studies.
      Data from the study can help to guide clinical practice and can assist in the design of
      appropriate secondary prevention trials in women.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      On-going studies of hormone-replacement therapy in women at Group Health Cooperative of Puget
      Sound (GHC) identified all female enrollees who suffered a first heart attack since 1986; the
      study expanded this inception cohort through 1996. Information from medical record review and
      GHC databases were used to assess risk factors and co-morbid conditions, both at entry into
      the cohort and up to ten years of follow-up, and to identify recurrent cardiovascular events
      and deaths. A complete record of prescription drug exposure during the follow-up period was
      obtained for each subject from the GHC computerized pharmacy database. Although the main
      hypothesis related to reinfarction risk in women, men were studied as well to facilitate
      comparison of the results of this observational study with those of the clinical trials.
      According to conservative estimates of the available sample size, the investigators had 86
      percent power to detect a relative risk of 1.45 in women alone, and 85 percent power to
      detect a relative risk of 1.25 in men and women combined, for the association of
      calcium-channel blocker use with fatal or non-fatal reinfarction. The study also examined the
      safety and efficacy of other cardiovascular drugs commonly used in women after myocardial
      infarction, including angiotensin converting-enzyme inhibitors, lipid-lowering drugs, and
      estrogen replacement therapy.
    
  