
    
      Progress in the area of diabetic kidney research leading to new therapeutics development has
      been very limited. Indeed, no new medicines indicated for the treatment of chronic kidney
      disease (CKD) have been approved since ARB's have become standard of care nearly 15 years
      ago. Several factors explain the limited progress including but not limited to; a) animal and
      cell culture models do not recapitulate human DKD b) human genetic studies so far have failed
      to identify reproducible genetic variants associated with DKD c) the clinical manifestation
      of DKD is heterogeneous and might have even changed since the original description d) DKD is
      a clinical diagnosis and it is not clear what percentage of patients have histological
      disease.

      Laboratory mice have served as invaluable tools to understand human disease development. As
      mouse genetic tools became readily available, it enabled us to perform time and cell type
      specific gene manipulation in animals to generate disease models and to understand the
      contributions of specific pathways. Unfortunately, mouse models do not recapitulate human
      diabetic kidney disease as animals develop only early DKD lesions; mesangial expansion and
      mild albuminuria11. Most models do not develop arterial hyalinosis, tubulointerstitial
      fibrosis and declining glomerular filtration rate (GFR); hallmarks of progressive DKD. There
      are several fundamental differences in gene expression patterns and physiology of human and
      murine kidneys. Such differences may explain the lack of translatability between mice and
      humans of pharmacological approaches aimed at treating DKD. This seems to be a general trend
      in other disease areas as well (for example Alzheimer's disease), leading to a recent
      movement toward translational and clinical research with increasing reliance on human
      samples.

      Human genetic studies made paradigm-shifting observations in relatively rare monogenic forms
      of kidney diseases (including polycystic kidney disease and focal segmental
      glomerulosclerosis). Diabetic CKD on the other hand follows a complex polygenic pattern.
      Currently, the most powerful method to define the genetics of complex diseases such as DKD is
      genome wide association (GWAS), where associations between polymorphisms and the disease
      state are tested. Prior studies indicate that for complex traits, such as DKD, genetic
      polymorphisms that are associated with disease state are localized to the non-coding region
      of the genome12,13. Moreover, the genetic architecture of diabetic kidney disease has not
      been characterized and several large collaborations are currently addressing this issue14.
      Thus, the next challenge is to define target genes, target cell types and the mode of
      dysregulation caused by non-coding snips (SNPs15). Such studies require large collection of
      human tissue samples from disease relevant organs.

      Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) remains a clinical diagnosis. Subjects with CKD in the presence
      of diabetes and albuminuria are considered to have diabetic nephropathy. Such definition is
      used in clinical practice and in research studies including clinical trials. Studies
      performed in 1980 provide the basis for the practice16,17. Investigators stage DKD as a
      progressive disease, beginning with the loss of small amounts of albumin into the urine
      (30-300mg/day; known as the stage of microalbuminuria, high albuminuria, occult or incipient
      nephropathy), then larger amounts (>300mg/day; known as macroalbuminuria, very high
      albuminuria or overt nephropathy), followed by progressive decline in kidney function (eGFR),
      renal impairment and ultimately ESRD 17-19. This paradigm has proved useful in clinical
      studies, especially in type 1 diabetes, for identifying cohorts at increased risk of adverse
      health outcomes. However, boundaries between stages of DKD are artificial and the
      relationship between urinary albumin excretion and adverse health outcomes is log-linear in
      clinical practice. Indeed, the American Diabetes Association recently abandoned staging of
      albuminuria (ACR) for a more-straightforward [ACR >30 mg/g, (albuminuria present); ACR <30
      mg/g (albuminuria absent)] criterion. Moreover, many patients, and especially those with type
      2 diabetes, do not follow this classical course in modern clinical practice. For example,
      many subjects with DKD do not manifest excessive urinary albumin loss20. Indeed, of the 28%
      of the UKPDS cohort who developed moderate to severe renal impairment, half did not have
      preceding albuminuria. In the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT), of the 11%
      patients with type 1 diabetes who developed an eGFR<60 ml/min/1.73m2, 40% never had
      experienced overt nephropathy21. In addition, most patients with microalbuminuria do not
      progressively exhibit an increase in urinary albumin excretion as in the classical paradigm
      with treatment-induced and spontaneous 'remission' of albuminuria widely observed22,23.
      Consequently, individuals with microalbuminuria may better be regarded as being at increased
      risk of developing progressive renal disease (as well as cardiovascular disease and other
      diabetic complications), rather than as actually having DKD per se. While over the last 40
      years it became evident that the original description of DKD needs revision, no alternative
      criteria have emerged given the lack of solid data on the correlation between
      histopathological (gold standard) DKD diagnosis and clinical manifestations. It is also
      possible that, with the introduction of better glycemic control and anti-renin (RAAS)
      blockade, the disease has evolved necessitating new observational cohorts to understand the
      clinical disease course and manifestations.

      Diabetic kidney disease presents with a variable rate of kidney function decline24. Data from
      large observational cohorts indicate that GFR decline frequently does not follow a linear
      course. Several groups are working on modeling GFR decline patterns in patients. Such studies
      contributed to emphasizing patients termed as "rapid progressors". There is no consensus
      definition for rapid progression. Many studies define rapid progressors as patients with
      greater than 3 cc/year GFR decrease but alternative cut points such as even 10 cc/year has
      also been used. Identification and clinical characterization of rapid progressors became the
      center of several large scale efforts as these are the patients who would likely need
      intensive clinical management25. Furthermore recent post-hoc analyses of the Diabetic
      Nephropathy (IDNT and RENAAL) studies indicate that clinical trial outcomes are mostly driven
      by a small number of subjects with unusually rapidly progressive GFR decline i.e. subjects
      that display characteristics of rapid progressors. While investigators are still awaiting
      accurate descriptions, biomarker and clinical descriptive studies have yielded several
      interesting observations. Albuminuria remains one of the strongest risk factor for
      "FDA-approved" (hard) renal outcomes; doubling of serum creatinine, dialysis or death. Indeed
      some of the latest studies indicate that using a 4 or a 6 variable model, that includes
      albuminuria, age, sex, serum phosphate, serum calcium and serum albumin has C-statistics
      score of 0.84-0.91 to predict ESRD 26,27. During the last years several new biomarkers have
      been identified that can potentially identify patients who are at increased risk for rapid
      loss of kidney function. For example blood and urinary levels of kidney injury molecule
      (KIM1) shows promise to identify patients who are at risk for kidney function decline.
      Recently, investigators showed that circulating levels of tumor necrosis factor receptor 1
      and 2 levels can identify patients with rapidly declining renal function 28. While these
      markers are generating increased interest; the critical questions remains; why do some
      patients follow a rapid decline in kidney function?
    
  