
    
      Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis (NASH), a severe form of fatty liver disease, is highly
      prevalent and can lead to cirrhosis, liver failure and hepatocellular carcinoma. It is
      strongly associated with obesity and the metabolic syndrome. The impact of the gut microbiota
      on obesity and the metabolic syndrome is potentially large and increasing evidence suggests
      that dysbiosis might contribute to the development of NASH. There is a fundamental gap in
      understanding how alterations in the intestinal microbiota lead to a wide range of metabolic
      syndrome associated conditions including fatty liver disease in humans. The long-term goal of
      this project is to better understand the mechanisms linking intestinal dysbiosis and
      extra-intestinal clinical phenotypes, in particular obesity and NAFLD. Compositional shifts
      in gut bacteria from antibiotic use can perpetuate diseases such as Clostridum difficile
      infection, and manipulation of the microbiota through stool transplant from healthy donors
      can be used to cure disease. The objective of this application is to determine whether
      restoration of beneficial gut microbiota via fecal microbiota transplantation using stool
      from lean donors (FMT-L) improves NASH. The central hypothesis for this project is that
      transfer of gut microbiota from lean donors will result in reduced hepatic steatosis, and
      improved histological and biochemical features of NASH, all of which will correlate with
      observed changes in the small bowel and distal gut microbiome. This hypothesis will be tested
      by pursuing 3 specific aims: 1) determine the effect of FMT-L in patients with NASH on
      hepatic steatosis and markers of NASH; 2) perform microbiome analyses on pre- and post-FMT-L
      small bowel & stool samples; and 3) investigate mechanistic correlates linking dysbiosis with
      histologic changes in NASH after FMT-L. The study will be a pilot open labeled trial
      examining the effect of FMT-L in patients with biopsy proven NASH. The primary outcome
      measure will be a change in MRI-determined hepatic fat fraction,12 weeks after
      transplantation. Differences in the microbiota after FMT-L in the small bowel and distal gut,
      including the durability of microbiota changes, will be examined using advanced metagenomic
      techniques. Clinical and laboratory features of the metabolic syndrome and obesity as well as
      hepatic and systemic inflammatory markers will be examined for mechanistic correlates linking
      dysbiosis with histologic changes in the liver. In addition to understanding how the gut
      microbiota affects fatty liver disease progression, study findings will provide a framework
      for future microbiome research on metabolic syndrome related diseases such as diabetes,
      obesity, and other inflammatory disorders. An increased understanding of how the human gut
      microbiota is altered in metabolic disease may open a new avenue of therapeutics based on
      manipulation of gut bacteria.
    
  