
    
      It has long been a challenge to promote the recovery after stroke. So far, rehabilitation has
      been the most evident way for this purpose, while pharmacological approaches have done very
      little.

      However, the unsatisfied results urge us to recognize the need of new therapeutic solutions
      for stroke recovery. In the past few years, the development of non-invasive brain stimulation
      techniques, which are capable of altering the brain excitability through plasticity-like
      mechanisms for up to an hour or so, lead to the expectation of improving the recovery of
      stroke and other neurological disorders by manipulation neuroplasticity. Nevertheless, even
      with the help of brain stimulation, the results in stroke recovery are diverse and limited,
      although most studies agree that non-invasive brain stimulation, including repetitive
      transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is beneficial to the recovery after stroke.

      Therefore, it is an important topic to ameliorate the recipe of brain stimulation for stroke
      recovery to improve its efficiency and efficacy. Facing this challenge, the investigators
      designed this study to develop individualized rTMS protocol for stroke recovery, to verify
      the predictor of stroke outcome discovered by DCM and to explore factors that cause the
      variability of rTMS. Based on our recent findings that revealed key patterns of stroke
      recovery base in EEG-based EEG based dynamic causal modelling (DCM), the individualize TMS
      protocol will be developed. The investigators will first apply different protocols of rTMS
      given to a variety of locations within the motor network to evaluate their effects on the DCM
      network. The results will be used for selecting proper rTMS protocols for stroke patients
      based on their DCM results. The effect of the individualized rTMS protocol will be tested in
      a small group of patient first. Then the longer therapeutic effect of the protocol will be
      assessed in a larger patient group under a double-blinded randomized control basis. With the
      help of this project, the investigators will be able to understand how different protocols of
      rTMS given to a variety of locations within the motor network affect the DCM network. Such
      information will be useful for developing individualized rTMS protocol for not only stroke
      therapy in the present study, but also other neurological disorders, e.g. Parkinson's disease
      and dystonia, in the further studies.

      Furthermore, the investigators expect that the patients stimulated with rTMS using the
      protocol matched to their DCM network will recover better than those treated with unmatched
      protocol. This part of result could be further applied as a clinical application to
      facilitate stroke recovery. The predictors for stroke recovery revealed by the DCM model will
      also be verified in the current project. This will give us more information about the
      accuracy of the predictors and may give us new insights for the further development of stroke
      therapy. The investigators will further analyze EEG data and the results to provide knowledge
      of the state-dependent effect of brain on the variability of the current forms of rTMS and
      other noninvasive brain stimulation. This part of information will be very helpful for
      developing the strategy for eliminating the variability of rTMS and for improving the
      protocol of rTMS to be more powerful and efficient.
    
  