
    
      Patients with serious cancers, like advanced lung cancer, often experience physical symptoms,
      such as pain or shortness of breath. In addition, both patients and their loved ones (family
      and friends) often feel worried or sad about their cancer diagnosis.

      Research has shown that early involvement of a team of clinicians that specialize in
      lessening (or "palliating") many of these distressing physical and emotional symptoms and in
      helping patients and their family cope with a serious illness improves patients' and their
      loved ones' experience with their cancer. This team is called "palliative care," and consists
      of physicians and advanced practice nurses (or "nurse practitioners") who work closely and
      collaboratively with your oncology team to care for the participant and the participant's
      loved ones. Research shows that when the palliative care team works closely with the oncology
      team to care for patients with advanced cancer, they may have better symptom control, quality
      of life, and mood and their loved ones feel less distressed.

      This study will compare two different strategies for scheduling participant's visits with the
      palliative care clinician. The first strategy is to schedule the participant to meet with the
      palliative care clinician regularly each month. The investigators call this strategy "early
      integrated palliative care".

      The second strategy is to schedule the participant to meet with the palliative care clinician
      after the participant is admitted to the hospital or if the participant's oncology team needs
      to change the participant cancer treatment, as these are times when the participant is likely
      to have health issues that the palliative care clinician can help with. The investigators
      will also monitor the participant's quality of life regularly. If the study team determines
      that the participant quality of life worsens, the investigators will increase the frequency
      of the participant's visits with the palliative care clinician to monthly appointments. The
      investigators call this strategy "stepped palliative care" because the investigators step up
      the frequency of the participant palliative care visits if the participant's quality of life
      worsens during the participant cancer treatment.

      No matter which strategy the participant is taking part in, the participant will still be
      able to request additional palliative care visits outside of the study schedule if the
      participant feel they need them.
    
  