
    
      Background and rationale:

      While regular and moderate physical activity is strongly recommended in reducing
      cardiovascular risk, the scientific community questions the potentially harmful effects of
      prolonged and intense physical activity. In the short term, functional ultrasonographic
      changes (systolic and diastolic) and disturbances of biomarkers such as troponin are reported
      in participants in long-term endurance trials, assuming myocardial remodeling and transient
      tissue damage leading to suffering or "heart fatigue". These constraints could, to the
      extreme, favor the development of arrhythmogenic foci at the atrial and ventricular stages,
      and at least, be responsible for a sudden death of the athlete. Adaptations of the athlete's
      heart have mainly been studied in the left ventricle but more and more studies are studying
      the right ventricle (RV). These alterations are nevertheless poorly characterized and the
      consequences including the risk of ventricular rhythm disorder have not been studied.

      Primary and Secondary Objectives:

      The primary objective is to test the existence of a relationship between RV functional
      abnormalities induced by intense and prolonged exercise, and the occurrence of ventricular
      ectopic beats (VEB) from RV. The secondary objectives are to characterize the respiratory
      impairment of this type of course and to study its relation with the functional anomalies of
      the RV and the occurrence of VEB.

      Methodology:

      This is a prospective study including male triathletes participating in the long-distance
      triathlon of Embrun in August 2019 (3.8 km of swimming, 188 km of cycling and 42.2 km of
      running), aged between 20 to 54 years years old. The criteria for non-inclusion are subjects
      with a history of heart disease or rhythm disorder or who have one or more cardiovascular
      risk factors, taking cardiovascular treatment or using doping products. The primary endpoint
      is the degree of correlation between course induced right ventricular functional
      abnormalities (by the use of 2d-strain ultrasound imaging) and the number of VEB from RV
      during or up to 72 hours after the race.

      Procedure:

      The study will take place during the Embrun triathlon in August 2019. There will be 2
      evaluations: one before the race and one 30 minutes after the race, where will be carried out
      a self-questionnaire, a clinical examination, EKG, echocardiography and spirometry. An EKG
      holter in the form of a patch, adapted to sport and submersible practice, will be put in
      place 24 to 48 hours before the race and left until 72 hours after the race.

      Outcomes / perspectives:

      Characterizing the effects of a long-distance triathlon on cardiac contractile function and
      evaluating the athlete's rhythmic risk would make it possible to better understand these
      pathophysiological consequences and ultimately better detect athletes at risk of sudden
      death.
    
  