
    
      The arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy/dysplasia (ARVC/D), have a prevalence
      estimated that range from 1 case on 5000 subjects in the general population to 1 in 2000 in
      some European countries such as Italy and Germany. It is a rare myocardial disease, with a
      dominant genetic transmission characterized by alterations of desmosomial proteins including
      desmoplakin (DSP), plakophilin 2 (PKP2), desmoglein 2 (DSG2), and desmocollin 2 (DSC2).
      ARVC/D mainly affects the right ventricle but in some cases also the left ventricle result
      involved and the fatty tissue or fibro-fatty tissue with particular arrangement may affect
      the full-thickness wall are pathognomonic. Progressive loss of right ventricular myocardium
      and its replacement by fibro-fatty tissue is the pathological hallmark of the disease and
      predisposes to the early onset of arrhythmias and sudden death especially in young people and
      athletes. The diagnosis is difficult and based on clinical major/minor criteria, including
      histological aspects based on fibrous tissue substitution (in percentage) and right ventricle
      localization. The introduction of the new term "borderline" ARVC allows to inform those
      individuals with undefined diseases for minor abnormalities that are at risk and require
      regular follow-up.

      The histological criteria consist on microscopic observation of seven fields in five areas of
      the myocardium at a high magnification (40x) with the support of histochemical stains for the
      fibrous connective tissue and for the adipose tissue. Several studies have attempted to
      quantify the presence of adipose and fibrous tissue in the myocardial wall, and the value for
      histological diagnosis of ARVC provides a minimum 3% of adipose tissue and more than 40% of
      fibrous tissue. Conversely, other authors have suggested that a percentage of adipose tissue
      ranging from 5 to 20% is suspicious. This approach had limitations due to the lack of
      sensitivity of many of the criteria. Particularly, in ARVC families disease-causing mutation
      carriers often have very insidious results that do not usually lead to a diagnosis of ARVC in
      clinical practice. However, in te present research authors would demonstrated that with
      ARVC/D cannot be included only cases with increased fibrosis and exclusive localization to
      the right ventricle nor even cases with electrocardiographic alterations and other evident
      clinical criteria. The primary study goal of reviewing the guidelines will be reducing the
      dependence on subjective criteria to evaluate ventricular structure and function and to
      incorporating cardiac magnetic resonance and genetic analysis data. In the new system,
      patients should be diagnosed with "defined" ARVC if they have two major criteria, 1 major and
      2 minor criteria, or 4 minor criteria of different categories and "borderline" ARVC with 1
      major and 1 minor criteria, or 3 minors of different categories.

      Materials and methods Patients and samples Authors will assay heart sections from 10 fatal
      cases of death, with an average age of 28.8±8.1 years (age ranged from 16 to 45 years),
      defined according to commonly accepted criteria and collected from January 2003 to December
      2017 at the University of Naples Federico II. All the autopsies will be performed according
      to the Guidelines for autopsy investigation developed by the Association for European
      Cardiovascular Pathology, and in all cases they will be completely examined by macroscopic
      autopsy.

      Histological evaluation In all cases, the sampling of ventricles, atria and septum including
      conduction system for the heart will be performed. The original tissues samples will be fixed
      in 10% neutral buffered formalin and embedded in paraffin blocks. Sections (4μm thick) will
      be stained with hematoxylin and eosin stain (H&E) for diagnosis. After diagnosis, sections of
      the representative heart tissue will be stained with a PicroSirius Red/Fast Green for
      fibrosis evaluation. All stained samples will be examined under digital and light microscope.
      Beside the location of adipose/fibrous tissue in the right or left ventricles and in the
      septum, seven high magnification fields (40x) will be evaluated in five regions of the
      myocardium.
    
  