
    
      The transmission of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), including HIV, is a major public
      health concern, especially among minority groups in the United States. Although STDs are
      prevalent across all racial and ethnic groups in the United States, the rate of STD infection
      is disproportionately higher for African Americans than for white Americans. African
      Americans have higher rates of HIV, chlamydia, gonorrhea, syphilis, and herpes than white
      Americans. An important part of the prevention process is early education on HIV to reduce
      sexual-risk behavior and to promote safe sexual practices. Interventions are needed in a
      variety of settings to extensively address African Americans' risk of STDs, including HIV.
      Although most HIV/STD risk-reduction interventions are conducted at the individual level, a
      couple-based approach may be more effective and consistent with cultural values. This study
      will compare the effectiveness of the Eban HIV/STD Risk Reduction Intervention with the Eban
      Health Promotion Intervention in reducing the risk of STDs among African-American
      HIV-serodiscordant heterosexual couples.

      Participation in this study will last 12 months. All participants will first undergo baseline
      assessments that will consist of questionnaires and biospecimen collection for STD testing.
      Participants will then be assigned randomly to one of two treatment groups: the Eban HIV/STD
      Risk Reduction Intervention group or the Eban Health Promotion Intervention group. Both
      groups will participate in weekly 2-hour sessions over 8 weeks. The sessions will include
      couple and group sessions led by trained male and female co-facilitators. The Eban HIV/STD
      Risk Reduction Intervention sessions will focus on the couple and will teach the couple about
      communication skills. The approach will draw upon social cognitive theory, an ecological
      framework, and HIV/STD risk-reduction research with inner-city African-American populations.
      The Eban Health Promotion Intervention sessions will focus on the individual and will provide
      factual information on health, screening, exercise, diet management, and medication
      adherence. Follow-up visits for all participants will occur at Months 3, 6, and 12 and will
      include repeat baseline assessments.
    
  