
    
      Heart failure represents a growing epidemic in the United States. Recent figures reveal that
      almost 5 million people have heart failure in the U.S. alone, with an incidence (550,000 new
      diagnoses/year) that has increased up to threefold over the last 25 years. This growing
      incidence of heart failure is thought to be due to changing population demographics. Rates of
      major risk factors for the disease-diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and renal
      insufficiency--have all been steadily increasing.

      Renal insufficiency causes particular difficulty for the management of heart failure. Most
      CHF patients have a significant degree of renal insufficiency - both because the risk factors
      for the two diseases are the same, but also because reduced cardiac output related to CHF
      leads to reduced glomerular filtration rate (GFR). Diuretics in escalating doses, a
      cornerstone of therapy for CHF exacerbations, can also lead to worsening renal function, a
      continued inability to achieve an adequate diuresis and toxicity from the agents given.

      B-type Natriuretic Peptide (BNP) is a 32-amino acid peptide hormone secreted predominantly
      from the ventricles in response to increased pressure and volume. It has several actions in
      vivo, working as a diuretic, natriuretic and as a systemic pulmonary vasodilator. Natrecor is
      a recombinant peptide structurally identical to endogenous BNP, approved for the treatment of
      decompensated heart failure.

      In the Vasodilation in the management of Acute Congestive Heart Failure (VMAC)trial, therapy
      with Natrecor resulted in improvements in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure seen within 15
      minutes of starting the therapy; these improvements were significantly better than with
      intravenous nitroglycerine. Patients also reported a greater improvement in dyspnea with
      Natrecor therapy than with placebo. In a prior study, our group has demonstrated that
      prolonged Natrecor infusions result in improved hemodynamic parameters for Stage D heart
      failure patients awaiting heart transplantations.

      Natrecor therapy holds theoretical value for patients with heart failure and concomitant
      renal insufficiency. Prior experimental work has demonstrated that BNP infusions can increase
      diuresis, natriuresis, and importantly, GFR in healthy subjects--all of which represent major
      objectives in the therapy of heart failure patients. Many have also reported the clinical
      experience that renal function was preserved, and diuresis/natriuresis more readily achieved
      in patients with heart failure exacerbations and renal insufficiency with the addition of
      Natrecor therapy. However, this potential use for Natrecor has not been rigorously tested.

      The study is a prospective, double-blinded, placebo controlled clinical trial. Patients
      admitted with the medical diagnosis of CHF exacerbation and that meet study criteria will be
      randomized to receive Natrecor vs placebo (5% dextrose in water) intravenous infusions for 48
      hrs.Randomization will occur in the pharmacy department. Patients randomized to Natrecor will
      receive a 2mcg/kg IV bolus, followed by a continuous infusion of 0.01mcg/kg/min. (Patients
      who have a net negative diuresis greater than 1 liter prior to initiation of Natrecor therapy
      will not receive a bolus dose given a greater risk of hypotension). Those randomized to
      placebo will receive a dummy bolus and infusion of the same volume of 5% dextrose in water.

      100 subjects will be recruited. Inclusion criteria include inpatient admission with the
      diagnosis of CHF exacerbation and have a calculated creatinine clearance between 15-60 ml/min
      using the Cockcroft-Gault equation. Patients 18 years and older are eligible for the trial
      regardless of gender or ethnic background. Exclusion criteria include: hypotension (SBP<
      90mmHg) at time of enrollment, severe hypertension (SBP>170 mmHg) necessitating IV
      vasodilator therapy, known allergy to Natrecor, history of heart transplantation, up-front
      use of inotropes, and contraindications to vasodilator therapy (such as severe aortic
      stenosis), and mental incompetence meaning inability to provide informed consent.

      In addition to Stanford University Medical Center, we are beginning data collection at the VA
      Hospital in Palo Alto, CA.

      Initial nursing management of these subjects includes every 15 minute blood pressure
      monitoring for hypotension. In such a case, the IV infusion will be discontinued for 36
      minutes (half-life of Natrecor is 18 minutes) and then restarted. Clinical experience with
      Natrecor has proven this regime is usually effective.
    
  