
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the toxicity and maximum tolerated dose of recombinant fowlpox prostate-specific
      antigen (PSA) vaccine in patients with advanced adenocarcinoma of the prostate.

      II. Determine whether vaccination with recombinant fowlpox-PSA vaccine is associated with
      antitumor activity in these patients.

      III. Determine the efficacy of prime and boost regimens using recombinant fowlpox-PSA vaccine
      and recombinant vaccinia-PSA vaccine in these patients.

      IV. Compare the PSA-specific T-cell response in patients treated with recombinant fowlpox-PSA
      vaccine followed by recombinant vaccinia-PSA vaccine vs the same vaccines but in reverse
      order.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter, dose-escalation study of recombinant
      fowlpox prostate-specific antigen (PSA) vaccine.

      SAFETY COHORT: The first cohort of 3 patients receives vaccination with recombinant
      fowlpox-PSA vaccine intramuscularly (IM). Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 3 courses. In
      the absence of unacceptable toxicity in the first cohort, the second cohort of 3 patients
      receives the same vaccine at the dose level immediately higher than the first cohort dose
      level. In the presence of unacceptable toxicity in the first cohort, the second cohort of 3
      patients receives the same vaccine at a dose level lower than the first cohort dose level.
      The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is the dose preceding that at which 1 of 6 patients
      experiences grade 3 or worse dose-limiting toxicity.

      Subsequent patients are assigned to one of two vaccination groups based on prior treatment
      with recombinant vaccinia-PSA vaccine:

      GROUP A (no prior recombinant vaccinia-PSA vaccine): Patients are randomized to one of two
      vaccination arms:

      ARM I: Patients receive recombinant fowlpox-PSA vaccine IM at the MTD from the safety cohort
      every 4 weeks for 3 courses. Patients then receive recombinant vaccinia-PSA vaccine
      intradermally every 4 weeks for 2 courses.

      ARM II: Patients receive the same vaccines as in arm I but in reverse order.

      GROUP B (prior recombinant vaccinia-PSA vaccine): Patients receive treatment as in arm I,
      group A.

      GROUPS A AND B: Patients with stable or responding disease at 6 months after completion of
      vaccination therapy may continue treatment on the group and arm to which they were originally
      assigned. Treatment repeats every 6-9 months in the absence of disease progression.

      Patients are followed monthly for 6 months and then every 3 months thereafter.
    
  