
    
      Our overall hypothesis is that first and second degree relatives of individuals with celiac
      disease benefit from screening and diagnosis of celiac disease. Secondary hypotheses are:

        1. The number needed to test and cost to benefit one person though celiac disease screening
           are within acceptable ranges of 33 tested and < $10,000 spent.

        2. Treatment does not lead to adverse metabolic changes.

        3. Intestinal biopsy is unnecessary for accurate diagnosis in a substantial subset of
           adults.

      Aim 1. Determine the effect of screen detected celiac disease on health related quality of
      life.

        -  Evaluate change in health related quality of life at one year in participants randomized
           to the screen detected, early diagnosis cohort compared to the screen detected, delayed
           diagnosis, clinically detected and non-celiac control cohorts.

        -  Evaluate change in symptoms, psychological well-being and burden of treatment at one
           year in the screen detected, early diagnosis cohort compared to the screen detected,
           delayed diagnosis, clinically detected and non-celiac control cohorts.

        -  Evaluate the cost per diagnosis and the number needed to test for the diagnosis of
           individuals who will have a clinically meaningful improvement in health related quality
           of life attributable to treatment of celiac disease.

      Aim 2: Assess the effect of screen detected celiac disease on nutritional and metabolic
      indices.

        -  Compare changes bone density, body mass index, Reynolds Cardiovascular Risk Score, and
           nutritional indices at one year in the screen detected, early diagnosis cohort compared
           to the screen detected, delayed diagnosis, clinically detected and non-celiac control
           cohorts.

      Aim 3: Evaluate the reliability of using serologic tests in combination with intestinal fatty
      acid binding protein vs. intestinal biopsy to confirm celiac disease diagnosis in adults.

        -  Prospectively assess the sensitivity and specificity of a novel non-invasive celiac
           diagnostic algorithm in comparison to the current gold standard of small intestinal
           biopsy histology.

        -  Model the cost of modified, non-invasive celiac testing vs. classical testing with
           endoscopic biopsy in both screen-detected and clinically identified celiac disease.
    
  