
    
      This study was an open-label (patients and investigators knew what treatment was being
      given), randomized (patients were assigned to a treatment group by chance) study of lymphoma,
      chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), or multiple myeloma patients. This study addressed the
      clinical and patient-management consequences of treating mild to moderate anemia (hemoglobin
      (Hb) between 10 and 12 g/dL). The design of the study compared the effect of treating higher
      Hb levels to current standard of care criteria on Hb levels, transfusion requirements, and
      patient reported outcomes (quality of life, health care resource utilization, and
      productivity). Patients were randomized according to their Hb levels. Two entry criteria were
      specified during the course of the trial. Initially, patients were enrolled with Hb levels >=
      11 g/dL and then randomized to receive 1) Immediate epoetin alfa treatment or 2) Observed
      after Hb levels fell below 11 g/dL. Epoetin alfa treatment was provided to the Observed group
      if and when Hb levels fell below 9.0 g/dL. Slow recruitment of patients in to the study
      resulted in a protocol amendment. Subsequently, if a patient presented with a Hb between 10
      and 12 g/dL, the patient was randomized to the Immediate or to the Observed groups. Patients
      presenting with Hgb > 12 g/dL but otherwise eligible, were not randomized until Hb dropped to
      <=12 g/dL. Patients remained in the study for up to 36 weeks. Safety assessments were
      performed throughout the study and included obtaining and evaluating laboratory tests, vital
      signs (e.g., blood pressure), and the occurrence and severity of adverse events. The starting
      dose of PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) was administered subcutaneously (sc) as 40,000 Units (U) once
      weekly (qw). If after 3-4 weeks of therapy, the Hb did not increase by > 1.0 g/dL, the dose
      was increased to 60,000 U sc qw. If at any time, the Hb rose above 15 g/dL on 2 consecutive
      evaluations, PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) was stopped until the Hb dropped to below 13 g/dL and
      then resumed.
    
  