
    
      Platelet function test

      Thromboelastography (TEG) TEG is a test which provides information on the complete
      haemostasis. Also fibrinolysis can be measured. The strength of the clot can be measured.
      This provides information about platelet concentration, -function and platelet-fibrin
      interaction. It is measured in a medium with added heparinase, an enzyme that degrades
      heparin,, which makes TEG measurement possible during ECC. The results from the TEG will be
      displayed graphically and numerically. The letter R (reaction time) represents the time
      before the clot formation starts. This time is predominately dependent on coagulation factors
      and inhibitors such as heparin. The velocity at which the clot is then formed is displayed as
      the letter K (time between 2 mm en 20 mm amplitude in the thromboelastogram). The firmness of
      the clot is the maximum amplitude in the thromboelastogram (MA) and is dependent on the
      amount and function of the thrombocytes, fibrinogen concentration and factor XIII
      concentration of the sample. Fibrinolysis will be visualised in the parameter that displays
      the velocity of dissolving the clot (LY30= fibrinolysis 30 minutes after MA).

      In case of a severe coagulation factor independency or use of heparin, the R parameter will
      be elongated. In severe thrombocytopathy, thrombocytopenia or a low fibrinogen concentration
      the graphic will show a lowered MA. In hyperfibrinolysis the LY30 will be elongated.

      Multiple electrode Aggregometry (MEA) MEA is a technique to test platelet function in whole
      blood based on classical impedance aggregometry. The use of whole blood makes centrifugation
      redundant. The use of agonist ADP, arachidonic acid, collagen and TRAP provides information
      about platelet aggregation, and simultaneously provides specific information of the routes
      inhibited by clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid.

      MEA calculates three parameters. The most important parameter, the area under the curve
      (AUC), reflexes the overall platelet activity . The area under the curve is influenced by the
      total height of the aggregation curve as well as by its slope. The other parameters are the
      height of the curve that describes the aggregation. The maximum slope of the curve describes
      the reflex velocity.

      Results TEG and MEA contain:

        -  TEG angle

        -  TEG K

        -  TEG LY 30

        -  TEG MA

        -  TEG R

      MEA:

        -  MEA adenosine diphosphate (ADP)

        -  MEA arachidonic acid

        -  MEA collagen

        -  MEA thrombin receptor activating peptide (TRAP)
    
  