
    
      The accumulation of intracellular lipid reflects a dysregulation of tissue fatty acid
      metabolism involving abnormal relationships between tissue fatty acid uptake and oxidation.
      It has been postulated that such dysregulation of lipid metabolism causes insulin resistance
      as a direct consequence of the accumulated intracellular triglyceride (TG), or that the
      increased intracellular TG reflects an increase in active products of fatty acids, such as
      diacylglycerol, that inhibit the insulin signaling pathway. We recently found that both
      muscle and liver intracellular TG concentrations were elevated in more than one-half of
      otherwise healthy elderly individuals.

      We hypothesize that an increase in tissue lipids in the elderly reflects altered tissue lipid
      metabolism that puts them at high risk for the development of insulin resistance with
      bedrest. Further, we propose that the PPARα (Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptor
      Alpha) agonist fenofibrate will increase tissue fatty acid disposal by activating
      mitochondrial oxidative capacity, thereby improving insulin sensitivity.

      We will examine the role of alterations in lipid metabolism in the development of insulin
      resistance that occurs with bedrest.

      Methods: A total of 40 elderly subjects ranging in age from 60-85 will be studied. Subjects
      will be randomized to one of two groups: 1) 10 days of bedrest or 2) 10 days of bedrest plus
      fenofibrate. Each of the subjects will complete a 5- day diet stabilization period and have a
      metabolic infusion study on day 5, followed by 10 days of bedrest and a metabolic study on
      day 18. This will be followed by a 3 week rehabilitation program. Pre-test and post bedrest
      measurements include body composition by DEXA, intracellular TG measurements by MRS, strength
      testing.

      The results will provide insight into the mechanisms responsible for the development of
      insulin resistance with inactivity and strategies for ameliorating this response.
    
  