
    
      Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is an immune-mediated adverse drug reaction with
      potentially fatal complications of venous and arterial thrombosis.

      HIT with thrombosis causes prolonged hospital length of stay and is associated with
      catastrophic outcomes such as extremity amputation as well as death. The fear of HIT has led
      to some proposals to minimize hospital use of unfractionated heparin (UFH) and low molecular
      weight heparin (LMWH) and to substitute other anticoagulants that have not been reported to
      cause HIT. Therefore, the frequency of confirmed HIT and the frequency of determining whether
      UFH or LMWH is the causative agent urgently require further investigation.

      At BWH, we have placed patient safety at a premium. We have a Patient Safety Committee and a
      Patient Safety Officer. HIT has been identified as one of the primary problems requiring
      urgent policy decisions. Consequently, we have formed a multi-disciplinary team of
      physicians, pharmacists, nurses and physician's assistants to improve safe medication
      practices for patients receiving anticoagulation.

      Our primary objectives are to establish an HIT registry which will provide information on:

        1. Incidence of HIT associated with UFH and LMWH

        2. Outcomes of patients with HIT

        3. Adverse events associated with alternative anticoagulants used to treat HIT

      We will obtain data with respect to: Drug, Dose, Route of administration, Duration of
      therapy, Platelet count, Platelet nadir, Co-morbidities (Coronary Artery Disease, Diabetes
      Mellitus, Myocardial Infarction, Hypertension, Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Renal Failure,
      Malignancy, Liver Disease, Surgery, Sepsis), Baseline characteristics (Age, Sex, Weight),
      Pregnancy status, Serum Creatinine, AST, ALT, Hematocrit, Hemoglobin, Venous and Arterial
      Thrombotic events (DVT, PE, CVC), 30-day mortality rate, alternative anticoagulant therapy,
      and duration of therapy.

      Time and Method of Data Collection:

      Chart Review for the duration of hospitalization: Hemorrhagic event, Thrombotic events, and
      30-day Mortality Rate.
    
  