
    
      Neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD) is a chronic relapsing autoimmune disease of
      the central nervous system (CNS) that preferentially targets the optic nerves and spinal
      cord, leading to paralysis, blindness and death. NMOSD is a rare disease that affects
      approximately 4,000-8,000 (8,000 - 15,000) people in the United States, disproportionately
      affects non-Caucasians and females, and has a worldwide prevalence estimated to be 0.52 to
      4.4/100,000. Pain is a severely disabling component of the disease with up to 91% of patients
      reporting central neuropathic pain (CNP) characterized by agonizing burning, shooting or
      tingling sensation in the face, arms, torso and legs. NMOSD lesions in the spinal cord are
      characteristically long and destructive, and pain is more prevalent in NMOSD than in most
      other neurological diseases. Research on the impact of persistent pain on quality of life
      (QoL) in NMOSD has found that those patients with CNP experience more depression, less
      enjoyment of life, and more difficulty with ambulation. Currently, there is no standard of
      care for CNP treatment and off-label use of medications typically used for diabetic
      peripheral neuropathy are often insufficient. NMOSD is a devastating disease and there
      remains a high unmet need for effective treatment of CNP.

      Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) therapy is a non-invasive pain modifying
      intervention that utilizes transcutaneous electrical stimulation of ascending (sensory)
      fibers with the intent of re-organizing maladaptive signaling pathways. This neuromodulatory
      therapy has been investigated for treatment of persistent peripheral neuropathic pain in
      several conditions including chemotherapy-induced neuropathy, post-herpetic neuralgia and
      post-surgical neuropathic pain with promising results. Patients report sustained relief after
      undergoing daily treatment sessions for 10 consecutive weekdays.

      Recently the investigators completed a sham controlled trial using a TENS unit called
      Scrambler in NMOSD patients showing a meaningful reduction in neuropathic pain compared to
      controls. The Scrambler device must be operated in an office by a professional technician,
      thereby limiting its usefulness to the wider NMOSD population. The ENSO device is similar to
      the Scrambler unit in that it provides non-invasive transcutaneous electrical impulses to
      reduce pain. It is a small, wearable device that utilizes both high and low frequencies to
      create a nerve-block effect based on the same gating theory. Because the ENSO device is
      programmable remotely, a controlled trial can be conducted while keeping the patient blinded
      to the trial arm.

      For patients with NMOSD and other conditions that cause pain originating in the central
      nervous system, non-obtrusive, non-pharmacological devices might prove a viable alternative
      to pain medications. Pharmaceutical treatments for pain such as opioids have led to addiction
      and life-style changes with unacceptable side effects. Cost and side effects are concerns
      with other pharmacologic therapies for pain. In addition, in efforts to control pain, many
      patients are prescribed multiple medications, and then have to cope with the complexities and
      hazards of polypharmacy. Most importantly, none of the pharmaceutical treatments for pain in
      NMOSD have been proven effective in a trial.

      If it can be shown among a significant patient cohort that a safe and effective at-home
      nonpharmacological pain therapy is available for patients with NMOSD, it would be life
      altering for a great many - not only those with NMOSD, but also with related neuroimmune
      disorders and other conditions with central neuropathic pain.

      The goal of this project is to provide an effective, non-invasive treatment for neuropathic
      pain in NMOSD that can be safely employed at home. Many NMOSD patients have such chronic pain
      and/or disability that frequent visits to the clinic for therapy is difficult, if not
      impossible, in the best of times. Secondly, safe at-home treatments that offer continuous
      relief of pain (and potentially other co-occurring symptoms) can improve quality of life
      immensely during this, and likely future times of social distancing, when leaving home is
      dangerous, especially for a population on lifelong immune suppressants. Also, an at-home
      therapeutic option will save both time and money for patients.
    
  