
    
      Chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is a major etiology of hepatocellular carcinoma
      (HCC). For early stage of HCC, surgical resection or radiofrequency ablation (RFA) is the
      mainstay curative treatments. However, recurrence is still a major issue after the surgery or
      RFA. According to our previous report, the cumulated recurrence rate for small HCV-HCC was
      72.4% at 5 year. PEG-interferon plus RBV treatment is the standard of care for chronic
      hepatitis C (CHC) in Taiwan. NHIRD data showed that PEG-IFN plus RBV treatment can reduce 12%
      of recurrence rate in 5 years (64% vs 52%) after curative resection of HCC. However, only
      selected patients are eligible and tolerable to IFN-based treatment after surgical resection
      and the sustained virological response varied.

      Harvoni for genotype 1 HCV and sovaldi plus ribavirin for genotype 2 HCV can achieve high SVR
      and being recommended by AASLD and EASL. All-oral regimen, being more tolerable and effective
      for HCC patients after curative treatment than IFN-based treatment. Mixed HCV genotype
      infection accounts for 10% of CHC patients in Taiwan. Sovaldi-based treatment plus ribavirin
      should be as effective as Sovaldi plus rivavirin in the treatment of genotype 2 HCV, as well
      as mixed genotype 1 and 2 HCV infection. As genotype 1 and 2 are the leading HCV genotypes in
      Taiwan, It can simplify the regimen of anti-HCV treatment in Taiwan by using Harvoni plus
      ribavirin, not only for genotype 1 and 2 HCV but also for mixed genotype 1 and 2 HCV
      infection. Although an unexpected high recurrence rate in HCC patients under DAA treatment
      was reported once. However, one recent study showed a low risk of HCC recurrence after DAA
      treatment. Harvoni is an all-oral regimen, being more tolerable and effective for HCC
      patients after surgery than IFN-based treatment. The all oral regimen would be beneficial in
      eradicating HCV viral load and subsequently reduce the risk of recurrence after curative
      resection of HCV-HCC.

      In this study, the investigators plan to enroll 130 HCV-HCC patients after confirming
      curative treatment for their HCC, either by surgery or RFA. For the cases fulfilling the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria, a 12 weeks Harvoni plus ribavirin treatment will be provided
      for all cases (single armed design). The primary objective of the study is annual
      recurrence-free survival after curative resection of HCV-HCC for up to 5 years. The secondary
      objectives of the study are SVR 4/12/24 by DAA, regression of fibrosis, incidence of
      liver-related complications (EV bleeding, ascites) after DAA treatment, and overall survival
      for 5 years.

      A hospital-based cohorts of HCV-related HCC undergoing surgical resection or RFA from Taipei
      Veterans General Hospital and Investigated Sites will be recruited as historical controls.
      The historical controls include HCV-HCC undergoing curative treatment without Peg-interferon
      plus ribavirin treatment (cohort 1) or with Peg-interferon plus ribavirin treatment (cohort
      2) after curative treatment (surgical resection or RFA) for HCC.
    
  