
    
      Objectives:

      Temporomandibular disorder (TMD) involves the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) and surrounding
      structure, causing problems including myofascial pain and joint degeneration. TMD is mostly
      seen in the age group of 18 to 44. TMD treatment includes conservative (non-surgical) and
      surgical treatment. Surgical TMD treatment has a decent success rate but requires general
      anesthesia, hospital stay and surgical incision. There are also some risks of facial nerve
      and vascular damage, infection, puncture to middle cranial fossa. Conservative treatments
      include medication , physical therapy, use of occlusal splint, hyaluronic acid (HA) or
      Botulinum toxin injection and concentrated glucose solution. However, those managements lack
      the evidence from large placebo-controlled clinical trials. Therefore, the development of
      novel non-surgical treatment is important and of great potential. The ultrasound guidance
      provides visualization of the lesion site, allowing the operator to provide injection
      precisely and avoid damage on adjacent tissue, nerves and vessels. it is not only convenient
      and economic, but also associated with significantly less radiation exposure than
      conventional techniques such as computer tomography or fluoroscopy. Using ultrasound guidance
      in injective TMD treatment can increase successful rate and prevent unnecessary side effects.
      While current available evidences suggest the promising effect of platelet-rich plasma (PRP)
      injection therapy in treating TMD, publication of study with strict design is still lacking.
      Therefore, this study is a randomized, controlled and double-blind design, which aimed to
      access the efficacy of ultrasound-guided PRP injection therapy of TMD, with normal saline
      used as control. Looking forward to establish TMD clinical treatment guideline in the future.

      Methods:

      The out-patients with unilateral or bilateral TMD、joint mobility dysfunction or joint noise
      from this hospital were enrolled. They were randomized via computer into 2 groups (PRP group
      and normal saline group). There are 30 patients in each group. The PRP group received 1cc PRP
      injection in the superior temporomandibular disk joint space by ultrasound guidance. The
      normal saline group received the same procedure as PRP group with 1 cc normal saline
      injection. Both group received the same protocol of physical therapy (manual therapy,
      stretching exercise, posture training with 30 minutes per session and 2 sessions per weeks)
      for 12 weeks. Those physical therapies were under the guidance of one therapist who didn't
      know the patient's allocation.

      The investigator and subjects did not know the group assignment. Evaluations were performed
      at time points prior to injection and 2 weeks, 1st, 3rd , and 6th months post injection by
      one doctor (who didn't know about the group assignment). Evaluations include Visual Analogue
      Scale (VAS) of the degree of pain, masticatory efficiency, perceived joint noise and measure
      of maximal interincisal opening, painless oral opening, mandibular lateral movement and
      protrusion movement. The investigator also evaluated symptoms or signs of side effects and
      complications.

      Besides, the subjects can't receive any treatment include medications or injection for pain
      control, but allowed to take Acetaminophen 500mg, maximal dosage 4g per day to relieve
      refractory pain during follow up period. If any participant broke the rules or took
      Acetaminophen over daily dosage, the participant will be excluded to this study.
    
  