
    
      The present study is to evaluate de-escalation of the cyclophosphamide (CY) dose in an
      innovative conditioning regimen with fludarabine and alemtuzumab as additional agents to
      achieve immunoablation, in combination with Busulfan (BU) to achieve myeloablation.
      Replacement of at least part of the cyclophosphamide dose by fludarabine in the conditioning
      regimen would be expected to maintain immunosuppression (and, therefore, engraftment) while
      reducing transplant-related complications (mucositis, hepatotoxicity, cardiotoxicity,
      pulmonary toxicity, hemorrhagic cystitis, mucositis, and possibly GVHD), thereby improving
      disease-free survival rates. Similarly, the potential benefits of alemtuzumab in the proposed
      conditioning regimen are increased rates of hematopoietic engraftment with less toxicity than
      that observed with cyclophosphamide, ultimately resulting in improved immune function and
      enhanced quality of life (12,13). A fludarabine/alemtuzumab-based, less intensive
      conditioning regimen with adequate immunosuppressive activity could conceivably allow more
      successful engraftment of stem cells from related donors in patients with genetic
      lymphohematological diseases, as well as lower rates of transplant-related mortality.

      Regimen-related toxicity is also believed to be a major contributing factor to GVHD (14).
      Therefore, conditioning regimens that cause less tissue injury may also lead to reduced GVHD.
      In the present study, the use of alemtuzumab in the conditioning regimen may be an added
      benefit, as this antibody causes T-cell depletion, thus, the risk of GVHD may also be reduced
      (15). The overall goal of the study is to improve the therapeutic index of HSCT by decreasing
      and, if possible, eliminating cyclophosphamide as a component of the pre-transplant
      conditioning for patients with genetic diseases of lymphohematopoiesis. The investigation
      will explore the risks and benefits of the proposed novel-conditioning regimen using a
      decreased dose of cyclophosphamide and additional immunosuppression with fludarabine and
      alemtuzumab to prevent graft rejection and recurrence of disease. The investigators will
      evaluate this regimen's impact on conditioning-related morbidity and mortality, and measure
      the success of the transplant procedure by engraftment and disease-free survival. If this
      regimen is able to successfully permit engraftment and reduce regimen-related toxicity, the
      next phase of treatment will test a further dose de-escalation for cyclophosphamide. It is
      anticipated that there will be four dose levels of cyclophosphamide in the overall study: 1)
      105 mg/kg; 2) 70 mg/kg; 3) 35 mg/kg; and then finally, 4) 0 mg/kg. This study design was
      chosen to minimize study risks possibly associated with substitution of fludarabine and
      alemtuzumab for CY as immunoablation. The present protocol represents Level 1 in the study
      design; an amended protocol will be prepared prior to further de-escalation of the
      cyclophosphamide dose.
    
  