
    
      Persistence of CRS and asthma require multiple interconnected feedback and feed-forward
      circuits between ILCs and epithelial cells. It seems that type 2 ILCs (ILC2) are the most
      important accelerators of type II immune response that prepare cytokine microenvironment for
      Th2 cells chronic activation. What decide on ILC2 accumulation - this is an urgent question.
      The aim of the proposed project is to examine the role of the innate immune response of
      airways in children suffering from chronic rhinosinusitis and asthma.

      The project is intended to be realised in two phases. In the first stage, a case control
      study will be performed. In the second phase, double-blind, placebo controlled study will be
      conducted. In the first phase 3 groups of children will be compare: i) a group of children
      suffering from CRS (fulfilling the EPOS criteria) and asthma (fulfilling the API criteria)
      (CRS+/asthma+, n=90), ii) a group of children suffering from CRS (fulfilling the EPOS
      criteria) but without asthma symptoms (negative API criteria) (CRS+/asthma-, n=30) and iii) a
      group of children without symptoms of CRS (negative EPOS criteria) and without asthma
      symptoms (negative API criteria) (CRS-/asthma-, n=30). In the second phase the effect of
      intranasal glucocorticosteroids will be assessed. The following research methods will be
      used: SN-5 and cACT questionnaires, skin prick test, spirometry, measurement of NO in exhaled
      breath, taste perception test, eosinophil morphology assessment, ratio: glucose concentration
      in nasal secretion/serum glucose level, concentration of specific immunoglobulin E, total IgG
      and IgA, the proportion of ILC2 cells and regulatory cells in the peripheral blood.
      Endoscopic examination of the upper airways will be performed and samples of the mucosa will
      be taken. The mucosal examination will be as follows: i) PCR examination for the detection of
      the presence of viral and bacterial genetic material, ii) measurement of the expression of
      the various mRNA types, iii) measurement of the expression of mRNA for the
      Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition (EMT) genes and iv) percentage of ILC 1, 2 and 3 cells and
      regulatory cells.
    
  