
    
      Prior to this study, there had been one small study conducted in the Netherlands comparing
      parent-collected specimens at home with collection by a health care worker (HCW) during an
      arranged home visit. This study suggested that despite there being approximately the same
      number of illnesses identified in each group, the parent collection group had a higher
      proportion of ARIs with a specimen collected (43% vs 24%, parent vs HCW home visit), and a
      higher proportion of specimens tested positive for a virus (80% vs 67%), although neither of
      these findings was statistically significant.

      In order to prepare for a larger, community based study, we would like to test these findings
      in our environment.

      Community-based respiratory infection research has traditionally been conducted by home visit
      from a health care worker during illness to collect a sample, such as a nasopharyngeal
      aspirate. This method has the potential to result in non-reporting of illness or failure to
      collect a specimen due to the invasive nature of specimen collection or the difficulty
      arranging a home visit time that is convenient for parents and staff. This may bias findings
      and interfere with generalisability.

      Home collection of a simple respiratory sample has recently been demonstrated as an easy and
      acceptable method of conducting community-based respiratory research. Members of our group
      were involved in a large, community-based study in Melbourne involving 234 children and their
      families over a 12-month period. On this study parents successfully kept daily respiratory
      symptom diaries and collected a combined nose-throat swab when the child had an illness that
      met the definition for an acute respiratory illness (ARI) of interest. These study methods
      were acceptable with 87% parents reporting, at the end of the study, they would have been
      willing to continue with the study for at least another year.

      Since that study, parent collection of simple respiratory specimens has been further
      validated in the hospital setting and used in the home setting.

      We have previously shown that a swab combined with viral transport medium-soaked sponge in a
      secure transport tube is an efficient and safe way of transporting respiratory swabs. The
      method complies with guidelines for the transport of clinical specimens. As part of this
      study, we will use this system to allow for the transport of respiratory specimens to the
      Queensland Paediatric Infectious Diseases (Qpid) Laboratory through the normal surface mail,
      thereby allowing study families to manage specimen collection and return without the
      intervention of a study staff member.

      Flocked swabs in combination with specific viral transport media have recently been added to
      specimen collection options, allowing for simple and sensitive specimen collection whilst
      avoiding more invasive nasopharyngeal aspirates or washes.

      With this study, we plan to compare parent and health care worker collection using flocked
      swabs, and for some specimens they will be returned to the laboratory through normal surface
      mail.
    
  