
    
      PURPOSE OF THE RESEARCH

      Our long-term goal is to reduce sports-related injuries and improve physical fitness in
      children and adolescents by incorporating our neuromuscular training program called the Knee
      Injury Prevention Program (KIPP) into their physical education classes or sports practice
      routines. This project aims to measure the effectiveness of KIPP in reducing injuries and
      improving physical fitness among 5th -8th grade boys and girls in Chicago public schools.
      Specifically, we aim to:

        -  Train PE teachers and sports coaches for 5th -8th grade students how to incorporate the
           10-minute KIPP warm-up into their regular team practices and PE classes.

        -  Measure the effect of KIPP on sports injury rates.

        -  Measure the effect of KIPP on PE students' physical fitness.

      LITERATURE REVIEW / JUSTIFICATION OF RESEARCH Sports-related injuries are a serious concern
      for physically active children and adolescents. Treatment costs can be substantial, and the
      time lost from school and sports can have considerable impact on mental health and academic
      performance. A handful of studies, including our previous research in CPS high schools, have
      shown that coach-led neuromuscular training (NMT) programs can reduce the risk for
      sports-related injuries among female high school athletes by up to 88%. However, few studies
      of NMT have included athletes under 14 years of age, and none have investigated the
      protective effect of NMT in sports other than soccer, basketball, volleyball and team
      handball. NMT includes exercises to strengthen the core and lower extremity muscles, improve
      balance and agility, and promote safe techniques with landing and pivoting which are the most
      common sports maneuvers that lead to injury.

      In 2006, we researched a coach-led neuromuscular training program called the Knee Injury
      Prevention Program (KIPP) for female soccer and basketball athletes in CPS high schools and
      found a statistically significant reduction in lower extremity injuries in the teams using
      the KIPP warm-up. KIPP should also have beneficial effects on physical fitness; however this
      has not yet been directly studied.

      HYPOTHESES

        -  Coaches and PE teachers will demonstrate compliance and competency with implementing
           KIPP exercises into their regular practices/games and PE classes, respectively.

        -  KIPP training will reduce injuries in school-sponsored sports.

        -  KIPP training will improve PE students' physical fitness.

      PRELIMINARY STUDIES From 2006 to 2007, we researched coach-led KIPP among female soccer and
      basketball athletes in Chicago Public High Schools and found significant reduction in lower
      extremity injuries. In 2005, we conducted a trial of pre-season KIPP for female adolescent
      athletes and found a reduction in subjects' sports-related knee pain pre- vs. post-training.

      DESCRIPTION OF RESEARCH APPROACH This will be a cluster-randomized, controlled trial. The
      Acting Officer for the Office of Student Support and Engagement, the Director of Athletics
      for Chicago Public Schools (CPS), and the CPS Office of Student Health and Wellness
      understand and support the project's goals and research methods. They have agreed to provide
      PE teachers and coaches with staff development credits as an incentive for them to complete
      the study. The study will be implemented by "study personnel" who are all Lurie
      Children's-affiliated health care professionals or employees.
    
  