
    
      Cervical radicular pain is a common cause of disability and pain in the upper extremity and
      neck with an annual incidence of 83.2/100,000 (1). The initial treatment is conservative and
      includes relative rest, use of anti-inflammatory and analgesic medication, as well as
      physical therapy and home exercise. For patients who have persistent and significant
      symptoms, interventional pain management and surgical management are considered. Cervical
      epidural injections are the mainstay of the interventional, non-surgical modalities. They can
      be considered to provide short and long-term relief when disc herniation, foraminal stenosis
      or central canal stenosis pathology is identified.

      Cervical epidural injections can be performed by two different approaches, transforaminal and
      interlaminar. Transforaminal epidural injections allow delivery of medication to the ventral
      epidural space, while the interlaminar approach reaches the ventral epidural space in only
      28% of injections (2-4). The results of cervical epidural injections remain controversial and
      their efficacy in decreasing the need for surgery in patients who would otherwise be
      operative candidates has not been thoroughly investigated. Studies have been limited by small
      sample sizes, lack of control groups, and lack of randomization. Kolstad et al reported that
      23% (5/21) of patients waiting for cervical disc surgery cancelled surgery when assessed at
      four months after having a series of two cervical epidural injections (6). Lin et al reported
      that 63% (44/70) of patients who were deemed to be surgical candidates were able to avoid
      surgery with an average of 13-month follow up (7). Lee et al reported that over 80% of 98
      patients evaluated with cervical radiculopathy were able to avoid surgery with a 2-year
      follow-up (8). Anderberg et al reported that there was no short-term difference in symptoms
      of cervical radiculopathy between patients who received transforaminal injections of steroid
      with local anesthetic versus saline with local anesthetic. However, this study did not
      evaluate whether the injections were successful in the patients avoiding surgery (11).

      In terms of lumbar transforaminal epidural injections, Riew et al demonstrated that steroid
      injections obviated the need for surgery in patients with lumbar radiculopathy. Moreover,
      Reiw et al showed that steroid combined with local anesthetic was more effective than local
      anesthetic alone in a prospective, randomized, controlled, double-blinded study (9). Riew et
      al later studied the efficacy of cervical transforaminal epidural injections in the same
      fashion, but the findings were not statistically significant (p<0.35) and not published (10).

      We are not aware of any published prospective, randomized, controlled, double-blinded studies
      demonstrating the efficacy of cervical transforaminal epidural steroid injections. However,
      the North American Spine Society (NASS) Review and Recommendation Statement states that based
      on the literature and expert opinion, a minimum of one or two cervical epidural steroid
      injections would be very appropriate in the treatment of a specific episode of cervical
      radicular pain. This literature also suggests that a maximum of four injections can be used
      within six months, assuming there was a positive response and improvement seen with the
      previous injections.
    
  