
    
      Chest pain represents the second most frequent complaint among the 110 million persons who
      visit emergency departments in the U.S. each year. Perceived medicolegal risk compels
      emergency physicians to overtest for possible acute coronary syndrome (ACS), contributing to
      more than $20 billion in unnecessary diagnostic testing each year. The hypothesis of the
      present work states that quantitative pretest probability assessment can significantly and
      safely increase the proportion of very low risk patients with symptoms of ACS who are
      discharged from one emergency department. Quantitative pretest probability will be assessed
      with the validated, commercially available PREtest Consult ACS software device, which employs
      computer assisted, attribute matching. This method matches an 8-component clinical profile
      from any individual patient to the same profile shared by patients who were previously
      evaluated for ACS and whose profiles are stored in a 14,800 patient reference database.
      Pretest probability estimates ≤ 2% will be considered "test negative." A phase II multicenter
      study found that when the ACS PREtest Consult produced a pretest probability of ACS ≤ 2.0%
      that the actual outcome of ACS at 45 days was 0.3% (95% CI 0 to 1.8%) compared with 0.4% (0
      to 0.9%) for patients discharged after negative testing in a chest pain unit (CPU) that
      included serial biomarkers, overnight monitoring, and cardiologist-interpreted provocative
      testing. Over one-quarter of all patients referred to the CPU had an estimate ≤ 2%. The
      present study will randomize 400 ED patients with a non-diagnostic or normal ECG and a
      troponin test ordered into two groups:

        1. a "show me", or disclosure group, in which patients and their clinicians will receive
           the output of the device, and

        2. a "no show" or concealed group will receive no output.

      The sample size will detect an 11.5% difference in rate of discharge between groups with α =
      0.05 and β = 0.20. All discharged patients will undergo structured telephone and medical
      record follow-up at 7 and 45 days using validated methodology.

      Primary outcome measures will evaluate the development of acute coronary syndrome.

      Secondary variables will include:

        1. Frequency of ACS, determined by blinded adjudicated review of follow-up data,

        2. Rate of return to any ED for similar symptoms,

        3. Patient satisfaction,

        4. Charges.

      Project significance includes the potential to reduce patient exposure to unnecessary
      invasive procedures and to save Medicare and other insurers over $100 million in unnecessary
      diagnostic testing each year in the U.S.
    
  