
    
      Hyperglycemia is a common finding in patients diagnosed with acute coronary syndrome (ACS)
      and is an independent predictor of mortality in patients with and without diabetes (1-4).
      Though percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is the cornerstone of ST-segment elevation
      myocardial infarction (STEMI) (4-6), the incidence of heart failure, re-infarction and death
      in hyperglycemic patients remains significant, with a mortality of more than 40% one year
      after the event (4-5). In fact, restenosis and no-reflow phenomena are common events leading
      to worse clinical outcomes, in hyperglycemic patients undergoing primary PCI, and resulting
      in atherothrombotic embolization, increased oxidative stress and inflammation (3-6). In an
      attempt to counter the increasing in mortality from hyperglycemia, the coronary units
      implemented insulin protocols to normalize blood glucose during ACS, and the same insulin
      treatment showed conflicting results (7). Data from small pilot studies, from moderate
      clinical trials and a meta-analysis suggested benefits from insulin therapy (1-3.5). On the
      other hand, subsequent randomized clinical trials have not confirmed an increase in survival
      (7, 8) . Moreover, if the dual anti-aggregation therapy is currently the therapeutic basis of
      patients with STEMI treated by PCI (9), increasingly frequent anti-aggregation therapy and
      bleeding phenomena, may reduce their therapeutic efficacy (11 -13). Therefore, it is likely
      that the individual response to the dual anti-aggregation therapy, and the hyperglycemic
      stress, may influence resistance mechanisms, and/or lead to an increase in pharmacological
      functional deactivation by the microbiotic flora. The term microbiota indicates the totality
      of the genomes of microorganisms that reside in an ecological niche, and which constitute the
      "human microbiota" (14). According to the analyzed anatomical district we speak of
      intestinal, ocular, buccal, vaginal microbiota, etc. The DNA analysis of microorganisms
      living in the human intestinal tract, realized with metagenomic methods by the MetaHIT
      consortium, has identified over 3 million genes, 150 times those of the human species
      (16-21). In addition, cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension and coronary artery
      disease are strongly conditioned by the presence of Enterobacteriaceae, Firmicutes and
      Lattobacilli in the intestine, which can determine their onset (22). In this context, the
      analysis of the faecal microbiota before PCI, at hospital discharge and at follow-up, could
      be considered useful for identifying hyperglycaemic patients with alteration of
      metabolic-oxidative processes, and pro-thrombotic correlates with worse post procedural
      prognosis ( 23). The ease of obtaining samples of faecal microbiota, and the relevant impact
      on the scientific community, and on routine clinical practice, pushes us to insist on
      clinical research, together with a genomic, metabolic and cellular analysis of the
      microbiota, and to extract as much information as possible in hyperglycemic patients with
      STEMI. This investigation has never been proposed in the scientific research and clinical
      practice of hospitalized hyperglycaemic patients for STEMI. Indeed, a large amount of
      evidence suggests that, hyperglycaemia causes an increasing production of oxidative stress
      and inflammation, both in atherosclerotic plaque and in the thrombus, and therefore it plays
      a central role in determining worse outcomes in STEMI. Therefore, the analysis of faecal
      microbiota during the event could theoretically identify hyperglycemic patients with
      excessive inflammatory and oxidative tone caused by hyperglycemia, conditioning resistance to
      double anti-aggregation therapy and coronary stenting, and conditioning pro-thrombotic
      phenomena after coronary reperfusion by PCI. Therefore, authors will conduct a study to
      analyze the microbiota in patients with acute hyperglycaemic and normoglycemic coronary
      syndrome.

      OBJECTIVES The primary objective of this study will be to evaluate any changes in the
      microbiota and its activity on faecal material taken before PCI, and after 6 and 12 months in
      patients with hyperglycemic STEMI, and also evaluate if the changes in the microbiota can be
      related to the 12-month prognosis.

      MATERIALS AND METHODS Patients This is a cohort study to investigate the effects of possible
      changes in the microbiota and its activity in faecal samples taken from patients with
      hyperglycemic STEMI v/s normoglycemic. These patients are treated according to routine "real
      life" therapeutic practices, adopted at the Cardiology Division of the "Luigi Vanvitelli"
      University of Campania. After discharge from the hospital, all patients will be invited to
      carry out the control visits, as indicated by the guidelines for the management of post-STEMI
      patients (6), at the Cardiology Division of the University of Campania "Luigi Vanvitelli "and
      at the VI Division of Internal Medicine of the" Luigi Vanvitelli "University of Campania. All
      patients will be monitored for 12 months after the event, as a follow-up. According to the
      recent definition of the American Heart Association, hyperglycemia will be defined by fasting
      blood glycemic levels> 140 mg / dl (1, 9). All patients with onset of symptoms within 12
      hours and 1 mm elevation of the ST segment in 2 or more contiguous peripheral leads or at
      least 2 mm in 2 or more contiguous precordial leads or new onset left branch block will be
      considered for PCI. Inclusion criteria will include: age over 18 and admission for STEMI
      first episode. Patients with left ventricular ejection fraction <25%, with previous IMA or
      previous PCI and / or by-pass will be excluded. Each will be included in the study after
      signing an informed consent. Routine haematological analysis will be performed at the time of
      acceptance, before practicing medical therapy and possible coronary artery examination and
      after 6 and 12 months. On an aliquot of the blood sample taken at these times, we will
      evaluate trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO), a product of bacterial metabolism, whose elevated
      serum levels are associated with adverse cardiovascular events (24). In addition, before the
      PCI, and 6 and 12 months later, a stool sample will be taken on which the microbiota will be
      subsequently analyzed. The research will be conducted in accordance with the principles of
      the Helsinki declaration.

      Procedure In this study authors will evaluate a cohort of patients with STEMI admitted to the
      Cardiology Division of the "Luigi Vanvitelli" University of Campania, and treated by dual
      anti-aggregating therapy. All patients will be treated according to the suggested protocols
      of the latest Guidelines on STEMI (6). Patients will be classified into two groups:
      hyperglycaemic patients v/s normoglycemic, in both groups of patients will be carried out
      analysis of the fecal microbiota, pre PCI and pre dual antiplatelet therapy. The microbiota
      will be extracted from faecal material, and then prepared and subsequently analyzed. It is
      not possible in clinical practice to culture in the laboratory the vast majority of
      intestinal bacteria, as compared to the enormous amount of microorganisms present. Thanks to
      the most up-to-date techniques of sequencing the bacterial DNA (Next Generation Sequencing)
      extracted from the faecal material, it is now possible a complete and reliable identification
      of the intestinal microbiota. In addition to identify the bacterial species present, authors
      are also able to express an overall health degree of the microbiota (or dysbiosis), its
      efficiency in the production of some useful or harmful substances, the adequacy of the
      microbiota with respect to some fundamental functions to which is a deputy and the propensity
      of the microbiota itself against inflammatory bowel diseases, metabolic diseases and aging.
      The result is an impressive amount of data, a true identity card of the microbiota, named the
      Microbiota passport.

      Sample preparation and analysis. Samples for sequencing the microbiota will be collected from
      faecal material and stored at ultra-low temperature (-80°C) to avoid damage to the original
      sample. The sequencing of the microbiota will be performed by the laboratory of Microbiology
      of the University of Campania "Luigi Vanvitelli". For the sequencing of the microbiota we
      will use the "NextGeneration Sequencing" (NGS) method, which allows the sequencing in
      parallel of millions of DNA fragments (25) through the use of Illumina machinery (San Diego,
      CA). The DNA will be extracted from these samples using a high reproducibility commercial kit
      procedure (Qiagen, Invitrogen). The final yield and quality of the extracted DNA will be
      determined using the NanoDrop ND-1000 spectrophotometer (ThermoScientific, Waltham, MA) and
      QubitFluorometer 1.0 (Invitrogen Co., Carlsbad, CA). The extracted DNA will be amplified by
      PCR with the primers: forward: 5'-CCTACGGGNGGCWGCAG-3 'and reverse:
      5'-GACTACHVGGGTATCTAATCC-3' (Klindworth et al.2013), which target the hypervariable region V3
      and V4 of the 16S rRNA gene . Each PCR amplification will be performed by protocol for the
      preparation of 16S libraries for metagenomic sequencing (Illumina, San Diego, CA). The
      amplification products will be quantified by the Qubit fluoridator (Invitrogen Co., Carlsbad,
      CA) and grouped at an equimolar amount of each sample with a final concentration of 2nM. A
      Phix control library (Illumina) will be added to the samples. The grouped samples will then
      be sequenced on the MiSeq Platform (Illumina, San Diego, CA). The data thus obtained will be
      subjected to quality controls by bioinformatics analysis with FastQC. Finally, the data will
      be analyzed according to the statistical tests suggested by the guidelines for metagenomic
      sequencing. Patient data will be compared with each other and over time with reference
      databases. The evaluation of the epigenetic activity of the microbiota and the biochemical
      dosages of cytokines and free radicals will be performed at the laboratory of Pharmacology of
      the University of Campania "Luigi Vanvitelli. In particular, for the evaluation of the
      epigenetic activity of the microbiota of each individual hyperglycemic v/s normoglycemic
      patient with STEMI, we will proceed according to the protocol QIAGEN (Italy) with the
      extraction from faecal material of the total RNA, including the low-weight one molecular
      (microRNA). The final yield and quality of the extracted RNA will be determined using the
      NanoDrop ND-1000 spectrophotometer (ThermoScientific, Waltham, MA). Through qRT-PCR (QIAGEN,
      Italy) the expression levels of the following fecal microRNAs will be detected: miR-10b,
      miR-204, miR-29, miR-496, miR-1224-5p, miR-470 and miR-663 involved in the regulation of the
      intestinal microbiota; miR-10a and miR-18b involved in the regulation of intestinal
      microbiota and metabolic inflammation; miR-106a, miR-17, miR-19a, miR-20a, miR-206, miR-222
      and miR-223 involved in metabolic inflammation and signaling insulin/IGF-1 (26). The
      metabolic activity of the microbiota in each individual hyperglycaemic v/s normoglycemic
      patient with STEMI will be evaluated by determination of short chain fatty acids (SCFA) from
      faecal samples: the levels of fecal SCFA, a product of bacterial fermentation, seem to
      correlate with an improvement in type 2 diabetes (27). The inflammatory activity of the
      microbiota will be evaluated by determining the fecal levels of LPS (28-29), IL-1β and IL-6
      (30-32), while the oxidative activity through the analysis of fecal levels of ROS, SOD and
      GSH (33-34).

      Follow-up Authors' study is designed to manage hyperglycaemic v/s normoglycemic patients with
      STEMI in the "real life", without interference from the rigid rules that limit the
      generalisability of RCTs. Therefore, after discharge from the hospital, all patients will be
      invited to carry out the control visits, as indicated by the guidelines for the management of
      post-STEMI patients (6), at the Cardiology Division of the University of Campania "Luigi
      Vanvitelli", and at the VI Division of Internal Medicine of the "Luigi Vanvitelli" University
      of Campania. All patients will be monitored for 12 months after the event, as follow-up, to
      practice clinical evaluation (ECG, exercise test, echocardiogram, glucose levels), as
      indicated by the guidelines for the management of STEMI patients (6). At these time points,
      stool samples will also be taken for the analysis of the microbiota. Moreover, in the
      management and assessment of the glycemic compensation in the 12 months of follow-up, the
      physician will also be involved in order to maintain HbA1c levels <7%, glycemia between 90
      and 140 mg / dl and postprandial glycemia <180 mg / dl.

      Cardiovascular endpoints The cardiovascular end points in both cohorts will include
      myocardial re-infarction, re-hospitalization for coronary artery disease (re-stenosis, stent
      implantation or aorto-coronary bypass), heart failure, stroke, cardiac mortality, and all
      causes of mortality. The primary composite end point will consist of cardiovascular events,
      such as myocardial infarction, hospitalization for heart failure, stroke or cardiac
      mortality. The secondary end point will consist in the evaluation of cardiac function:
      reduction of ejection fraction, increase in volume of the left ventricle, reduction of
      coronary perfusion. All deaths will be reviewed and classified as cardiac (death caused by
      IMA, ventricular arrhythmias, refractory heart failure) or non-cardiac. All
      revascularizations will be classified as early (elective revascularization within 60 days
      after coronary angiography) or late. Only late revascularizations will be classified as
      cardiac events, so patients with early elective revascularization will be excluded from the
      analysis.

      Statistical analysis The two groups will be compared using the Pearson χ2 test for
      categorical variables and the Kruskal-Wallis test for continuous variables. The covariate
      candidates for entry into the multivariable model will be identified by concentrating on the
      factors those that will significantly differ (P value <0.05) in the univariate analysis
      between hyperglycemic v/s normoglycemic patients. Cox regression will be used to build the
      mortality model. The Hazard Ratio for mortality will be adjusted for age, BMI, cholesterol,
      LDL, triglycerides and aspirin therapy, ticlopidine, combination of anti-aggregants,
      β-blockers, ACE inhibitors or sartans, antidiabetics, statins, during hospitalization for
      STEMI. Survival analysis through the first year from STEMI will be performed using the
      Kaplan-Meier curve and Cox regression method. The mortality curves will be obtained
      separately for hyperglycaemic patients v/s normoglycemia, to be compared using the log-rank
      test. All tests will be considered significant if p value <0.05. All analyzes will be carried
      out in the two study populations. A "propensity score" analysis will be performed using a
      "non parsimonious" logistic regression model that will compare the outcomes of the
      hyperglycemic v / s normoglycemic patients. More variables will be included in the model
      including age, sex, diabetes, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, multivessel disease,
      chronic renal failure, TIMI pre-procedure flow, ejection fraction and procedural success. The
      C-score will indicate good discrimination. Based on the "matched" samples, the Cox
      proportional risk model will be used to determine the impact of hyperglycemia, and of
      microbiotic flora activity on mortality during follow-up. SPSS (version 21, IBM SPSS) will be
      used for all analyzes.

      Sample Size The Sample Size will be calculated with IBM PC computer by GPOWER software. The
      size effect will be calculated according to the epidemiological and interventional studies
      performed on hyperglycaemic patients. The sample size estimated on a global effect of 25%
      with type I error of 0.05 and a power of 95% will be 200 participants, 100 for the group
      composed of normoglycemic patients and 100 for the group of hyperglycaemic patients.
    
  