
    
      The coronary artery system has 3 components with different functions: conductive epicardial
      coronary arteries, arterioles, and capillaries. When any one of these systems fails,
      myocardial ischemia can occur. Therefore, the presence of epicardial coronary artery stenosis
      is not necessarily a prerequisite for ischemic heart disease (IHD). Although it has not been
      established that microvascular disease is independent of macrovascular disease, clinical
      studies have consistently shown that the presence of microvascular disease is an independent
      predictor of poor clinical outcomes, especially in patients with acute myocardial infarction
      (MI).

      The pressure-derived fractional flow reserve (FFR) index has become a standard invasive
      method to evaluate the functional significance of epicardial coronary artery stenosis, and
      clinical outcomes of FFR-guided percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) have proven to be
      better than those of angiography-guided PCI or medical treatment. Although FFR-guided PCI has
      been reported to improve patient outcomes and FFR is now regarded as the gold-standard
      invasive method to assess the functional significance of coronary artery stenosis, there is
      still room for further improvement in the diagnosis and treatment of patients with high FFR.
      In the FAME II study, 14.6% of the registry arm (FFR > 0.80 and deferral of PCI) experienced
      persistent angina, and 9.0% of these patients had clinical events during a 2-year follow-up
      period.

      Therefore, microvascular assessment using coronary flow reserve (CFR) and the index of
      microcirculatory resistance (IMR) can provide additional diagnostic and prognostic insights
      for IHD patients, especially in those with high FFR.

      Recently, Lee et al. (JACC 2016) investigated clinical outcomes among patients with high-FFR
      and deferred revascularization, according to physiologic classification using CFR and IMR.
      Lee et al. firstly presented that 7.0% of patients with high FFR had high IMR and low CFR and
      were regarded as having overt microvascular disease. Although the proportion of patients with
      high FFR who had overt microvascular disease was small, Group D had the poorest clinical
      outcomes during follow-up. The presence of overt microvascular disease was an independent
      prognostic factor in patients with high FFR. In addition, the presence of overt microvascular
      disease had additive prognostic value aside from clinical risk factors, with significantly
      improved discriminant function of the prediction model. These results suggest that the
      invasive physiologic assessment for microvascular disease combined with CFR and IMR can help
      identify patients at high risk for future cardiovascular events among those with high FFR.

      Previous studies have shown that the presence of microvascular disease is associated with a
      higher risk of cardiovascular events such as cardiac death, MI, or revascularization in
      patients without flow-limiting epicardial stenosis. Several mechanisms have been proposed for
      the association of microvascular disease and poor clinical outcomes. In addition to
      myocardial ischemia, microvascular disease is reported to be associated with endothelial
      dysfunction and inflammatory activity that precedes intimal thickening, lipid deposition in
      the macrovascular system, and coronary vasomotor dysfunction. In a study by Dhawan et al.,
      coronary microvascular dysfunction in patients with non-obstructive coronary artery disease
      was associated with higher serum high-sensitivity C-reactive protein and a higher frequency
      of thin-cap fibroatheroma.

      In the Lee et al.'s study, the higher clinical event rates in patients with overt
      microvascular disease resulted from cardiac death and revascularization rates higher than
      those of the other groups. These results imply that the presence of overt microvascular
      disease can induce accentuated atherosclerotic progression and subsequent clinical events
      including cardiac death and ischemia-driven repeat revascularization.

      Therefore, the IMaging and Physiologic Predictors of Atherosclerotic Progression in Deferred
      Lesions with Contemporary Medical Treatment based on Fractional Flow Reserve-guided Strategy
      (IMPACT-FFR registry) was designed to compare the risk of atherosclerotic plaque progression
      and subsequent clinical events between deferred lesions with or without over microvascular
      disease, defined as physiological classification and also to explore independent predictors
      of atherosclerotic lesion progression in deferred lesions based on fractional flow
      reserve-guided strategy and treated by contemporary medical treatment.
    
  