
    
      Primary Objectives: To explore racial differences in potential risk factors for developing
      prostate cancer in the VA population and to compare and contrast the results of this study
      with that of an ongoing NCI-funded study in North Carolina.

      Secondary Objectives: To investigate familial aggregation of prostate cancer in blacks and
      whites. To determine whether screening behavior differs in men diagnosed with early stage
      prostate cancer versus those with later stage disease as well as to determine if screening
      behavior differences exist between blacks and whites.

      Primary Outcomes: The primary outcomes are pesticide, occupational and chemical exposure, and
      dietary history. Other major endpoints include: 1) familial aggregation of prostate cancer;
      2) weight, weight history, and weight cycling; 3) subject's knowledge, attitudes, and
      behaviors about prostate cancer; and 4) treatment choices.

      Intervention: N/A

      Study Abstract: Prostate cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer in American men. Among
      African Americans the incidence and mortality from prostate cancer is even greater. Although
      incidence rates in the Southern United States tend to be only slightly higher than that of
      the nation, a clear discrepancy exists between national mortality rates and those in the
      Southeastern United States. Notably high rates, particularly among African Americans are
      observed and in North Carolina the prostate cancer mortality rate among African Americans is
      the highest of any state in the nation. In spite of these statistics, very little is known
      about racially based differences in the etiology of this disease.

      This study hypothesizes that racial differences in the incidence and mortality of prostate
      cancer may be a result of multiple factors including those that are socioeconomic,
      environmental, dietary and genetic. This research will provide insight into
      gene-environmental interactions that initiate and promote prostatic neoplasia as well as
      address whether there are differences in patterns of care which impact morbidity and
      survival. The results of this study will also be compared to findings in non-veterans that
      are being generated through an NCI-funded sister study of these issues under the direction of
      co-investigator, Dr. JoEllen Schildkraut of Duke University.

      Subjects are identified from pathology reports extracted from VISTA. It has been determined
      that pathology reports alone are not a sufficient source of identifying cases because not all
      patients coming to VA for treatment have diagnostic pathology completed at the Durham VA.
      Therefore, we have added additional protocols for subject identification such as reviewing
      radiation/oncology clinic records for those subjects referred for radiation treatment.
      To-date, 78 cases and 66 controls have been enrolled in the study. To increase accrual rates,
      in-home visits have been used when necessary, and the Richmond, VA and Asheville, NC VAMCs
      have been added as participating study sites. Due to patient accrual problems and project
      staffing changes, the Durham ERIC has granted this study a six-month, no-cost extension
      through 7/31/2001.
    
  