
    
      STUDY BACKGROUND Esophageal cancer is a common cancer in China and due to its influence on
      diet intake, patients with esophageal cancer are often combined with nutrition deficiency,
      which causes relatively high nutrition risk to treatment. Studies conducted by Martin et al
      showed that the degree of body weight loss in patients with malignancy is related to BMI
      level and prognosis. The patients with severe body weight loss and low BMI have poor
      prognosis, especially for patients with esophageal cancer.

      At present, perioperative nutrition support for patients with esophageal cancer has been
      recognized and has been recommended as routine in 2017 NCCN guideline. How to implement good
      home nutrition within one month after patient discharge and recover nutrition index as soon
      as possible has become a focus for esophageal surgeon.

      Many clinical trials have already investigated enteral nutrition support approach during
      anti-cancer treatment period in patients with malignancy. However, only a few clinical trials
      are good designed. Therefore the investigators hope to via this multi-center prospective
      observational study to provide evidence for this question.

      OBJECTIVES:

        1. To explore the relationship between postoperative home nutrition support treatment
           approach and nutritional status of patients with esophageal cancer;

        2. To explore the relationship between postoperative home nutrition support treatment
           approach and recent prognosis in patients with esophageal cancer;

        3. To promote the standardized application of postoperative home nutrition support
           treatment for patients with esophageal cancer.\

      OUTLINE:

      Included patients shall be divided into three groups according to the treatment plan of all
      centers, including oral natural diet, oral nutrition supplement and tube feeding. As for
      patients in oral natural diet group, the patients shall receive oral natural diet. As for
      patients in oral nutrition supplement group, in addition to oral natural die, the
      participants shall receive oral enteral supplement providing 750-1500kcal/d. As for patients
      in tube feeding group, in addition to oral natural die, the participants shall receive tube
      feeding enteral supplement providing 750-1500kcal/d.

      All the included patients shall be followed up weekly within 1-3 weeks after discharge via
      telephone, at Day 30 after discharge and at Day 90 after discharge to assess the
      effectiveness and safety of different home nutrition supplement approaches.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 600 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  