
    
      Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension [CTEPH] is a rare condition with a significant
      risk of morbidity and mortality. The primary cause of CTEPH is thrombotic lesions, which did
      not resolve after acute pulmonary embolism. This causes increased pulmonary vascular
      resistance [PVR], leading to secondary remodeling of pulmonary arteries causing pulmonary
      hypertension and ultimately progressive right heart failure. The treatment of choice is
      surgical pulmonary endarterectomy [PEA], however up to 40% cases are not treated surgically,
      due to operability, anatomic location of the lesions, patient choice and comorbidities
      significantly increasing procedural risk. A new alternative procedure, balloon pulmonary
      angioplasty [BPA] has been proposed for patients with inoperable CTEPH or persistent
      pulmonary hypertension after pulmonary endarterectomy (PEA) and is currently characterized
      with good outcome in functional capacity, hemodynamic parameters, biomarkers, and
      health-related quality of life.

      Exercise stress tests of the pulmonary circulation are used in workup and diagnosis of
      pulmonary hypertension as a hemodynamic abnormality. The approach has allowed identification
      of patients with normal or marginally increased mPAP at rest but with symptomatic increases
      in mPAP at exercise, related to either increased resistance or increased left atrial
      pressure. Although this differential diagnosis is of obvious therapeutic relevance,
      guidelines about exercise stress studies of the pulmonary circulation have not been developed
      until now for lack of robust evidence allowing for a consensus on clearly defined cutoff
      values.

      Neither the pathophysiology of the exercise limitation nor the underlying mechanisms of the
      BPA - induced improvement were studied before. Therefore the aim of this study is to assess
      the hemodynamic effects of BPA treatment on the pressure-flow relationship in the pulmonary
      vasculature and the pulmonary vascular compliance. Furthermore, the investigators will
      explore possible differences in treatment effect across centers. Especially explore the
      timing of medical therapy vs balloon angioplasty.

      .
    
  