
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine whether the current survival figures are maintained and long-term sequelae of
           treatment are minimized in children or adolescents with stage I-III Hodgkin's lymphoma
           after receiving the following regimen, which reduces exposure to chemotherapy and
           radiotherapy: chlorambucil, vinblastine, prednisolone, and procarbazine (ChIVPP) and
           doxorubicin, bleomycin, vincristine, and dacarbazine (ABVD) with etoposide,
           prednisolone, ifosfamide, and cisplatin (EPIC), radiotherapy, high-dose melphalan,
           and/or autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (APBSCT).

        -  Determine whether the survival figures are improved in children or adolescents with
           stage IV Hodgkin's lymphoma or inadequate response to initial therapy after receiving
           ChIVPP and ABVD with EPIC, radiotherapy, high-dose melphalan, and APBSCT.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 treatment groups based
      on disease status.

        -  Group 1 (stage I disease): All patients with mixed cellularity and younger patients with
           any subtype are assigned to subgroup A. Older patients without mixed cellularity are
           assigned to subgroup A or B based on the decision of the physicians and
           patients/parents. Subgroup A: Patients receive 2 courses of the hybrid regimen. One
           course of the hybrid regimen comprises regimen ChIVPP followed by regimen ABVD. Regimen
           ChIVPP comprises vinblastine IV on days 1 and 8 and oral chlorambucil, oral
           procarbazine, and oral prednisolone (PRDL) daily on days 1-14. Regimen ABVD comprises
           doxorubicin IV over 6 hours, bleomycin IV over 15-30 minutes, vincristine IV, and
           dacarbazine IV over 15 minutes on days 1 and 14. Patients with relapsed disease receive
           etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 1-4, oral PRDL and ifosfamide IV over 1 hour on days
           1-5, and cisplatin IV over 24 hours on day 10 (EPIC). Treatment with EPIC continues
           every 3 weeks for a total of 6 courses. Patients then undergo radiotherapy. Patients
           with poor response after radiotherapy receive consolidation with high-dose melphalan
           (L-PAM) IV over 30-90 minutes, followed at least 12 hours later by autologous peripheral
           blood stem cell transplantation (APBSCT) (if there is no bone marrow involvement at the
           time of relapse). Subgroup B: Patients not in subgroup A may either receive chemotherapy
           as outlined or radiotherapy depending on clinician and patient discussion. Patients with
           relapsed disease after radiotherapy receive 3 courses of the hybrid regimen. If relapse
           occurs outside the initial radiotherapy field, then further radiotherapy is
           administered.

        -  Group 2 (stage II or III disease): Patients receive 3 courses of the hybrid regimen.
           Patients with relapsed disease receive 4 courses of EPIC. Patients with complete
           remission (CR) or good partial remission (GPR) after the fourth course of EPIC receive 2
           additional courses of EPIC followed by radiotherapy. Patients without CR or GPR after
           the fourth course of EPIC undergo radiotherapy followed by L-PAM and APBSCT as in group
           1, subgroup A.

        -  Group 3 (stage IV or inadequate response to initial therapy): Patients receive 2 courses
           the hybrid regimen. Patients with CR or GPR after the second course of ABVD are assigned
           to subgroup C. Patients without CR or GPR after the second course of ABVD are assigned
           to subgroup D. Subgroup C: Patients receive 2 additional courses of the hybrid regimen.
           Patients with relapsed disease after the fourth course of ABVD receive 4 courses of EPIC
           followed by radiotherapy, L-PAM, and APBSCT as in group 1, subgroup A. Subgroup D:
           Patients receive 4 courses of EPIC followed by radiotherapy, L-PAM, and APBSCT as in
           group 1, subgroup A.

      Patients are followed every 2 months for 1 year, every 3 months for 2 years, and then every 6
      months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 260 patients (75 with stage I disease, 150 with stage II or
      III disease, and 35 with stage IV disease) will be accrued for this study within 5 years.
    
  