
    
      Depression has a high prevalence and causes other problems in older people. Two-thirds of
      these patients will not have an improvement in their condition from routine treatment. About
      hald have a form of depression known as 'Vascular Depression'. Augmentation, in this case the
      addition to antidepressant treatment of a vascular type of treatment (such as a group of
      medications called Calcium Channel Blockers including the medication called amlodipine) may
      be effective in this group of patients but previously published studies have been from highly
      selected specific patient groups. We would like to find out if giving amlodipine medication
      to people with late life non-responding vascular depression would be acceptable to this
      patient group. We would also like to know how they feel while having the treatment and
      whether this provides a measureable benefit for those patients and whether those benefits are
      relevant to the patients. We would also like to find out the information we need to plan and
      prepare for a larger version of this study.

      Participants may be eligible for the study if they are 50 years old or over, and have been
      diagnosed with depression which has not gotten better with other drugs, we call this type of
      depression 'Vascular Depression'.

      If a participant would like to be involved in this study, they would be required to attend
      the Clinical Ageing Research Unit (CARU) at the former Newcastle General Hospital site in
      Newcastle upon Tyne for up to seven visits as part of this clinical trial, and would be
      required to take the study medication prescribed to them. The study medication may be either
      amlodipine or placebo, however neither the participant nor the doctor or nurses involved in
      the study will be aware of which medication has been given. This is called a double blind
      study, and is done to ensure that there is no other influence on the results apart from the
      effects of the drug itself. Each participant will be randomly assigned to receiving either
      amlodipine or placebo in a process called randomisation.

      As part of this study, participants will be invited to attend the unit mentioned above for
      their study visit, the first of which will be to discuss this study in further detail and
      allowing the participant time to ask any questions and to consider their participation in the
      study. If they would like to be involved, they will be invited to return for a second visit
      at which time they will be asked to give their consent to be involved in the study. They will
      then need to have their blood pressure taken, have an ECG (electrocardiograph) to establish
      how well their heart is working, have a small blood sample taken and complete four short
      questionnaires.

      Following on from this, the participant will be invited back for another visit, which will
      also be used to confirm the participants eligibility. At this visit the participant will be
      required to have a physical examination from the study doctor, have their blood pressure
      checked and complete the nine short questionnaires. Once a participant has been confirmed as
      eligible for the study, they will be entered into the study and randomised to receive either
      amlodipine or placebo. The participant will then receive four weeks supply of the study
      medication.

      Two weeks after this visit, and again at 6 weeks and 12 weeks into the study, each
      participant will be contacted by the research study nurses in order to review how the
      participant has been since their last visit.

      At weeks 4 and 8 of the study, participants will be required to attend the research centre
      for another visit at which point they will be asked to complete two short questionnaires,
      have their blood pressure taken and current medication reviewed, and will receive their next
      supply of study medication.

      At 16 weeks after starting the study, study medication will be stopped and participants will
      be asked to attend another visit at which time current medication will be reviewed, blood
      pressure will be assessed, as well as a blood sample will be taken. Participants will also be
      asked to complete eight short questionnaires. Depending on the results of these
      questionnaires, participants may be asked to attend for another visit a week later at which
      point their blood pressure will be taken again, and they will be asked to complete six short
      questionnaires.

      At 20 weeks after the start of the study, patients will be asked to return for a final visit
      at which point they will be asked to complete two short questionnaires and have their blood
      pressure taken once more.

      Following on from this study, participants will be returned to the care of their GP.

      As part of this study, participants will also be invited to take part in an interview, which
      will involve the discussion of the various questionnaires undertaken in the study and any
      other concerns the participant may have had during the course of the study. These interviews
      will be optional and not be a required part of the study, should the participant decline to
      take part in the interviews they will still be able to remain in the main part of the study.

      There is no guarantee that taking part in this study may benefit the participant, however it
      is anticipated that the active medication could reduce the symptoms of their depression. The
      risk involved in participating in this study is very small, and may include the small risk of
      bruising or infection at the site where the blood sample was taken. Other risks include the
      possible side effects of the study drug (amlodipine) which may include swelling of the
      ankles, dizziness, fatigue, nausea, indigestion, palpitations or headaches. These, and other
      side effects, are listed in the Patient Information sheet which will be given to each
      potential participant for further information.

      Potential participants will be identified at their GP practices which will be involved in the
      study as Participant Identification Centres (PICs).

      The study is being sponsored by Gateshead Health NHS Foundation Trust, and is funded by the
      National Institute for Health Research - Research for Patient Benefit. The study will start
      around the 1st April 2012 and will run for approximately 24 months.

      The main contact for any potential participant for this study will be Julie Henry (Research
      Nurse) based at the Clinical Ageing Research Unit, Campus for Ageing and Vitality, Newcastle
      upon Tyne, NE4 5PL, Telephone: 0191 248 1280 (reception)
    
  