
    
      Considering the multidimensionality of pain experience, multidisciplinary approaches are
      accepted as gold standards in the treatment of pain . Pharmacological and non-pharmacological
      interventions, therapeutic therapies and treatment beliefs are generally considered to be key
      to these approaches. However, clinically significant pain treatment responses have not yet
      been clearly defined . Research suggests that their expectations may be one of the key
      components in the treatment of pain.

      Expectation refers to the complex interplay of thoughts, values, and beliefs that are
      composed of past experiences and represent an assessment of expected outcomes specific to a
      situation. Four types of expectations have been proposed: ideal (desires and outcome
      preferences), predicted (expected outcome), normative (what one thinks should be) and
      unformed (not explicitly expressed). Numerous studies have demonstrated the importance of
      expectations in pain experience. Expecting pain reduction is usually associated with
      decreased pain intensity and improved treatment outcomes. In contrast, expecting increased
      pain is associated with increased pain. Complex and severe expectations may also affect
      treatment response. A person's level of participation in the treatment plan can be greatly
      influenced by expectations. Waiting for the full recovery of chronic pain as a result of
      treatment may pose an obstacle to functioning and quality of life.

      Questionnaires are available to measure expectations based on patient and treatment
      expectations in musculoskeletal disorders. In order to elucidate the factors that change
      expectations in the treatment of pain, more valid and reliable measurement tools are needed
      to measure the expectations of patients. The validity and reliability made in Turkey, there
      is no comprehensive study that measures the expectations of treatment. Therefore, the aim of
      this study was to test the Turkish validity and characteristics of the Chronic Pain
      Expectations Scale in patients with pain due to chronic musculoskeletal disorders.

      The study will be conducted on 198 volunteer individuals who apply to Baskent University
      Ankara Hospital Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Department and will receive treatment
      due to chronic musculoskeletal diseases. Each individual participating in the study will be
      informed about the study.

      Patients with pain due to chronic musculoskeletal disorders, native speakers of Turkish,
      those over the age of 18 and under 65 and literate individuals will be included in the study.
      Individuals with neurological disease and no pain problems will not be included in the study.

      Treatment Expectations Scale in Chronic Pain, Positivity Scale, Hospital Anxiety and
      Depression Scale and Disease Cognition Questionnaire will apply.
    
  