
    
      Background: Out of hospital cardiac arrest is associated with a poor prognosis. Overall
      survival varies between 3% and 16% respectively. Measures to improve the chance of survival
      are urgently needed. If return of spontaneous circulation under competent cardiopulmonary
      resuscitation (CPR) measures is not achieved within the first 25 minutes the chance of
      survival decreases even further. Emergency Cardiopulmonary Bypass (ECPB) would be such a
      treatment option for these heavily compromised patients, as it has shown considerably good
      results used as resuscitation device for cardiac arrest in animal studies.

      Material and Methods: This study will be performed as single center (university hospital)
      randomized, controlled and prospective pilot study comprising a highly experienced emergency
      department treating about 200 to 300 cardiac arrest patients a year. Two groups will be
      analyzed, a 'Standard ACLS´ group and an 'ECPB´ group. Each group will comprise 20 patients.
      Eligible are adult patients with witnessed out of hospital cardiac arrest, with presumed
      cardiac cause and without return of spontaneous circulation after a minimum of 15 minutes of
      advanced cardiac life support.

      Patients in the 'Standard ACLS´ group will be resuscitated until return of spontaneous
      circulation or termination of efforts. The 'ECPB´ group will receive ongoing cardiopulmonary
      resuscitation during transport to the emergency department where ECPB will be installed.
      Necessary diagnostic examinations and therapeutic interventions for both groups will be
      performed according to guidelines for post resuscitation care and good clinical practice.

      Primary outcome measure is the rate of sustained restoration of spontaneous circulation
      according to Utstein criteria. Secondary outcome measures are 24 hours survival, survival to
      ICU discharge, survival to hospital discharge, rate of best neurological recovery (cerebral
      performance category score 1 or 2) within 6 months after cardiac arrest and modified Rankin
      score at 6 months after cardiac arrest.

      Patients in the 'Standard ACLS´ group receive standard treatment without any potential
      additional risks. The 'ECPB´ group receives standard advanced cardiac life support as well
      and has the predicted advantage of the extracorporeal oxygenation at the emergency department
      and coronary intervention even before return of spontaneous circulation.

      Aim of this study: To compare current standard therapy for patients after out of hospital
      cardiac arrest (cardiopulmonary resuscitation until return of spontaneous circulation or
      termination of efforts) with a new concept of transportation with ongoing cardiopulmonary
      reanimation and installation of ECPB at the Emergency Department to improve survival.
    
  