
    
      Investigators have conducted several studies on the differential effects of different
      vasopressors used in general anesthesia to correct sympatholysis-induced hypotension
      occurring under anesthetic drugs and after eliminating hypovolemia or overdose in
      anesthetics.

      In a pilot study investigators described a method for analyzing Velocity-Pressure
      interactions to monitor ventricular afterload in the operating room with the construction of
      Velocity-Pressure aortic loops (VP Loop).

      These loops were constructed from an aortic velocity signal measured by esophageal Doppler
      and aortic blood pressure signal from a femoral catheter. The Global Afterload Angle (GALA)
      measured on the loop were then higher in patients at cardiovascular risk (RCV+) at 68 ± 6°
      compared to 41 ± 15° in patients (RCV-) (p<0.001). In addition, GALA variations were
      associated with variations in the three components of ventricular afterload: compliance,
      resistance and waves reflection. Finally, under the effect of vasopressors, there was a
      modification in the shape of the VP Loop and the value of GALA, showing GALA as a reliable
      marker potential for ventricular afterload in patients under general anesthesia.

      In order to develop a totally non-invasive method that would produce a pressure velocity
      curve, the investigators propose to combine an estimation of aortic pressure by a tonometry
      method and an estimation of ventricular volumes by three-dimensional echocardiography.

      The main objective of this study is then to compare VP Loop parameters obtained
      non-invasively to VP loop obtained invasively according to patient cardiovascular risk
      factors.

      Cardiac afterload can be schematically defined by the combination of three components:
      peripheral vascular resistance (PVR), total arterial compliance (Ctot) and aortic wave
      reflections (WR). WR could be assessed by pulse wave pressure analysis with the augmentation
      index (Aix) or after pulse wave pressure separation into a forward and backward wave with the
      wave reflection index (WRi) or the wave reflection area (WRa).

      Invasive Aortic pressure measurements: As required by the standard of care of the
      interventional neuroradiology procedure, the neuroradiologist also cannulated the femoral
      artery. At the end of the procedure, during catheter withdrawal, pressure waveforms are
      recorded in the descending thoracic aorta just in front of the esophageal Doppler probe.

      Descending aortic velocity is measured with a transesophageal Doppler CardioQ-ODM+ monitor
      (Deltex Medical, Chichester, UK) in order to construct the VP Loop in descending thoracic
      aorta.

      Non-invasive Non-invasive Aortic velocity recording VP Loop in aorta is measured in the
      flushing chamber of the left ventricle from the apical five chamber view by trans-thoracic
      echocardiography (TTE) (Philips, EPIQ 7).

      Estimation of ventricular diastolic pressure by measuring mitral and aortic flow gradients by
      echocardiography (EPIQ G7 Philips© or similar) Determination of left ventricular volumes
      during the cardiac cycle by echocardiography (3D EPIQ G7 Philips© or similar).

      Non-invasive central pressure measurement by an arterial tonometer reconstructing the central
      aortic curve (ShygmoCor, AtCor©) The SphygmoCor radial tonometer (AtCor Medical, Pty Ltd,
      Sydney, Australia) is the most widely used tonometer in clinical research for non-invasive
      central pressure measurement and pulse wave analysis. The central blood pressure is then
      estimated using a validated radial-aortic transfer function.

      The tonometer requires prior calibration by mean (MAP) and diastolic (PAD) blood pressure
      measured with the conventional brachial cuff as validated in the literature.

      VP Loop construction Digitalization of pressure and velocity signals are performed with the
      IntelliVue MP60 monitor (Philips, Eindhoven, The Netherlands) at a sampling frequency of 125
      Hz and saved using ixTrend software (IXELLENCE, Wildau, Germany) on a computer. Briefly, the
      velocity coordinates is plotted on the x axis and the pressure coordinates on the y axis. The
      investigators characterize the VP Loop by 4 points (A, B, C, D), allowing us to identify 3
      angles: Alpha, Beta and GALA.

      The goal of this study is to compare these parameters of cardiac after load obtained
      non-invasively with the same parameters invasively obtained.

      Experimental design: This is a single-center, interventional, category II prospective study
      (minimal risks and constraints)

      Population concerned: Patients will be included if their perioperative risk required a
      continuous monitoring of mean arterial pressure (MAP) and cardiac output (CO). The study
      involves major patients under general anesthesia in interventional neuroradiology.

      Research Proceedings For all patients, data from trans-esophageal Doppler, trans-thoracic
      echocardiography (TTE) and hemodynamic data are collected at the end of the procedure. During
      catheter withdrawal, pressure waveforms are recorded in the descending thoracic aorta just in
      front of the esophageal Doppler probe. All data from monitoring are connected to the main
      monitor.

      Individual benefit: There is no benefit for the patient

      Collective benefit: Targeting mean arterial pressure (MAP) with boluses of selective
      peripheral vasopressors (without positive inotropic or chronotropic effects) could have
      deleterious effects on cardiac output. Thus, it seems important to use a combined analysis of
      MAP and CO with low invasive methods to estimate the Afterload-related cardiac performance
      (ACP) in surgical patients considered with "high cardiovascular risk".

      Risks and minimal constraints added by the research:

      No added risk. Patients are included if their perioperative risk required a continuous
      monitoring of MAP and CO. The standard of care for the interventional neuroradiology
      procedure needs a catheterization of the femoral artery using the Seldinger technique and
      insertion of a catheter. All the other ones measures are obtained non-invasively. Patients
      are assigned to one of two groups according to their risk of increased arterial stiffness as
      reported in cardiological publications. The criteria investigators used are as follows: age >
      50 years old as a major criterion 20 and cardio-vascular risk factors (history of congestive
      heart failure, history of cardiovascular event, current smoking, diabetes mellitus,
      dyslipidemia, and arterial hypertension) as minor criteria. Patients were classified into the
      high risk group (Hi-risk) if they had at least one major criterion or two minor criteria or
      into the low risk group (Lo-risk) if they presented with no or one minor criterion. During
      their interventional neuroradiology procedure, all patients' routine monitoring will consist
      of electrocardiogram, pulsated oxygen saturation, endtidal carbon dioxide (CO2), respiratory
      rate, tidal volume and monitoring of neuromuscular function.

      For all patients whatever the comorbidities, anesthesia induction will be performed using a
      target-controlled infusion (Orchestra® Base Primea Fresenius Kabi France). According to our
      standard of care, intra-operative episodes of hypotension (mean arterial pressure (MAP) < 65
      mmHg or < 80% baseline) are treated by Norepinephrine bolus of 10 µg. For all patients, data
      from trans-esophageal Doppler, trans-thoracic echocardiography (TTE) and hemodynamic data are
      collected at the end of the procedure.

      Number of selected subjects Selection of patients up to 55 analyzable patients Number of
      centers: 1 Research center Agenda inclusion period: 12 months duration of participation
      (treatment + follow-up): duration of the interventional neuroradiology procedure: 1 day Total
      duration: 12 months Number of planned inclusions by center and month: 2-3 Number of subjects
      required: 55

      Statistics: Continuous data are expressed in median [interquartile] and qualitative data in n
      (%). The risk α has been set at 5%. The categorical variables will be compared by
      Mann-Whitney test and the continuous variables by Wilcoxon test.

      The concordance between the two methods will be evaluated by the intra-class correlation
      coefficient as well as by the Bland-Altman representation (with determination of bias and
      approval limits) for the various parameters of interest.

      Selection of patients until 55 analyzable patients is obtained (signal quality obtained and
      possible analysis). The estimate of the number of subjects to be included is based on the
      main evaluation criterion, the intra-class correlation coefficient. Thus, to highlight, an
      intra-class correlation coefficient of 0.9 with a confidence interval of 0.1, for an alpha
      risk of 5%, it is necessary to include 56 patients.
    
  