
    
      This is a prospective, binational (Germany and Austria), two-arm, randomized, controlled,
      open label, blinded endpoint post-market study to compare the safety and effectiveness of
      stent retrievers for thrombectomy compared to best medical treatment alone in acute ischemic
      stroke (AIS) patients not eligible for IV-tPA treatment.

      Patients who meet the inclusion criteria will be randomized to one of the following two
      treatment arms:

        -  best medical care alone or

        -  best medical care plus endovascular thrombectomy with stent retriever (referred to as
           thrombectomy).

      Endpoints in this prospective open label study will be assessed blinded to the treatment
      assignment of the patient (PROBE design). This study will be conducted in up to 20 centers in
      Germany and Austria. This is an adaptive design study, in which there are prospectively
      stated interim analyses with specified stopping rules, which allow for the possibility of the
      study to terminate early based on either a determination of study success or of the futility
      to continue further enrollment.

      Up to six hundred (600) subjects, 300 per treatment group, will be enrolled and randomized in
      the study for the Intent to Treat (ITT) analysis set. The randomization will be stratified by
      time from symptom onset and stroke severity (NIHSS). The expected duration of each subject"s
      enrollment is approximately 90 days. Subjects will be followed with assessments at 30 (+/-6)
      hours, hospital discharge, and 90 (+/-14) days post stroke.

      A blinded core laboratory will assess baseline imaging to confirm vessel occlusion and
      determine ASPECT score, 30 (+/- 6) hours post treatment imaging to assess presence of ICH,
      and to measure core infarct volume.

      The primary effectiveness endpoint for a subject is the blinded evaluation of the ordinal mRS
      outcome at 90 days post-stroke. The primary effectiveness endpoint analysis is a chi-square
      test of the difference in linear trends in mRS outcomes at 90 days post-stroke between
      treatment groups ("mRS shift analysis").
    
  