
    
      Urinary incontinence affects more than 200 million people worldwide. In women, childbirth or
      menopausal aging atrophic vagina, lack of estrogen stimulation of muscular turgor of the
      vagina, decrease tone of the urogenital diaphragm, attenuation and weakening of the urethral
      sphincter all result in stress incontinence, urge incontinence and sometimes mixed
      incontinence respectively. The purpose of this study is to evaluate reconstructive lipoplasty
      with micro-fragmented autologous adipose tissue (Lipogems®) in female patients with stress
      urinary incontinence. This is a prospective study of 25 subjects that will be evaluated over
      a period of one year.

      Different available treatments for stress urinary incontinence (SUI) are surgical: MMK, R A
      Z, Burch, (TOT, T VT-mesh sling) and urethral bulking agents. New treatments using
      mesenchymal stem cells have been tested for the last eight years and now moved from animal
      models to humans with positive results.

      Subjects will receive a full history and examination by a single urologist. A clear history
      of their incontinence pattern, the amount of incontinence based on PAD counts, under what
      conditions incontinence occurs to categorize type of incontinence for the female patient pre-
      or post-menopause. Childbirth history, age of onset, time of occurrence, predisposing
      factors, medications, hormones, etc. all patients will be registered and categorized
      according to incontinence.

      The patients will receive reconstructive lipoplasty with micro-fragmented autologous adipose
      tissue (Lipogems®).

      Subjects will log their results immediately post injection and then daily for up to two years
      noting any changes they've noticed in their presenting problems. At 6 months Urodynamic
      studies will be performed to measure the pre-post injection differences to-date. Visual
      analog score questionnaire and report in subjective improvement, pad use and stress cough
      test will be documented at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months follow-up.
    
  