
    
      Since late December 2019, human pneumonia cases infected by a novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)
      were firstly identified in Wuhan, China. As the virus is contagious and of great epidemic,
      more and more cases have found in other areas of China and abroad. Up to February 24, a total
      of 77, 779 confirmed cases were reported in China. At present, there is no effective
      treatment for patients identified with novel coronavirus pneumonia. Therefore, it's urgent to
      explore more active therapeutic methods to cure the patients.

      Recently, some clinical researches about the 2019 novel coronavirus pneumonia published in
      The Lancet and The New England Journal of Medicine suggested that massive inflammatory cell
      infiltration and inflammatory cytokines secretion were found in patients' lungs, alveolar
      epithelial cells and capillary endothelial cells were damaged, causing acute lung injury. It
      seems that the key to cure the pneumonia is to inhibit the inflammatory response, resulting
      to reduce the damage of alveolar epithelial cells and endothelial cells and repair the
      function of the lung.

      Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are widely used in basic research and clinical application.
      They are proved to migrate to damaged tissues, exert anti-inflammatory and immunoregulatory
      functions, promote the regeneration of damaged tissues and inhibit tissue fibrosis. Studies
      have shown that MSCs can significantly reduce acute lung injury in mice caused by H9N2 and
      H5N1 viruses by reducing the levels of proinflammatory cytokines and the recruitment of
      inflammatory cells into the lungs. Compared with MSCs from other sources, human umbilical
      cord-derived MSCs (UC-MSCs) have been widely applied to various diseases due to their
      convenient collection, no ethical controversy, low immunogenicity, and rapid proliferation
      rate. In our recent research, we confirmed that UC-MSCs can significantly reduce inflammatory
      cell infiltration and inflammatory factors expression in lung tissue, and significantly
      protect lung tissue from endotoxin (LPS) -induced acute lung injury in mice.

      The purpose of this clinical study is to investigate safety and efficiency of UC-MSCs in
      treating pneumonia patients infected by 2019-nCoV. The investigators planned to recruit 48
      patients aged from 18 to 75 years old and had no severe underlying diseases. In the cell
      treatment group, 24 patients received 0.5*10E6 UC-MSCs /kg body weight intravenously
      treatment 4 times every other day besides conventional treatment. In the control group, other
      24 patients received conventional treatment plus 4 times of placebo intravenously. The lung
      CT, blood biochemical examination, lymphocyte subsets, inflammatory factors, 28-days
      mortality, etc will be evaluated within 24h and 1, 2, 4, 8 weeks after UC-MSCs treatment.
    
  