
    
      The WHAT study is a pragmatic randomized controlled trial with two parallel arms. The
      intervention is a 16 weeks individually tailored training programme with one hour physical
      activity 2-3 times per week. Women randomized to the control group are asked to keep physical
      activity at the same level as before the study.

      Healthy postmenopausal women from Tromso will be recruited to the study by newspaper
      advertisements and media coverage. Interested women are asked to make a call. A staff member
      will ask about menopausal status, level of physical activity and diseases. Potential
      participants will receive a diary by mail and will be asked to record frequency and severity
      of hot-flashes, and duration of sleep at night for a period of 14 days. Women who return this
      diary will be asked to sign the informed consent and complete a questionnaire, before the
      fitness test. Baseline fitness is an important measure in this study. We will measure VO2-max
      (maximal oxygen consumption) as a proxy for fitness. Whether you are randomized to
      intervention or control group can influence the fitness test. The participants will therefore
      be randomized after the fitness test.

      Randomization: Unit of Applied Clinical Research, Institute of Cancer Research and Molecular
      Medicine, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway, will develop and
      administrate a web-based randomization system for the WHAT pilot study. The data base will be
      located at a server at the Medical Faculty at Norwegian University of Science and Technology
      in Trondheim. The following staff are authorized to randomize people in WHAT pilot study:
      Sameline Grimsgaard, Merethe Kumle, Sissel Andersen , Jorid Degerstrøm, Svein Arne Pettersen

      In this pilot 50 women will be randomized either to intervention group (25 women) or control
      group (25 women).

      Elements in the intervention: A physiotherapist will based on interview and physical
      examination make a plan for the 16 weeks physical activity programme for each participant.
      The program will start with Pilates classes and low intensity aerobic training (2-4 weeks).
      After this period, classes with moderate to high intensity aerobic training will be
      introduced. The aim of the intervention is to increase aerobic capacity with 10 % from
      baseline.

      Both the intervention group and the control group will receive questionnaires at baseline, 4
      weeks, 8 weeks, 12 weeks, 16 weeks, 6 months and 1 year after inclusion. We will run the test
      for physical fitness at baseline and 16 weeks.
    
  