
    
      This application proposes to implement an ERP for pediatric patients with inflammatory bowel
      disease (IBD), encompassing Crohn's Disease (CD) and Ulcerative Colitis (UC), and undergoing
      elective abdominal surgery. They represent an ideal population in which to study the
      implementation of ERPs because almost one third of patients with CD present before age 20 and
      up to three-quarters of CD patients require gastrointestinal (GI) surgery for medically
      refractory disease. A quarter of UC patients present before age 20 and all patients with UC
      require colectomy to either manage severe disease or mitigate cancer risks. The GI surgical
      procedures performed in children with IBD are similar to the adult procedures for which ERPs
      have been well tested and validated.

      The study team has previously modified existing adult ERPs to meet the needs of pediatric
      patients undergoing elective GI surgery, primarily for IBD, by conducting (a) a systematic
      literature review, (b) a national survey to assess readiness for implementation, and (c) an
      expert panel adjudication of ERP elements. The investigators also conducted a pilot study to
      assess the feasibility, safety, and preliminary effectiveness of the pediatric ERP in 79
      pediatric patients who underwent elective GI surgery. Patient and provider education
      materials were created, a learning collaborative explored drivers and obstacles to
      implementation, patient advocates were engaged to enhance the quality improvement process,
      and data were routinely fed back to the implementation team members. The pilot study
      demonstrated a 50% decrease in LOS, from 5 to 3 days, near elimination of intraoperative and
      post-operative opioid use, and a 30% decrease in perioperative fluid administration, without
      any increase in post-surgical complications or re-hospitalization.

      Based on these promising results, the investigators propose the ENhancing Recovery In
      CHildren Undergoing Surgery (ENRICH-US) Study in 18 US hospitals that participate in the
      Pediatric Surgical Research Collaborative (PedSRC). This multicenter study will use a
      stepped-wedge, cluster-randomized, pragmatic clinical trial design to evaluate the
      effectiveness of ENRICH-US while also assessing implementation fidelity, sustainability, and
      site-specific adaptations. The investigators will optimize implementation using the National
      Implementation Research Network's five Active Implementation Frameworks (AIFs), which
      identify competency, organization, and leadership as drivers of implementation and empower
      team collaboration and facilitate rapid-cycle evaluation.
    
  