
    
      Vector-borne diseases continue to cause significant morbidity and mortality worldwide despite
      ongoing control efforts. Vectors like sand flies and mosquitoes deliver the pathogen into the
      skin of humans while taking a blood meal. Most vaccines under development ignore the
      importance of the complex infectious inoculum delivered by the vector and the local immune
      response that occurs at the site of the bite. In addition, many preclinical studies are
      carried out in animal models that do not replicate the natural route of infection,
      transmission by vector bites, and often bypass the skin interface altogether. As such, these
      studies do not evaluate what role the vector plays in the initiation of these infections.
      Further compounding this problem, many clinical studies are performed in na(SqrRoot) ve
      individuals who have never been exposed to the vector, while those living in endemic areas
      will have had long-term exposure to vectors through uninfected bites.

      A cumulative body of evidence from animal models demonstrates that a variety of
      vector-derived components are co-delivered with the pathogen and may play an important role
      in the establishment of infection. There is limited knowledge of the effect of these
      vector-derived factors on the immune response in human skin and their potential impact on
      infection establishment.

      In this protocol, we will examine the early skin immune response to bites of three
      arthropods: the mosquito Aedes aegypti, the vector of Zika, dengue, and chikungunya viruses;
      the mosquito Anopheles gambiae, the vector of malaria; and the sand fly Lutzomyia
      longipalpis, the vector of leishmaniasis. We will also explore how multiple vector bite
      exposures over time modulate future immune response at the bite site. Healthy participants
      will come to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and undergo feeding by one of the three
      vectors, then have three skin punch biopsies performed by trained medical practitioners to
      evaluate local immune response. Participants in Cohort A will have one feeding; participants
      in Cohort B will have 4 feedings, each 2 weeks apart. Biopsies will be collected after the
      final feeding. Blood will be collected after the one feeding in Cohort A and after the fourth
      and final feeding in Cohort B to assess systemic immune response.

      With the current rise of vector-borne diseases in the United States and around the world, we
      hope the results of this study contribute to future vaccine design and clinical development
      strategies for vector-borne diseases.
    
  