
    
      Infection by hepatitis C virus (HCV) affects more than 170 million people in the World and
      80.000 in Chile. It causes more deaths than HIV infection in the US and is a leading cause of
      liver transplantation in Chile. Even though treatments are evolving with new direct antiviral
      agents (DAAs) with increasing response rates, there are several issues with these new
      approaches, including toxicity, need for using interferon and ribavirin, complex algorithms
      of treatment, high cost, limited effectivity in certain groups (liver transplant patients)
      and drug interactions. Treatments targeted at host factors required for the viral cycle are
      becoming increasingly explored as an alternative or complement to DAAs. HCV has a very
      intimate connection with host lipidic pathways, altering the lipid profile, circulating bound
      to lipoproteins and using cholesterol receptors and intracellular mechanisms of fat
      metabolism. It has been recently described that NPC1L1 (Niemann-Pick C1-like 1), the
      intestinal receptor of cholesterol, serves as an entry factor for HCV. Interestingly, this
      receptor is not only expressed in the enterocytes (absorbing both endogenous and dietary
      cholesterol), but also in the canalicular membrane of the hepatocyte, where it functions
      absorbing cholesterol secreted into the canalicular lumen. NPC1L1 is, therefore, a key
      transporter in the enterohepatic cycle of cholesterol. Initial in-vitro and in-vivo data show
      that blocking this receptor with ezetimibe results in delaying infection in these models.
      Moreover, it has reported the case of a patient that after 3 unsuccessful treatment attempts,
      cleared HCV RNA with ezetimibe treatment, being the first report of the effect of ezetimibe
      in humans. In view of these observations, the investigators hypothesize that HCV has an
      enterohepatic cycle, being secreted in bile and reabsorbed either in the canalicular membrane
      or in the intestine by association with NPC1L1, following a path similar to the cycle of
      cholesterol in humans.

      This possibility is further supported by the observation that HCV RNA has been detected in
      bile and feces of infected humans. To prove this hypothesis, the investigators propose to
      assess the effect of ezetimibe treatment in HCV-infected individuals. Ezetimibe is an
      approved and generally safe drug used for the management of hypercholesterolemia. HCV RNA and
      core antigen in plasma and feces will be assessed. An increase in bile or fecal HCV load
      after antagonizing NPC1L1 with ezetimibe will support the notion that HCV is reabsorbed in
      the canalicular membrane or at the intestinal level. The second part of the proposed study
      will be conducted in 12 patients who have chronic hepatitis C and are listed for a liver
      transplantation. Graft reinfection after liver transplant is universal. Here the
      investigators anticipate that the use of ezetimibe will directly impact on the reinfection
      time of the graft, by delaying or even preventing liver reinfection in some patients. Should
      this study be successful it will for sure have enormous implications for the design of novel
      management strategies for liver transplant patients.
    
  