
    
      Primary Objectives:

      Phase I: To determine dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of
      afatinib when given in combination with nivolumab for subjects with recurrent/metastatic
      Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck not previously treated with immunotherapy

      Phase IB: To determine long term safety of afatinib in combination with nivolumab when
      administered to subjects with recurrent/metastatic Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and
      Neck who had experienced disease progression during or after platinum- and cetuximab-based
      chemotherapy regimen.

      Secondary Objectives:

      To assess progression free survival and overall survival of afatinib in combination with
      nivolumab when given to subjects with recurrent/metastatic Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the
      Head and Neck not previously treated with immunotherapy.

      To estimate HPV stratified ORR as assessed by irRECIST in recurrent/metastatic Squamous Cell
      Carcinoma of the Head and Neck not previously treated with immunotherapy.

      Exploratory Objectives:

        -  Determination of key molecular alterations that may confer treatment resistance.
           Specifically, we will examine key somatic mutations in ERBB1 (exons 18-21), ERBB2 (exon
           20), and BRAF (V600) genes. We will further characterize the expression levels of ErbB2
           and phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) in tumor samples.

        -  Characterization of active CD8+ T-cell density and PD-L1 expression levels in the tumor
           parenchyma pre- and on-treatment. Immunogenicity will be assessed by expression and
           localization of key molecules PD-1, PD-L1, CTLA-4, TIM-3, LAG-3 and OX40 within the
           tumor parenchyma.

        -  Characterization of circulating monocytic myeloid-derived suppressor cells (m-MDSCs)
           frequency from pre-treatment peripheral blood samples.

        -  Characterization of HBD3 expression in the tumor parenchyma from pre-treatment tumor
           tissue samples.
    
  