
    
      In women, the non-growing population of follicles that comprise the ovarian reserve is
      determined at birth and serves as the reservoir for future fertility. This reserve of
      dormant, primordial follicles and the mechanisms controlling their selective activation which
      constitute the committing step into folliculogenesis are essential for determining fertility
      outcomes in women.

      While POI is sometimes called premature menopause, it is not identical with menopause. Women
      with POI may still have occasional irregular periods and may even occasionally achieve a
      pregnancy. Symptoms of POI include irregular menses or amenorrhea, infertility,
      hypoestrogenic symptoms and decreased libido. POI may be caused by chromosomal defects such
      as mosaic Turner's syndrome, exposure to toxins (chemotherapy or radiation), autoimmunity,
      genetic factors (FMR1) and other unknown factors.

      Recently, new promising approaches have emerged for infertility treatment in patients with
      POI, which are based on arousing the still available primordial follicle pool. It is supposed
      that these techniques activate dormant primordial follicles using a combination of mechanical
      signaling and biochemical factors. The hypothesis that mild local ovarian injury, such as
      ovarian puncture, which is a usual procedure in an IVF center with minimal side effects,
      might exert a similar favorable effect in women with POI arouses our curiosity.

      Different groups have published case series of ovarian procedures, injecting substances in
      the ovaries (A-PRP) or ovarian biopsies / scratch in infertile patients with low ovarian
      reserve (LOR) or/and patients with POF. However, those studies were underpowered, including
      not enough number of cases, with variable inclusion criteria and reporting results with very
      low scientific evidence. Furthermore, the mechanical effect of injecting the ovary should be
      taken into consideration during the evaluation of these patients, yet it might improve the
      ovarian function as well.

      There are no previous randomized controlled trials considering a procedure as ovarian
      puncture, which is easier and accessible at any fertility center.
    
  