
    
      Breast cancer is a major cause of morbidity and mortality both locally as well as globally.
      Approximately 10-15% of newly diagnosed breast cancer patients present with metastatic
      disease; in addition, a significant proportion of patients who initially present with
      non-metastatic disease relapse with distant metastases. These patients have no prospect for
      cure, and systemic therapy remains the mainstay of treatment. In the last few years, several
      targeted agents have been approved for the treatment of breast cancer. For example, the
      addition of bevacizumab, an anti-angiogenic agent, to chemotherapy has been shown to improve
      treatment outcome in metastatic HER2 negative breast cancer and possibly in the neoadjuvant
      treatment of triple negative breast cancers. Two classes of anti-angiogenic agents are
      currently available: monoclonal antibodies against vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF),
      such as bevacizumab; and small molecule receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors that target the
      intracellular tyrosine kinase domain of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGF-R),
      such as sunitinib and sorafenib.

      Small molecule receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as sunitinib and sorafenib are
      currently being evaluated in clinical trials. Although sunitinib and sorafenib are potent
      anti-angiogenic agents, the clinical data that has been reported thus far when combined with
      chemotherapy, has been less promising than what has been predicted in pre-clinical studies.
      One possible reason is that optimal scheduling of small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors
      with chemotherapy has not yet been determined. Preclinical observations have suggested that
      anti-angiogenic agents can 'normalize' tumor vasculature. Further continuous administration
      of anti-angiogenic agent ultimately results in destruction of tumor vasculature, starving the
      tumor and resulting in tumor necrosis. When combined with chemotherapy, this continuous
      scheduling may paradoxically result in reduced delivery of chemotherapy to the tumor, causing
      a relatively chemo-resistant state and may account for the less than optimal results from
      combination studies, which have largely employed the strategy of continuous dosing of the
      small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor. Intermittent dosing of a small molecule tyrosine
      kinase inhibitor prior to chemotherapy to transiently 'normalize' tumor vasculature, may make
      it more efficient for drug and oxygen delivery, and thus potentiate sensitivity to
      chemotherapy.

      The investigators previously studied the addition of low-dose, short-course sunitinib to
      pre-operative chemotherapy in the neoadjuvant setting in newly diagnosed breast cancer
      patients with measurable primary breast tumor in a phase Ib/II study at the National
      University Cancer Institute, Singapore. The study data showed that the addition of sunitinib
      improved tumor vascularization as hypothesized with enhanced short-term treatment response.
      However, pathological complete response rate after 4 cycles of chemotherapy was not superior
      to standard chemotherapy, and may be attributed to dose delays from increased
      myelosuppression with the addition of sunitinib. The investigators hypothesize that this
      promising regimen may be further optimized with the use of growth factor support. The
      investigators thus plan to study the addition of low-dose, short-course sunitinib to
      dose-dense doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide administered every 14 days, supported by
      pegfilgrastim.
    
  