
    
      Research attempts to prevent excess gestational weight gain, defined as gaining more weight
      during pregnancy than Institute of Medicine (IOM) guidelines for prepregnancy body mass index
      (BMI), have largely been unsuccessful. Roughly 62% of overweight and 45% of obese women still
      gain more weight than recommended, increasing risk for postpartum weight retention. Few
      mobile health (mHealth) interventions have been trialed to address pregnancy-associated
      weight gain, which is a missed opportunity. Adult women are high users of technology for
      general and pregnancy-specific health information seeking and sharing. To fill this gap, the
      long-term goal of this research is to disseminate into clinical practice a standalone mHealth
      tool that is effective for overweight and obese pregnant women to achieve gestational weight
      gain within IOM recommendations and return to prepregnancy weight after childbirth. The goal
      of this application is to test GROWell: Goals for Reaching Optimal Wellness, an innovative,
      mHealth tool based on Self-regulation Theory that investigators designed in pilot work to
      achieve appropriate gestational weight gain and safe postpartum weight loss. The
      investigators propose a blinded, randomized controlled trial to test the efficacy of GROWell
      compared to an attention control also developed in a pilot. Investigators will recruit 480
      women ages 18-44 with prepregnancy BMI 25-<40 and 10-16 weeks gestation of a singleton,
      uncomplicated pregnancy. Block randomization based on BMI, race, and recruitment clinic will
      be used to assign participants equally to arm 1, GROWell (n=240), or arm 2, the attention
      control (n=240). Upon study enrollment and through 6 months postpartum, GROWell participants
      will receive daily text messages that provide tailored education, problem-solving skills, and
      support to aid their personalized dietary goals. Once weekly, participants self-monitor
      overall adherence to their goals using text messages that prompt them to report on how they
      did in the past week. When users respond to this prompt, they immediately receive a text with
      tailored feedback on their adherence and long-term progress toward their goals. Control
      participants will receive weekly texts that provide personalized self-care, pregnancy, labor,
      delivery, and early infancy education. The specific aims are to: (1) Compare the efficacy of
      GROWell to the attention control in reducing the proportion of women who gain excess
      gestational weight based on IOM guidelines (>25 lbs for overweight and >20 lbs for obese)
      controlling for demographics, parity, physical activity, diet quality, and
      depression/anxiety; and (2) Compare the efficacy of GROWell to the attention control in
      reducing postpartum weight retention at 6 months post-birth as measured by the proportion of
      women who are within 5% of their prepregnancy weight, controlling for demographics, parity,
      physical activity, diet quality, breastfeeding, and depression/anxiety. This research
      addresses PA 18-135 (Maternal Nutrition and Pre-pregnancy Obesity) and will provide an
      innovative, evidence-based, standalone mHealth tool to reduce excess gestational weight gain
      and postpartum weight retention among overweight and obese women, currently an unavailable
      resource.
    
  