
    
      Many stroke survivors suffered postural and balance problems. Decreased mobility limits their
      daily life activities. Virtual reality balance training has already been used in stroke
      rehabilitation, and previous studies supported that could improve balance ability. The
      mechanism is multi-sensory feedback and repeated practices that could facilitate motor
      learning and brain neuroplasticity. Compared to conventional rehabilitation, VR
      rehabilitation could increase subjects' motivation and pleasure. Although the treatment
      effects were supported in studies, there are still limitations in clinical intervention and
      the study power is not enough.

      The study will use Kinect for Xbox games for balance intervention. Kinect for Xbox doesn't
      need additional controller held by subjects and can detect the movement in real time to give
      subjects visual and auditory feedback immediately. Investigators will recruit 60 patients
      with chronic stroke from Shung-ho hospital clinical rehabilitation and randomly assign them
      to "standard treatment plus virtual reality group" (N=30) and "standard treatment only group"
      (N=30). There are total 12 sessions (2 times weekly) for both groups. Investigators will
      assess subjects' ability for 3 times (pre- and post-intervention, follow up in post 3 month).
      The outcome measures include Force plate, Functional reach test, Berg Balance Scale, Time up
      and go for balance evaluations, Modified barthel index for ADL ability, Activities-specific
      Balance Confidence scale for balance confidence, and Stroke Impact Scale for quality of life.
      Investigators will also record the pleasure scale and adverse event after every training
      session. Collected data will be analyzed with repeated measures 2-way analysis of variance
      (ANOVA), Turkey test post hoc and independent T sample test. Hypothesis is that Kinect for
      Xbox intervention can significantly improve subjects' balance ability, confidence of balance,
      ADL, and QOL compared to the conventional rehabilitation. It may help to develop a new
      clinical model of virtual reality training for patients with chronic stroke.
    
  