
    
      This research involves a hypothesis-driven series of Phase 1 studies using comparative group
      designs to investigate a new integral stimulation treatment program for children with CAS,
      called ASSIST (Apraxia of Speech Systematic Integral Stimulation Treatment). The overall
      objective of this research is to test the initial efficacy of ASSIST and determine its
      optimal parameters.

      Specific Aim 1: To test the initial efficacy of intensive ASSIST for children with CAS, by
      examining short-term improvements on the primary outcome measure of speech accuracy. Forty
      children (combined across two studies) will be randomly assigned to a treatment or a control
      group (who will receive the treatment). The central hypothesis is that ASSIST enhances speech
      motor skill, and predicts greater improvements after 2 weeks (16 hours) for the treatment
      group than for the control group (who have not yet received treatment).

      Specific Aim 2: To determine the optimal parameters of ASSIST for children with CAS. In three
      studies, children (N=20 each) will be randomly assigned to condition, to address three
      critical treatment parameters:

      Aim 2a: COMPLEXITY: simple vs. complex targets (Study 1). Simple targets may enhance
      motivation through greater success during treatment, but more complex targets may facilitate
      greater transfer.

      Aim 2b: LEXICALITY: real word vs. nonword targets (Study 2). Real words may enhance
      motivation through functional relevance, but nonwords may facilitate transfer through a focus
      on underlying speech motor skills rather than existing lexical or speech motor
      representations.

      Aim 2c: INTENSITY: massed vs. distributed ASSIST (Study 3). Massed practice may enhance
      learning through neuroplasticity principles, but motor learning principles predict greater
      learning for distributed practice.

      Specific Aim 3: To determine changes on functional outcome measures following ASSIST
      treatment. In particular, for each of the three studies, the investigators will examine
      changes on the following outcome measures:

      Aim 3a: Parent-rated measures of intelligibility and communicative participation.

      Aim 3b: Objective measures of intelligibility based on transcriptions by unfamiliar
      listeners.

      This research includes three small-scale group treatment studies (Studies 1-3), conducted
      during summer to minimize confounds from concurrent treatment provided at school. In all
      three treatment studies, 20 children will be randomly assigned to conditions and will receive
      16 hours of ASSIST in two-week blocks (weeks 2-3 and/or 5-6). Data will be collected in weeks
      1, 4, and 7 (T1, T2, and T3, respectively). Assessment will take place 2-8 weeks prior to T1
      to allow time to develop individualized sets of potential treatment targets for each child.
      For each treatment study, the investigators will conduct a corresponding experiment with
      unfamiliar listeners (Studies 4-6) to evaluate potential impact of ASSIST on intelligibility.
      Studies 2 and 3 will be informed by, but are not contingent on, preceding studies. For
      example, if Study 1 shows an advantage for simple targets, then Study 2 will compare simple
      words vs. simple nonwords. Thus, each study independently contributes to the overall
      objective of this proposal and addresses an independent aim.

      Children will attend a summer camp with 19 other children. Camp days (4 days per week during
      treatment block 1 [weeks 2-3] and treatment block 2 [weeks 5-6]) are 8:00 am to 3:00 pm and
      involve group activities and individual treatment sessions. All children participate in
      child-appropriate group activities in both treatment blocks (e.g., arts and crafts projects,
      games). Group activities are not treatment and have no focus on communication, but serve as
      the control condition. Treatment follows the pull-out model in which children attend
      individual treatment sessions in a separate room and then return to the group room. Treatment
      will be delivered by SLP graduate students under supervision of certified, licensed, and
      experienced SLPs.

      Treatment involves 32 individual sessions of 30-minutes (16 hours total) in which the child
      works with an SLP graduate student clinician to work on individualized speech goals. Children
      in intensive ASSIST conditions (all children in Studies 1 & 2, and Massed ASSIST groups in
      Study 3) will receive four 30-minute sessions per day (2 in the morning, 2 in the afternoon)
      separated by at least one hour to minimize fatigue, in either the first treatment block (camp
      weeks 2-3) or the second treatment block (camp weeks 5-6). Children in the Distributed ASSIST
      condition (Study 3) will receive two 30-minutes sessions per day (1 in the morning, 1 in the
      afternoon) separated by at least one hour to minimize fatigue, in both treatment blocks (camp
      weeks 2-3 and 5-6).

      Treatment words or phrases will be tailored to each child based on pre-treatment testing and
      personal relevance, as well as study aim. From each child's list of potential targets, two
      sets will be created and matched on relevant variables except for those under study. One set
      will be treated; the other set will serve to measure generalization (randomly assigned). Each
      target will be practiced in several frames (e.g., more _ , I want _ , _ is yummy) to bolster
      communicative relevance, enable variable practice, incorporate prosody, and engage language.

      Each 30-minute session targets several items (active set) from the treatment set developed
      for each child; new items are introduced as previous items are mastered and moved to
      maintenance practice. ASSIST uses step-up and step-down criteria for adaptive practice and
      pre-practice and practice components. Each session starts with pre-practice to ensure
      motivation, establish a reference of correctness and ability to identify a correct response,
      and establish ability to produce an accurate response. During pre-practice, the clinician
      elicits targets via integral stimulation on the first attempt, provides feedback and elicits
      additional attempts using cues and supports as needed. The clinician also solicits the
      child's self-evaluation (e.g., "Did that sound right?") and provides feedback on this
      self-evaluation. Criteria to begin practice are either ≥1 accurate response per target and
      correctly identifying ≥1 accurate response, or 15 minutes have elapsed (to ensure that
      sessions include at least 10 minutes of practice). During practice, the clinician aims to
      elicit as many attempts as possible. Treatment will follow a structured protocol with event
      sequences called teaching episodes. A teaching episode involves an initial target elicitation
      by the clinician, followed by feedback and/or a cue and another attempt by the child. Thus,
      each teaching episode involves at least two attempts by the child. Practice occurs in
      practice runs, which are bursts of practice separated by 1-minute breaks to minimize risk of
      fatigue. A practice run will continue for 4 minutes or until each target in the child's
      active set has cycled through 5 teaching episodes. The last practice run of a session
      includes all previously targeted items (active set + maintenance items). Conditions are
      systematically adapted to facilitate learning.

      Adult listeners will transcribe recordings of speech samples produced by children with CAS.
      Listeners will hear speech samples (randomized with respect to time of recording) and type
      what the child said. They will be able to control the volume to ensure a comfortable loudness
      level. They will type their responses to enhance data quality (legibility). These procedures
      will take up to 2 hours, which may be completed in a single 2-hour session or two 1-hour
      sessions.
    
  