
    
      Background: Over 90% of people living with dementia (PLWD) experience behavioural and
      psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) including apathy, depression, sleep disruptions,
      wandering, repetitive behaviours and anxiety. BPSD can also result in poor quality of life,
      burden for caregivers, and an increased risk for physical abuse of PLWD. Incorporating the
      family caregiver into the plan of care may improve satisfaction and lower the burden
      associated with providing care for PLWD in a nursing home. New evidence suggests limited
      benefits of pharmacological interventions and increased risks for adverse events for PLWD.
      Results from systematic reviews suggest that Reminiscence Therapy (RT) has positive outcomes
      for people with dementia, such as elevated mood, improved cognition and enhanced behaviours.
      An additional systematic review indicates there are significant benefits of using information
      communication technology (ICT) for RT interventions. Virtual reality (VR) is emerging as a
      promising non-pharmacological approach for reducing symptoms of dementia and allows for
      tailoring of technological intervention to the user. To our knowledge, VR scenarios have
      never been developed as a RT intervention for PLWD and their caregiver.

      Purpose and Objectives: The purpose of this innovative, interdisciplinary study is to design
      and test a VR technological intervention with older adults with dementia and their
      caregivers, guided by RT. The main research question is: Can a tailored VR intervention
      reduce BPSD among PLWD and improve the caregiving relationship? Study objectives are to: (1)
      interview caregiving dyads to collect historical data to create tailored VR interventions
      using iterative design process; (2) test VR intervention with the caregiving dyads to assess:
      (a) impact on BPSD among PLWD and quality of the relationship between the PLWD and their
      family caregiver; and (b) impact of the intervention on family caregiver outcomes.

      Study Design: The proposed feasibility (repeated measure design) study will be conducted in
      two phases and will include qualitative and quantitative data collection.

      In PHASE 1 (design), 5 PLWD and their family caregiver will participate in 2-3 interviews
      which will be used to generate their personalized VR scenarios.

      In PHASE 2 (testing), the tailored VR sessions from phase 1, will be used as a weekly
      intervention with each caregiving dyad over 10 weeks. Each tailored session will be 30
      minutes in length. Participants will be positioned beside each other in stabilizing chairs,
      both wearing the 3D glasses, and viewing the same scenario.

      Participants will be evaluated at 4-time points [week 1 (baseline), week 5
      (mid-intervention), week 10 (conclusion of intervention) and week 15 (5-week follow up)].
      Using previously validated measures, participants living with dementia will be assessed on:

        1. Behavioural or psychological symptom of dementia (Neuropsychiatric Inventory-
           Questionnaire)

        2. Perceptions of person-centred care (Person-centered Climate Questionnaire-patient
           version)

        3. Quality of Life (World Health Organization Quality of Life Instrument)

      Family Caregiving participants will be assessed on:

        1. Caregiving experience (A. Caregiver Reaction Scale, and B. Modified Caregiver Strain
           Index)

        2. Quality of Life (World Health Organization Quality of Life Instrument)
    
  