
    
      Common mental disorders (CMDs) such as anxiety and depression occur frequently in pregnancy
      and the postnatal period in lower- and middle income countries (LMICs). Prenatal anxiety,
      both subthreshold and clinical, adversely affects maternal wellbeing and outcomes among
      offspring, and is a major predictor of subsequent depression. Preventive approaches have
      enormous potential to reduce the negative effects of postnatal mental disorders in mothers
      and improve child outcomes. The study team proposes to create a scalable and sustainable
      early prevention intervention focusing on anxiety symptoms in pregnant women, to be delivered
      by non-specialist providers (Aim 1). The investigators will evaluate this preventive
      intervention through a trial by randomizing 1200 pregnant women from a public hospital in
      Islamabad Pakistan to either our Cognitive Behavioral Therapy-based (CBT-based)
      early-in-pregnancy program or to usual care. The investigators will study the effects of the
      intervention on 1) CMDs in the 3rd trimester of pregnancy and at 6 weeks postpartum (Aim 2)
      and on 2) fetal and newborn small-for-gestational age (SGA) outcomes (Aim 3). The
      investigators will also examine if interpersonal violence, perceived stress and social
      support mediate and/or modify the intervention effects on CMDs and perinatal outcomes (Aim
      4). Finally, the investigators will conduct a cost-effectiveness evaluation, comparing costs
      and healthcare utilization for women in the prenatal intervention and enhanced usual care
      groups (Aim 5). Focusing on anxiety reduction is a major innovation; anxiety has not been
      addressed within prenatal intervention packages in LMICs, despite its association with
      increased postpartum depression and suboptimal fetal and infant outcomes. Pakistan has high
      prevalence of both women with prenatal anxiety (35% to 49%) and SGA newborns (~47%),
      providing an ideal research opportunity. The CBT-based approach, appropriate given its
      indication for anxiety and depression, is grounded in preliminary work in this population,
      where the investigators have previously successfully reduced postpartum depression.
      Intervening early in pregnancy is a further innovation that is critical for building the
      evidence base for preventative approaches to reduce maternal CMDs and related perinatal
      outcomes. The proposed mediation and effect modification analyses will improve understanding
      of mechanism(s) of action and help identify subpopulations for programmatic targeting. The
      use of non-specialized providers and integration within the primary care environment will
      guide scale up, while incorporating a cost-effectiveness analysis will aid policy-makers in
      resource allocation decisions. This study will inform the integration of preventive
      strategies that target anxiety with existing approaches for treatment of perinatal depression
      to further the evidence-base for transdiagnostic mental health initiatives globally, and will
      inform policies to support lifelong maternal mental health and resilience across generations
    
  