
    
      Rationale. Asthma is associated with variable airways obstruction and airways inflammation.
      It is generally assumed that inflammatory mechanisms are promoting airway narrowing, by
      stimulating airway smooth muscle and by geometrical changes of the airway wall. Healthy
      subjects are very effectively protected against stimuli of airway narrowing, by mechanisms
      that are apparently failing in asthma. The most potent inhibitor of airway narrowing in
      healthy subjects is taking a deep inspiration. This prevents and reverses bronchoconstriction
      (DI-induced bronchoprotection and -bronchodilation, respectively), which is less effective or
      absent in asthma. The DI-induced inhibition of airway narrowing in normal subjects is
      presumably due to relaxation of smooth muscle after mechanical stretch or to the release of
      relaxant mediators (such as endogenous NO). Such mechanisms might have become impaired in
      asthma, secondary to e.g. mechanical uncoupling of smooth muscle from the surrounding
      parenchyma (e.g. by congestion or edema), by altered structure and function of airway smooth
      muscle, and/or by reduced inhibitory mediator release.

      It can be postulated that the impaired response to deep inspiration is a central
      pathophysiological feature of asthma at all ages. Therefore, we believe that it is imperative
      to address this, by identifying and restoring these inhibitory pathways in patients with
      asthma.

      Hypotheses.

      We hypothesize that DI-induced bronchoprotection and -broncho¬dilation:

        1. are associated with cellular and morphological features of airways inflammation,

        2. can be restored by deep insufflation rather than deep inspiration, and by
           pharmacological interventions aimed to reduce microvascular congestion or to increase
           endogenous nitric oxide synthesis..

      Design and methods. To examine to what extent DI-responses differ between asthma and COPD in
      adulthood, and whether this is associated with features of airways inflammation and changes
      in smooth muscle function. 12 Adult patients with asthma and 12 with COPD will undergo
      single-dose methacholine challenge, with prohibition of DI's or 5 DI's prior to challenge in
      a cross-over design, measuring airways resistance. On a separate day bronchial biopsies will
      obtained with immunohistochemistry for inflammatory cell markers, vascularity, microvascular
      leakage, myosin light chain kinase, NO-synthases, and arginase.
    
  