
    
      Intervention:

      The interventions during hospitalization and after discharge are undertaken in a standardized
      manner and have been described in detail in Standardized Operational Procedures. They are
      summarized in the following.

      The Nutritional Intervention during hospitalization aims to reduce loss of muscle mass by
      supplying sufficient protein to meet the accelerated demands as a consequence of the
      stress-induced catabolism. The aim of the intervention is to achieve a protein intake of 1.7
      g per kg body weight per day. If the body mass index exceeds 30 the body weight corresponding
      to BMI 30 is used to calculate the aim for protein intake.

      On the day of inclusion an individual diet plan is made by an authorized clinical dietitian.
      Besides covering the high protein requirement the diet plan is calculated to meet the
      individual requirement for energy, liquids and micronutrients. Energy requirement is
      estimated individually according to the Nutritional Risk Screening 2002 (Kondrup et al.
      2003). This method takes the increased demands during stress metabolism into account. The
      estimated energy requirement aims for weight maintenance, and not weight gain or loss. The
      weight is monitored daily during hospitalization, taking into account the loss or gain of
      edema, to evaluate if the energy intake is balanced with outputs.

      The fluid requirement is calculated individually, and considers the reduced ability of the
      kidney to concentrate urine during stress and that the high protein diet will generate larger
      amounts of ammonium and urea. Furthermore, patients receive a daily vitamin and mineral
      tablet.

      The patient and/ or nurses are responsible for registration of all dietary intakes. A scheme
      containing the food and drinks available at the hospital is used for daily documentation. The
      diet plan is continually adjusted to the patients preferences and eating abilities.

      If the goal for protein is not covered at least 80% by oral intake, supplemental tube feeding
      will be initiated. If coverage of 80% of the goal cannot be covered using feeding tube then
      supplemental or total parental nutrition will be initiated. The regional guidelines will be
      followed when initiating enteral nutrition by a feeding tube or parental nutrition. To reach
      the goal for protein intake, the regional guidelines for enteral nutrition by feeding tube
      will be deviated concerning the dose and infusion rate in the first 4 days. Dose and infusion
      rate will be increased faster than described in the regional guidelines, if it is well
      tolerated. Patients will be monitored for Refeeding Syndrome when total enteral or parenteral
      nutrition is initiated and when an adapted weight loss is suspected.

      If the goal for protein cannot be reached, the main reason is registered. Daily intake of
      energy, protein and fluid is registered.

      The participants in the control group will receive standard treatment and the dietary intake
      the first 24 Hours after inclusion will be registered.

      The aim of the intervention after discharge is to stimulate an anabolic response in the
      muscles. The intervention consists of a daily protein and energy supplement (Resource
      Protein, Nestlé Nutrition) and resistance training for 12 weeks in the home of the
      participant. The training is initiated preferably the day after discharge or as fast as the
      circumstances allows it. The daily protein and energy supplement is initiated on the day of
      discharge. Furthermore the patients are provided with and asked to take a daily multi vitamin
      and mineral tablet (APO VIT).

      Screens for virtual training demonstrates the resistance training (Welfare Denmark). The
      screens demonstrate the exercises and count the repetitions. A research assistant supervises
      the training sessions three times a week.

      The resistance training consists of three sets off 8-12 repetitions of a chair-stand exercise
      with or without support from the arm or a knee extension exercise depending on the capability
      of the patient. A physiotherapist supervises the first or second visit where the individually
      best fitted exercise is chosen. Each of the exercises can be increased in difficulty by
      adding weight. To ensure a high level of neural activation and recruit the largest amount of
      motor units possible, the intensity of the exercise aims to achive 8 possible repetitions in
      each set. If less than eight repetitions are possible the exercise is regressed in difficulty
      until 8 repetitions are achievable. In cases where more than 8 repetitions are possible, the
      exercise is progressed in difficulty. Additionally the difficulty of the exercise is adjusted
      in week 2, 4 and 8, where the exercise is progressed if three complete sets of 12 repetitions
      are possible. To evaluate the training intensity the last set of exercises before the
      adjustment are repeated until fatigue.

      The aim of the supervised visits is moreover to document and motivate the training, register
      compliance with the protein and energy supplement and ensure that it is consumed directly
      after training. The participants are asked to keep the empty bottles from the protein and
      energy supplement, as a measure of compliance.

      Patient recruitment:

      Patients are recruited at Amager og Hvidovre Hospitaler, Copenhagen. On days with inclusion,
      lists of all newly admitted patients that are 65 years or older are generated. The lists are
      generated at 7.30 a.m. and include patient admitted within the last 24 hours. Medical
      journals of all these patients are checked for inclusion and exclusion criteria's. Eligible
      patients are randomly ordered and invited/asked to participate in the study. Patients receive
      written and verbal information about the study and are allowed time to consider their
      participation before signing a formula of informed consent. The formula is also signed by the
      research assistant and archived in the patient's medical journal.

      Data on diagnosis, days of admission, readmissions, age and gender are registered on all
      eligible patients. Further, patients that do not wish to participate in the study are
      interviewed about their appetite, functional ability (by the 'New Mobility Score') and their
      nutritional status is assessed using the Nutritional Risk Screening 2002 applied at all
      Danish Hospitals (Kondrup et al. 2003).

      Eligible patients that have signed the informed consent formula are included in the study and
      given a study identification number.

      Patient recruitment is undertaken in a standardized manner and is described in detail in a
      Standardized Operational Procedure.

      Randomization:

      Randomization was in blocks of 4 in a ratio of 2:2, stratified for Diabetes Mellitus and
      nutritionally at-risk (determined by a secondary score ≥ 3 in the Nutritional Risk Screening
      procedure (Kondrup et al. 2003). An impartial person evaluated the allocation of patients,
      with regards to gender and age, when half of the expected patients were recruited (n=16). In
      case of a skewed distribution between the groups, a third stratification variable could be
      introduced. The randomized allocation sequence was generated in the Statistical Analysis
      System (SAS) and was only accessible to the research assistant responsible for the
      intervention. The research assistant responsible for the assessment of outcome is blinded for
      the allocation of patients. The allocation of patients was described in the protocol to the
      Regional Committee, of the Capital Region of Denmark, on Health Research Ethics (protocol no.
      H-2-2013-013) and approved the 19th of February 2013.

      Data collection:

      Data collection follows Standardized Operational Procedures. To limit inter-individual
      variability the same research assistant performs all data collection.

      Assessment of the primary endpoint and secondary endpoints is performed four times during the
      study; at admission, at discharge, one month after discharge and three months after
      discharge.

      Data collection at admission is, if possible, performed immediately after the project
      patients have given their consent to participate. If this is not possible due to other
      examinations, fatigue or other the data collection is performed as soon as the circumstances
      allow it. The date and time of admission and the date and time for data collection will be
      registered.

      The treatment of all included patients is observed carefully and health personal is consulted
      in order to predict time of discharge. Data collection will be performed as close to the time
      of discharge as possible. If patients are discharged earlier than expected the research
      assistant will contact the patient and make arrangements for assessment of endpoints as soon
      as possible. The date of discharge and the date of data collection will be registered.

      One month after discharge data on secondary endpoints will be assessed at a home visit.
      Project patients will be contacted one week before the visit and further the research
      assistant will ring the day before the visit to confirm the appointment. If the patient does
      not wish to have home visits the data collection may be performed at the hospital in stead.
      The aim is that the assessment is performed with ratio of 5 days before or after the one
      month from discharge. The date of discharge and the date of data collection will be
      registered.

      Three months after discharge data on primary and secondary endpoints will be assessed. The
      assessment of the secondary endpoints may be performed at a home visit or at the hospital.
      Assessment of the primary endpoint is performed at the hospital. Project patients will be
      contacted one week before the visit and further the research assistant will ring the day
      before the visit to confirm the appointment. The research assistant will arrange
      transportation to and from the hospital. The aim is that the assessment is performed with
      ratio of 5 days before or after the date of the three months from discharge. The date of
      discharge and the date of data collection will be registered.

      If patients do not wish to participate in certain examinations or tests this will be
      registered. This will not exclude the patient from the other tests. The research assistant
      will register any deviations from the Standard Operational Procedures.

      Sample size assessment:

      The assessment of the sample size is based on the average change in total muscle mass
      (primary endpoint) between the intervention and control group. Based on the existing
      literature the average change in muscle mass during the entire study period is expected to be
      an average loss of 1.5 kg muscle mass in the control group and an average loss of 0 kg muscle
      mass in the intervention group (Tidermark et al. 2004; Ferrando et al. 2010; Candow et al.
      2008; Whiteford et al. 2010). Standard deviation's are adopted from the study by Whiteford et
      al. 2010 and are 1.35 kg and 1.24 kg for the intervention and control group, respectively.
      Sample size is calculated with a power of 80 % and a significance level of 5 %. A minimum of
      12 persons in each arm is needed to find a significant difference between the two groups.
      Further, a drop-out rate of 30 % is taken into account. Based on these calculations a total
      sample size of 32 patients is required.

      Statistical analysis plan:

      The statistical analysis includes intention to treat analysis and per protocol analysis of
      compliant participants. Analysis of primary outcome, muscle mass, will be performed on both
      total muscle mass, lower extremities and upper extremities. The distribution of data will be
      tested and depending on weather it is normally distributed or screwed students t-test or
      non-parametric tests will be applied. The difference in change of outcome between the two
      groups will be tested. When relevant a chi-squared test and Spearman-rank test will be used.
      Linear regression analysis will be used to adjust for possible confounders.

      To perform the statistical calculations the statistical software programmes STATA release 12
      and Statistical Analysis Software, SAS, will be used.
    
  