
    
      Background:

      Many myopathies are inherited in a recessive manner, but in some of these recessively
      inherited disorders, clinical manifestations may potentially manifest in carriers of just a
      single mutation. This has recently been demonstrated by researchers for the recessively
      inherited limb girdle muscle dystrophy (LGMD) type 2A, where carriers of single mutations can
      also be symptomatic. In X-linked recessively inherited dystrophinopathies caused by mutations
      in the DMD gene on chromosome Xp21, female mutation carriers may also manifest with disease,
      although this is often milder than affected men. In the recently discovered LGMD2L,
      manifesting carriers are also suspected. Thus, according to statistics, too many persons
      evaluated for myopathy carry a single LGMD2L mutation.

      Some previous studies have looked into the significance of being a single mutation carrier in
      recessive muscle disease. In dystrophinopathy, it was reported that 5 % of female DMD
      carriers reported myalgia and cramps, 17 % experienced mild-to-moderate muscle weakness and 8
      % experienced dilated cardiomyopathy, with a mean onset age of approximately 30 years.
      Another study found that echocardiographic examination was abnormal in up to 38% of DMD
      female carriers - some with dilated cardiomyopathy, and some with left ventricle dilatation.

      Overall, however significance of carrying a single mutation of recessive myopathy is widely
      unexplored. No study has yet investigated the characteristics of single mutation carriers of
      recessive myopathy in an observational, cross-sectional study.

      Aim:

      In this study, clinical characteristics of single mutation carriers of recessive myopathies
      will be investigated. The investigation will include sceletal muscle degeneration and
      strength, as well as cardiac status.

      Recruitment and Methods:

      Estimated total of subjects recruited is 200 with known recessive gene mutations, and 40
      healthy controls. In former studies 40 healthy volunteers have already been investigated,
      thereby giving a total of 80 healthy controls. Recessive gene carrier recruits will be
      obtained via the Department of Clinical Genetics and Copenhagen Neuromuscular Center,
      Rigshospitalet, thus only including carriers aware of their carrier status.

      2 days of testing per participant. Day one: Measuring S-creatine kinase level (blood
      sampling), muscle strength (Biodex 4 Isokinetic Dynamometer), ECG, and Holter monitor device
      application.

      Day two: Holter monitor device removal, Dixon MRI analysis with gadolinium contrast medium,
      and echocardiography.

      Healthy controls will take part in MRI-scanning and isokinetic dynamometer testing.

      Trials are expected to be carried out between October 2016 and May 2020.
    
  