
    
      Objectives(s): The investigators are conducting a randomized, controlled trial of Veterans
      with PTSD and chronic insomnia to determine if cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia
      (CBT-I) administered by video teleconferencing is not clinically inferior to in-person
      treatment in terms of improvement in insomnia symptoms. Secondary aims are 1) comparing the
      differences in cost and quality-adjusted life years between the treatment delivery approaches
      and 2) determining the effectiveness of CBT-I on functional outcomes, sleep quality, and
      non-sleep-related PTSD symptoms. The investigators are also conducting a patient- and
      provider-focused formative evaluation of CBT-I delivery by video teleconferencing to assess
      potential barriers to its widespread implementation.

      Research Design: This prospective randomized controlled non-inferiority study will determine
      if Veterans with PTSD and chronic insomnia receiving CBT-I by video teleconferencing have an
      improvement in insomnia severity, as determined by change in Insomnia Severity Index (ISI)
      score, that is not clinically inferior to that in Veterans receiving in-person CBT-I.
      Differences in cost and quality-adjusted life years (QALY) between groups will also be
      compared.

      Methodology: Veterans with PTSD and chronic insomnia receiving their primary care at
      community-based outpatient clinics (CBOC) affiliated with the Philadelphia VAMC are be
      randomized to receive one of the following interventions in a group setting at their CBOC: 1)
      a manual-based CBT-I program delivered via video teleconferencing, 2) the CBT-I program
      delivered in-person, and 3) in-person delivery of sleep hygiene education, a known active
      control intervention. Participants are assessed at baseline, and 2 weeks and every 3 months
      following the intervention. The primary outcome measure in Aim 1 is the change in the
      Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) score at 6 months following intervention. Non-inferiority
      analysis will be used to compare the effectiveness of the two delivery methods, with a
      pre-specified margin. Results will be ascertained via intent to treat and per-protocol
      procedures. The investigators hypothesize that the change in ISI score following CBT-I by
      video teleconferencing will not be clinically inferior to that following in-person delivery.
      In Aim 2, VA and non-VA total healthcare costs are being collected to test whether average
      cost is lower for Veterans receiving CBT-I by video teleconferencing versus in-person care.
      Preference is being assessed by the EuroQol and Health Utilities Index 2. Differences in the
      ratio of cost and quality-adjusted life years saved between CBT-I by video teleconferencing
      and in-person encounter will be compared to test the hypothesis that video teleconferencing
      will have lower cost and equivalent outcomes. Aim 3 is assessing the effect of CBT-I on
      functional outcomes (Short Form-12, Work and Social Adjustment Scale), sleep quality
      (Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, sleep diary and wrist actigraphy), and PTSD severity (the
      non-sleep component of the PTSD Checklist-Military). The investigators hypothesize that these
      functional outcomes and sleep quality measures will improve following each method of CBT-I
      delivery and that CBT-I will improve non-sleep-related PTSD severity. The formative
      evaluation of the telemedicine delivery of CBT-I in Aim 4 is using qualitative (targeted
      focus groups with participants and therapist interviews) and quantitative measures (Work
      Alliance Inventory, Treatment Credibility Scale, attrition) that will help guide future
      implementation of CBT-I by video teleconferencing

      Anticipated Findings: The investigators believe these results will demonstrate that: 1)
      Veterans in both CBT-I groups will have similar improvement in functional outcomes, and 2)
      treatment delivery by video teleconferencing will be more cost effective than in-person care.
      These findings should lead to wider acceptance of video teleconferencing, thereby increasing
      patient access to care and reducing treatment costs.
    
  