
    
      Detailed description of the intervention: the purpose of the initial visit at the neonatal
      unit or hospital ward where the child is still treated is to establish the foundation for the
      interventionist/family relationship and give the parent(-s) the opportunity to show the
      interventionist the environment where the infant has spent his/her first 3-5 months in life.

      Home-visit 1-3 and two telephone calls are provided before the child is three months
      corrected age. The focus of these home visits is to observe child and parent at home and
      validate the child's strengths and competences as well as enhancing the parent-child
      interaction, building on strengths. The child's strengths and interests will be summarized in
      a logbook owned by the parents. During home-visit 4-8 the interventionist, step by step and
      always with great regard to the child's level of development, will support the parent in
      using the home-environment in a developmental supporting manner for the child, find suitable
      objects/toys at home for the child to examine with mouth, hands and body, confirm the child's
      abilities and give suggestions on how to stimulate the child's further development. The
      logbook will now also contain suggestions for supporting the next developmental step, which
      will be formulated by the interventionist together with the parent. The ninth and last
      home-visit will emphasize the child's progress during the past year, look through the family
      logbook and both summarize the past year and talk about the next developmental step for the
      future.

      The intervention group receives the standard follow-up program just as the control group and
      will be referred to specialized care when needed. Compared to children not participating in
      the study, the study participants will receive an extended follow-up program, with assessment
      and questionnaires at term age, 3 months corrected age, 12 months corrected age, 24 months
      corrected age and 36 months corrected age. The research process and the study protocol have
      been published, see references below.
    
  