
    
      This research was conducted based on the results of epidemiological studies that the group of
      adolescents aged 14-19 years had a fairly high prevalence of acne vulgaris, which amounted to
      83-85% for female, 95-100% for male and this prevalence rate was increasing over the years.
      Acne vulgaris is not a dangerous disease, but has a large enough impact for sufferers,
      especially teenagers. Physical and psychological effects can cause anxiety, depression, and
      reduce the confidence of sufferers.

      Many drugs for acne vulgaris are sold freely and can be bought by everyone without the need
      to consult a doctor first, coupled with the lack of knowledge of adolescent groups about acne
      vulgaris and its treatment options, this causes the lack of accurate acne treatment and
      increases the risk of effects side of the drug. The use of topical medicines in the form of a
      combination of anti-acne cream is one of the best choices because all the components needed
      to deal with acne can be combined to become one so that it is more effective and efficient

      The short-term goal of this research is to find out what proportion of respondents with mild,
      moderate and severe acne before being given an intervention in the form of using a
      combination of anti-acne cream, the proportion of respondents with mild, moderate and severe
      acne after being given an intervention, the proportion of respondents who were given
      intervention and experienced decrease the severity of acne vulgaris, and find out the
      relationship between the use of a combination of anti-acne cream with a decrease in the
      severity of acne vulgaris.

      This research is an experimental design clinical trial research. The research hypothesis is
      that the use of a combination of anti-acne creams can reduce the severity of acne vulgaris.
      The study population and sample were in the form of a group of adolescents aged 14-19 years,
      located in the sampling area, and met the inclusion criteria. The number of samples is 186
      respondents .

      The ingredients contained in the combination of anti-acne creams are commonly used
      ingredients and are one of the first-line treatments for acne vulgaris, namely Tretinoin
      0.05% (Vitamin A derivatives), Clindamycin 3% (antibiotics), and Dexamethasone 0.05%
      (anti-inflammation). Based on the literature it is known that these three active substances
      have proven to be effective in treating acne vulgaris. Side effects can occur mild and not
      like irritation, skin peeling, redness, and local allergic reactions. These side effects can
      be minimized by using according to doctor's instructions and will disappear if the use of the
      cream is stopped.

      We researchers always uphold the investigator's ethics and professionalism while conducting
      this research, and do not fight the medical oath we have taken.
    
  