
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Evaluate etiologic factors associated with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in different
           ethnic groups and in different parts of the United States by developing a national
           registry of HCC patients.

        -  Survey stage and potential treatability of HCC patients referred to Vanderbilt
           University Hospital.

        -  Establish a serum repository for registry patients with samples to be used for future
           studies of the pathogenesis of chronic liver disease and HCC and for developing better
           diagnostic tests.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, cross-sectional database study.

      Data are collected on patients diagnosed with hepatocellular carcinoma at Vanderbilt
      University Medical Center and at other participating hospitals or liver transplantation
      centers around the country for inclusion in a national registry of liver cancer patients.
      Registry data are collected at baseline and then every 6 months for up to 5 years. The data
      are derived from investigator interviews with patients and from medical chart review of
      routine medical care provided during the course of the study. Data are collected from all
      study sites and entered into a master database that includes information on patient
      demographics, diagnoses and staging details, treatment history, results of laboratory
      studies, and patient outcomes. Information derived from the registry is available to
      investigators at all study sites.

      Patients in the registry also undergo blood collection at baseline. Blood samples are stored
      in a serum repository for evaluation in future studies related to liver disease, viral
      hepatitis, and liver cancer. A biological marker that may be analyzed is squamous cell
      carcinoma antigen immune complex (SCCA-IC).

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,500 patients will be accrued for the Vanderbilt University
      Medical Center study and up to 2,000 patients for the national study.
    
  