
    
      Chronic venous disease (CVD), an important cause of morbidity, is one of the most commonly
      reported chronic medical conditions. Venous hypertension in the lower limbs caused by venous
      reflux, venous obstruction or calf muscle pump failure is the main pathophysiological
      mechanism of CVD. The incidence of varicose veins in population varies with geographic
      region, age, gender and risk factors. The prevalence of trunk varicose veins has been
      reported 25.9% in women and 12.9% in men. Symptoms include leg pain, edema, pruritus,
      discomfort, trophic skin changes, venous ulcerations. Reduced quality of life, and limited
      activities of daily living have been reported due to the symptoms in patients with CVD.

      Compression therapies play a major role in the treatment of CVD. Elastic compression
      stockings reduces residual volume fraction by promoting calf muscle pump function and
      reducing venous reflux. Periodic contractions of the gastrocnemius muscle has also beneficial
      impacts on improving calf muscle pump function and reducing venous stasis.

      Kinesio Taping, developed by Dr. Kenzo Kase, is a taping method applied for supporting muscle
      function, correcting joint misalignment, improving lymph and blood flow, decreasing pain and
      edema. Kinesio Taping increases cutaneous and subcutaneous area by lifting the skin, thus
      improves movement and circulation. Mixed Kinesio Taping-compression model has been reported
      to improve venous symptoms, peripheral venous flow, disease severity and quality of life in
      patients with mild CVD.

      Studies comparing conservative treatment techniques and investigating functional capacity in
      patients with CVD are very limited despite the high prevalence of disease. Therefore, the
      investigators planned this study to examine the effects of Kinesio Taping method and
      compression stockings on pain, edema, functional capacity and quality of lifein patients with
      CVD.
    
  