
    
      Food stimulation of gastric and pancreatic secretion is classically divided into cephalic,
      gastric and intestinal phases.

      Cephalic phase refers to a simultaneous activation of gastrointestinal motility, gastric acid
      and pancreatic enzyme secretion ,as well as, release of hormones from the endocrine pancreas
      which occurs through activation of vagal -efferents as a result of food-related sensory
      stimuli such as taste and smell prior to nutrient absorption and which coincides with a
      thermogenic response.

      Of the cephalic phase secretions, cephalic phase insulin release (CPIR) has received the most
      attention, but pancreatic polypeptide (PP) and glucagon responses have also been studied.
      While the magnitude of cephalic phase insulin release is relatively small (25% above
      baseline), pancreatic polypeptide increases 100% above baseline. The large magnitude of the
      PP response makes it a sensitive indicator of vagal activation to food stimuli.

      In most experiments, subjects are either exposed to visual and olfactory stimulation by
      seeing and smelling the food stimulus or are required to perform a modified sham-feed, i.e.
      to taste, chew and then expectorate the food stimulus.

      In general, cephalic phase are thought to be preparatory responses before ingestion of food.
      Because of their small magnitude, the physiological significance of the cephalic phase
      hormonal responses has been largely discounted. However, there is evidence that experimental
      prevention of CPIR lead to hyperinsulinemia and hyperglycemia. Therefore, CPIR may contribute
      to glucose homeostasis /regulation. Moreover CPIR may be an indicator of hunger and could be
      important for understanding eating disorders.

      In parallel with these hormonal secretion ,an increase in energy expenditure has been also
      observed .This thermogenic response to food is even greater with sham feeding than with
      normal feeding and is paralleled by changes in RQ showing enhanced carbohydrate oxidation.

      Disorders of taste are prevalent symptom in patients undergoing chemotherapy. The literature
      suggests that 36% to71% of patients report a distressing change in taste which often have a
      negative impact on quality of life and nutrition. It is unknown whether the cephalic phase of
      oncology patients may also be disturbed.
    
  