
    
      Diabetes mellitus (DM) doubles the risk of cardiovascular disease and about 75% of deaths in
      diabetic patients are due to coronary artery disease. Studies performed during the 1980's and
      90's demonstrated increasing short and long-term mortality in diabetic patients undergoing
      CABG compared with non-diabetic patients. However, more recently, reports have shown a
      significant reduction in mortality among patients with diabetes. Alexander Kogan etal., 2018
      Cardiac revascularization in patients with stable coronary artery disease (CAD) is an
      important therapeutic intervention for the improvement of symptoms and prognosis. Prior to
      revascularization, patients must receive guideline-recommended medical therapy due to its
      established benefits. Thomas Nyström etal.,2018 Also notable is that the best current
      revascularization results achieved with percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) are with
      new-generation drug-eluting stents (DES) and for coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) with
      maximal use of arterial grafts. The multitude of studies for revascularization comparing PCI
      and CABG cannot provide a single solution for the entire spectrum of patients with stable
      CAD. Nevertheless, CABG results in more complete revascularization than PCI, particularly in
      complex multivessel CAD, which often is observed in patients with diabetes. Thomas Nyström
      etal., 2018 Approximately 25% of all patients who undergo multivessel revascularization have
      diabetes. A number of studies have demonstrated that CABG should be the preferred strategy
      for multivessel revascularization in patients with diabetes. In this group, CABG leads to
      improved survival rates and a reduced risk of myocardial infarction and repeat
      revascularization compared with revascularization with PCI. In the BARI (Bypass Angioplasty
      Revascularization Investigation) trial, a subset of 353 patients with diabetes who underwent
      PCI had almost a doubled 5-year mortality compared with those who underwent CABG. However, if
      only saphenous vein grafts were used as conduits, cardiac mortality was similar to that with
      PCI, demonstrating the importance of arterial grafting. It was further demonstrated in the
      BARI 2D (Bypass Angioplasty Revascularization Investigation 2 Diabetes) study that among
      patients with diabetes, prompt revascularization by CABG significantly reduced major CV
      events compared with intensive medical treatment alone. In contrast, there was no difference
      in CV events between patients who underwent PCI and patients who received only intensive
      medical treatment.Thomas Nyström etal.,2018 Pathological left ventricular remodeling (LVR)
      was the common characteristic of most cardiovascular diseases. It clinically defined as the
      adverse changes in LV mass, volume, and geometry after myocardial injury, which could be
      considered to be an adaptive response to cardiac performance inadequacy and a marker of poor
      prognosis in patients with underlying LV dysfunction. In recent years, the impact of non
      hemodynamic factors on cardiac structure and function, such as obesity and other metabolic
      disorder, had been gradually valued. Van Bilsen et al even proposed a theory of "metabolic
      remodeling." This theory held that glycolipid metabolism disturbance could change the
      metabolic pathway of myocardial energy and finally lead to LV remodeling and dysfunction.
      Qingqing Wang etal.,2018 Myocardial strain quantification by speckle tracking
      echocardiography has been well validated. It is a validated and accurate measure of regional
      systolic LV function.It has also been shown to be superior to visual assessment of wall
      motion in detection and quantification of regional systolic function. Strain and other
      deformation parameters are sensitive tools for detection of ischemia. It is hypothesized that
      global and regional left ventricular2D strain by speckle tracking echocardiography (STE)
      facilitates an early and accurate non-invasive tool to predict the presence of acute coronary
      artery occlusion in patients with non ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI).
      Viola William Keddeas,etal 2016
    
  