
    
      The CRPC M0 patient will be identified by PET PSMA, or CT scan and Bone Scanning at the
      clinician's discretion based on the physical examination performed at the patient's first
      access. The reassessment of the disease status is to be repeated by PET-PSMA, CT scan or bone
      scan (in relation to the examination carried out at baseline) in a period of time ranging
      from 6 to 12 months after the first access, based on the assessment of the health status of
      the patient and tolerability to treatment after careful evaluation by the clinician. The
      blood chemistry routine including CBC with white blood cell formula will be repeated every 30
      days. The patient will be provided with a blood pressure monitoring diary every 30 days. The
      measurement of cardiac markers will be performed every 60 days. The evaluation of the
      cardiological function will be carried out by means of ECG, echocardiography with
      determination of the LVEF, 24-hour Holter blood pressure every 6 months. Bone mineral density
      assessment will be monitored by MOC-DEXA every 6 months. Possible drug interactions with
      Apalutamide will be identified.

      Primary objective:

      -Evaluation of arterial hypertension, by periodic measurement of blood pressure every week
      (1-3 times), creation of a weekly blood pressure diary, 24-hour blood pressure holter every
      six months, with stratification of patients under treatment according to the degree of AI
      found.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Evaluation of cardiological toxicity, through the execution of ECG, periodic
           echocardiography for the evaluation of the ejection fraction of the left ventricle,
           cardiac markers (troponin, CK-MB, pro-BNP)

        -  Assessment of the biochemical response, such as a 50% reduction in total PSA compared to
           baseline in patients receiving apalutamide;

        -  Evaluation of the change in blood chemistry parameters in the patient being treated with
           Apalutamide;

        -  Relationship between changes in blood chemistry parameters and time to the onset of
           metastases, assessed by PET PSMA or bone scan or CT scan;

        -  Relationship between changes in blood chemistry parameters and overall survival;

        -  Relationship between changes in blood chemistry parameters and occurrence of serious
           adverse events;

        -  Association between basophil counts and appearance of skin rash;

        -  Evaluation of drug interactions with Apalutamide.
    
  