
    
      PENGUIN is a pragmatic, blinded (outcome assessor), 2x2 factorial, multi-centre randomised
      controlled trial, with an internal pilot, to evaluate measures to reduce surgical site
      infection (SSI) and pneumonia rates in patients undergoing surgery with an abdominal
      incision.

      Pneumonia is one of the most serious complications to occur after surgery, accounting for up
      to one in four of all postoperative deaths. The incidence is greater still in high-risk
      populations such as those undergoing midline laparotomy where mortality rates are more than
      10%. SSIs are clearly important being the most frequent healthcare-associated infection in
      LMICs, affecting one in three patients undergoing contaminated or dirty surgery (34, 35).
      SSIs cause pain, discomfort and disability. They increase the time taken to return to work,
      and healthcare costs

      The risk of postoperative mortality and complications such as surgical site infection is
      three times greater in low and middle-income countries (LMICs) than in high-income countries.
      In order to address surgical need worldwide, it is estimated that provision of a further 312
      million operations would be required each year.

      Patients will be recruited from hospitals in Low and Middle Income Countries (LMICs) who are
      undergoing elective or emergency mid-line laparotomy. Eligible patients will be randomised at
      the level of the individual in a 1:1:1:1 ratio between:

      A. Preoperative chlorhexidine mouthwash and 80-100% FiO2 during surgery B. No preoperative
      chlorhexidine mouthwash and 80-100% FiO2 during surgery C. Preoperative chlorhexidine
      mouthwash and 21-30% FiO2 during surgery D. No preoperative chlorhexidine mouthwash and
      21-30% FiO2 during surgery

      The 6 month internal pilot will assess the feasibility of recruitment, compliance with
      treatment allocation and patient retention and follow-up rates. The main Randomised Control
      Trial will recruit 12,924 participants.
    
  