
    
      STUDY DESIGN:

      This is a Phase I, randomized clinical study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and
      immunogenicity of a 3 dose vaccination regimen with the Zika virus (ZIKVwt) DNA vaccine,
      VRC-ZKADNA090-00-VP. Subjects will be randomized to one of three groups to receive a full 4
      mg dose: 1) full dose by one intramuscular (IM) injection with needle and syringe; 2) split
      dose given as two 0.5 mL IM injections with needle and syringe; 3) split dose given as two
      0.5 mL IM injections with PharmaJet, a needle-free injection device. The primary hypothesis
      is that the investigational ZIKVwt DNA vaccine will be safe and well tolerated in healthy
      adults. A secondary hypothesis is that the vaccine will elicit a ZIKV-specific immune
      response. The primary objectives are to evaluate the safety and tolerability of the vaccine
      in healthy adults. Secondary objectives are related to the immunogenicity of the vaccine and
      vaccination regimens.

      PRODUCT DESCRIPTION:

      The investigational vaccine, VRC-ZKADNA090-00-VP, was developed by the Vaccine Research
      Center (VRC), National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), National
      Institutes of Health (NIH) and is composed of a single closed-circular DNA plasmid (VRC 5283)
      that encodes the wild type (wt) precursor membrane M (prM) and envelope (E) proteins from the
      H/PF/2013 strain of ZIKV. ZIKVwt

      SUBJECTS:

      Healthy adults 18 to 50 years of age.

      STUDY PLAN:

      Forty-five subjects will be enrolled at the NIH Clinical Center and randomized to 3 groups to
      receive study product on Day 0, Week 4 and Week 8. The protocol requires about 18 scheduled
      clinic visits and a telephone follow-up contact after each study product administration.
      Solicited reactogenicity will be evaluated using a 7-day diary card. Assessment of vaccine
      safety will include clinical observation and monitoring of hematological and chemical
      parameters at clinical visits throughout the study.

      VRC 320 STUDY SCHEMA:

        -  Group 1:

             -  Administration Method = Single Dose Needle and Syringe;

             -  Subjects = 15;

             -  Administration Schedule = Day 0 (ZIKVwt DNA(1 (1 mL) injection)), Week 4 (ZIKVwt
                DNA (1 (1 mL) injection)), Week 8 (ZIKVwt DNA (1 (1 mL) injection))

        -  Group 2:

             -  Administration Method = Split Dose Needle and Syringe;

             -  Subjects = 15;

             -  Administration Schedule = Day 0 (ZIKVwt DNA(2 (0.5 mL) injections)), Week 4 (ZIKVwt
                DNA (2 (0.5 mL) injections)), Week 8 (ZIKVwt DNA (2 (0.5 mL) injections))

        -  Group 3:

             -  Administration Method = Split Dose PharmaJet;

             -  Subjects = 15;

             -  Administration Schedule = Day 0 (ZIKVwt DNA(2 (0.5 mL) injections)), Week 4 (ZIKVwt
                DNA (2 (0.5 mL) injections)), Week 8 (ZIKVwt DNA (2 (0.5 mL) injections))

             -  Subjects Total = 45 (All injections total a dose of 4 mg. ** Up to 50 total
                enrollments are permitted if additional subjects are needed to assess safety or
                immunogenicity.)

      STUDY DURATION:

      Subjects will be evaluated for safety and immune responses throughout the study for 44 weeks
      following the first vaccine administration. Durability of immune responses will be evaluated
      at two long term follow-up visits, occurring at 18 and 24 months
    
  