
    
      The University of Pennsylvania's Caregiver Resources, Education, & SupporT (CREST) Program
      seeks to improve the overall quality of life and wellbeing of older PACE/PACENET
      beneficiaries (or care recipients (CRs)) with cognitive impairment and their caregivers
      (CGs). Specifically, the program provides education, support, and services to both
      beneficiaries and CGs of PACE/PACENET beneficiaries who have filled a prescription for
      medication used to treat cognitive impairment. Many of these beneficiaries also meet criteria
      for clinically significant cognitive impairment/dementia. Thus, the level of contact and
      services varies as a function of reported needs and symptoms.

      The CREST Program developed the BHL Caregiver Outreach and Telehealth Program (COTP) in an
      effort to address and minimize barriers to successful care management of a growing number of
      community-dwelling older adults. The COTP starts with an initial baseline assessment;
      following the baseline assessment, it is then divided into several core services. CGs receive
      care management services, which includes contact, support, and active listening, as well as
      written material regarding caregiving and dementia and referral to appropriate community
      services. CGs also are offered the Telehealth Education Program (TEP), a manualized program
      developed to provide both education and psychosocial support for individuals caring for older
      adults with clinically significant cognitive impairment/dementia.

      This research project seeks to evaluate the feasibility, acceptability, and individual-level
      outcomes of a subset of participants engaged in the COPT program. Specifically, the
      investigators will examine the impact of the COPT program on the functioning and wellbeing of
      participating cognitively impaired PACE/PACENET beneficiaries and their informal CGs.

      Retrospective clinical program data on COTP beneficiaries and the CGs collected at intake
      (i.e., baseline), over the course of care management, and at program termination (i.e.,
      approximately 3 months following intake) will be extracted from clinical databases for
      program evaluation purposes. The researchers will use data collected during the clinical
      program to evaluate CR and CG characteristics, self-reported needs, care participation, and
      predictors of improved outcomes at 3 and 6 months.

      A single follow-up research evaluation will be conducted at 6 months post baseline. This the
      6 month follow-up research interviews will evaluate the extent to which a clinical care
      management program (COTP) for older adults with clinically significant cognitive impairment
      and/or dementia and the CGs, 1) facilitates access to and the use of medical and social
      services, and 2) improves CR (e.g., behavioral symptoms, delayed nursing home placement) and
      CG (e.g., CG mastery, burden, affect) outcomes.
    
  