
    
      Background Obesity is a major health problem worldwide, and it is a risk factor for several
      chronic disorders. Even small changes in energy intake, leading to a positive balance may
      lead to weight gain over time. Thus, slight modifications in food intake, such as the
      inclusion of foods that effect energy balance, may prevent weight gain and even facilitate
      weight loss. Replacing dietary fat with low-calorie fat (LCF), such as modified triglycerides
      with medium and long chained PUFA.may be an efficient way to reduce body fat.

      Bray et al. (2002) has shown a sustained weight loss of ~6 kg over a 9 month period where
      one-third of a fat-reduced diet (25% fat) was replaced by olestra. This weight loss can not
      solely be explained by the decreased caloric content of olestra. Thus, inhibition of appetite
      leading to lower food intake, may be a potential mechanism of the observed weight loss.

      A reduced absorption of LCF leaves undigested fatty acids in the middle and lower intestine,
      which may generate increased feelings of satiety and decrease caloric intake due to
      regulating peptides and hormones such (CCK, GLP-1, etc.). In addition, intraduodenal fatty
      acids may also promote distension of the stomach and distension of the intestine, which are
      well-known gastrointestinal signals controlling mechanisms for food intake.

      Taken together, in addition to the acute reduction in caloric intake, LCF may encourage a
      gastrointestinal hormone response promoting beneficial effects on appetite regulation and
      energy balance.

      Aims To evaluate the short-term effects of LCF on

      Primary:

        -  Appetite sensations after a meal (VAS)

        -  Postprandiel secretion of appetite regulating hormones

        -  Ad libitum caloric intake 4,5-h subsequent to a fixed meal

      Secondary:

      • Palatability of the test meal
    
  