
    
      Delirium is a highly prevalent neuropsychological condition in patients admitted to the ICU.
      Occurrence of a delirium in critically ill patients is associated with prolonged ICU stay and
      longer hospitalization, reduced quality of life and increased mortality. Furthermore, it is
      accompanied by a higher risk of cognitive disorder after ICU discharge.

      Delirium is defined as an acute, usually reversible state of disturbance of consciousness
      with a change of perception and cognition. Its fluctuating course leads to a division in
      three subgroups: hyperactive, hypoactive and mixed delirium. Hyperactive delirious patients
      present agitated and anxious behaviour, hypoactive delirium however is characterised by
      withdrawal, somnolence and reduced responsiveness to stimuli. The mixed subtype shows
      alternating characteristics from both hyperactive and hypoactive delirium.

      ICU patients especially in the post-operative setting frequently show several risk factors
      for delirium, including environmental changes, advanced age, alcohol abuse, dementia, demand
      for vasopressors, increased doses of opioids or metabolic disturbances.

      Sleep and many symptoms that occur in delirium are influenced by the circadian timing system
      and therefore are thought to be closely related. The neurohormone melatonin plays a major
      role in regulating circadian rhythms. It is produced in the pineal gland and its diurnal
      secretion pattern is under the control of the central circadian pacemaker located in the
      suprachiasmatic nuclei of the anterior hypothalamus. Under normal entrained condition
      melatonin starts to increase one to three hours prior habitual bedtime, which often coincides
      with the onset of darkness outside. Thus, melatonin is often referred to as the hormone of
      darkness. Peak melatonin levels occur approximately two hours prior usual rise time (usually
      between 2 and 5 A.M.). Melatonin levels are lower during daytime independent of experienced
      light levels.

      Delirious patients often suffer from sleep disturbances such as insomnia, sleep
      fragmentation, daytime somnolence, and reversal of sleep-wake rhythms. There is evidence that
      hyperactive as well as hypoactive and mixed delirium is connected to disturbed circadian
      rhythm. This leads to the question whether there is a link between delirium syndromes as well
      as different delirium subtypes and potential alterations in circadian melatonin plasma levels
      compared to non-delirious patients.

      Plasma melatonin levels can be assessed in saliva, blood and urine. Due to its rapid
      metabolisation plasma melatonin levels represent a precise proxy of the current pineal
      secretion. It therefore is reasonable to collect plasma samples for melatonin assessments
      frequently throughout the study period to obtain an accurate time course of the circadian
      melatonin rhythm profile.

      There is suggestive evidence that regulating melatonin levels during delirium lowers the
      incidence of delirium and leads to a reduction of duration and severity of the disorder.

      The investigators hypothesize that the circadian melatonin profile in critically ill
      delirious patients measured in two-hourly intervals across 24 hours deviates significantly
      from non-delirious critically ill patients with similar age and SOFA (Sequential Organ
      Failure Assessment) score in terms of phase, width and amplitude.
    
  