
    
      The drug being tested in this study is called pevonedistat. Pevonedistat is being tested to
      treat people with higher-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (HR MDS), chronic myelomonocytic
      leukemia (CMML) and low-blast acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) as a combination treatment
      with azacitidine. This study will look at the overall survival, event-free survival and
      response to treatment in people who take pevonedistat and azacitidine when compared to people
      who take single-agent azacitidine.

      The study will enroll approximately 454 participants. Once enrolled, participants will be
      randomly assigned in 1:1 ratio (by chance, like flipping a coin) to one of the two treatment
      groups in 28-day treatment cycles:

        -  Pevonedistat 20 mg/m^2 and azacitidine 75 mg/m^2 combination

        -  Single-agent azacitidine 75 mg/m^2

      All participants will receive azacitidine via intravenous or subcutaneous route. Participants
      randomized to the combination arm will also receive pevonedistat intravenous infusion.

      This multi-center trial will be conducted Spain, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Czech Republic,
      France, Germany, Israel, Italy, the United States, Australia, Greece, Japan, Mexico, Poland,
      Russia, Korea, Turkey, China and United Kingdom. The overall time to participate in this
      study is approximately 63 months. Participants will attend the end-of-treatment visit 30 days
      after the last dose of study drug or before the start of subsequent anti-neoplastic therapy
      if that occurs sooner.

      Participants with HR MDS or CMML will have EFS follow-up study visits every month if their
      disease has not transformed to AML and they have not started subsequent therapy. Participants
      with low-blast AML will have response follow-up study visits every month until they relapse
      from CR or meet the criteria for PD. All participants will enter OS follow-up (contacted
      every 3 months) when they have confirmed transformation to AML (for participants with HR MDS
      or CMML at enrollment) or experienced PD (for participants with low-blast AML at study
      enrollment).
    
  