
    
      - General procedures The study will be announced at the Faculty of Oral and Dental Medicine,
      6 October University campus to encourage interested students to participate in the study.

      Interested participants will be screened at Conservative Department clinic for eligibility by
      (M.M). Eligible participants will be assessed using caries risk assessment tool by (R.R.).

      Eligible participants will be randomly divided into three groups 1st group will follow only
      standard preventive measures(tooth brushing and tooth paste plus interdental cleaning and
      mouth rinse using CHX and Fluoride) , 2nd group will use miswak for oral hygiene measures and
      3rd group will use of miswak plus tooth brushing and tooth paste.

      Before starting the study the eligible participants will undergo supragingival, subgingival
      scaling and prophylaxis polishing, then any carious cavity, or defective restoration will be
      treated and filled with resin composite restoration.

      New set of manual brushes and dental floss will be given to the participants, after they are
      properly trained for the correct brushing and flossing technique. The participants will be
      asked to brush their teeth twice a day with fluoride tooth paste and to clean their teeth
      interdentally with dental floss once a day every day till the end of the study(Group 1 and 3
      only) 11b- Preparation of miswak

        -  Procedure of preparing Miswak:

      Miswak has its own unique aspects that must be adapted prior to use for the best results. The
      functional end of a thin bark piece is striped off followed by chewing. Chewing of miswak
      separates fibers and giving it a brush like appearance that helps in cleaning the teeth
      easily. The recommended length for a stick is about 15 cm so that it can easily be grasped
      along with ease to carry around, whereas, the diameter is preferred to be <1 cm.(16) There
      are two methods documented to hold the miswak. One is the three finger grip technique and the
      other is five finger grip technique The aim of both techniques is to make sure that all
      surfaces of the teeth are accessible and cleaned with convenience and controlled movements of
      the stick in the oral cavity. In order to clean the tooth surfaces, the fibers of miswak
      should be held perpendicular to the tooth surface and gently moved in up and down motions,
      directed away from the gingival margins on both the buccal and lingual surfaces(17) .

      11c-For the intervention group After recording the primary data, Miswak will be given to the
      intervention group and they will be trained and asked to use it two times per day. The
      demonstrations and instructions for chewing stick users will include the technique of
      preparation of working end of chewing sticks and its appropriate brushing technique. The
      sticks which are not prepared are instructed to be refrigerated. (13)(14).(group 2 and 3)

      - For the control group Participants in this group will follow only the standard preventive
      measures which is brushing twice a day after breakfast and before bed time and daily flossing
      interdentally before bed time and mouth rinse containing CHX and fluoride.

      In all study groups if any patient during the period of the study develops any carious
      cavity, the affected tooth will be treated immediately and restored with resin composite
      restoration.

      . Outcomes: Visual inspection to detect presence or absence of new caries lesions will be
      done according to WHO guidelines by using CPI Probe (15).
    
  