
    
      Between 10 and 20% of patients develop extubation failure (10.7% in our ICU at 2018), which
      is related to an increased in-hospital death rate, infections, higher costs and longer
      hospital stays. Tracheal secretions, LVEF<30%, MV > 7d, Weak of cough are identified as risk
      factors of extubation failures but are not completely performants. Avoiding reintubation
      remains an important clinical goal.

      The subglottic secretion drainage above the cuff of an endotracheal tube is recognized as an
      effective method to prevent ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) in critically ill patients.
      The subglottic secretion drainage is used in a regular way in our ICU. Volume of subglottic
      secretion is not analysed in the scientific literature.

      Study :

      The investigators hypothesize that high volume of subglottic secretion before extubation is
      associated with high risk of extubation failure and à high risk of pneumonia post extubation.

      All planned extubations in the intensive care unit after 2 days minimal of mechanic
      ventilation are recorded on a designated form and standard variables charted. All data will
      be collected retrospectively after the extubation event.

      All included patients will be assigned a unique identification number (UID) by the
      investigator, who will secure the patient identifiers in an encrypted electronic file. The
      cause of extubation failure will be recorded (as identified by the attending physician on
      service, who is not involved in the study).

      For statistical analysis, group that fail extubation, will be compared, with the group that
      was an extubation success. Standard demographics (age, sex), patient disease related factors
      (diagnosis, duration of intubation, secretions), care factors (cuff leak test, p/f ratio
      prior to extubation,LVEF<30% ), and post extubation care (post extubation respiratory
      support, stridor, blood gas, pneumonia) along with any complication during extubation and
      reintubation and reasons for reintubation will be collected and compared.

      As two groups are being compared, bivariate analyses utilizing Chi-square tests or univariate
      logistic regression for categorical variables and Student t -tests for interval variables,
      will be done.

      Investigators will perform an interim analysis at the end of 12 months and a final analysis
    
  