
    
      The prevalence of lateral elbow tendinopathy is prevalence of 1-3%, with a peak incidence
      between 35-50 years of age (Green et al., 2002). The main symptoms are pain over the lateral
      humeral epicondyle upon palpation and pain full resisted dorsiflexion of the wrist.
      Ultrasonographic changes include hyper-/hypo-echoic areas and increased doppler signal in the
      most proximal part of the common extensor tendon. The condition is often self-limiting,
      however full recovery often takes months to years and recurrence is common. Several different
      treatment modalities are used in order to increase tendon healing and decrease time to
      recovery. Deep transverse friction massage showed no significant effect on pain, grip
      strength or function relative to other physiotherapy modalities (Brosseau et al., 2002).
      Anti-inflammatory treatment with NSAID's or corticosteroids is typically effective in the
      short term, however on a longer term there is a poorer outcome than with other treatment
      strategies including exercise (Coombes et al., 2010). Surgery does not seem to have any
      beneficial effect (Buchbinder et al., 2011), and there are no conclusive data regarding the
      use of orthotic devises for the treatment of lateral elbow tendinopathy (Struijs et al.,
      2002). Eccentric exercise of the extensor muscles has been shown to reduced pain, increase
      muscle strength, and decrease tendon thickness and time to return to sport (Croisier et al.,
      2007).

      Loading of human tendon leads to increased tendon collagen synthesis, and interestingly,
      tendon tissue sampling (biopsies), which causes a minor trauma to the tendon has been shown
      to increase the level of growth factors locally and stimulate tendon collagen synthesis
      (Magnusson et al., 2010).

      It is hypothesized that both minimal tissue damage and anti-inflammatory treatment could
      increase tendon healing and decrease time to recovery, when combined with mechanical loading.
    
  