
    
      Preterm births (PTBs) refers to a delivery with a gestational age prior to 37 weeks, which
      can be divided into extreme PTBs (<28 weeks), early PTBs (28-32 weeks), and advanced PTBs
      (32-37 weeks). The prevalence of PTBs is on a global scale, with more than 1 million PTB per
      year in China (with a prevalence of 7%), ranking the second in the world. PTBs is the main
      cause of perinatal death. Meanwhile, premature infants are at higher risk of short-term or
      long-term complications such as respiratory distress syndrome and mental retardation, causing
      huge economic and mental burdens on families and society. Most PTBs are spontaneous or caused
      by premature rupture of membranes (PROM) while the precisely reason remains unknown.
      Effective early prediction of PTBs and timely intervention are key to reducing PTBs and
      improving adverse pregnancy outcomes. Current prediction methods for PTBs can be divided into
      the following three categories: risk factor assessment, cervical length measurement, and
      biomarkers. However, about half of premature pregnant women do not have high-risk factors,
      and only premature risk factors cannot accurately identify prematurely at-risk populations.
      Biomarkers such as fetal fibronectin (fFN) have a very high negative predictive value (more
      than 95%), but positive predictive value is low (with 200 ng/ml as a cut-off value, and fFN
      predicts a positive predictive value for preterm birth at <34 weeks gestation reaching only
      37.7%). Other biomarkers such as hyperphosphorylated insulin-like growth factor binding
      protein-1 (phIGFBP1) and placenta α1 microglobulin (PAMG-1) were detected, but their
      predictive effects were still dissatisfactory.

      Therefore, there is no currently effective screening method for predicting the occurrence of
      PTBs. How to accurately predict and diagnose PTBs is still an unsolved problem in obstetrics.
      Our previous study identified seven biomarkers in cervical vaginal fluid(CVF) that may be
      associated with preterm birth and preliminary validation in animal experiments, suggesting
      that biomarkers in selected CVF may be effective predictors of PTBs, but larger samples of
      clinical trials are required for validation.
    
  