
    
      Investigators previously demonstrated that their early intervention model system, which was
      centered on using the CSBS IT Checklist to screen all babies at the 1-year check-up as
      standard of care, resulted in a mean age of 12 months for screening, 14 months for
      evaluation, and 18 months for treatment participation. These are far younger ages than is
      common in the U.S. The 3-stage model system, Get SET (S=Screen; E=Evaluate; T=Treat) Early,
      screened >10,000 1 year olds in the first trial run detecting over 100 ASD and other
      developmental delayed toddlers. The current grant will build on this highly effective model
      by implementing a new version in two major cities: San Diego and Phoenix; data mined from
      electronic records from Kaiser pediatric offices in Los Angeles and Irvine will provide
      control data. In Phoenix, investigators test the feasibility of establishing the Get SET
      Early model in a city with one of the lowest median incomes and oldest age of first diagnosis
      in America. In AIM #1, the Screen and Refer Early stage, investigators will create a
      Pediatrician Network with 100 members in Phoenix. In San Diego investigators will utilize
      their existing Pediatrician Network and test new innovations such as a repeat "triple screen"
      at 12, 18, and 24 months to ensure that no toddlers are missed. Speed of referral for
      evaluation will be compared and contrasted using parent (self) and automatic (referral i-Pad
      App) options. Investigators will track every toddler with an eventual ASD diagnosis within
      circumscribed medical groups to determine the true sensitivity and specificity of the
      screening tool and the percentage of ASD toddlers detected by this model. Anonymous survey
      data regarding screening habits will be administered to parents and pediatricians. AIM #2
      implements the Evaluate and Refer Early stage. Its key attribute is an ASD Early Evaluation
      Clinic that specializes in the rapid scheduling and evaluation of every referred screened
      positive toddler. Toddlers will enter the program at the age they fail the screen (i.e., 12,
      18 or 24 months) and will be thoroughly diagnostically evaluated and tracked once per year
      until they turn 3 years. This specialty Clinic is at the Autism Center in San Diego and will
      be developed at SARRC in Phoenix. Automated versus optional self-referral for treatment will
      be tested and compared. AIM #3 implements the Treat Early stage. Its key attributes are a
      network of providers of empirically based treatment and the innovative use of an inexpensive
      and readily available web-based treatment tracking system to document engagement. Treatment
      Networks will be created in San Diego and Phoenix. Primary outcome measures include rates and
      ages of screening and referral, evaluation and referral, and treatment engagement;
      sustainability across years; diagnostic, clinical and demographic characteristics of
      subjects; professional and parent satisfaction at each stage. Investigators hypothesize that
      providing screening tools with clear cut-off scores and guidelines for automatic referral for
      evaluation and treatment, will result in dramatically lowering mean age of diagnosis and
      treatment in Phoenix from 4-5 years down to 1-2 years; San Diego will likewise have mean ages
      of 1-2 years for diagnosis and treatment making them significantly earlier than
      non-intervention contrast cities.
    
  