
    
      The study will include two phases of participant recruitment and participation. Phase I will
      include recruitment of six pediatric patients to pilot an electronic daily diary on an Apple
      iPad. These participants will be prompted by the iPad once daily for seven days, and will be
      asked to answer multiple choice and yes/no questions related to their daily experiences,
      activities and emotions. Following the week of daily diary completion, each participant in
      Phase I will engage in a brief feedback interview with a member of the research team to
      discuss his/her overall experiences using the electronic diary, including any technological
      issues that arise. The purpose of Phase I is to work out any technological and/or logistical
      problems associated with completion of the daily iPad diary.

      After any technological problems have been addressed, Phase II of the study will begin. Child
      participants in Phase II of the study will complete several paper and pencil questionnaires
      on two separate occasions that assess factors including optimism, experience of various
      emotions, spirituality, relationships with others, benefit-finding, quality of life, and
      resiliency. Children will also complete two weeks of daily electronic diaries that will
      prompt them to answer multiple choice and yes/no questions related to their daily
      experiences, activities and emotions. One parent or guardian will also be recruited to
      participate, and will complete paper and pencil questionnaires on two separate occasions that
      ask about optimism, the parent-child relationship, spirituality, psychological functioning,
      and their perceptions of their children's behavior and mood.

      Finally, following the completion of the first week of daily diaries, a short interview will
      be conducted with each child and parent dyad to gather information about the child's
      experiences using the electronic diary. They will be asked to provide feedback about any
      challenges and technological difficulties that they encountered, as well as their general
      thoughts about using the electronic diary. The interview will also include an opportunity to
      trouble-shoot difficulties associated with using the electronic daily diary in preparation
      for the second week of diary completion. For each participant, we anticipate a participation
      timeframe of 10-15 weeks.

      Primary Objective:

        -  To evaluate the usefulness of an electronic daily diary for understanding the
           experiences, emotions, and coping strategies of children with cancer and of their
           healthy peers.
    
  