
    
      This is a prospective, multicenter, sample collection study using DermTech's non-invasive
      skin collection kits to evaluate genomic biomarkers and microbiome information from pediatric
      and adult subjects with atopic dermatitis. Samples collected will be analyzed to detect gene
      signatures and microbiome populations associated with atopic dermatitis and sub-populations
      of AD.

      Approximately 500 pediatric and adult subjects with moderate to severe AD will be enrolled in
      this study. Non-invasive skin samples will be collected at baseline, before drug
      administration 16 weeks (+/- 2 weeks) after treatment with biological therapy and a final
      visit at 26 weeks ((+/- 4 weeks).

      Subjects will enter the Screening Period once the informed consent and/or assent process has
      been completed.

      Once patient eligibility is confirmed, non-invasive skin samples will be collected using
      DermTech's non-invasive sample collection kit.

      Samples will be collected from the following areas:

        -  Target Lesion - lesional skin for genomic analysis. Please note the location for
           subsequent collections.

        -  Lesional skin for microbiome analysis similar in size and severity to the target lesion
           noted above. Please note the location for subsequent collections.

        -  Non-lesional skin at least 5 cm from any active lesion. The intervals for subsequent
           sample collection, if applicable, will be determined based on standard of care (SOC)
           treatment and the subject's willingness to undergo repeat non-invasive sampling.

      Data to be collected includes eczema area and severity index (EASI), patient oriented eczema
      measure (POEM), investigator global assessment (IGA), peak pruritus numerical rating scale
      (PPNRS), and transepidermal water loss (TEWL).

      Photographic documentation of the site(s) sampled should be obtained to confirm consistent
      sampling of the lesional and non-lesional sites. Each non-invasive sample collection will
      consist of sequential application of 4 individual patches to a site. If during active
      treatment the skin lesion disappears during active treatment, skin samples will still be
      obtained from the same location.
    
  