
    
      Background & Rationale:

      Prostate Cancer (PCa) occurs mainly in older men, nearly two thirds are diagnosed in men aged
      65 or older. However, in a substantial subset of patients, the disease will be slow-growing
      and harmless. This highlights one of the major issues with PCa screening and diagnosis: the
      risks of over-detection and overtreatment, i.e. to diagnose and invasively treat indolent
      cancers that may lead to reduced quality of life without increasing overall survival.

      The main diagnostic tool for PCa is the systematic screening for PSA (prostate-specific
      antigen), despite the low specificity of PSA and the unclear cut-off value, resulting in a
      large proportion of unnecessary biopsies with potential side effects. Additionally, as
      screening addresses a healthy population and screened men may suffer from disadvantages, such
      as unnecessary biopsies, screening in PCa remains controversial.

      Besides the dilemmas in PCa screening, there are several additional important clinical
      questions that deserve further investigation and better risk-adapted patient stratification
      as follows: 1) active treatment versus deferred therapy in the heterogeneous group of
      patients with localized PCa; 2) treatment intensification for locally-advanced, high-risk
      prostate cancers with significant risk of PCa-related deaths; 3) optimal approach for
      patients with high risk of local recurrence post-radical prostatectomy; 4) treatment of
      patients with rising PSA (biochemical relapse) after curative treatment (either radical
      prostatectomy or RT); 5) a better understanding of oligometastatic disease and; and 6)
      treatment of patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC).

      PCa is characterized by a wide spectrum of molecular and phenotypic characteristics. PCa
      patients are currently grouped in different risk categories, illustrating particular features
      of a heterogeneous disease. On one side, many patients present benign disease, such as benign
      prostate enlargement caused by prostate hyperplasia and, on the other side, progressively
      malignant PCa, ranging from localized, locally-advanced, metastatic and castrate-resistant
      disease.

      For the purpose of this study, we established 5 groups and their corresponding subgroups, as
      follows:

      A) Opportunistic screening and benign prostate syndrome (BPS) with prostate biopsy; B)
      Localized and locally advanced prostate cancers treated with curative intent; C) Biochemical
      relapse after RP; D) Metastatic advanced PCa without curative treatment but hormone sensitive
      disease, treated with ADT (medical or surgical); E) Metastatic castration resistant prostate
      cancer (mCRPC).

      Currently a comprehensive biobank in the field of urogenital disease, driven by a
      multidisciplinary panel (composed by specialists from the following fields: urology, medical
      oncology, radio-oncology and pathology), does not exist in Switzerland.

      Such biobank (together with the corresponding clinical data) would enable researchers and
      clinicians alike to discover and validate diagnostic, prognostic and predictive PCa
      biomarkers, which are currently highly needed.

      Importantly, the biobank shall consist of specific sample sets related to the different
      stages of PCa development (including screened healthy men and newly diagnosed patients).
      Ultimately, this comprehensive project will allow addressing some of the urgent questions in
      different stages of PCa.

      Objective:

      To create a novel and comprehensive plasma and serum biobank of about 55000 samples (derived
      from about 1540 patients) accompanied by the corresponding clinical data. This will enable us
      to explore and validate different diagnostic, prognostic and predictive biomarkers regarding
      prostate disease.
    
  