
    
      The South Africa - U.S. PHIDISA Project is a cooperative HIV/AIDS treatment research
      initiative established in 2003 for a likely duration of at least five years. It is an
      extension of the Masibambisane Programme, which is a cooperative initiative to help prevent
      the transmission of HIV/AIDS among South African military and civilian employees and their
      families. The PHIDISA Project is a collaboration between the South African Military Health
      Service of the South African National Defence Force (SANDF), the U.S. Department of Defence
      and the National Institutes of Health of the United States.

      The PHIDISA Project has conducted clinical and operational research in HIV/AIDS in military
      and military-associated civilian populations. Scientists engaged in the research have been
      from South Africa, the United States and Australia and represent military and civilian
      medical, research and academic institutions. The project has established clinical research
      infrastructure within the SANDF and a network of its clinics, sick bays and hospitals. This
      has established important biomedical and public health research capacity that can be used in
      the future to address health issues of critical importance for military force preparedness.

      An Executive Committee that includes South African and U.S. members manages the PHIDISA
      Project. An independent External Advisory Committee advises the project.

      As a result of this project, information will be generated to assist SANDF in its future
      decisions about how best to manage the HIV/AIDS epidemic in military settings to assure SANDF
      combat readiness and to expand the wealth of knowledge regarding the best way to treat HIV
      infections. As a project complimentary to the Masibambisane Programme it also is anticipated
      that the PHIDISA Project will also contribute to the success of HIV transmission prevention
      activities in the military. The results of the PHIDISA Project also may contribute to
      HIV/AIDS clinical management, and related policy decisions, in the South African civilian
      sector.
    
  