
    
      The goal of the project is to identify and characterize populations at risk for developing
      pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). The project will establish a PAH subphenotype core
      cohort (CORE) to evaluate mechanistic pathways and test novel therapeutic agents. This core
      cohort serves as a resource for the Translational Program Project grant, Vascular
      Subphenotypes of Lung Disease (Mark Gladwin, PI). In order to construct the CORE, we have
      chosen to recruit COPD and HIV patients, two populations with advanced lung and systemic
      diseases that are enriched for PAH. We have selected these as prototypic conditions because:
      A) both COPD patients and HIV-infected patients develop PAH at a rate significantly greater
      than the general population, B) morbidity and mortality are greatly increased in
      dually-affected persons, C) mechanisms responsible for development of the PAH "subphenotype"
      are not well-understood, D) clinical and genetic characteristics of the subgroup with PAH are
      not known, and E) effects of PAH therapies in subphenotypes are incompletely studied. There
      is also some overlap between COPD and HIV, with HIV-infected patients having accelerated COPD
      even with effective antiretroviral therapy. Participants with COPD, HIV, or HIV-uninfected
      controls will be recruited to the study based on entry criteria of elevated N-terminal
      pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) and/or an abnormal echocardiogram. These subjects
      will then undergo a 6-minute walk test, blood collection, questionnaire, medical record
      review, and echocardiography (if not previously performed). Selected subjects will then be
      recruited to undergo right heart catheterization. The goals of the study are to establish a
      pulmonary hypertension cohort for translational investigations, to determine the utility of
      NT-proBNP as a biomarker of PAH, to determine clinical characteristics and relationship of
      lung function to PAH in COPD and HIV, and to establish a biorepository for mechanistic
      studies of PAH phenotypes.
    
  