
    
      Patients who participate in the study will have general physical and demographic information
      recorded. Height, weight, age, race, menstrual status, and bra size will all be recorded.
      Patients will have a breast physical exam. Researchers will then perform several painless
      tests and imaging studies to evaluate the mechanical properties of the skin and the shape and
      tissue composition of the breasts.

      Patients in this study will go through a series of evaluations as listed below.

        1. 3-D Optical Surface Scan (estimated time required: 5 minutes) The camera system with a
           safe scanning laser will be used to take 3-D digitized images of the breasts and chest.
           Multiple images may be necessary to get a complete rendering of both breasts. Each image
           requires less than 0.6 seconds to take. This process is similar to the routine
           photography currently performed on most patients.

        2. Mechanical testing (estimated time required: 1 hour) A small device will be applied with
           the surface of the skin at several locations on the breasts. A mild suction will be
           applied for several seconds for each measurement. This will measure how the skin tends
           to stretch. The instruments used are very sensitive and provide the information needed
           with very small, painless amounts of movement in the skin. In addition to evaluating
           characteristics of the breast skin, one additional measure will be taken on the skin at
           the front of the forearm area to help understand your general skin qualities.

        3. Skin Ultrasound (estimated time required: 15 minutes) Patients will have a cutaneous
           ultrasound using the 20 MHz machine and the skin thickness will be recorded in each of
           the domains. A trained technician will complete this exam. In addition to evaluating
           characteristics of the breast skin, one additional measure will be taken on the skin at
           the front of the forearm area to help understand your general skin qualities.

        4. Breast MRI and/or CT (estimated time required: 1 hour) Some patients will be scheduled
           for imaging of the breasts and chest using MRI and/or CT. These images will be taken
           free-of-charge as they are not required for standard of care.

      Participation will be over once the evaluations are complete.

      This is an investigational study. A total of 200 patients will take part in this study. All
      will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson. After the first 50 patients are enrolled, the results
      will be studied to see if the study will continue. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  