
    
      Background and rationale: Venous leg ulcers (VLU) are slow healing wounds with a recurrence
      rate of 70% and a 60% risk of becoming chronic. Signs and symptoms such as pain or exudate
      are not only a burden on those affected but also on the health care system and society in
      general. The estimated VLU prevalence in the general population is 3%. Treatment cost for VLU
      is estimated to be 3% of overall health expenditure. Current therapeutic approaches are
      multifaceted and focus on reducing wound size and improving wound healing as well as
      preventing ulcer recurrence. Such approaches include compression therapy, leg elevation,
      specific ankle-exercises and a protein rich diet. They require a pluridisciplinary team of
      health care professionals from the domains of nursing, medicine, physiotherapy and nutrition.
      Approximately 70% of VLU patients have a knowledge deficit in regards to therapeutic measures
      and have difficulties with adherence to treatment protocols. Therefore, it is of utmost
      importance that the treatment team provides effective patient education and support during
      the learning phase. However, there are no published studies describing and evaluating the
      impact of pluridisciplinary educational interventions on adherence to the treatment plan and
      wound size reduction in VLU patients.

      Overall objectives: The objectives of the projected study are to evaluate the effectiveness
      of nurse-led intervention for high-risk patients with VLU in terms of patient
      knowledge/therapy adherence and to measure the impact of this intervention on wound size
      reduction and its evolution over time.

      Specific aims: The effectiveness of the intervention will be defined in terms of changes in
      behavior (altered adherence to compression therapy, elevation therapy, physical activity
      therapy, ankle exercise therapy, and protein supplement therapy), and in terms of VLU basic
      awareness acquisition and wound status evaluation. In addition, occurrence of recurrence
      after healing and incidence of complications (re-hospitalizations) will be measured
      (frequency and cost).

      Methodology of the planned study: An international multicenter randomized controlled trial
      with 248 participants in three Swiss French (n= 124) and two Australian (n=124) wound clinics
      is proposed. The study participants will be consecutive patients of the participating clinics
      who fulfill the inclusion criteria. Wound care will be performed according to the hospital's
      standard clinical practice guidelines. Allocation to the intervention group (IG) or the
      control group (CG) will be concealed. The intervention will consist of VLU patient education
      care bundle giving patients an opportunity to learn about the use of compression bandages,
      wearing and putting on compression stockings, and will include the importance of physical
      activity, ankle exercises, leg elevation and a high-protein diet to healing outcomes. An
      educational brochure summarizing these aspects will be given to the patients of the IG. This
      group will be supervised by a study nurse, who will not be identical with the nurse in charge
      of the control group. Due to the intervention being an educational program, the study cannot
      be blinded either for the participants or the staff performing the intervention. The sample
      size assumptions are based on a two-sided alpha level of 0.05, power of 0.8, and a medium
      effect size. Univariate and bivariate analysis will be conducted according to the data level
      and distribution.

      Expected results and impact: The findings of this study will generate new knowledge and the
      results will contribute to VLU clinical practice guidelines to enhance patient adherence to
      therapy. Our results will not only help improving patients' quality of life, but also
      contribute to reducing health expenditure. Additionally, it is in alignment with the National
      Strategy on the Prevention of Non-Communicable Diseases 2017 - 2024 establishing prevention
      work for people with enhanced risks and chronic conditions reinforcing protective factors
      such as diet and exercise. This pluridisciplinary study (engaging experts in nursing,
      physiotherapy and nutrition) associates two research centers with high-level expertise in the
      field of wound care that both successfully conducted and published research results.
    
  