
    
      Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) accounts for approximately 3 % of all cancers. RCC can be cured if
      diagnosed and treated when still localized to the kidney or immediate surrounding tissues.
      Since most of the RCC tumours are diagnosed when still localized, approximately 40 % of all
      patients survive 5 years. The median survival of Stage IV RCC after diagnosis is 8 to 12
      months and the 5-year survival is less than 10 %. Surgery has been the primary therapy for
      RCC for more than a century. Until recently, metastatic disease has been refractory to any
      systemic therapy. Despite recent advances in immunotherapy (e.g. Interferon and
      Interleukin-2), the response rates remain low (15 %) and few patients experience durable
      remission. Surgical and radiation therapies for Stage IV disease are generally limited to
      palliation of symptoms. For the majority of patients, metastatic RCC is incurable and
      patients should be considered candidates for clinical trials when appropriate. In summary,
      the available therapies for advanced unresectable and/or metastatic RCC have limited clinical
      values, with response rates ranging from 6-20 % and little impact on the natural history of
      the disease. Furthermore, the toxicities associated with these agents can be severe,
      requiring careful patient selection, and this dramatically decreases the number of patients
      who may benefit from therapy. Advanced RCC remains incurable and the need for more effective
      therapies is high.

      This is a non-randomized, open-label treatment protocol for patients with advanced RCC.
      Patients will be treated with 400 mg oral sorafenib twice a day on a continuous. Patients in
      this protocol may continue to be treated with sorafenib as a single agent until any of the
      following criteria for drug or protocol discontinuation is reached:

        1. Progression of disease.

        2. The patient is unlikely to benefit from further treatment with sorafenib as judged by
           the Investigator.

        3. Intolerable toxicity of the drug.

        4. Withdrawal of consent for any reason.
    
  