
    
      The study will recruit patients from two clinical sites (Kamuzu Central Hospital in Lilongwe,
      Malawi and Queen Elizabeth Central Hospital in Blantyre, Malawi) through their healthcare
      providers. Malawi represents an ideal location to conduct such a study as there are
      approximately 17,000 cases of pre-eclampsia annually. The study will include up to 40 women
      presenting with symptoms of pre-eclampsia.

      The study will include pregnant women diagnosed with pre-eclampsia deemed to benefit from
      treatment with MgSO4 by healthcare providers at our participating clinical sites. Women who
      are eclamptic or seizing at the time of enrollment or have received MgSO4 therapy within the
      preceding 24 hours prior to study enrollment will be ineligible.

      We will conduct an interventional study of the use of AutoSyP to deliver MgSO4 in two
      clinical setting in Malawi; Queen Elizabeth Central Hospital and Kamuzu Central Hospital. The
      study will be open and non-blinded due to ethical considerations that would arise from the
      denial of the experimental treatment to participants when there is no alternative form of IV
      MgSO4 delivery available.

      All eligible and consenting women will be assigned to have treatment with AutoSyP if an
      AutoSyP device is available. If an AutoSyP device is not available, the participant will
      receive treatment for pre-eclampsia according to the standard of care at the hospital.

      Pilot Clinical Evaluation Training

        1. Prior to the start of the study, all nurses will receive a 4-hour training on AutoSyP
           use.

        2. All trained nurses will receive an identification number that will be used for
           recordkeeping throughout the study.

      Selection of Participants

        1. Participants will be identified using the eligibility criteria stipulated above.

        2. Willing participants will provide informed consent to participate in the study.

        3. A participant identification number will be assigned. This number will be used for
           identification purposes throughout the study.

        4. Baseline demographic and relevant medical history information will be collected.

      Treatment

        1. Nurse will provide loading dose with the AutoSyP. A trained Rice research assistant will
           observe all procedures and will correct any errors made by the nurse or answer any
           questions from the nurse.

        2. The Rice research assistant will monitor the performance of the AutoSyP, watching for
           any device malfunctions and notify the nurse if any are observed. The Rice research
           assistant will help the nurse to correct the device malfunction and treatment will
           continue; otherwise, an alternative AutoSyP device will be used to continue treatment.
           The research assistant will also use a timer to record the duration of the dose.

        3. The research assistant will record the following information:

             1. MgSO4 concentration used and syringe size

             2. Duration of administration

             3. Initial device set-up errors/questions by the nurse (e.g., user cannot operate
                device, user must ask for help)

             4. Observed malfunctions of AutoSyP

             5. Identification number of the nurse operating AutoSyP

             6. Identification number of the device

        4. Nurse provides maintenance doses with AutoSyP after the loading dose is complete.

        5. Rice research assistant repeats tasks 2-3 with reference to the maintenance dose.

        6. Nurse continues to provide maintenance doses for up to 24 hours as necessary.

        7. Rice research assistant repeats tasks 2-3 for each maintenance dose.

        8. Treatment will be discontinued when clinically indicted.

        9. Rice research assistant records the total number of doses provided and the clinical
           outcome of the patient.
    
  