
    
      Low grade gliomas are often located near to and infiltrate into important parts of brain
      which are involved with language and motor function. During surgery to remove these tumours,
      there is a fine balance between trying to remove as much of the tumour as possible and
      limiting any damage to these functionally important parts of the brain which, particularly in
      a young patient, may result in impairment for the rest of their life.

      Functional MRI (fMRI) can be used to identify these functionally important cortical areas and
      diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) can be used to identify the important subcortical and deep
      white matter tracts connecting these regions. The use of these advanced imaging techniques
      performed pre-operatively to plan surgery is now commonplace however their role in guiding
      the actual operation itself is limited because of the occurrence of 'brain shift', this being
      deformation in the contour of the brain parenchyma which occurs as the tumour is resected.
      This can result in inaccuracies if the pre-operative advanced MRI data is being used in the
      neuronavigational system to guide surgery.

      The main aim of this study is to determine the optimal method of providing updated, spatially
      accurate data on the location of these functionally important areas of the brain to the
      neurosurgeon intra-operatively. In this study, two different techniques will be compared. The
      first is the acquisition of real-time fMRI and DTI acquired intra-operatively during tumour
      resection. The second is to use intra-operatively acquired structural and diffusion sequences
      to perform non-rigid co-registration of fMRI and DTI data which has been acquired before
      surgery. The feasibility and then the accuracy of these two techniques will be evaluated.

      The second aim of this study is to better understand the effect that the tumour and surgery
      have on language function as this will have important implications on the planning of the
      surgical approach, the counselling of patients of the possible risks of surgery and in
      helping to decide long term treatments. This will be achieved by performing advanced MRI
      scans, in particular an extensive language fMRI paradigm pre-operatively and post-operatively
      in patients with gliomas undergoing surgery. This will be combined with clinical testing of
      language function. Greater understanding of the neural plasticity in this functionally
      important system could allow for a greater, maximal resection.
    
  