
    
      Lifetime prevalence of social anxiety disorder in adolescents is estimated to be 8.6%, with
      the most common age of onset being ages 15-17. Social anxiety disorder is related to
      significant functional impairment and, if untreated, puts youth at risk for depression and
      substance abuse, and results in failure to meet important academic, social, and occupational
      milestones. The current literature supports cognitive behavioral therapy with exposure
      therapy, selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor medications, and their combination for the
      treatment of anxiety disorders with good effects. However, even with gold standard treatment,
      a significant number of patients do not get better or experience relapse. Exposure therapy is
      based on the principles of fear extinction, such that cues associated with threat are
      presented in a safe and controlled way until they are experienced as safe and fear responses
      are reduced. Studies in mice and non-anxious humans have demonstrated cue-based fear
      extinction learning to be less robust in adolescence than it is in childhood or adulthood.
      However, mouse-models suggest that context-based extinction learning closes the gap between
      age-groups, with adolescents performing as well on extinction learning tasks when put back in
      the original environment where the fear was acquired.

      Similarly, clinical research suggest that exposure therapy is most useful when exposures are
      conducted in the same or similar environments to where the fear is experienced in everyday
      life. However, there are many barriers to providing contextual based exposure therapy,
      particularly for social anxiety, including paucity of well-trained exposure therapists in
      many areas of the country, and difficulty generating or accessing realistic social situations
      for convincing exposures.

      Virtual reality offers a promising avenue for contextual exposures, by increasing the
      availability of certain contexts that cannot be readily mimicked in therapy. Furthermore, in
      vivo exposure situations can feel overwhelming for some individuals (patients and
      therapists), resulting in refusal to engage in exposure altogether. Virtual reality
      technology could allow for more gradual titration of exposure for those patients that require
      lower intensity exposures, and can be done in the therapy office for clinicians who do not
      have the time, resources, experience, or comfort level to travel outside of their office in
      pursuit of appropriate exposure environments. Even for seasoned exposure therapists, virtual
      reality could serve as a practice step in preparation for in vivo exposures or could be used
      in lieu of in vivo exposures if necessary. There has been extensive research on the use of
      virtual reality in facilitating exposure in a variety of populations. However, its
      effectiveness has not been demonstrated in adolescents with social phobia, and research is
      limited in adolescent samples in general.

      The pilot study proposed for this National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and
      Depression award would test the overall hypothesis that virtual reality technology is
      feasible, acceptable, and will enhance exposure-based therapy for socially anxious youth.
      Studies will be focused on testing the feasibility of integrating virtual reality technology
      into exposure-based treatment in adolescents and young adults (ages 13-23) diagnosed with
      social anxiety disorder with the goal of approximating equivalent efficacy with traditional
      cognitive behavioral therapy, and assessing feasibility, usability, and acceptability of the
      virtual reality technology with this population. In addition, we would pilot a fear
      conditioning and extinction learning paradigm with the subjects to explore the relationship
      between extinction learning and efficacy of virtual reality exposure therapy, using
      physiological assessment indicators to mark changes in fear response, including skin
      conductance, heart rate, heart rate variability, and startle. These physiological markers
      would also be used prior to the initiation of the therapy to assess the degree to which the
      virtual reality environments invoke a true fear response, comparing the 12 subjects with
      social phobia to 12 age-matched, non-anxious control subjects. If feasible and effective,
      these procedures would be used for a larger future study, and pilot data would be used for a
      K-award, R21, or R01 grant application, including neuroimaging to learn more about the neural
      circuitry involved in fear learning via virtual reality technology.

      SPECIFIC AIMS

      Specific Aim 1: To assess the feasibility, acceptability, and usability of simulated exposure
      using virtual reality environments in treatment of social anxiety in youth ages 13-23.

      Hypothesis: We hypothesize that the use of this technology will be feasible, evidenced by 75%
      completion of the treatment protocol.

      Specific Aim 2: To examine the degree to which virtual reality environments invoke arousal
      consistent with anxiety, and test the feasibility, acceptability, and usability of
      psychophysiological assessment protocol.

      Hypothesis: We hypothesize that subjects will exhibit elevated arousal during virtual
      reality-assisted exposures, evidenced by increased skin conductance, heart rate, and startle
      response, and expect the procedures to be feasible and acceptable as evidenced by high
      completion and low drop out.

      Specific Aim 3: To evaluate the impact of simulated exposure using virtual reality
      environments in reducing symptoms of social anxiety and related functional impairment.

      Hypothesis: We hypothesize that subjects will exhibit a decrease in anxiety evidenced by
      reduction in Anxiety Disorders Interview Schedule Clinician Severity Rating ≤ 4 and
      improvement in global functioning evidenced by Clinical Global Impression- Improvement rating
      ≤ 3.

      METHODS

      Study Design: 12 adolescents and young adults (ages 13- 23) with social anxiety disorder
      (cognitive behavioral therapy + virtual reality), and 12 age-matched comparison subjects
      (Controls) will be recruited for participation in this pilot feasibility study. Subjects on
      psychiatric medication must be on a stable dose for at least 2 months prior to study
      participation and remain symptomatic to the level identified for inclusion in the cognitive
      behavioral therapy + virtual reality group (Anxiety Disorders Interview Schedule Clinician
      Severity Rating ≥ 4). Controls must not meet criteria for any anxiety disorder. Control
      subjects will not complete the intervention, but will participate solely in the initial
      virtual reality arousal test and the fear extinction paradigm.

      Assessment measures: Clinician administered measures include the Anxiety Disorder Interview
      Schedule for DSM 5 to determine initial diagnostic status. The Clinical Global Impression
      Scale (CGI) will assess overall symptom severity and improvement. Self-report measures
      include the Screen for Child Anxiety Related Disorders and the World Health Organization
      Disability Scale-12 assessment of global functioning. Subjects in the virtual reality +
      cognitive behavioral therapy group will complete these measures at pre-treatment, at
      post-treatment, and at 3 month follow up. Controls will complete these measures at only one
      time point.

      Virtual Reality technology: virtual reality simulation allows subjects wearing a head-mounted
      display to view computer-generated 3-D imagery of a variety of social environments which
      evoke distress in individuals diagnosed with social anxiety. Subjects report on distress
      levels throughout the exercise.

      Cognitive Behavioral Therapy Intervention: The manualized cognitive behavioral therapy
      intervention used in this study will be a modified version of the Unified Protocol for
      Emotional Disorders in Youth (UP-Y), which is a modular cognitive behavioral therapy protocol
      for anxiety disorders and depression with demonstrated efficacy in youth. The modular
      approach allows for patient engagement in exposure therapy at earliest readiness, and also
      allows for the structured implementation of other cognitive behavioral therapy components.
      The 10-session intervention includes psychoeducation about anxiety disorders and their
      treatment (1 session), emotion awareness and regulation (2 sessions), exposure therapy using
      virtual reality environments (6 sessions), and review and relapse prevention (1 session). All
      treatment sessions will be videotaped to ensure fidelity to treatment manual and modules.

      Psychophysiological measures: The Biopac system will measure physiological arousal through
      measures of skin conductance, heart rate, heart rate variability, and startle response (via
      eye blink reflex). Each of the tests involved in collection of biological measures is a
      standard, non-painful and non-invasive procedure.

      Fear Conditioning & Extinction Paradigm: Subjects will participate in a laboratory test of
      extinction training during their initial assessment in order to establish extinction learning
      as a potential predictive marker of treatment outcome. Subjects will be exposed to two shapes
      on a computer screen, one shape (conditioned stimulus; CS+) will be paired with an aversive
      stimulus (unconditioned stimulus) on 38% of the trials, whereas the other shape will never be
      paired with aversive stimulus (conditioned stimulus-). Later, they will undergo extinction
      training in which the two conditioned stimuli will be repeatedly presented without the
      unconditioned stimulus. Extinction will be measured as the difference score of skin
      conductance response to the conditioned stimulus+ and conditioned stimulus-.
    
  