
    
      Sample DNA handling： Peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBLs), and plasma were collected for
      analysis for each patient. 10mL tubes containing blood samples with EDTA added were
      centrifuged at 1000g for 10min. The cell pellets containing peripheral blood lymphocytes were
      stored at -20 °C. The supernatants were centrifuged again at 10,000 g for 10 min, and plasma
      was collected and stored at -80°C.Tiangen whole blood DNA Kit (Tiangen, Beijing, PRC) were
      used to extracted DNA from peripheral blood lymphocytes, respectively. QIAamp Circulating
      Nucleic Acid Kit (Qiagen, German) was used to extract cfDNA form plasma. All kits were used
      according to the manufacturers' instructions.

      Library preparation and sequencing： For each sample, DNA was quantified with the Qubit dsDNA
      HS Assay kit (Life Technologies,USA) as manufacturer's recommended protocol. Targeted
      amplification and Illumina adapter-ligated library preparation was performed using Amplicon
      Sequencing-Illumina Compatible Kit following manufacturer's instructions (Questgenomics,
      Nanjing, PRC). All samples were subjected to Illumina HiSeq X-Ten for paired-end sequencing
      (150bp each end). The AmpliSeq Cancer Panel covers 1406 cancer-associated genes which
      developed by Co. Roche.

      Variant calling： Initial data from HiSeq X-Ten were evaluated by using fastQC (v0.11.3). Raw
      reads were mapped to reference genome hg19 by using BWA (0.7.12-r1039). Program Samtools and
      VarScan (v2.4.1) was used for variant calling: (1) the average total coverage depth was
      defined as >1000 and each variant coverage as >10; for called variant, at least one sample
      with variant frequency >1%, variant frequency of each sample >0.5%, and P value <0.01; (2)
      visual examination of the mutations was performed using Samtools software
      (http://samtools.sourceforge.net) and possible errors specific to one DNA strand were
      filtered out. Software ANNOVAR (v2015-06-17) and snpEff (v4.2) was used for variant
      annotation

      Statistical analysis： For variant frequency less than 0.5%, 0 was replaced. R (hclust,
      v3.2.4) was used for variant frequency clustering analysis to show what types of samples from
      cancer patients are more similar. Student's T test was applied for comparison of cfDNA
      concentration and p<0.05 was considered statistically significant.
    
  