
    
      Preanestes@s is a web based application conceived to lead patients through the preoperative
      period. The application includes a patient interface which offers general and individualized
      information on the perioperative process, with the possibility of generating a dynamic
      interaction between patients and medical staff. Patient interface incorporates a web based
      preoperative questionnaire that once fully completed automatically indicates which
      preoperative tests are necessary and addresses patients to a virtual (non face to face)
      consultation or to traditional outpatient assessment. Both virtual and outpatient assessment
      are performed by an anesthesiologist. The web based questionnaire automatically assigns
      patients an ASA (from the American Society of Anesthesia Physical Status Classification)
      grade; this being a determining variable, although not the only one, when directing patients
      to the virtual or face-to-face consultation.The questionnaire therefore serves both for
      collection of clinical information and as a patient classification tool as well.

      Virtual assessment is performed by evaluating both the filled web based questionnaire
      together with patient´s electronic records. Face to face assessment is performed in the
      traditional way by means of a clinical interview together with the consultation of patient's
      previous electronic records.

      The virtual assessment is reserved for participants without significant comorbidity, which
      would correspond to patients classified as grade ASA 1-2; this means without diseases or with
      diseases that do not significantly compromise the integrity of the patient: well-controlled
      hypertension, active smoking without major lung disease, non-morbid obesity, etc. Patients
      with significant comorbidity (grade ASA ≥ 3), are referred to a face-to-face consultation.

      This study has been approved by the local Ethics Committee -Comité de Ética e Investigación
      de Huelva-and signed by its Secretary María Dolores Santos Rubio, date 18.12.2019, and
      corresponds to the Phase 2 of the study "Evaluation of the utility and quality of the
      clinical information obtained through Preanestes@s, a web based application for preoperative
      assessment. Comparison of the virtual preanesthetic visit and the outpatient face-to-face
      visit.". Phase 2 is independent of Phase 1, entitled "Evaluation of the Quality of
      Preoperative Information Obtained Through Preanestes@s, a Web Based Application: Paired
      Comparison of a Web Based Questionnaire, a Virtual Non Face to Face Assessment and Outpatient
      Visit", registered in Clinical Trials with number of reference NCT04259268. Primary
      completion of Phase 1 have been concluded with date February 19, 2021, and preliminary
      analysis of data is currently being conducted by investigators.

      In this study, the objective of the investigators is to assess whether the use of a web based
      application for the preoperative assessment allows an adequate completion of the preoperative
      process when compared to traditional face to face outpatient interview. The quality of the
      information recorded by this web based application has been previously tested by the
      investigators showing promising results in terms of security and accuracy.

      The investigators have designed a prospective two-arm study to compare the performance of the
      two modalities of preoperative assessment: web based versus face to face outpatient visit.

      The investigators will base their evaluation of performance on previously published criteria:
      the Andalusian Regional Government Health Council defines a "suboptimal preoperative
      assessment" (SOPA) as one that potentially generates "inadequate preparation of the patient
      that may affect the expected results". Specific criteria defining SOPA are detailed in the
      Outcomes Measures section of the present document.

      Allocation of participants to each study arm will be consecutive and based on daily
      distribution of the clinics: participants submitted to one of two surgeries of any of the
      following (Orthopedics, General Surgery, ENT) will be allocated to either web based
      preoperative assessment or traditional face to face outpatient visit. Written informed
      consent will be obtained of all participants prior to their recruitment.

      Statistical analysis Data collection and subsequent analysis will be performed by the
      investigators team. Qualitative variables will be represented through the absolute and
      marginal frequencies. The investigators will analyze the incidence of SOPA in both groups,
      using Chi square to study the difference between the proportions in the case of normal
      distribution, or, failing that, the Mann-Whitney U. In the same way, the investigators will
      study the differences for each of the defining criteria of SOPA.

      Sample Size Following the model of Kinley et al in the study comparing the quality of the
      pre-anesthesia record carried out by anesthesia trainees versus trained nurses, the
      investigators will use the variable "incomplete studies that could have affected
      perioperative management" for the calculation of the sample size. This variable would be
      equivalent to the variable SOPA in present work. Based on Kinley data, the investigators will
      use an incomplete study rate of 15%, a figure that coincides with the standard "inadequate
      assessment" in the Guide for the Perioperative Process published by the Andalusian Regional
      Government Health Council, which establishes a maximum "acceptable" rate of inadequate
      completion of the preoperative protocols in 15%. In this study of equivalence between the two
      formats, the investigators will assume equivalence if a maximum difference of 25% between
      both formats is observed, which represents a differential of 3.75% over the initial 15%.
      Thus, for a two-sided calculation and assuming an alpha error of 0.05 and a beta error of 0.2
      (80% power), it would be necessary to include 1,127 participants per group.
    
  