
    
      Carotid artery disease is known to increase the risk of neurologic consequences such as
      transient ischemic attacks (TIA), ischemic stroke, or death due to the release of embolic
      particles in the vessels supplying the brain. Two principal treatments, carotid
      endarterectomy (CEA), and carotid artery stenting (CAS), are used to treat this disease.
      Embolic protection devices, both distal filters and occlusive devices, are employed during
      the CAS procedure to reduce the risk of carotid plaque embolus secondary to instrumentation
      during carotid intervention. Existing embolic protection devices are placed using a
      transfemoral approach and thus have potential for particle embolization while crossing the
      aortic arch, supraaortic trunk and the carotid lesion before cerebral protection is in place.
      Other limitations of these devices include the potential for carotid intimal injury,
      dissection or spasm during deployment, and release of emboli during retrieval.

      Noting that carotid embolization remains the "Achilles heel" of carotid artery stenting, an
      alternative approach to embolic protection was developed by Juan Parodi. The system works by
      balloon occlusion of the common carotid artery and external carotid artery. An arteriovenous
      fistula is created with sheaths and catheters and provides retrograde (reverse) blood flow
      from the internal carotid artery (ICA) and the common carotid artery (CCA) to the femoral
      vein.

      Embolic particles released during CAS pass retrograde through a catheter into a 180 micron
      filter before the blood re-enters the venous system. (Parodi, Ferreira et al. 2005) A
      variation of the reverse flow approach utilizing a surgical, transcervical approach to the
      carotid artery was developed to address challenges and risks associated with the placement
      and use of existing embolic protection devices. Criado et al. (2004) describe the use of flow
      reversal during CAS via a transcervical surgical cutdown, access and proximal occlusion of
      the CCA and establishment of a carotid artery - internal jugular (IJ) vein fistula. (Criado,
      Doblas et al. 2004).

      A difference between the transfemoral-based Parodi approach and the transcervical-based
      Criado approach is the removal by Criado of the ECA occlusion step. In the Criado approach,
      the procedure is designed such that the flow is reversed in both the internal and the
      external carotid arteries, whereas in the Parodi procedure, flow reversal occurs only in the
      ICA. Another difference in the Criado system is the shorter length and larger diameter tubing
      afforded by the transcervical approach. The rate of flow reversal enabled by the Criado
      arteriovenous shunt is higher and is designed to overcome the potential for antegrade flow
      from the ECA to the ICA.

      However, as reported by both Parodi and Criado, active aspiration is often utilized during
      critical periods of the procedure, to guarantee robust reversal of flow in the ICA.

      Similarly in 2004, Chang, et al., reported the use of a direct transcervical approach through
      a 2cm incision at the base of the neck in 21 CAS patients with a 0% technical failure rate
      and a 0% thirty-day combined stroke or mortality rate. A similar approach of direct access to
      the low common carotid artery and the creation of a shunt to the internal jugular was used
      with carotid occlusion leading to a state of flow reversal. In some cases in this series, a
      balloon was placed in the external carotid artery. (Chang et al, 2004) Subsequently, Criado
      et al reported in the Journal of Vascular Surgery in 2004 on a series of fifty patients who
      underwent carotid artery stenting via this transcervical approach. Using the technique
      described above, flow was reversed in the ICA by occluding the CCA and establishing a
      carotid-jugular vein fistula. There was technical success in all 50 procedures and no strokes
      or deaths occurred. The procedure was tolerated by all but two (4%) of patients.
      Complications included major and minor carotid artery dissections, which resolved after stent
      placement. Two transient ischemic attacks (TIA) occurred, one in a patient in whom flow
      reversal was not successful, and one patient with a contralateral ICA occlusion who suffered
      a contralateral TIA.(Criado, Doblas et al. 2004).

      Criado et al. further report in the Journal of Vascular Surgery in 2004 on a series of 10
      awake patients undergoing transcervical carotid artery stenting with flow reversal.
      Procedural success was achieved in all 10 cases and flow reversal was well tolerated.
      Cerebral oxygenation during ICA flow reversal was comparable to that during CCA occlusion.
      ICA angioplasty balloon inflation produced a decrease in SVO2 significantly greater than that
      occurring during ICA flow reversal. (Criado, Doblas et al. 2004) Finally, Criado et al report
      on the perioperative and 3 year follow up results of 103 consecutive carotid artery stenting
      procedures done with a transcervical approach using carotid flow reversal for cerebral
      protection performed over a 28 month period in 97 patients. Technical success was achieved in
      100 cases (97%). No major strokes or deaths occurred. Three awake patients (4%) did not
      tolerate flow reversal and complications included one ipsilateral TIA, one contralateral TIA,
      and two minor strokes. There were two wound complications and one major arterial
      complication. Mean flow reversal time was 21 minutes. At 40 months, the stent patency rate on
      an intention-to-treat basis was 95%, and the stroke-free survival was 91%. (Criado,
      Fontcuberta et al. 2007).

      In 2006, Ribo and colleagues monitored transcranial doppler (TCD) as part of their standard
      carotid practice where 23 of 65 patients underwent transcervical carotid stenting using
      Criado's technique. Mean reversal time was about 15 minutes and well tolerated. TCD
      monitoring showed an absence of air/solid emboli during stent deployment and angioplasty
      confirming the presence of reverse flow. Baseline middle cerebral artery (MCA) flow by TCD of
      47 cm/sec was substantially decreased with clamping of the common carotid (representing
      reversal of internal carotid flow). Initial mean antegrade MCA velocity of 30 cm/sec was
      present post clamping suggesting that there was adequate hemispheric blood flow to be
      clinically tolerated (Ribo et al. 2006).

      Silk Road Medical has developed a system of sheaths, shunts and flow regulators, called the
      SRM Embolic Protection System, to apply the demonstrated benefits of the Criado and Chang
      approaches and improve further on ease of use and effectiveness. Silk Road Medical has
      provided an arteriovenous shunt with the ability to regulate from a low, baseline flow to a
      higher flow rate. This is accomplished by modulating the flow resistance of a shunt line
      which connects an arterial and a venous sheath. Because of potential patient intolerance to
      long periods of high reverse flow, the flow controller enables the user the set the shunt
      high flow only during periods of the procedure which are high risk for embolic debris
      (angiography, angioplasty, stent placement). This system eliminates the need for an active
      aspiration step, and theoretically enables the user to balance patient tolerance needs with
      optimal embolic protection.

      The conclusion from the series of above literature is that transcervical CAS with carotid
      flow reversal can be accomplished with a high rate of technical success, a very low rate of
      major adverse events, and an excellent 3 year stroke free survival and stent patency rate.
      The purpose of this initial investigation is to determine if the SRM Embolic Protection
      System enables flow reversal of the carotid artery, is compatible with the techniques,
      devices and equipment used during a carotid artery stenting CAS procedure, and does not
      present any additional safety risks to the patient.
    
  