
    
      Excessive weight gain during pregnancy is predictive of a host of health outcomes in both the
      mother and child, particularly among women who are overweight or obese pre-pregnancy. Gaining
      too much weight is associated with higher risk of gestational diabetes, large birth weight
      for the baby and its corresponding risks, and postpartum obesity. Alarmingly, these outcomes
      persist for years after birth. For adults who are overweight or obese and interested in
      weight management, a key element of behavioral weight control is self-monitoring. Supported
      by self-regulation theory, the effectiveness of daily weighing is likely a function of the
      self-regulatory processes that are activated as a result of this behavior. Receiving feedback
      daily on weight proximal to diet and exercise behaviors may increase awareness how of
      behaviors impact weight and allow for small changes in weight to be understood and resolved
      through subsequent behavior change. Given the improvements in self-regulation as a result of
      daily weighing, it may be an effective strategy for reducing excessive gestational weight
      gain during pregnancy. It is not clear, however, whether pregnant women would engage in this
      behavior and whether daily weighing would be effective in promoting recommended levels of
      weight gain during pregnancy.

      To determine the feasibility of a six-week, digital health daily weighing pilot intervention
      to monitor gestational weight gain among overweight and obese pregnant women, participants
      will be recruited at up to 20 weeks' gestation (consistent with prior studies) and will
      receive a digital wireless Bluetooth-enabled scale to track weight for six weeks during
      pregnancy. They will receive tailored feedback via weekly emails in response to adherence to
      daily weighing and whether weight gains are in accordance with recommended levels and healthy
      standards for pregnancy; weekly emails will also communicate healthy eating and physical
      activity tips for pregnancy. They will be asked to complete surveys at baseline (before using
      scales) and follow-up (after using scales) that focus on experiences with weight monitoring,
      GWG knowledge and expectations, and perceptions of the intervention process.
    
  