
    
      The purpose of the study is to investigate the potential utility of actigraphy, a
      non-invasive means of measuring an individual's movements, in distinguishing the effects of
      different types of maternal labour analgesia on babies after birth.

      The study hypothesizes that actigraphic data can be used to differentiate the effects on
      neonates of different forms of maternal intrapartum analgesia. In particular, we hypothesize
      that infants of mothers who receive intrapartum opioid analgesia will demonstrate fewer
      movements than infants of mothers who receive epidural analgesia or those who receive
      nothing.

      Whilst it is well known that drugs administered to mothers during labour can affect their
      babies, means of assessing this effect are complex and unreliable. A more objective means of
      assessing babies after birth is required, and actigraphy may represent a useful technique.
      Actigraphy has been used on babies in other studies in a variety of settings, including
      comparing babies born by different delivery modes (i.e. vaginal versus cesarean delivery) and
      at different gestations (i.e. term versus preterm), although none of these studies have
      considered maternal analgesia received prior to delivery as a possible influence on babies'
      movements after birth. Other studies that have looked at sleep parameters in babies,
      particularly measures of activity, have shown association with later indices of psychomotor
      development.

      The objective of the study is to compare actigraph-derived movement data from babies whose
      mothers have received any of the commonly used analgesic techniques for labour at BC Women's
      Hospital.

      This is a prospective observational study. Women will be assessed for eligibility for the
      study on admission to the labour ward. As one of the inclusion criteria is vaginal birth,
      women considered eligible on admission may become ineligible depending on their mode fo
      delivery. Information will be available to all women in the assessment rooms and consent will
      be specifically sought after they deliver and are deemed eligible. We plan to recruit the
      babies of mothers who receive analgesia in one of four categories: no analgesia or nitrous
      oxide only; systemically administered opioid analgesia only; epidural analgesia with an
      intermediate total dose of fentanyl (<150mcg); epidural analgesia with a high total dose of
      fentanyl (>150mcg). We recognize that women may receive several or even all of the different
      modalities of labour analgesia in the course of their delivery. In this situation, we will
      calculate the total dose fo opioid received by all routes and convert this to fentanyl
      equivalents for the purposes of analysis. Neonates of women who agree to participate will be
      fitted with an actigraph that will remain in place (except for removal for bathing) for 24
      hours, or until discharge from hospital. Actigraphs are small, light-weight,
      wrist-watch-sized monitors that weight 16 grams. The actigraphs will be placed on the
      neonates' ankle, as this position has been reported to cause less disturbance to them.
      Parents of participating neonates will also be instructed in the use fo a daily dairy that
      will allow correlation of actigraphic movement data with events such as bathing (when the
      actigraph will necessarily be removed) and other external sources of movements (e.g. being
      rocked, breastfeeding).
    
  