
    
      This Early Feasibility Study (EFS) protocol describes the clinical study requirements for the
      Relay Branch System; a device designed to provide an option for patients with arch and
      proximal descending chronic thoracic aortic pathologies. As an EFS, this investigation is
      intended to provide proof of principle and initial clinical safety data on the Relay Branch
      System. The study is planned as an initial investigation of the device for aortic arch and
      proximal descending thoracic aortic aneurysmal disease, PAU (including IMH) and uncomplicated
      chronic Type B aortic dissection (including IMH). The study will yield information on
      procedural techniques; assessing the safety and effectiveness of the device at the index
      procedure and at 30 days, focusing on device delivery and deployment, and circulatory
      exclusion of the pathologic process. As a branched device, patency of the endograft branches
      will also be assessed.

      The study will evaluate three-dimensional (3D) imaging data, both at baseline and through
      follow-up. Baseline 3D anatomy will augment information on the precise anatomic configuration
      of patients presenting aortic arch pathology treatable with the device. Follow-up imaging
      will provide information on the effectiveness of the device with respect to endoleaks in
      patients with aneurysms, sealing of dissections, PAU and IMH, and stability of the device at
      the deployed position, response, endograft patency, and short-term device integrity.

      The data from this EFS will yield insights into the following aspects of the device,
      preceding a traditional feasibility or pivotal study:

        -  The clinical safety of the device-specific aspects of the procedure,

        -  Determination of delivery and deployment of the device,

        -  Operator-dependent aspects of device use,

        -  Human factors associated with the design and use of the device,

        -  Safety of the device as assessed by device-related adverse events,

        -  Effectiveness of the device in performing its intended purpose over short-term
           follow-up.

      Observations from the study will guide the instructions for use (IFU) for the device.
      Finally, the study will collect imaging data to augment the current use conditions data set.
      It is anticipated that information collected will be used to make applicable design changes,
      or be combined with a prospective, investigational device exemption (IDE) study for
      submission of an original premarket approval application (PMA) to the U.S. Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) for approval to commercially distribute the system.
    
  