
    
      Potential Significance:

      There are presently very limited clinical resources for children with ADHD, a prevalent
      disorder associated with significant functional impairments across different domains. Given
      the large number of affected children and their families, and the lack of readily available
      resources, very long wait-lists exist delaying access to healthcare. This is especially
      important given that ADHD occurs during a critical period of child development. Despite that
      effective treatments for ADHD do exist, it is quite challenging to deliver timely
      interventions to children with ADHD. This study aims to assess the efficacy of an innovative
      collaborative care approach that significantly improves access to evidence based health
      services and builds capacity in the community. Given that public healthcare services in Dubai
      are open to all emirates in the UAE and that some specialized services are lacking in other
      emirates, such a program that utilizes a virtual platform will facilitate healthcare access
      to this group of children in remote areas. After providing evidence for its feasibility and
      efficacy, this approach is likely to then be implemented across Dubai's Health Authority and
      to become a model that can be implemented nationally and regionally.

      This study will significantly enhance the capacity of primary care physicians in Dubai, UAE
      to provide clinical care for children with common mental health conditions, namely ADHD.
      Enhancing the capacity of the Primary care sector to assess and treat this disorder in
      collaboration with the center of excellence at Al Jalila Children's is expected to improve
      access to clinical care while assuring optimal care is provided.

      Moreover, it will improve the expertise of the center of excellence in child mental health at
      Al Jalila children's through clinical and research collaboration with Boston Children's
      Hospital. This study might open the doors for future collaborations with international
      institute such Boston Children's which will result in improved pediatric care at Al Jalila
      Children's. After providing evidence for its feasibility and efficacy, this approach is
      likely to then be implemented across Dubai's Health Authority and to become a model that can
      be implemented nationally and regionally.

      Methods:

      An individually randomized controlled trial with 2 equal groups will be conducted. Children
      aged 6-12 years who are referred to their primary care provider for an ADHD assessment and
      meet inclusion criteria will be randomized to intervention and control arms.

      The intervention will consist of treatment of children with ADHD by physicians trained by
      study staff on the assessment and treatment of ADHD. This training will be delivered over two
      stages:

      In stage (1), prior to any clinical interaction with patients, physicians will attend an
      on-site clinical training that includes didactic teaching on ADHD including reviewing
      clinical guidelines and hands-on assessment and treatment of children with ADHD presenting to
      the tertiary care hospital (minimum of 35 hours). Drs. Albanna and Hamoda will deliver this
      training. Participants will be expected to successfully complete two PDM exam stations
      (Phenomenology, Diagnosis and Management). These PDM stations will be developed by AA and HH
      and will not include real patients. This educational intervention will be delivered prior to
      any interaction between pediatricians and patients, and only those pediatricians that
      successfully complete the course will participate in the collaborative-care arm of the study.

      In stage (2) of the training program, an ongoing module will be developed by Drs. Albanna and
      Hamoda using a virtual-classroom setup. This will include monthly live online presentations
      presented by Drs. Albanna and Hamoda as well as invited guest speakers for select topic, that
      Drs. Albanna and Hamoda will moderate. This intends to discuss advanced topics and challenges
      that may be facing the clinicians involved in the study. The research coordinator will assure
      that the technical setup is prepared for the seminars. There will be a total of 8
      presentations, and the duration will be 1 and half hours for each presentation. The topics
      will focus on various advanced aspects of managing ADHD in primary healthcare.
      Pre-presentation reading material will be emailed to the attendees along with details
      regarding the time and topic of the presentation. They will be asked to log-on 15 minutes
      prior and the last 30 minutes will be dedicated to discussions and questions relevant to the
      topic. Every presentation will be followed by 10 MCQs prepared by the presenter. Participants
      will also have weekly supervision meetings via video-conferencing. Randomization will occur
      when children with suspected ADHD present to PHCs participating in this study. Children will
      be randomly referred to one of these two study arms:

      Arm (1): Children in this arm will received a collaborative mental health model of care by
      physicians who underwent the training above. Children and their families will be assessed and
      managed by these physicians, at the same primary care center they present at, using
      international guidelines. In line with the collaborative care model, physicians in this arm
      will have weekly supervision meetings via video-conferencing with specialists from the study
      team. Case management will be provided via trained allied professional or nurse. Case
      management will entail assuring that patients present on time for scheduled assessment and
      follow-ups and that questionnaires are completed and handed on time.

      Arm (2): The children randomized to control arm will receive treatment as usual. This
      primarily consists of referral to specialized mental health services at Al Jalila Children's.
      They will receive assessment and management by specialists in this tertiary care center.
    
  