
    
      Objective: This project, Clinical and Molecular Studies in Families with Congenital or
      Hereditary Cataracts will study the inheritance of genetic cataracts, both Mendelian and
      complex age related cataracts, in families of many nationalities and ethnic backgrounds in
      order to identify the genes that, when mutated, cause cataracts and the pathophysiology
      through which they act.

      Study Population: Families of many nationalities and ethnic backgrounds. We will study a
      maximum or 5,000 patients and family members.

      Design: The study consists of ascertaining individuals, and especially families with multiple
      individuals, affected by both congenital and age related cataracts. These patients and their
      families will undergo detailed ophthalmological examinations to characterize their cataracts
      and determine their affectation status. A blood sample will be collected from each individual
      for isolation of DNA and in some individuals for lymphoblastoid transformation to establish a
      renewable source of DNA. Linkage analysis, physical mapping, and mutational screening will be
      carried out to identify the specific the gene and the mutations in it that are associated
      with cataracts in this family. If necessary, the gene product will be characterized
      biochemically. The study will enroll subjects at NEI and collaborating institutions, the
      Centre for Excellence in Molecular Biology, Lahore, Pakistan, the Zhongshan Ophthalmic
      Center, Guangzhou, China, the Aravind Eye Hospital, Madurai, India, and the University of
      Parma, Italy and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).

      Outcome Measures: Linkage will be determined using the lod score method and mutations in
      specific genes will be assessed using a combination of residue conservation, blosum score,
      and molecular modeling. Biochemical, metabolic, and physiological effects will be
      individualized to the specific assay.
    
  