
    
      Anxiety and depression are the two most common psychiatric conditions, affecting over a
      quarter of the population, and representing the leading cause of disability, worldwide. More
      than three-quarters of patients never receive treatment, and recent meta-analyses and
      large-scale clinical trials suggest that only about half of patients improve with treatment,
      with substantially poorer outcomes and adherence in patients with comorbid anxiety and
      depression. Given the insufficient treatment response and adherence to currently available
      therapies, it is important to explore novel ways of helping patients with anxiety and
      depression. Floatation-REST (Reduced Environmental Stimulation Therapy) is a relatively
      unexplored mind-body intervention for naturally reducing physiological stress by attenuating
      exteroceptive sensory input to the nervous system through the act of floating supine in a
      pool of water saturated with Epsom salt (magnesium sulfate). Over the past decade, floating
      has witnessed a rapid rise in popularity, with hundreds of recreational float centers opening
      across America. Despite the surge in public interest and consumption, there has been little
      research investigation Floatation-REST, especially in clinical populations. The investigators
      recently completed several pilot studies in patients with comorbid anxiety and depression
      showing that a single float session was capable of inducing a large short-term anxiolytic and
      antidepressant response accompanied by a substantial improvement in mood and subjective
      well-being. This proposal aims to follow-up on these promising preliminary findings by
      investigating the feasibility, tolerability, and safety of undergoing multiple sessions of
      Floatation-REST or an active comparison condition in 75 participants with clinical anxiety
      and depression. A subset of these participants will have the opportunity to select their
      preference with regard to float duration and frequency, providing important information for
      optimizing the "dose" in future trials. Since this study is aimed at examining feasibility,
      tolerability, and safety, the primary endpoint is adherence (as a proxy of feasibility), and
      the secondary outcome measures are dropout rate (as a proxy for tolerability) and adverse
      effects (as a proxy for safety). An exploratory aim examines the magnitude and duration of
      the anxiolytic and antidepressant effects of Floatation-REST at both short-term (up to 48
      hours) and long-term (up to 6 months) intervals, providing an initial indication for whether
      any beneficial effects are sustained beyond the float experience. The results of this early
      phase clinical trials will help optimize the design of a future efficacy study exploring the
      long-term effects of Floatation-REST.
    
  