
    
      This is a Phase I/II trial of neoadjuvant cetuximab monotherapy in the preoperative treatment
      of patients with operable HNSCC. It is a monocenter study (St-Luc university Hospital,
      Université catholique de Louvain, Brussels).

      This part of the trial will determine the safe minimum delay between the neoadjuvant
      cetuximab infusion and surgery. The aim is to investigate if cetuximab given 24 hours before
      surgery is safe.

      Patients will receive cetuximab with a loading dose of 400 mg/m2 for the first administration
      followed by 250 mg/m2/week at the second and third administrations, if applicable. The delay
      between the last administration of cetuximab and surgery will be progressively reduced
      (Figure 1).

      Five levels are pre-defined before final administration of 3 preoperative doses of cetuximab
      with a 24-hour delay between the last dose of cetuximab and surgery.

      Level I: 10-12 days delay between the second cetuximab infusion and surgery (total of 2 doses
      pre-op) Level II: 6-8 days delay between the second cetuximab infusion and surgery (total of
      2 doses pre-op) Level III: 3-4 days delay between the second cetuximab infusion and surgery
      (total of 2 doses pre-op) Level IV: 3-4 days delay between the third cetuximab infusion and
      surgery (total of 3 doses pre-op) Level V: 24-hour delay between the third cetuximab dose and
      surgery (total of 3 doses pre-op) The cohort size is 3 patients per level, extended to 6
      patients if one "limiting toxicity" is observed. Decision rules are the same than as in any
      classic 3+3 phase 1design (Figure 2).

      "Limiting toxicity" is defined as (i) any life-threatening (grade 4) surgical complication or
      (ii) an unexpected surgical grade 3 toxicity. Unexpected toxicity will be determined by the
      safety committee after careful review of the patient file.

      The safety committee will consist of the surgical team of UCL Saint-Luc, one external
      surgeon, one representative from Merck and the study coordinators.

      Patients treated at level V will be evaluated like patients in the phase II part.
    
  