
    
      This study is designed as a type 2 multicenter clinical trial combining 3 Pain Clinics.

      Patients were consecutively recruited from the active file of 3 Pain Clinics in France
      (Clermont-Ferrand, Vichy and le Puy-en-Velay). Patients meeting all inclusion criteria were
      enrolled after receiving oral and written information about the study and after obtaining
      written informed consent.

      At baseline, they completed 5 questionnaires including: Brief Pain Inventory (BPI), Hospital
      Anxiety and Depression scale (HAD), Leeds sleep Evaluation Questionnaire (LSEQ), Short
      version of Short Form 36 Health Survey (SF 12), Clinical Opioid Withdrawal Scale (COWS) and
      underwent 2 tests with algometer and pupillometer. After inclusion, all patients started an
      opioid tapering-off protocol (Figure 1, Step 1) according to a standardized scheme of opioid
      gradual decrease defined by 3 medical experts in addictology, pain management and
      pharmacology.

      Step 1 (from inclusion to 3 months): Patients start to taper off their analgesic opioid
      dosage according to a specific schedule. They will be seen by a doctor every month and will
      be contacted by phone 48-72h after every stage of opioid dosage decrease to detect withdrawal
      symptoms using the specific COWS scale.

      The responder status is defined by the strict adherence to the schedule leading to a 50%
      decrease at 3 months of the initial daily dosage of the analgesic opioid. In this case,
      patients will continue Step 1 and will keep on tapering off their analgesic opioid according
      to the same protocol and will be seen by a doctor every month and will be contacted by phone
      48-72h after every stage of opioid dosage decrease until total withdrawal at 6 months. At 6
      months, they will undergo the same questionnaires and tests performed at baseline (BPI, HAD,
      LSEQ, SF 12, COWS and algometer, pupillometer). At 9 months, patients will be contacted by
      phone to check for the maintenance of withdrawal and to collect analgesic treatment.

      The non-responder status is defined by a failure in the scheduled dosage decrease consisting
      in the need for the patient to re-increase the opioid dosage after a stage of decrease. These
      patients will enter the step 2 and start the temporary rotation by HDB (Step2).

      Step 2: HDB is started (J0) at the dosage of 4 mg/ day (with a possible adjustment ± 2 mg at
      24h, depending on the patient withdrawal symptoms intensity or tolerance). Two visits at J0+7
      days and J0+14 days are planned to assess the efficacy and safety of HDB. The treatment will
      be continued for a 1-month period at the same dosage. At J0+1 month, a tapering-off period of
      5 months will start until total withdrawal of HDB is achieved at J0+6 months (decrease of 1
      mg per month). Patients will be seen by a doctor every month and will be contacted by phone
      48-72h after every stage of HDB dosage decrease until total withdrawal at J0+6 months.
      Questionnaires (BPI, HAD, LSEQ, SF 12, COWS) and tests (algometer and pupillometer) will be
      repeated at J0, J0+1 month and J0+6 months. A urinary test will be performed at J0, J0+1
      month and J0+6 months to evaluate primary outcome. At 9 months, patients will be contacted by
      phone to check for the maintenance of withdrawal and to collect analgesic treatment.
    
  