
    
      Treatment of fragility fractures at the proximal Humerus still remains a major challenge in
      trauma surgery. Several factors such as highly compromised bone mass, complex loading
      conditions, multi-fragment fractures, absent bony support and limited surgical access render
      the fixation particularly complex. Especially in elderly osteoporotic patients, implant
      position and fixation plays a key role for a successful outcome. Nowadays, complication rates
      of plate and screw fixation systems in the proximal Humerus region under complex fracture
      patterns are reported to range between 28% and 79%. A significant portion of these cases can
      be attributed to implant mal-placement. Particularly, when screws are too short and the
      subchondral bone stock is missed out, screw anchorage is significantly compromised. On the
      other hand, if screws are too long they might penetrate into the joint with devastating
      consequences. Adequate selection of screw length is hence of utmost importance. However, the
      particular anatomical situation challenges the determination procedure which results in
      prolonged operational time and increased X-ray exposure. New strategies are needed to simply,
      reliably and accurately fix proximal humeral fractures with plate-screw constructs. Xin1 is
      an X-ray-based tracking and navigation system designed to simplify a variety of surgical
      applications. For the Humerus application the position in space of the proximal Humerus plate
      is calculated in such manner, which then can be related to the position of the humeral head
      as derived from an image pair. All required proximal screw lengths are determined from these
      two radiographs. From ex-vivo evaluation the Xin1 Humerus System has proven its value in
      terms of accuracy increase as well as time and X-ray reduction. A clear potential for
      improving clinical practice is therefore apparent. The consequent next step is a first
      clinical phase verifying the basic function of the Xin1 system in a clinical context and
      investigating the surgical handling in a hospital environment.

      This clinical trial aims to

        1. validate the Xin1 Humerus system performance in a clinical context.

        2. test the surgical handling of the Xin1 marker in a hospital environment.

      There is no additional time effort required from the patient. All capacitated adults having
      sustained a proximal humerus fracture indicated for plate fixation osteosynthesis can be
      included in the study. The study is limited to 10 patients and 1 year. To minimize the
      patient risk it is suggested in this first study phase to entirely eliminate the system
      feedback to the surgeon during surgery. The system performance is evaluated retrospectively
      by post-processing X-ray images after surgery. The Xin1 system used during surgery is thereby
      reduced to the Xin1 marker clip (REF 100838-00) only.
    
  