
    
      Complications related to airway management are the major contributing factor to morbidity in
      anesthesiology. This risk of complications markedly increases when faced with a difficult
      airway in an obese patient. Pre-oxygenation creates a safety margin by increasing the
      patient's oxygen stores, through a higher functional residual capacity (FRC). When
      pre-oxygenated, the clinician may proceed to intubation after a variable period of apnea,
      while maintaining oxygen saturation over 92%. In non-obese individuals, pre-oxygenation
      allows a non-hypoxic apnea time of eight minutes. In the obese population, however, this
      non-hypoxic apnea time decreases to two to three minutes.

      Different methods of pre-oxygenation have been proposed in order to increase apnea time
      before significant oxygen desaturation. Amongst these methods, the following are of
      particular interest: pre-oxygenation to vital capacity, pre-oxygenation with spontaneous
      ventilation and positive pressure, and pre-oxygenation with elevated head positioning
      ("beach-chair"). These methods have been extensively studied in individuals of normal height
      and weight.

      The main objective of pre-oxygenation is to raise oxygen levels available at the alveolar
      level in order to increase the non-hypoxic apnea time, before a significant desaturation
      occurs. This raised alveolar oxygen concentration can be done by maintaining a higher
      inspired oxygen fraction and by promoting a larger FRC which is the oxygen reserve build
      through the pre-oxygenation phase. In morbid obese patients, these parameters are affected by
      a lower expiratory flow, lower expiratory flow and closing of small radius airways. The final
      result probably come from a more cephalad position of the diaphragm induced by a larger
      intra-abdominal volume.

      Actually, different studies demonstrate the advantage of a beach-chair position and
      non-invasive positive pressure ventilation for pre-oxygenation of obese patients. These
      advantages are shown by a shorter time of pre-oxygenation to obtain an end-tidal O2 > 90 %
      and a longer non-hypoxic apnea time (Sat O2 >90%). Up to date, there is no published data on
      the FRC as a result of different combinations of position and ventilation mode. This study
      will evaluate FRC by helium dilution technique.

      We propose a crossover randomised trial on volunteers waiting for a bariatric surgery. We
      want to compare, in pre-oxygenation situation, without induction of general anesthesia, the
      effect of three positions and two ventilation modes on the FRC measure.
    
  