
    
      ReIMAGINE Prostate Cancer Risk is a multi-centre, prospective, observational, longitudinal
      cohort study of men referred to secondary care with a suspicion of prostate cancer or men who
      are undergoing further tests for prostate cancer staging assessment. Men with a serum PSA
      level of 20ng/ml or less, whose mpMRI scan has been scored as PIRADS/LIKERT score 3, 4 or 5,
      and who have been advised and accepted the need for a targeted and systematic prostate biopsy
      will be invited to enrol.

      Men will be recruited across a number of high-volume National Health Service (NHS) centres
      which already have an mpMRI based diagnostic pathway. All eligible patients referred to
      secondary care with a suspicion on prostate cancer will be considered for screening.
      Potential participants will be identified at the point of referral or routine urology cancer
      clinics. Patients will be approached by the ReIMAGINE study team and consented. The initial
      discussion may be over the telephone Once the consent form is signed, patients will be asked
      to donate blood, urine and three additional samples of prostate tissue (taken at the time of
      their biopsy) for biomarker and Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) analysis.

      Imaging files from the MRI scan will also be collected and stored on the study data
      warehouse. Small sections of tissue will be cut from the standard of care blocks (post NHS
      reporting) and then returned back to the hospital.

      After collection of the cross-sectional biological samples within ReIMAGINE, men will revert
      to NHS standard of care, attending a routine outpatient appointment to obtain the results
      from their biopsy. We will collect healthcare information on study participants during the
      study and three years after their prostate biopsy. Further funding will be explored for
      life-long collection of this data.

      The ReIMAGINE team aim to recruit 1,000 men with a PIRADs/LIKERT score 3, 4 or 5 who are
      undergoing an MRI-directed prostate biopsy. Of these 1,000 biopsies, we anticipate that 60%
      will have any cancer detected on histology (3+3 or greater) giving approximately 400 cases of
      clinically significant cancer (Gleason 7 or more).
    
  