
    
      Background: In-hospital cardiac arrest (IHCA) is a serious adverse event for which
      cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) can be performed to restore circulation. Currently
      survival after IHCA is poor. To assess the success of resuscitation attempts there is a need
      for research that focuses on long-term survival and quality of life. Patient selection for
      CPR, prevention of cardiac arrest and improvement of CPR techniques are crucial for improving
      qualitative survival. To assess the feasibility of this project a single-center retrospective
      cohort study was conducted over a 10-year period in the OLVG hospital. For all patients who
      received CPR survival to discharge was 32% and one-year survival was 22%. This is slightly
      higher than survival reported in contemporary literature. Due to it's design no prognostic
      variables could be derived from this study, however data suggested age and Charlson
      Comorbidity Index could prove useful in predicting long-term outcome. In the consecutive year
      this study was designed.

      Hypothesis: The hypothesis is that one-year survival after IHCA in Dutch hospitals is poor,
      consistent with international literature and our feasibility trial, and survival can be
      improved through selection, prevention and training.

      Objective: The main objective of this study is to assess the one-year survival of patients
      after CPR for in-hospital cardiac arrest. The secondary objectives are to assess quality of
      life and functional status after successful CPR. Furthermore the investigators aim to assess
      if there are patient-related predicting factors for these outcome measures and to assess
      whether outcomes are influenced by hospital-related factors (i.e. CPR training and treatment
      options).

      Study design: The current study has a prospective, observational design, with a 12-month
      follow-up. Patients will be included from January 1st 2017. Patient data collection will take
      place at four time points: T0= directly post-CPR, T1= at hospital discharge or at in-hospital
      death, T2= 3 months after CPR, T3= 12 months after CPR. Clinical data will be collected at
      all time points. Quality of life data will be collected at T2 and T3 by means of validated
      questionnaires. We will assess functional status through questionnaires and link these to
      pre-existing and acquired comorbidities (e.g. stroke). General hospital data and data
      concerning the level of CPR-training will be ascertained at four moments during the first
      year of patient inclusion.

      Study population: An estimated six hundred patients of 18 years or older who will receive CPR
      for cardiac arrest in the participating hospitals. This will include all cases of in-hospital
      cardiac arrest, also including Operation Room (OR), Intensive/Coronary Care Unit (ICU/CCU)
      and Emergency Department (ER). Patients in whom CPR was started before arrival in hospital
      will be excluded.

      Expected results: The main study endpoints are one-year survival and quality of life.
      Secondary endpoints are direct survival and survival to discharge. The first preliminary
      results are expected in the first quarter of 2018. After conclusion of this project the
      investigators of this project aim to develop recommendations that will improve survival after
      IHCA.
    
  