
    
      The Participant has a type of blood cancer and will be undergoing stem cell transplantation.
      Frequently people undergoing stem cell transplantation experience physical and emotional
      symptoms during the course of their hospitalization for stem cell transplantation. These can
      be very distressing to both patient and the family members. The study doctors want to know if
      the early introduction of a team of clinicians that specialize in the lessening (palliation)
      of many of these distressing symptoms may improve the participant overall care.

      This team of clinicians is called the palliative care team and they focus on ways to improve
      the participant pain and other symptom management (nausea, fatigue, shortness of breath,
      anxiety, etc.) and to assist the participant and the participant's family in coping with the
      emotional and social issues associated with your diagnosis. The team consists of physicians
      and advance practice nurses who have been specially trained in the care of patients facing
      serious illness.

      The main purpose of this study is to compare two types of care - standard transplant oncology
      care and standard transplant oncology care with early involvement of palliative care
      clinicians to see which is better for improving the experience of patients and families with
      blood cancers undergoing stem cell transplantation.

      The purpose of this research study is to find out whether introducing patients and families
      undergoing stem cell transplantation to the palliative care team that specializes in symptom
      management can improve the physical and psychological symptoms that patients and families
      experience during hospitalization for stem cell transplantation.

      The study will use a series of questionnaires to measure the participant and the participant
      's caregivers' quality of life, physical symptoms, and mood. Study questionnaires will be
      completed in the hospital or clinic with assistance provided as need.
    
  