
    
      -  There is extensive evidence for molecular heterogeneity in CRC. Studies have revealed
           that intra-tumour heterogeneity can be highly variable within primary tumours or between
           primary and metastatic sites (1). Moreover, tumour heterogeneity can be linked to
           targeted therapies in terms of acquired resistance mutations (2). In the era of
           precision medicine, specific molecular characterization of primary tumour and metastasis
           taking into account the dynamism of the disease and the actual therapeutic target should
           be considered.

        -  Nowadays there is not enough information regarding the immunological characterization of
           CRC metastasis. Especially, few data are available about the effect of chemotherapy and
           targeted drugs on the interplay between tumour and the immune system of the host (3).

        -  Immune system takes part to different phases of tumour growth (4). It is a dynamic
           balance that can be differentially modulated by several agents, resulting in
           immunosuppression or immunostimulation. Becht et al. integrated the molecular
           classification of colorectal cancer with information about their immune
           microenvironment. They identified 2 "immune-high subgroups". The MSI-rich CMS1 group is
           characterized by an immune stimulating contexture while the mesenchymal CMS4 group has
           an immune suppressive microenvironment (5). No data regarding the evolution over time of
           these features are available so far.

        -  Immune therapy represents a promising option for the treatment of an increasing number
           of malignancies. New immunotherapeutic strategies are currently under development and
           will be further studied starting from refractory settings of heavily pre-treated mCRC
           patients. On this basis, a specific immunological characterization of CRC metastasis
           will be relevant to direct future clinical and pharmacological research.

        -  As surgery is a therapeutic option in the treatment of mCRC, a percentage of mCRC
           patients undergo to resection of metastasis before or after medical treatment. These
           tumour samples could be useful to define the immune signature of colorectal metastatic
           disease.

      On the basis of the above reported considerations, an exploratory, prospective, observational
      study is planned for the immunophenotypical characterization of colorectal cancer metastasis
      from pre-treated vs chemo-naive patients.
    
  