
    
      The development of the project will be carried out in the facilities of the Prado clinic in
      the city of Medellín and the Comfamily Clinic in the city of Pereira. Initially to the
      participants who attend by external consultation for assessment by the laparoscopic
      gynecology group that are candidates to perform a laparoscopic hysterectomy, they will be
      given general information about the research in development and its possible participation.
      Later on the day of surgery in the preparation room and before receiving any medication, The
      assigned investigator as assistant to the surgery will explain in detail the protocol of the
      investigation, the commitments acquired by the participant and the possibilities of
      withdrawal of the same, you will obtain the signature and trace of the informed consent. With
      the aim of not delaying the 7 am surgical program, a weekly resident will be assigned to
      inform and fill out the forms of the first patients scheduled for hysterectomy.

      Advance by means of a table of random numbers generated in EPIDAT and that is hidden for the
      researcher. Participants will be assigned to one of the 2 groups, the intervention group will
      receive the treatment scheme with metronidazole 500mg ovules every 12 hours for 5 days and
      the control group will receive a placebo.

      After this in the surgery room and with the participants under general anesthesia, the sample
      will be taken for gram of vaginal discharge, previous marking of the plate, with the initials
      of names and surnames and the patient's identification number, With the use of a speculum and
      applicator the sample will be taken in the sack bottoms or vaginal walls, which will be sent
      to the Prolab laboratory in the city of Medellín and the laboratory of the Comfamily clinic
      in the city of Pereira. for its processing, standardization will be made prior to reading it
      with the staff of both laboratories.

      For the diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis, the Nugent criteria will be used. In this method,
      the morphotypes corresponding to large Gram-positive bacilli, small Gram-negative bacilli and
      curved variable Gram bacilli are quantified. And a value is assigned according to the
      findings. The interpretation of the results is numerical based on the score obtained by
      adding the crosses of the morphotypes of the bacteria present in the vaginal discharge: 7 or
      more points are diagnostic of bacterial vaginosis, from 4 to 6 points is considered
      intermediate and from 0 to 3 is considered normal.

      At the end of the surgical procedure, the investigator will complete the completion of Annex
      1, will go to the pharmaceutical service where he will request the corresponding product to
      the patient. The pharmacy staff will verify the assigned number in the randomization table
      and deliver the medication and the resident will take it to the recovery room with its
      respective formula.

      The assigned investigator will conduct a telephone interview 7 days after the procedure to
      assess the post-surgical evolution, will be questioned about the presence of symptoms that
      may be related to an infectious process. Between 10-15 days of the surgical procedure, the
      gynecologist will perform the post-surgical review in an outpatient clinic to assess the
      evolution of the patient and re-evaluate the result of the pathology. The Gram result of
      vaginal discharge, the pathology and the evolution note made by the surgeon will be reviewed
      with the aim of detecting any diagnosed complication. Finally, 30 days after the procedure,
      the last telephone follow-up will be performed to detect the presence of any infection. of
      the operative site.
    
  