
    
      The Seronegative Spondyloarthritides (SA) are a group of disorders that share certain
      clinical features and an association with the hla-b27 allele, having also overlapping
      features with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).

      Up to 60% of patients have inflammation in the colon or ileum. This is usually asymptomatic,
      but in 5 to 10% of patients with SA, Frank IBD will develop.

      Lesions of the bowel could also be present in the SA patients because of the potential injury
      posed by the NSAIDS, a common used medication in this setting.

      On the other hand, biologics used to treat patients with SA are believed to favorably
      influence the small bowel lesions that are concomitantly present.

      It is the bowel involvement in patients with SA that we propose to characterize, partly
      because there are scant communicated data in the medical literature.

      The design of the proposed study involves performing one full colonoscopic examination
      (including ileoscopy) followed by one capsule endoscopy examination to the patients with SA.
      Prior to these examination, the patency of the gi tract will be tested using a patency
      capsule. If the patency of the gi tract is not confirmed, then the capsule endoscopy
      examination is abandoned.

      Our aim is to explore about 100 patients in three years, thus having a close-to-reality
      "look" into the presence and extent of bowel involvement in the pool of the patients having
      SA; and also to characterize the lesions mainly depending on the treatment received,
      concomitant pathology and the form of the disease. We also aim to identify a relationship
      between the lesions found at colonoscopy and capsule endoscopy, the purpose being the
      possibility to predict one having only performed the other.

      Thus, we hope to identify the therapeutic strategies that are most suited in the management
      of these patients.
    
  