
    
      As demonstrated in the Diabetic Retinopathy Study (DRS), panretinal photocoagulation (PRP)
      reduces the risk of severe vision loss in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy.
      The DRS recommended that PRP treatment consist of 1,200 - 1,600 laser burns 500 µm in size,
      one half to one burn width apart, applied to the peripheral retina in a scatter fashion. Most
      patients who undergo PRP experience discomfort/pain during the procedure. Once present, pain
      can affect the number and quality of burns delivered and can indirectly increase the number
      of sessions required to complete the therapy.This may in turn adversely affect patient
      compliance. Although retrobulbar and peribulbar blocks can provide adequate anesthesia for
      PRP, these anesthetic methods carry rare but serious risks such as retrobulbar hemorrhage.
      Previous studies have explored other ways to reduce discomfort related to PRP, including
      optimization of laser settings, oral and topical analgesics, subconjunctival anesthesia, and
      even acupuncture.

      Currently, green lasers (521 - 532 nm wavelength) are most commonly utilized for performing
      PRP in clinical practice. Yellow lasers (577 nm wavelength) have been of recent interest in
      treating diabetic macular edema with micropulse subthreshold grid photocoagulation, but have
      not been extensively studied in PRP for diabetic retinopathy. Compared to shorter wavelength
      laser, yellow laser comports high transmission through dense ocular media and less light
      scattering than shorter wavelengths which minimizes spot size and reduces thermal spread. The
      limited literature comparing green and yellow laser for PRP in diabetic retinopathy has shown
      that yellow laser requires less power to achieve a retinal burn. In theory this should
      translate into a reduction in perceived pain experienced during PRP, however a comparison of
      green and yellow lasers in this regard has not yet been directly examined and quantified.
    
  