
    
      Esophageal cancer is one of the most difficult malignancies to cure. Surgical resection
      remains the primary treatment for localized esophageal cancer. It increases the chances of
      cure and alleviates the symptoms of dysphagia compared with nonoperative methods. Advances in
      surgical techniques and equipments have made minimally invasive esophagectomy (MIE) more
      popular and wider application since 1990s. During the past two decades, MIE has progressively
      been accepted as an alternative treatment for esophageal cancer around the world. The
      prognosis has some improvement on account of these significant advances in surgical
      techniques and perioperative management, But the prognosis of patients with locally advanced
      esophageal cancer remains rather poor. As a result of surgery alone, the 5-year survival rate
      of about 25% has not changed significantly in several decades.

      Preoperative chemoradiotherapy followed by surgery seems to hopefully improve the survival of
      EC. Nevertheless, the results of different studies were inconsistent. Recently, the CROSS
      trial has demonstrated that preoperative chemoradiotherapy can significantly increased the
      overall survival of patients with EC compared with surgery alone. It should be noticed that
      only 84 cases(23%) of ESCC were enrolled in this trial with potential minimal follow-up of 2
      years, which may be not perfect to evaluate the effect of this combined therapy for this
      tumor type.

      Based on our preliminary study, we have demonstrated the validity and safety of vinorelbine
      and cisplatin-based neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy. Then we are to carry out a clinical trial
      to investigate the effect of this multidisciplinary therapy, by comparing neo-adjuvant
      chemoradiotherapy followed by Mckeown MIE versus Mckeown MIE, pure radical chemoradiotherapy
      in terms of the overall survival time (OS) in patients with Stage IIB or III squamous cell
      esophageal carcinoma.
    
  