
    
      Screening Visit (Visit 1):

      Patient will review and sign the study consent form. They will then be asked to complete
      study questionnaires regarding demographics, medical history, pelvic pain and psychological
      issues.

      Urine will be collected and cultured for bacteria, gonorrhea and chlamydia . It will also be
      analyzed for white blood cells, NO and chemistry.

      There will be a physical exam and prostate massage. During the prostate massage, expressed
      prostatic secretions will be collected and sent to the Male Fertility Lab for analysis.

      Finally, he will be asked to go to the Male Fertility Lab to provide a semen sample.

      Randomization:

      After the subject's urine culture results have been reviewed (patient must be free of urinary
      tract infection to be in study), the Investigational Pharmacy will be asked to randomize the
      patient.

      Pharmacy will then mail the patient's first month's study medication to him. He will also be
      mailed medication/voiding and pain diaries to fill out over the next month.

        1. Month Visit (Visit 2):

           The subject will return to the Urology Clinic about 1 month after his Screening Visit
           (Visit 1). He will first fill out follow-up forms.

           Next, his previous month's empty medication container and completed diaries will be
           collected. A pill count will then be done

           Finally, the subject will receive his second month's study medication and
           medication/voiding and pain diaries.

        2. Month Visit (Visit 3):

           Same as 1 Month Visit.

        3. Month Visit (Visit 4):

      First, the subject will be asked to fill out follow-up questionnaires

      Next, the patient's caregiver will perform a physical exam and prostate massage during which,
      expressed prostatic secretions will be collected.

      Then, his previous month's empty medication container and completed diaries will be
      collected. A pill count will then be done.

      Finally, the subject will be sent to the Male Fertility Lab to collect a semen sample (as in
      Screening Visit).

      12 Month Visit (Visit 5): With the exception of pill count, etc., same as Visit 3.

      Dose:

        -  Active drug: Viagra, 50mg, orally, once a day, for 90 days

        -  Placebo: identically-appearing pill supplied by Pfizer

      Concurrent Therapy:

      _ No concurrent therapy will be offered
    
  