
    
      Methods: A national multicenter cohort of young adults, infected with HIV since birth or
      during childhood, including a common module and a physiopathological module (metabolic,,
      cardiovascular and immunological). A control group of HIV-uninfected young adults is included
      for comparison in the latter module. Patients aged between 18 and 25 years of age, whose HIV
      diagnosis was made before the age of 13 are eligible for ANRS CO19 COVERTE. This cohort is an
      extension of the EPF cohort (ANRS CO10), in which follow-up stops at the age 18, with an
      extension to adults with a HIV diagnosis established before the age of 13. Questionnaires are
      filled out by physicians once a year. Self-administered questionnaires are also carried out.
      Blood sampling and specific biological exams are collected and a biobank constituted. In the
      physiopathological module, specific exams are carried out at inclusion and after 3 years of
      follow-up: metabolic and immunological exams, OGTT, CT-scan and DXA-scan, and cardiovascular
      explorations (carotid intima-media thickness, pulse wave velocity …). An estimated 400
      enrolments during the first 3 years is expected in the common module and an estimated 200
      HIV-infected subjects and 75 uninfected controls is expected in the physiopathological
      module.

      Expected results: The follow-up of young adults in this cohort will bring new data on the
      long term efficacy of antiretroviral treatment and their adverse events, from the metabolic,
      cardiovascular and immunological, point of view, be they linked or not to HIV infection per
      se. This analysis will take into account the characteristics of this population, as compared
      to adults infected during adulthood: an early exposure to HIV and antiretroviral treatment, a
      different social context, difficulties in care, and a different exposure to risk factors for
      adverse events and complications. We will evaluate the impact of the transition to adulthood
      and of the transition from paediatrics to adult departments, on clinical prognosis,
      adherence, professional and schooling integration, sexuality, social life.
    
  