
    
      Sarcopenia is a common complication of chronic kidney disease. Sarcopenia is defined by
      decreased muscle mass or function and is central to the frailty phenotype that is associated
      disability, hospitalization, and death. Sarcopenia is a common and devastating complication
      of chronic kidney disease (CKD). The investigators and others have demonstrated a high
      prevalence of physical frailty among CKD patients not treated with dialysis. Furthermore the
      investigators have demonstrated greater than 30% impairment in lower extremity physical
      performance measures in persons with CKD compared with predicted values. The aging
      demographic among CKD patients will result in a substantial U.S. public health burden
      attributable to sarcopenia. In the year 2000, direct healthcare costs attributable to
      sarcopenia in the U.S. were18.5 billion.

      Sarcopenia is associated with adverse health-related outcomes. Sarcopenia in older adults is
      consistently linked with decreased physical functioning, disability, falls, hospitalization,
      and mortality. Impaired lower extremity physical performance, as measured by objective
      testing, is associated with all-cause mortality in CKD patients not treated with dialysis and
      that these associations are stronger in magnitude than those for traditional risk factors.
      Skeletal muscle is major site of peripheral glucose utilization ameliorating oxidative stress
      and endothelial injury associated with acute post-prandial hyperglycemia. Through these
      mechanisms sarcopenia may contribute to metabolic disturbances of insulin resistance,
      oxidative stress, and endothelial dysfunction leading to cardiovascular disease.

      Mitochondrial dysfunction is central to skeletal muscle dysfunction. Skeletal muscle
      mitochondria are necessary for the efficient generation of energy (ATP) from oxygen and
      normal lipid metabolism. Under normal conditions, muscle efficiently utilizes the majority of
      supplied oxygen such that only 0.2% of mitochondrial oxygen is shuttled into reactive
      oxidative species (ROS). Under pathologic situations there is uncoupling of oxygen
      consumption and ATP generation resulting in increased oxygen consumption and decreased ATP
      production in a process leading to increased ROS and oxidative stress. Uncoupling of oxygen
      and ATP generation directly affects skeletal muscle function. Decreased efficiency of ATP
      generation has been linked to decreased muscle strength and more recently associated with
      decreased gait speed in older adults.

      Magnetic resonance spectroscopy and optical spectroscopy (MRS/OS) provide novel, non-invasive
      and real-time insight into human skeletal muscle mitochondrial function. MRS/OS is a novel
      technique that measures maximal mitochondrial ATP production in-vivo following acute bouts of
      ischemia induced by exercise using phosphorous MRS (31P MRS). The rate of recovery of
      phosphocreatinine after cessation of exercise is used to characterize the rate of aerobic
      mitochondrial ATP resynthesis above that of basal anaerobic glycolytic ATP production. By
      combining this technique with optical spectroscopy post-exercise measuring the transport of
      oxygen from hemoglobin to myoglobin within the muscle the investigators are able to
      accurately determine the ratio of coupling efficiency between of ATP generation per unit of
      oxygen consumption. Skeletal muscle mitochondrial dysfunction measured by ATP generating
      capacity and coupling efficiency has been associated with processes of aging and insulin
      resistance. Furthermore studies in healthy subjects have shown that muscle performance and
      fatigue are linked to the ability to resynthesize ATP rather than lactate concentration.

      Preliminary MRS/OS findings suggest profoundly altered mitochondrial function in CKD
      patients. Previous experimental studies suggest that uremia in dialysis patients affects
      skeletal muscle structure and mitochondrial function. Oxidative damage is highly prevalent in
      CKD, evidenced by increased biomarkers of oxidative stress and changes in glutathione, an
      important antioxidant. Prior small studies in non-diabetic CKD patients suggest impairment of
      ex-vivo mitochondrial function by reductions in mitochondrial enzyme activity. Based on these
      findings investigators used novel, non-invasive, functional MRS/OS assay to characterize
      in-vivo mitochondrial function. Preliminary findings in non-diabetic CKD patients indicate
      markedly reduced ATP to oxygen ratio compared to controls. This finding suggests altered
      mitochondrial energetics as a candidate central mechanism linking metabolic derangements and
      impaired physical function in CKD, and motivate the hypothesis that mitochondrial dysfunction
      is associated with oxidative stress, insulin resistance and impaired physical functioning in
      CKD.

      Exercise may ameliorate mitochondrial dysfunction, insulin resistance and physical
      functioning in CKD. Studies of exercise in non-CKD patients with diabetes and insulin
      resistance have demonstrated exercise-induced improvements in mitochondrial biogenesis linked
      to improved insulin sensitivity as well as decreased mitochondrial oxidative stress. Animal
      studies suggest that exercise stimulates autophagy resulting in removal of defective and
      inefficient mitochondrial leading to a healthy mitochondrial network and improved insulin
      sensitivity.The primary goal of this study is to investigate the impact of combined
      resistance and aerobic exercise on skeletal muscle dysfunction. Given the investigator's
      preliminary data demonstrating strong association of sarcopenia and mortality in CKD,
      effective interventions that can impact physical function are urgently needed to improve
      patient health outcomes.
    
  