
    
      -  The study design is prospective case series. Before treatment, study subjects will have
           their intraocular pressure measured at 8 am, 10 am, 12 pm and 4 pm. They will then take
           acetaminophen 650 mg qid for 7 days and the intraocular pressures again measured at 8
           am, 10 am, 12 pm, and 4 pm. Subjects will then stop the acetaminophen and return one
           week later for one more set of intraocular pressure measurements at 8 am, 10 am, 12 pm,
           and 4 pm. The subjects will receive a reminder, by phone or text message, the day before
           each visit. Although measurement of intraocular pressure is part of routine clinical
           care, multiple intraocular pressure measurements over the course of three different days
           is not.

           -- The subjects will not be masked to the intervention. The person measuring the
           intraocular pressure will be unaware of the purpose of the study, and hence there should
           be no bias in the measurement of the main outcome measure, intraocular pressure.

        -  Treatment will occur for 7 days only, and during that time we will not know if the
           treatment has been successful in lowering the intraocular pressure. The only basis upon
           which a participant would be removed would be if he or she reported adverse effects from
           the study medication before the one week.

        -  The rationale for choosing acetaminophen is that there are data that it may be effective
           in lowering intraocular pressure. The dose chosen for this study (650 mg qid), is a
           dosing regimen that is commonly used for the treatment of pain, and is below the maximum
           recommended daily dose of 3 gm/day. If this dosing scheme does NOT lower intraocular
           pressure, further investigations are not planned; if it does lower intraocular pressure,
           further studies will be performed to find the lowest effective dose.

        -  Acetaminophen has a several decades long safety record as an over the counter medication
           for the treatment of pain. The dose and route of administration proposed is standard.
           Many of the participants will likely have used acetaminophen in the past.
    
  