
    
      BACKGROUND

      The United Kingdom (UK) population is getting older, with those over 65 predicted to reach
      24% by 2037 (Office for National Statistics, 2017). With improved quality of life and
      advances in healthcare, there is increased pressure on services to cater for the wellbeing of
      older adults. UK government states that depression affects one in five older people living in
      the community (UK Government, 2017). Depression is therefore a significant mental health
      condition for older adults and for which effective treatments and approaches are required. As
      such, there is a growing need to tailor psychological therapies to the older adult population
      and for new techniques to be well evaluated.

      'Cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) for older adults' augments traditional evidence-based
      CBT for the older adult population with 'age-appropriate' techniques, developed from lifespan
      developmental models and gerontological theory to help enhance treatment outcomes for older
      adults (Knight & Laidlaw, 2009; Laidlaw, 2010). One technique is the 'wisdom enhancement'
      timeline technique (Laidlaw, 2010, 2015; Laidlaw & Kishita, 2015), which builds on a
      psychological model of wisdom applied to clinical psychology. The technique has roots in
      classical cognitive behavioural techniques but is distinctive in how it uses one's life
      narrative as a resource. The timeline technique can be regarded as an innovative and
      structured way of using peoples' life narratives and experiences in a cognitive-behavioural
      framework to evolve the psychological resource of wisdom and increase mood and coping in the
      present. It is time-limited and present problem focused. The timeline technique is
      recommended in Increased Access to Psychological Therapies Services (IAPT) guidelines for CBT
      for older adults, meaning that it will be routinely used in National Health Service (NHS)
      settings in England. The timeline technique is theorised to improve mood by increasing
      self-acceptance and wisdom. However, the technique has not been specifically tested in
      detail.

      PURPOSE OF THE STUDY

      This study will investigate in detail the 'wisdom enhancement' timeline technique for helping
      older adults with depression develop 'wisdom', self-compassion and improve mood. The study
      will use a single-case experimental design to evaluate the technique's effectiveness and
      mechanisms of change. It will provide a valuable examination of a specific recommended CBT
      technique, where there is a general need for more testing of individual components of
      therapy. The results from this investigation will help inform further developments of wisdom
      enhancement models in clinical psychology and efficacy of CBT for older adults.

      RESEARCH AIM

      The primary aim of this study is to evaluate the 'timeline technique' (Laidlaw, 2015) with
      older adults experiencing mild-moderate depression. This will be achieved by delivering a
      short psychological intervention to older adults using the timeline technique, based on
      appropriate guidelines. Principle research questions:

        1. Does the timeline intervention reduce negative affect?

        2. Does the timeline intervention increase self-compassion?

        3. Does the timeline intervention increase wisdom for managing current difficulties?

      STUDY DESIGN

      This study uses a single case experimental design (SCED) to measure the effects that the
      'timeline' intervention has on mood, self-compassion and wisdom, as measured by structured
      self-report questionnaires and idiographic measures. Older adults experiencing depression/low
      mood will be recruited from NHS primary and secondary care or third sector psychological
      treatment waiting lists.

      SCEDs have long been used in psychology intervention research and are a useful method for
      examining the effectiveness of an intervention on individuals with only a few participants
      (Morgan & Morgan, 2001; Kazdin, 2011). Unlike randomised controlled trials, each participant
      acts as their own control by measuring their baseline state for a period of time before the
      intervention is introduced. Each participant will take part in three phases:

        1. Baseline phase: participants will complete weekly standardised measures of mood and
           daily idiographic measures of mood, self-compassion and wisdom.

        2. Intervention phase: participants will receive a 5 week psychological intervention,
           whilst continuing to complete the baseline measures. This will allow for any observable
           change in mood during the onset of the intervention to be determined.

        3. Participants will complete a single set of follow up measures 1 month after the
           intervention phase ends.

      Participants will also complete standardised measures of mood, self-compassion and wisdom at
      pre-baseline, pre-intervention and post-intervention time points, to allow for further
      between phase testing. Measurement during the intervention phase and at follow up will
      account for effects of the intervention that accrue slowly over time and test if any effects
      are sustained.

      The study adopts an across-participant multiple baseline component which means that each
      participant will be randomly assigned to one of three pre-determined baseline phases of
      differing lengths:

      Group A: 2 weeks Group B: 3 weeks Group C: 4 weeks The multiple baseline design is the most
      frequent design used in psychology single case studies (Smith, 2012) and allows for greater
      control for determining when changes in the target variable are attributed to a specific
      study phase.

      Participants will take part once they are recruited and it is convenient for them to take
      part, rather than needing to all start simultaneously. This is therefore considered a
      non-concurrent multiple baseline design and allows greater flexibility for both researchers
      and participants.

      ADDITIONAL INFO

      This study is taking place as part of the chief investigator's research training and
      qualification for a UK Doctorate in Clinical Psychology.
    
  