
    
      Objectives

      To confirm the safety and possible trends toward efficacy of thalamic deep brain stimulation
      (DBS) targeting the ventralis oralis anterior/ventralis oralis posterior (VOA/VOP) nuclear
      complex in the treatment of subjects with focal hand dystonia (FHD); and to study the
      electrophysiologic properties of neurons in the VOA/VOP complex. Deep brain stimulation DBS
      is FDA approved for Parkinson s disease, Essential tremor, Dystonia (humanitarian exemption),
      Obsessive- Compulsive disorder (humanitarian exemption) but not for focal hand dystonia.

      Study population

      Five adults with focal hand dystonia will be studied.

      Design

      This is a pilot study of 5 subjects with severe intractable FHD whose activities of daily
      living and quality of life are severely impaired. They will be recruited from our clinic and
      referring practices. The subjects will undergo unilateral VOA/VOP DBS implantation, followed
      by programming to optimal parameters. The subjects will be followed at monthly intervals for
      3 months, then every 3 months for 2 years, and then every 6 months until 5 years from the
      start. The safety of the procedure will be the primary outcome of the study. Trends toward
      efficacy will be assessed in several secondary outcomes, the most important ones being the
      change in dystonia severity and a quality of life scores. The electrophysiologic features of
      the motor ventral thalamic neurons will be recorded intraoperatively.

      Outcome measures

      Primary

      -Number and severity of adverse events in the 5-year follow-up period.

      Secondary

        -  Upper extremity sub-score of the Burke-Fahn-Marsden (BFM) scale and Arm Dystonia
           Disability Scale (ADDS) at baseline and every follow up visit

        -  For subjects with FHD type musician s dystonia: Tubiana and Chamagne scale at every
           follow up visit

        -  For subjects with FHD type Writer s cramp: Writer's Cramp Impairment Scale

        -  Improvement on patient reported outcomes evaluated by the SF-12 Health Status Survey at
           baseline and at every follow up visit

        -  Intraoperatory electrophysiologic characteristics of the motor ventral thalamic neurons

        -  Neuropsychological evaluation at baseline, 3 and 12 months post DBS surgery

        -  Dose of botulinum toxin injection required at baseline, 1 and 5 years.

      Exploratory

      - Local field potentials and their response to stimulation (in participants with inclusion
      implanted pulse generator capable of sensing capabilities)
    
  