
    
      Rationale: Surgery and radiation are often used as treatments for brain metastases, or tumors
      in the brain that originate from other parts of the body. It is currently unknown whether
      patient survival or time to progression would experience additional benefits through the
      addition of chemotherapy. Previous research does appear to suggest that a chemotherapy
      regimen may improve outcomes of patients with brain metastases previously treated with
      radiation. The current study further evaluates this research question by providing patients
      with recurrent or symptomatic residual brain metastases with carboplatin and temozolomide,
      two chemotherapy agents. Temozolomide has demonstrated clinical antitumor efficacy against
      malignant gliomas and has been tested with some efficacy against several other types of
      cancer. This drug appears to have less adverse effects compared to other commonly used cancer
      drugs. Recent research indicates that temozolomide also has some efficacy against brain
      metastases. In addition, previous research indicates carboplatin's lack of severe toxicity in
      patients with this disease.

      Treatment: Study participants will be treated with carboplatin and temozolomide. Carboplatin
      will be administered through intravenous infusions. Temozolomide will be given through oral
      pills. Before these drugs are administered, study participants will undergo a pre-treatment
      evaluation with physical and neuropsychological examinations, neuro-imaging, laboratory
      tests, quality of life assessment, and other procedures. Carboplatin will be given for two
      consecutive days. Temozolomide will be taken by study participants daily for five consecutive
      days. Both of these treatment schedules will be repeated every 28 days. Several tests and
      exams will be given throughout the study to closely monitor patients. Study treatments will
      be discontinued due to disease growth or unacceptable adverse events.
    
  