
    
      Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is an autoimmune disease of unclear cause that affects
      primarily women of childbearing age. Patients with lupus have a significantly increased risk
      of developing complications of their blood vessels due to accelerated hardening of the
      arteries (atherosclerosis). These complications include heart attacks and stroke. No drug to
      date has proven to prevent this type of complication in lupus and premature vascular disease
      significantly impacts the quality of life of these patients and enhances their risk of death.

      The thiazolidinediones (TZD) are a class of drugs approved for the treatment of patients with
      type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM); they belong to the family of drugs that activate the
      peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma). They have been proposed to
      have strong anti-atherogenic and anti-inflammatory effects even in patients without diabetes.
      Recent work from our group and others indicates that TZDs significantly improve vascular
      damage, dysfunction of blood vessels and disease activity in mouse models of lupus and
      abrogate atherosclerosis. We recently identified the TZD pioglitazone as an effective drug in
      modulation of vascular function and disease activity in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
      In addition, we have found in mouse models of lupus and in in vitro experiments with human
      lupus cells, that pioglitazone has important roles in modulating immune function and vascular
      manifestations. Furthermore, this drug is not immunosuppressive, adding an additional
      advantage when compared to other medications used in this disease.

      We propose that TZDs could significantly improve blood vessel function and play a role in
      atherosclerosis prevention in human SLE, in addition to modifying lupus disease activity. The
      major goal of the proposed research is to assess the effects of the PPAR-gamma agonist
      pioglitazone in SLE on vascular function and inflammation and on SLE disease activity. The
      results of the study may lead to the characterization of a new therapeutic target with dual
      effects on lupus and its associated blood vessel damage
    
  