
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by both motor and
      non-motor symptoms. Motor symptoms of PD include the clinical triad of tremor, rigidity, and
      bradykinesia, and typically lead to the initial diagnosis. While there is yet no cure for PD,
      medical and surgical therapies have been developed that effectively target the motor symptoms
      of PD. Patients with PD who demonstrate significant motor fluctuations and dyskinesia are
      considered for subthalamic nucleus (STN) deep brain stimulation (DBS) surgery. Therapeutic
      DBS leads to a reduction in pathological neuronal synchronization seen in PD. While
      continuous high-frequency stimulation is effective for ameliorating motor symptoms, the
      investigators hypothesize that different stimulation patterns which are designed to better
      target excessive synchrony in a patient-tailored manner, may result in more efficient and
      effective therapy with fewer side effects. This overarching hypothesis is supported by prior
      foundational preclinical and clinical research. Medtronic has developed proprietary
      technology that allows implantable neural stimulators (INS) to deliver both standard clinical
      electrical stimulation therapy and to record bioelectric data (i.e. local field potentials;
      LFPs) through DBS leads implanted in the brain. Medtronic's 3rd-generation sensing DBS INS,
      Percept PC, is FDA-approved for treating PD and can be used to explore unique biomarkers of
      brain state changes associated with activities of daily living and disease symptomatic
      states.

      This research will use Percept PC INS latent capabilities to deliver research stimulation.
      The proposed research stimulation pattern involves cycling stimulation On/Off across multiple
      electrode contacts. Importantly, all stimulation in this research project will be delivered
      using charge-balanced pulses, in compliance with all FDA safety guidelines including
      frequency (≤ 250 Hz) and charge density (30 µC/cm2/phase). At the conclusion of the research
      study, standard clinical stimulation will be re-activated.
    
  