
    
      Sickle cell anemia is an autosomal recessive disorder and the most common genetic disease
      affecting African-Americans. Approximately 0.15% of African-Americans are homozygous for
      sickle cell disease, and 8% have sickle cell trait. Acute pain crisis and acute chest
      syndrome (ACS) are common complications of sickle cell anemia. Inhaled nitric oxide (NO) has
      been proposed as a possible therapy for the ACS. Anecdotally, NO has been described to
      rapidly improve the hypoxemia and the clinical course of the ACS. Furthermore, a number of
      recent studies have suggested that NO may have a favorable impact on sickle hemoglobin at the
      molecular level and could improve the abnormal microvascular perfusion that is characteristic
      of sickle cell anemia.

      This clinical trial is designed to evaluate the physiologic and molecular effects of inhaled
      NO and a currently available, safe, FDA-approved medication, nitroglycerin, that is a nitric
      oxide donor (i.e., a source of NO after metabolism in the body), in study subjects with and
      without sickle cell anemia. Whole blood will be analyzed to characterize the metabolism of NO
      and NO donors, the molecular interactions between hemoglobin and NO, the duration of effect
      of these therapies on hemoglobin oxygen affinity and other properties of the erythrocyte and
      intracellular hemoglobin (including the solubility of deoxy sickle hemoglobin).

      We also plan to characterize the effect of NO delivery on microvascular perfusion in study
      subjects with and without sickle cell anemia. Measurements in study subjects will be made
      prior to and while receiving either NO, nitroglycerin, or placebo. These perfusion
      measurements will occur at rest and during concentric dorsiflexion exercise. Magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) of lower extremity skeletal muscle enhancement during first passage
      of intravenously injected gadolinium contrast will be used to evaluate regional skeletal
      muscle perfusion. Perfusion measurements will be paired with a [31]Phosphorus Magnetic
      Resonance Spectroscopy ([31]P-MRS) study of the concentration of muscle high energy phosphate
      compounds. Changes in their levels reflect the energy state of muscle and are dependent on
      the adequacy of blood flow.

      This study will allow three major assessments: firstly, the characterization of the
      microvascular perfusion at rest and during exercise in study subjects with sickle cell
      anemia. Secondly, the effects of NO on red cell and hemoglobin function and skeletal muscle
      perfusion in normal study subjects (without sickle cell anemia), and finally, the effects of
      NO on red cell and hemoglobin function and skeletal muscle perfusion in study subjects with
      sickle cell anemia. Our hypothesis is that one or more of these effects could be of potential
      therapeutic benefit to sickle cell anemia patients.
    
  