
    
      Background (brief):

        1. Burden: Approximately 250 million children under 5 years of age in developing countries
           do not reach their full potential due to poverty, malnutrition and lack of a stimulating
           environment. It is estimated that in Bangladesh 44% of the population live below the
           international poverty line, and 36% of children under 5 years are stunted. Bangladeshi
           children showed a significant cognitive deficit as early as 7 months of age compared to
           more affluent children and the deficit grew bigger as children reached 5 years of age.

        2. Knowledge gap: Several studies in developing countries have shown benefits of early
           childhood interventions to development of under-5 children. The curriculum of early
           childhood intervention 'Reach up' has been adapted for Bangladesh and used in 6 trials
           in Bangladesh. All the projects found consistent significant benefits on the
           developmental outcomes of children. Two recent trials were conducted in community
           clinics (CCs), integrating early childhood development (ECD) activities with Govt
           primary health service and there is a need to determine if the intervention can be taken
           to scale.

        3. Relevance:

      Bangladesh Govt acknowledges the need for improving children's development and has agreed to
      collaborate and implement ECD activities at large scale in addition to funding it.

      Hypothesis (if any): We hypothesize that it is feasible to train GoB staff at District,
      Upazila (Sub-district), Union and CC levels and integrate ECD activities in CCs in Bangladesh
      and thereby improve undernourished children's development after a year of intervention.

      Objectives:

        1. To establish an organizational structure for the programme to be sustainable

        2. To establish a mechanism for sustainability at national, district and Upazila levels:
           including training, supervision, monitoring and reporting

        3. To assess the impact on maternal knowledge and depressive symptoms, stimulation in the
           home and child growth, cognition and language in a subsample

      Methods: Undernourished children aged 6-24 months will be identified using mid-arm upper
      circumference (MUAC) by Govt. Health staff in 12 Upazilas of Sylhet and 11 Upazilas of
      Chittagong Divisions. We target to include 554 Community clinics in the programme and train
      approx. 1600 CC staff to deliver the parenting session. We will evaluate a subsample of the
      children through a 'stepped wedge design' to assess the effects of intervention using a
      cluster randomized controlled trial.

      Outcome measures/variables: The main outcomes are coverage, compliance and fidelity of the
      programme. In addition, children's cognitive and language development and behaviour will be
      assessed in a sub-sample.
    
  