
    
      This will be a prospective, randomised, controlled study. All consented patients scheduled to
      undergo elective total knee or total hip arthroplasty under spinal anesthesia will be
      included in the study. A written informed consent will be obtained from all patients
      participating in the study. Patients with contraindications to spinal anesthesia (allergy to
      local anesthetic, coagulopathy, local infection and indeterminate neurological disease) will
      be excluded from the study.

      The patients will be randomised using random number generating software (Research Randomizer
      Version 4.0 ) to undergo either conventional landmark-guided spinal anesthesia (Group C) or
      pre-procedural ultrasound-guided paramedian L5S1 spinal (Group P). Group allocation will be
      concealed by enclosing the codes in a sealed opaque envelope and will be seen by the
      attending anesthesiologist immediately before performing the procedure. Patients will be
      blinded as to their allocated study group.

      In both groups, spinal anesthesia will be performed by one of three consultant
      anesthesiologists (FL, PL, GI), each having performed more than 75 neuraxial ultrasound scans
      prior to the study. On arrival to the anesthesia induction room baseline monitoring
      (non-invasive blood pressure, pulse oximetry and 3 lead ECG) and intravenous access will be
      established. The patients will be then positioned sitting on a level trolley with feet
      resting on a foot rest. They will be given a pillow to hug and requested to maintain an
      arched back posture with an assistant holding the patient to aid positioning.

      In group C, the anesthesiologist will palpate the landmarks after positioning and graded the
      ease of palpation on a 4 point scale (easy, moderate, difficult or impossible) as described
      in previous studies.10 Strict asepsis will be followed throughout the procedure with
      anesthesiologist scrubbed prior to procedure, wearing mask and sterile gloves. The skin will
      be prepped with 2% Chlorhexidine (Chloraprep 3 ml applicator, CareFusion Corporation, San
      Diego, CA 92130,USA) following which 2-5 ml of 1% lidocaine will be used to infiltrate the
      skin. The anesthesiologist performing the spinal technique will be allowed to choose the
      appropriate needle length ( 90 or 119 mm 25 G Whitacre needle, Becton, Dickinson and Company,
      Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, 07417-1880, USA), gauge (25 or 22G), depth and angle of
      insertion. Hyperbaric bupivacaine will be used in both groups. After completion of spinal
      anesthetic injection, and positioning the patient in lateral decubitus, ultrasound will be
      used to identify the interspinous level at which the injection will be administered.

      In group P, a portable ultrasound unit with a curved 2-5 MHz probe will be used for initial
      pre-procedural marking. A paramedian sagittal oblique view of the neuraxis will be obtained
      and the sacrum will be identified, following which the interlaminar space between L5 and S1
      will be noted. At this interspace with the probe positioned to obtain the clearest ultrasound
      image of the anterior complex (ligamentum flavum dura complex- LFD) and posterior complex
      (posterior longitudinal ligament- PLL) possible, a skin marker will be used to mark the
      midpoint of the long border of the probe and the midpoints of the short borders of the probe.
      The medial angulation of the probe will also be noted to guide the insertion of the spinal
      needle. At the same horizontal level as the midpoint of the long border of the probe, the
      midpoint of the line drawn between the two short border midpoints of the probe will be used
      as paramedian insertion point for the spinal needle. A transverse median (TM) view at the
      same level will also be obtained and the midline will be marked. This marking will be used to
      aid the medial angulation of the spinal needle. Both PSO and TM views would be graded as good
      (both LFD and PLL visible), intermediate (either LFD or PLL visible) and poor (both LFD and
      PLL not visible).15 Following skin marking, care will be taken to make sure that the needle
      entry site will be free of ultrasound gel prior to needle insertion. In group P, the
      anesthesiologist will not palpate the landmarks for grading until the spinal injection is
      complete. Spinal anesthesia will be performed in the same aseptic manner as mentioned
      earlier.

      In both groups the anesthesiologists will be given the option to use alternative methods if
      unsuccessful after 3 attempts. For patients in group C another interspinous space could be
      used or ultrasound employed. For patients in group P a midline approach or a conventional
      landmark palpation technique could be used.

      The outcomes will be noted by a single observer for all patients. Due to the nature of the
      study, the observer will not be blinded to the groups. A timer will be used to record the
      various time intervals. Time for identifying landmarks in group C will be defined as time
      from which the anesthesiologist started palpating to identify the landmarks to completion of
      the process as declared by the anesthesiologist. In group P it will be defined as time from
      which the ultrasound probe will be placed on the skin to the anesthesiologist declaring that
      the markings are completed. Time taken for performing spinal anesthetic will be defined as
      time taken from insertion of introducer needle to completion of injection. The number of
      passes, defined as the number of forward advancements of the spinal needle in a given
      interspinous space (i.e. withdrawal and redirection of spinal needle without exiting the
      skin) and number of spinal needle insertion attempts (defined as the number of times the
      spinal needle will be withdrawn from the skin and reinserted) will be noted.10 The number of
      passes and attempts will be recorded either until the completion of spinal anesthetic or
      until the anesthesiologist converts to an alternate technique.

      Incidence of radicular pain, paraesthesia and blood in the spinal needle will also be noted.
      All patients who experienced paraesthesia or radicular pain will be followed over the next 24
      hours and any patients with persistent symptoms will be further evaluated as per department
      protocol.

      In both groups following administration of spinal anesthesia, patients will be positioned on
      either left or right lateral position depending on the site of surgery. After positioning and
      prior to administration of sedation, patients will be asked for their peri-procedural pain
      scores measured using an 11 point verbal rating scale (0=no pain, 10=most pain imaginable)
      and peri-procedural discomfort scores measured using an 11 point verbal rating measured (0=
      no discomfort, 10=most discomfort imaginable). Level of block (loss of cold sensation) will
      be noted 30 minutes after spinal anesthetic injection. Type and dose of sedation (Midazolam
      +/- Propofol infusion) will be left to the discretion of the anesthesiologist.

      Study Outcomes The primary outcome will be the difference in number of passes between the two
      groups.

      Secondary outcomes includes the following,

        1. Number of spinal needle insertion attempts

        2. Time for identifying landmarks

        3. Time taken for performing spinal anesthetic

        4. Level of block

        5. Incidence of radicular pain, paraesthesia and blood in the spinal needle.

        6. Peri-procedural pain

        7. Peri-procedural discomfort score Statistics Based on our previous study with same group
           of consultants done here in CUH, the average number of passes in group C was 6.4 +/-8.6
           (mean +/- SD). We hypothesised that by using pre-procedural paramedian spinal done at
           L5S1, the number of passes could be reduced to 1.5. Fourty eight patients in each group
           will be needed to achieve a power of 0.8 and type 1 error of <0.05. We are hoping to
           randomise 60 patients per group to allow for dropouts. All data will be analysed based
           on intention to treat. Data will be visually inspected for normality. Categorical data
           were analysed using the Chi-square test. Normally distributed parametric data were
           analysed using Students-t test (two groups) or ANOVA (more than 2 groups). A p value of
           less than 0.05 will be considered significant. SPSS version 20 will be used for the
           statistical analysis.
    
  