
    
      Consenting participants will be separated into groups based on current average level of
      physical activity: Active women (complete >75 minutes of vigorous exercise or >150 minutes of
      moderate exercise per week), Insufficiently active women (<75 minutes of vigorous exercise or
      <150 minutes of moderate exercise per week), or Inactive women (no moderate or vigorous
      exercise per week).

      Between time of study enrollment and first ultrasound at start of ovarian stimulation cycle,
      the participants will be sent a link to questionnaires to assess general mental health
      parameters and physical fitness. They will be asked to complete the questionnaire prior to
      first ultrasound visit. At time of first ultrasound, participants who have completed the
      pre-stimulation survey will be randomized into one of two arms depending on their group: the
      active group will be randomized to (A) maintenance or (B) decreased activity arm, and the
      insufficiently active group will be randomized to (C) increased or (D) maintenance activity
      arm, and the inactive group will be randomized to (E) increased or (F) maintenance activity
      arm.

      Also at first ultrasound, participants will be given a wearable heart rate monitor in order
      to track heart rate during the time from ovarian stimulation to first pregnancy test in order
      to monitor compliance to randomized activity level of each participant. The data from the
      monitors will be collected through a central university provided, password protected laptop
      utilizing an app platform. Furthermore, all participants will be asked to complete a daily
      mood, stress, discomfort questionnaire throughout stimulation. Participants will be expected
      to continue recommended physical activity level and questionnaires until day of egg
      retrieval. Wearable monitors will continue to be worn until time of first pregnancy test.
      Within the two weeks after completion of egg retrieval, participants will be sent a follow-up
      questionnaire to assess overall treatment stress and satisfaction with ovarian stimulation
      cycle. Those who completed in vitro fertilization and fresh embryo transfer will be sent a
      second follow-up questionnaire about 1-2 weeks after pregnancy test.
    
  