
    
      In children with abdominal trauma, computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen is considered the
      gold standard for the initial evaluation of solid organ injuries. The major drawbacks to CT
      include risks due to radiation exposure and necessity of transport of the patient. Ultrasound
      without contrast uses safer non-ionizing radiation and can be performed at the bedside,
      however it has been shown to have variable sensitivity and specificity for identifying
      intra-abdominal organ injury. Newer studies using contrast enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) have
      shown promise for improving the sensitivity and specificity of this imaging modality.

      Hypothesis(es) and Aims:

      Hypothesis: Contrast enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) has good sensitivity and specificity as
      compared to a gold standard conventional CT scan for the identification of intra-abdominal
      solid organ injury in hemodynamically stable children with blunt abdominal trauma. Specific
      Aims:

      Primary Aim: To determine the test characteristics CEUS / conventional ultrasound for the
      detection of intra-abdominal solid organ injury, as compared to a gold standard CT scan, in
      hemodynamically stable children with blunt abdominal trauma

      Design:

      This will be a prospective cohort study to evaluate the test characteristics of contrast
      enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) for the detection of intra-abdominal solid organ injury in
      children with blunt abdominal trauma, as compared to a gold standard CT scan. Study subjects
      will be age 0-18 years, presenting with hemodynamically stable blunt abdominal trauma and for
      whom an abdominal CT scan is planned. The exclusion criteria will be a known allergy to the
      ultrasound contrast agent, co-existing penetrating abdominal trauma, or known congenital or
      acquired heart disease. Sample size calculations assume a baseline prevalence of disease in
      approximately 20% of patients receiving a CT scan, and target a sensitivity of at least 95%
      with a two-sided confidence interval precision of 8%, yielding an estimated sample size of
      146 patients. The primary outcome will be calculation of sensitivity and specificity of CEUS
      as compared to a gold standard CT scan.
    
  