
    
      For many patients, the best treatment for tumors in the liver is surgery, which is called
      liver resection. With major liver surgery, there is a chance that you will require a
      transfusion of blood products (either red blood cells or plasma) either during, or a few days
      after surgery. The surgeons at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC) perform a very
      large number of liver resections every year, and have pioneered techniques that minimize
      bleeding during the operation. Even so, liver operations such as the one you will undergo
      have a 30% chance of requiring a transfusion. One technique that has been shown to lower the
      need for transfusions is called "acute normovolemic hemodilution (ANH)". ANH was first
      introduced over 20 years ago, and has been used in many types of operations, including liver
      resection. The studies done on ANH here at MSKCC and at other hospitals suggest that it may
      help conserve blood and lower the risk of you needing a blood transfusion. In fact, a recent
      study completed here showed that patients who received ANH while undergoing a major liver
      resection were half as likely to require a blood transfusion.

      Researchers at MSKCC are conducting a study to determine the best way to assign patients to
      receive ANH. Currently, patients are assigned to undergo ANH based on the amount of liver
      that is expected to be removed (also called 'extent of resection'). We are looking at whether
      assigning patients to receive ANH based on a nomogram more appropriately selects patients who
      would benefit from undergoing ANH. A nomogram is a predictive mathematical tool that uses a
      point system to evaluate each patient's anticipated blood transfusion needs based on the data
      from many previous patients with the same condition(s). Using this method, your risk of
      requiring a blood transfusion will be calculated, and depending on the predicted risk of
      transfusion, you may or may not be selected to undergo ANH. All patients will undergo
      randomization (a computer-generated decision, as in the flip of a coin): half will be
      assigned to the arm using the nomogram-based selection for ANH, and half will be assigned
      based on the planned operative procedure.
    
  