
    
      Long-term mechanical ventilation (MV) is a risk factor for acquisition of bacterial pneumonia
      because the tracheal tube by-passes the natural mechanisms of airway protection, and
      particularly epiglottis and trachea-bronchial mucosa. Acute respiratory failure and potential
      associated organ dysfunctions require that MV patients are sedated and sometimes in strict
      horizontal supine position. Sedation and conscience alteration do not permit to swallow
      oro-pharyngeal secretions, and horizontal position favors bacterial colonization and
      secretions stagnation in the posterior part of the pharynx. These aspects favor iterative
      inhalation of oro-pharyngeal secretions around the cuff of the tracheal tube. The cuff, which
      principal objective is to permit the pressurization of lower respiratory tract during the
      inspiratory phase by preventing air leak around the tracheal tube, allows a certain degree of
      protection of the tracheal tree against micro-inhalations. Using diagnostic criteria of
      Ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP) based on distal protected samples, their incidence is
      around 10 per 1,000 MV-days in medical-surgical ICUs. These VAP are associated to an
      attributable mortality around 25%. A number of recommendations have been established to
      prevent VAP occurrence. The 45° semi-recumbent positioning of the patient 's reduces
      gastro-esophageal reflux and VAP incidence. This result is limited by the fact that a 45°
      inclination is not routinely obtained in every patients (30° would not give the same result )
      and that several studies have shown conflicting results. The continuous suction of the
      secretions above the cuff is very logical but its efficacy has been challenged, partly
      because technical failures due to the occlusion of the aspiration system and because gravity
      prevents the tracheal secretions clearance. The selective decontamination of the digestive
      tract is effective particularly to prevent early VAP, but is limited by its potential role in
      the global increase in resistance to antibiotics. Oral decontamination with Chlorhexidine or
      iodine polyvidon reduce VAP. Using drugs which increases the gastric pH to prevent stress
      ulcers favors gastric bacterial growth and VAP. Using gastric pro-kinetics or post-pyloric
      enteral nutrition do not reduce VAP. Alternate prone positioning, has not been proven to
      improve the outcome of ARDS patients but reduces the incidence of VAP, potentially because it
      favors pharyngeal drainage through the mouth. The use of heat and moisture exchangers to
      limit airways drying with ventilation, seems better than heat humidifiers to reduce VAP.
      Recently, the use of an positive end expiratory pressure (PEEP) was shown to reduce the
      volume on inhalations around the cuff. Finally, mask ventilation, by preserving upper airways
      integrity, in those cases it allows a sufficient ventilation replacement, is associated to a
      substantial reduction in VAP.

      In those patients ventilated through an oro-tracheal tube, the rational use of the above
      mentioned techniques allows to reach a low VAP incidence rate, but not to completely
      eradicate these infections.

      The cuffs of the tracheal tubes which are currently recommended and routinely used in
      long-term (more than 2 days) ventilation are made of polyvinyl chloride and have a high
      volume cylindrical shape, allowing a low pressure after inflation, designed to cover the
      tracheal wall without inducing ischemic lesions of the tracheal mucosa. Such lesions are
      responsible for laryngeal edema - a clinical stridor after extubation occurs in around 12% of
      patients -, and rarely for granuloma and stenosis which induce sequelae which are disabling
      and/or difficult to repair with surgery. The use of tube coated with antiseptics is currently
      under investigation. Protection against tracheal lesions induced by the tracheal tube
      requires a regular and frequent assessment of the cuff pressure over the day and night time.
      Recent experimental studies showed that these cuffs are bad protectors against
      micro-inhalations around the cuff. Several companies provide us with new polyurethane cuff
      tubes, which physical characteristics are associated - in VITRO, on animal tracheas, and
      during general anesthesia to a better tightness than polyvinyl chloride cuffs. They also
      provide us with conic shaped cuffs, made out of either PVC or polyurethane. Authors found
      that the Hi-Lo and the SEALGUARD cuffs have similar capabilities to prevent against methylene
      blue leakage, and others did not find a preventive effect of the pressure control of the
      Hi-Lo cuff against VAP. A reduction of early VAP was observed in one series after cardiac
      surgery.

      Our hypothesis is that the tracheal tubes with a polyurethane and/or a conic shaped cuff are
      associated with a lower colonization of the tracheal tree during the days following tracheal
      intubation, than tubes with a cylindrical polyvinyl chloride cuff. The patients will be
      allocated to randomized clusters into four groups : 1) cylindrical PVC cuff, 2) cylindrical
      polyurethane cuff, 3) conic PVC cuff and 4) conic polyurethane cuff. In the four groups, the
      tubes will be inserted with the conventional technique of tracheal intubation under general
      anesthesia and direct laryngoscopy, inside the ICU. The tube cuff will be immediately
      inflated to a 25 cm of water or at the plateau pressure level of the ventilator in case it is
      higher than 25 cm of water according to the current recommendations. The tracheal tube will
      be connected to the ventilator, set in a volume or pressure control mode with a minimal PEEP
      of 5 cm of water.

      The research will be conducted according to the protocol, following the good clinical
      practices and current recommendations about MV and Intensive Care practices proposed by the
      French Society of Intensive Care Medicine (www.srlf.org) and the European Society of
      Intensive Care Medicine (www.ESICM.org).

      Principal endpoint(s) : quantitative assessment of bacterial colonization in the
      oro-pharyngeal (above the cuff) and tracheal (below the cuff) secretions at 2 hours (H2), 1
      day (D1), D2 and D3 after intubation. The collection of the secretions above and below the
      cuff will allow to document the origin of the tracheal bacteria. The bacterial quantity at
      each sampling will be compared between the patients groups to establish the role of the cuff
      in the antibacterial protection of the lower airway.

      The oro-pharyngeal and tracheal samples will be performed 2 hours after oro-pharyngeal
      application of Chlorhexidine and a tracheal aspiration. Bacterial cultures will be done on
      standard media and the quantitative cultures will be carried out by serial dilution of the
      samples.

      Secondary endpoints :

      VAP occurrence : the diagnosis of VAP will be based on the positive results of a protected
      specimen brush (over 103 cfu/mL) or a broncho-alveolar lavage (over 2 % infected cells or
      over 104 cfu/mL). Distal bronchial samples will be performed under fiberoptic bronchoscopy
      when several of the following criteria suggestive VAP will be present, corresponding to a
      CPIS score at least equal to 6 : fever, new chest X-ray opacity, hyper-leucocytosis, arterial
      oxygenation alteration.

      Cross-over cluster randomization : an individual randomization is almost impossible to
      achieve, because of the emergency setting of any decision of tracheal intubation in the ICU.
      Therefore we chose to ascribe random periods during which every tracheal tubes of the ICU
      will be those of the study protocol for the given period. The random plan will be different
      in each participating ICU. Each ICU will have to perform periods of 10 patients. Each ICU
      intend to recruit 10 patients in periods of around 2 months. The physicians in charge of the
      patients will be kept blind of the bacteriological samples results. This will prevent them to
      modify their clinical practices according to these results and particularly to influence
      their clinical suspicion of VAP and/or stridor.
    
  