
    
      Outcome measurements were taken at before (baseline) and at the end of Ramadan (after Ramadan
      fasting) on body composition, metabolic profile (fasting plasma glucose, insulin, total
      cholesterol, HDL-c, LDL-c, triglycerides, and HOMA-IR), serum leptin and adiponectin, ratio
      of leptin to adiponectin in 27 healthy men (19-31 years) Muslim in Bangkok, Thailand.

      Subjects Twenty-nine subjects fulfilled inclusion criteria including: age 19-40 years, Muslim
      men fasted completely, and no known of any metabolic-related diseases. Subjects with diseases
      and/or intake of any medication and dietary supplement, smoking, and alcohol drinking were
      excluded. After Ramadan fasting, 27 subjects completed the study.

      The study protocol was approved by the Ethical Review Committee for Research Involving Human
      Research Participants, Health Science Group, Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, Thailand (COA
      no. 136/2558).Written informed consent was obtained from all subjects prior to enrolling to
      the study. Subject's anonymity was preserved.

      Study design Research visit was conducted at Faculty of Allied Health Sciences, Chulalongkorn
      University, Bangkok, Thailand at before (earlier days of Ramadan) and after (third week of
      Ramadan) to collect the outcome measurements including anthropometry, body composition,
      metabolic profile, serum leptin and adiponectin levels, and ratio of leptin to adiponectin.
      The dietary intake of 2 weekday and one weekend day and physical activity were recorded each
      week during Ramadan in food record booklet. Energy intake and macronutrients composition
      including carbohydrate, protein and fat will be analysed by registered dietitian.

      Anthropometry and body composition measurements Weight, Body Mass Index (BMI), and percent
      body fat were measured at baseline (week-0) and the end of Ramadan fasting period (week-4).
      Body weight, and percent body fat mass were assessed using a constant current source with a
      high frequency current (50kHz, 500μA)-bioelectrical impedance analyzer (BIA) (MC-980MA body
      composition analyzer, TANITA corporation, Tokyo, JAPAN). The subject was requested to dress
      in light attire and bare feet. The 8 polar electrodes were positioned so that electric
      current was supplied from the electrodes on the tips of the toes of both feet and the
      fingertips of both hands, and voltage is measured on the heel of both feet and the near side
      of both hands. Body Mass Index (BMI) was calculated as weight/height2 (in kilograms per
      square meter). Waist and hip circumferences were measured by using a standard rounded tape at
      a point right above the iliac crest on the mid-axillary line at minimal respiration (for
      waist) and in a horizontal plane at the level of the maximal extension of the buttocks (for
      hip) to the nearest 1.0 cm.

      Metabolic profile measurements Fasting blood samples were taken from vein puncture at before
      and after a period of Ramadan fasting. Separated serum samples were stored at - 80o C until
      analyses were performed. After withdrawal, blood samples were collected to determine the
      metabolic profile including plasma glucose, total cholesterol, high density
      lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-c), and triglycerides (TG) by enzymatic method while serum
      insulin levels were analyzed by Chemiluminescence. Low density lipoprotein-cholesterol
      (LDL-c) was estimated by using the Friedewald equation (LDL-c = [total cholesterol] - [HDL-c]
      - [TG]/5).22 Additionally, HOMA-IR was measured as fasting serum insulin (µIU/mL) x fasting
      plasma glucose (mmol/L)/22.5.23

      Serum leptin and adiponectin measurements Serum leptin and adiponectin levels were assayed at
      the laboratory at Faculty of Allied Health Sciences, Chulalongkorn University. Serum leptin
      was measured using a commercially "Human Leptin Standard ABTS ELISA Development kit"
      (Peprotech, Inc., Rocky Hill, NJ, USA, Cat. no: 900-K90) at a wavelength of 405nm with
      correction set at 650nm, while serum adiponectin was measured using "Adiponectin (human)
      ELISA kit" (Enzo Life Sciences, Farmingdale, NY, USA, Cat. no: ALX-850-377) at a wavelength
      of 450nm with correction set at 630nm. Both serum leptin and adiponectin were measured by the
      enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and were carried out according to the manufacturer's
      procedure.

      Statistical Analysis Data were expressed as frequency or percentage for descriptive; mean ±
      standard error mean (SEM), mean percentage change (% change) ± SEM for the
      continuous-normally distributed data; and median (range) for continuous-non normally
      distributed data. Paired student t-test, two related sample (Wilcoxon) test were employed for
      comparison of normally distributed and non-normally distributed data, respectively.
      Differences were considered as statistically significant for two-tailed of probability value
      or P less than 0.05. All analyses were performed using SPSS, version 16.0 (IBM, Chicago, IL,
      USA).
    
  