
    
      Patients with substance use disorders are continuously at risk for relapse and other
      disruptive life events, which may lead to lapses in antiretroviral treatment and subsequent
      viral rebound, thereby increasing their level of infectivity. Behaviors that place others at
      risk for HIV transmission such as sharing drug paraphernalia and unprotected sex may also
      increase during these periods of social and behavioral instability.

      Various biomedical, behavioral, and structural interventions have been used to prevent lapses
      in HIV care or minimize their impact when they occur. A potentially transformative strategy
      would be the one that makes novel use of ubiquitous technology and the existing clinical
      workforce to provide highly-effective, tailored support to the patients at greatest risk, at
      the time and place it is needed the most.

      This study has 2 phases:

      Phase I has been completed and it was an observational study, not a clinical trial. Patients
      who volunteered were recruited to use the mobile phone app to enter data, but it was not
      intended to improve their health or health care. The data collected during phase 1 will be
      used to inform the intervention in phase 2, where the study team hope to use the system to
      improve patient care.

      Phase 2 will conduct a single-arm implementation study (with historical controls) of A-CHESS
      when implemented in 2 high-volume HIV clinics, providing evidence describing the
      effectiveness and durability of an mHealth strategy for maintaining viral suppression among
      patients with substance use disorders treated with ART.

      The long-term goal of this project is to develop a comprehensive mHealth system that
      identifies the critical time-varying determinants of lapses in HIV care for substance using
      patients, and translates these diverse inputs into actionable, patient-specific alerts to
      clinical providers. This goal will be achieved by adapting and implementing an existing
      mHealth intervention, A-CHESS, which might improve HIV care for patients with substance use
      disorders through two mechanisms. First, existing A-CHESS services will improve treatment
      adherence by enhancing self-determination (i.e., intrinsic motivation, competence and social
      relatedness). Second, through new functionality incorporating predictive analytics with
      patient-level data, A-CHESS will identify moments when patients are at the highest risk for
      antiretroviral treatment failure, allowing clinic-based staff to provide targeted
      interventions that maximize the efficiency of care coordination resources.

      If successful, this project would translate important individual and neighborhood-level data
      into timely and clinically-relevant knowledge that is accessible to the HIV care team,
      representing a major step forward in our ability to support patients with complex needs.
    
  