
    
      Research questions This project as a whole aims to understand the affordances of
      video-consultations. The general research question is: What are the interactional affordances
      of video-consultations compared to traditional consultations with respect to the goals and
      tasks the participants achieve and the dilemma's or problems the participants (aim to) solve
      in their talk?

      Methodology The project involves a comparison of face-to-face and video-mediated
      consultations through the lens of affordances.

      Data Baseline parameters, the Big Five survey, and details on experience and affinity with
      video consultation and (social) media use are obtained by means of a questionnaire. The
      patients are offered video-consultation as an option, so all video-consultation data involve
      patients with a certain level of openness and willingness towards the medium. The first set
      of data will consist of the recordings of 25 face-to-face and 25 videoconsultations of
      physicians with patients who have had a cancer resection, were discharged from the hospital
      and have a follow-up 'visit' in which the pathology results of the resection are reported.
      The reason for using video consultations for this group is that the patients would optimally
      benefit from not having to travel to the hospital, because the patients recently underwent
      surgery and are still recovering. These consultations solely consist of talk (no physical
      examination), so video consultation is possible here. Other medical departments have already
      implemented video consultations for similar reasons. All surgeons are in a similar stage of
      their career and the patients are recorded only once during follow-up consultation after
      surgery. The video-consultations are conducted through "Facetalk", video-interaction
      software. The physicians are trained to use this software and do about 3 to 4
      videoconsultations per week. The face-to-face consultations are recorded with two camera's.
      The video-interaction data consist of recordings of the physician's screen during the
      consultation and a video-recording of the physician in the physical environment (sitting at a
      desk), capturing the physician's body and head movement to and away from the
      video-interaction screen (e.g., towards a second computer screen with the patient's file).
      The main applicant is already acquainted with the setting through the observation of
      video-consultations from within the physician's office.

      In addition to the video-recordings, brief surveys will be conducted with patients and
      physicians after the consultation to measure satisfaction with the consultation. Informed
      consent for the study and related education will be sought from both the patients and the
      surgeons. The participants will also be asked for permission to archive the videorecordings
      for future research on authentic communication. The recordings will be stored in a safe at
      the Centre for Language Studies, Radboud University. Single episodes will be saved
      occasionally on the researchers' computer for the benefit of the study (data session). These
      episodes will be removed again as soon as possible. The participants will be anonymized in
      the transcripts and any publication and conference presentation that may follow from this
      study. Anonymization is achieved through functionalities in Windows Movie Maker (drawing
      effect) and Audacity (tone adaptation). Rendering participant unrecognizable means that the
      audience (of a presentation/ readers of an article) would not be able to recognize
      participants without prior knowledge of the hospital, the department etc. These adaptations
      do not affect the value of the material because non-verbal behavior (head shakes, gestures)
      and the talk are still understandable in combination. It is acceptable and common in the
      academic domain that recordings shown at conferences and in publications are anonymized.

      Before the patient is resigned from the hospital after surgery, the surgeon will ask the
      patient whether the patient prefers a f2f or video consultation. Then, the patient will be
      asked by the doctor whether the patient gives permission to be approached for participation
      in the study. If yes, the patient information will be mailed to the patient to read and
      consider at home. Permission (including signature) can be e-mailed to the researcher or given
      to the doctor in person prior to the consultation. After that, the doctor will also give
      permission and sign. It is possible at any time for the participants to withdraw from the
      study and have the video consultation interrupted. To withdraw from the study they should
      e-mail the main researcher of the project. This is explained in the patient information.

      Method The analysis will be qualitative (micoanalytic) and iterative. The main method is
      multimodal conversation analysis. Conversation analysis has a long tradition of research
      based on the rendition of talk and interaction in terms of written transcripts of the audible
      cues. The video mediated and face-to-face interactions will be compared. This means that
      phenomena observed in the video-mediated consultations will be compared to equivalent actions
      and practices in the face-to-face consultations, both verbal and non-verbal. Relevant
      phenomena are likely to be the opening of the conversation (checking the technology), the
      design of questions (use of more lexical tokens than deixis), particular gestures, specific
      repair sequences due to technical trouble etc.). The analysis will be descriptive and will
      result in recommendations for doing videoconsulting.

      All talk will be transcribed according to CA conventions . Software like ELAN may be used for
      the synchronization of multiple video data and for the annotation of (fragments of) the video
      data.
    
  