
    
      In Western society, the most common causes of chronic nonischemic mitral regurgitation (MR)
      is myxomatous degeneration of the valve.Unlike pressure overload, where fibrosis reduction
      and renin-angiotensin system (RAS) blockade is beneficial, the dynamics of extracellular
      matrix homeostasis in volume overload produce minimal changes in collagen content. It is for
      this reason that RAS blockade is not beneficial in patients and in animal models with pure
      volume overload of MR. In particular, we have shown that ACE inhibition, which increases
      cardiac interstitial bradykinin-resulting in a reduction in collagen production and
      activation of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-is particularly harmful in volume overload.
      Further, we showed that MR in the dog is marked by an early and persistent decrease in LV
      interstitial collagen and MMP activation, as well as the expression of bradykinin. Thus,
      therapies targeted at matrix reduction may exacerbate the disease process by decreasing the
      collagen connections between cardiomyocytes.

      Another important pathophysiologic mechanism in the adverse LV remodeling in MR is the
      adrenergic nervous system and inflammation. It is of interest that we and others have found
      increased adrenergic drive to be an important early mechanism in the volume overload of MR in
      dogs and MR in patients. This response can be attributed to the early recruitment of preload
      reserve in adaptation to the volume load. In fact, beta1-adrenergic receptor (AR) blockade
      improved LV remodeling, attenuated matrix degradation, and improved LV and cardiomyocyte
      function in the dog with MR. Increased adrenergic stimulation can also lead to the generation
      of reactive nitrogen species and TNF-alpha that, in turn, can activate MMPs, thereby
      perpetuating the cycle of matrix degradation and adverse LV remodeling.

      The investigators hypothesize that MR in humans is characterized by adrenergic overdrive,
      reactive nitrogen species, and an antifibrotic phenotype that relate to the severity of
      adverse LV remodeling prior to surgery and outcome after valve repair.

      Aim 1. To show that regional stress and strain of MR relates to indices of adrenergic
      efferent innervation and function of the LV myocardium. LV tissue will be analyzed for
      innervation density, catecholamine content and reuptake, and beta1- and beta2-AR density.

      Aim 2. To define the extent and nature of reactive nitrogen species production in LV
      myocardium and determine whether peripheral plasma measurements correlate with myocardial
      origin. LV tissue and plasma will be analyzed for the extent of protein thiol oxidation and
      protein tyrosine nitration and myeloperoxidase and xanthine oxidase activities.

      Aim 3. To show increased expression of antifibrotic factors in LV myocardium and that
      peripheral plasma measurements correlate with myocardial origin and whether these factors
      correlate with functional recovery by MRI. LV tissue will be analyzed for MT1MMP, MMP-1,-2
      and -9, bradykinin type-2 receptor, AT1 and AT2 receptor, collagen type II and III and plasma
      will be analyzed for collagen breakdown products.

      Currently, there is no recommended therapy for the pure volume overload of mitral
      regurgitation, these studies will define the unique molecular mechanisms that will lead to
      new targeted therapy to attenuate the remodeling and delay the need for surgery and improve
      surgical outcomes.
    
  