
    
      Omalizumab represents a new therapeutic approach for IgE-mediated disease. Omalizumab is an
      anti-IgE recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody designed to treat IgE-mediated disease by
      reducing the concentration of free IgE antibody in subjects.

      The safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of single and multiple doses
      of Omalizumab have now been studied in more than 2000 patients. Omalizumab compared to
      placebo has been demonstrated to reduce the number of asthma exacerbations, reduce the
      concomitant medication burden, improve the symptom severity and improve quality of life in
      phase III studies in the treatment of patients with allergic asthma, perennial allergic
      rhinitis and seasonal allergic rhinitis. For further information the reader is referred to
      the investigator brochure.

      Allergic (IgE-mediated) asthma is characterized by the presence of IgE antibodies against
      common allergens. When allergen cross-links specific IgE bound to high-affinity IgE (FceRI)
      receptors on the surface of basophils and mast cells, proinflammatory mediators are released
      that trigger and perpetuate airway symptomatology. Omalizumab, an anti-IgE mAb, binds to the
      Fc region of all forms of circulating IgE, regardless of IgE specificity, preventing
      IgE-mediated responses, and downregulating FceRI expression on mast cells and basophils. The
      efficacy and tolerability of omalizumab have been demonstrated in patients with
      moderate-to-severe (IgE-mediated) asthma. Clinical benefit with omalizumab is observed when
      serum free IgE levels are reduced to 50 ng/mL or less. Omalizumab dosing is based on
      pretreatment total serum IgE level and body weight, and calculated using a dosing table.
      Omalizumab binds to IgE to reversibly form IgG-IgE complexes. In binding, omalizumab pushes
      the reaction toward the IgG-IgE complex, which is incapable of binding to IgE receptors,
      thereby suppressing free IgE and reducing the clinical symptoms of allergic asthma. However,
      although the causal role of IgE in allergic disease is well established, the relationship
      between free IgE and clinical symptoms of asthma has not been accurately quantified. Recent
      study demonstrated that omalizumab and free IgE concentrations are correlated with clinical
      outcomes. In non responder to omalizumab the clinical symptoms show random fluctuations
      around baseline without any tendency toward improvement despite adequate suppression of free
      IgE. In these patients it may be the ratio of specific IgE to total IgE or inter-patient
      variability in the expression of FceRI on effector cells that define whether the patient will
      respond or not to omalizumab.

      This current study is designed to evaluate the mechanisms of responsiveness to omalizumab
      measuring the free IgE, specific IgE and the level of FceRI expression on the effector cell
      and the correlation to clinical response.

      To further characterize the patients' phenotype we will also evaluate fraction of Nitric
      Oxide in expired air (FE-NO) levels and eosinophils percentage in induced sputum before and
      at the end of the study.
    
  