
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Demonstrate that prophylactic, neoadjuvant, androgen-deprivation therapy (NADT) and
           whole-pelvic radiation therapy (WPRT) will result in improvement in overall survival
           (OS) of patients with "unfavorable" intermediate-risk or "favorable" high-risk prostate
           cancer compared to NADT and high-dose prostate (P) and seminal vesicle (SV) radiation
           therapy (RT) using intensity-modulated RT (IMRT) or external-beam RT (EBRT) with a
           high-dose rate (HDR) or a permanent prostate (radioactive seed) implant (PPI) boost.

      Secondary

        -  Demonstrate that prophylactic WPRT improves biochemical control.

        -  Determine the distant metastasis (DM)-free survival.

        -  Determine the cause-specific survival (CSS).

        -  Compare acute and late treatment-adverse events between patients receiving NADT and WPRT
           versus NADT, P, and SV RT.

        -  Determine whether health-related quality of life (HRQOL), as measured by the Expanded
           Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC), significantly worsens with increasing
           aggressiveness of treatment (i.e., Arm 2, NADT + WPRT).

        -  Determine whether more aggressive treatment (Arm 2, NADT + WPRT) is associated with a
           greater increase in fatigue (PROMIS Fatigue Short Form) from baseline to last week of
           treatment, and a greater increase in circulating inflammatory markers (IL-1, IL-1ra,
           IL-6, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, and C-reactive protein).

        -  Demonstrate an incremental gain in OS and CSS with more aggressive therapy that
           outweighs any detriments in the primary generic domains of HRQOL (i.e., mobility,
           self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression).

        -  Determine whether changes in fatigue from baseline to the next three time points (week
           prior to RT, last week of treatment, and 3 months after treatment) are associated with
           changes in circulating cytokines, mood, sleep, and daily activities across the same time
           points.

        -  Collect paraffin-embedded tissue blocks, plasma, whole blood, and urine for planned and
           future translational research analyses.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to moderate- to
      high-risk groups as listed in the Disease Characteristics of this abstract, type of
      radiotherapy boost (IMRT vs brachytherapy [Low-dose rate (LDR) using PPI or HDR]), and
      duration of androgen-deprivation therapy (short-term [6 months] vs long-term [32 months]).
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      All patients receive neoadjuvant androgen-deprivation therapy comprising bicalutamide orally
      (PO) once daily or flutamide PO thrice daily for 6 months, and luteinizing hormone-releasing
      hormone (LHRH) agonist/antagonist therapy comprising leuprolide acetate, goserelin acetate,
      buserelin, triptorelin, or degarelix subcutaneously (SC) or intramuscularly (IM) every 1 to 3
      months beginning 2 months prior to radiotherapy and continuing for 6 or 32 months.

      Radiotherapy begins within 8 weeks after beginning LHRH agonist/antagonist injection.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo high-dose radiotherapy of the prostate and seminal vesicles
           using intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT)* or 3D-conformal radiation therapy
           (3D-CRT)* once daily, 5 days a week, for approximately 9 weeks. Patients may also
           undergo permanent prostate implant (PPI) brachytherapy or high-dose rate brachytherapy
           (iodine I 125 or palladium Pd 103 may be used as the radioisotope).

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo whole-pelvic radiotherapy (WPRT)* (3D-CRT or IMRT) once daily,
           5 days a week, for approximately 9 weeks. Patients may also undergo brachytherapy as in
           arm I.

      NOTE: * Patients undergoing brachytherapy implant receive 5 weeks of IMRT, 3D-CRT, or WPRT.

      Patients may undergo blood and urine sample collection for correlative studies. Primary tumor
      tissue samples may also be collected.

      Patients may complete the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC), the PROMIS-Fatigue
      Short Form, and the EuroQol (EQ-5D) quality-of-life (QOL) questionnaires at baseline and
      periodically during treatment. Patients who participate in the QOL portion of the study must
      also agree to periodic blood collection.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year, every
      6 months for 3 years, and then yearly thereafter.
    
  