
    
      Study Treatments: Epsilon aminocaproic acid (EACA) vs. standard prophylactic platelet
      transfusions.

      Study Title: Randomized Trial of Epsilon Aminocaproic Acid versus Platelet Transfusions for
      the Prevention of Bleeding in Thrombocytopenic Patients with Hematological Malignancies.
      (PROBLEMA trial: PRevention Of BLeeding in hEmatological Malignancies with Antifibrinolytic
      agents (epsilon aminocaproic acid).

      Phase: Randomized Phase 2

      Eligible Population: Adult patients with acute or chronic thrombocytopenia in the setting of
      hematological malignancies.

      Summary and Study Rationale: Compare EACA to standard prophylactic platelet transfusion for
      the prevention of bleeding in thrombocytopenic patients with hematological malignancies.

      Study Design: prospective, randomized, controlled trial.

      Study Endpoints: The primary endpoint is to compare the proportion of patients who develop
      major (grades 3-4) bleeding in each arm.

      Diagnosis and Main Inclusion Criteria: Age > 18 with hematological malignancies. Acute or
      chronic thrombocytopenia with platelet counts < 20 x 10â¹/L.

      Number of Patients: 100 patients, 50 patients in each arm

      Duration of Patient Participation: 6 months

      Approximate Duration of Study: 3 years

      Dosage and Administration:1,000 mg twice a day orally

      Prohibited Medications/Treatment: Hydroxyurea and procoagulant agents including DDAVP,
      recombinant Factor VII or prothrombin complex concentrate are prohibited in patients
      receiving EACA.

      Safety Evaluations: Clinical assessment once weekly during the first 30 days and then monthly
      for 6 months, complete blood count and bleeding score twice weekly the first 30 days, and
      then according to standard of care or at discretion of treating physician.

      Statistical Analysis

        -  Population Analysis

             -  Intention to treat (ITT) population: The ITT population includes all patients who
                are randomized to the study. Patients will be stratified and analyzed according to
                the treatment to which they were assigned.

             -  Safety Population: The safety population includes all patients who have received at
                least 1 dose of EACA. Patients included in the safety population will be analyzed
                according to the treatment they received.

             -  Per-protocol Population: The per-protocol population includes all patients who are
                randomized, receive at least one dose of study drug, and have no major protocol
                violations that could be expected to impact response data.

        -  Study Endpoints

             -  Primary Endpoint: is to compare at the end of the study, the proportion of patients
                with major bleeding during the study period among patients randomized to receive
                either EACA or standard of care prophylactic platelet transfusions.

             -  Secondary Endpoints include:

                  -  Proportion of patients with any bleeding during the study period in each arm

                  -  The total number of units of platelets transfused in each arm at the end of
                     the study

                  -  Quality of life as measured in each arm before the study and at the end of the
                     study

                  -  Safety in each arm

        -  Sample Size: This randomized, open-label phase II study is designed to compare the
           proportion of patient with major bleeding ever noted during the study. Patients will be
           assigned to receive prophylactic EACA (experimental arm) or prophylactic platelet
           (standard of care) in a 1:1 fashion. Previous studies suggest that the proportions of
           patients with major bleeding will be expected to be 8% and 30% in experimental arm and
           standard of care arm, respectively. With one sided Fisher's exact test, the sample size
           of 45 patients in each arm will achieve a power of 80% at the significance level of 5%
           to test whether prophylactic EACA can prevent major bleeding better than the standard of
           care. After adjusting for a 10% drop out rate, the actual required sample size will be
           50 patients per arm. Therefore, the total sample size of the study will be 100 patients.

        -  Efficacy Analysis

             -  Primary Endpoint Analysis will be performed using a one-sided Fisher's exact test
                to compare the proportions of patients with major bleeding during the whole study
                between the two arms. The significance level is set at 0.05. This primary analysis
                will be based on the ITT population.

             -  Secondary Endpoint Analysis: one-sided t-test will be used to compare the total
                number of any bleeding episode noted during the study between the two arms.
                Two-sided t-test will be employed to compare the total number of units of platelets
                transfused at the end of the study between the two arms. Appropriate statistical
                tests (Chi-square test, t-test, Wilcoxon's rank sum test, etc.) will be conducted
                to compare the each score of the quality of life between the two arms before the
                study and at the end of the study, respectively. The change of each score of the
                quality of life from before the study to the end of the study will also be compared
                between the two arms. The safety in each arm will be also compared with Fisher's
                exact test. The analyses of secondary endpoints will be performed on the ITT
                population and the significance level will be kept at 0.05 for all tests.

        -  Safety Analysis: All patients receiving at least 1 dose of study drug will be considered
           evaluable for safety. Patients will be analyzed for safety according to the treatment
           which they received. Listings of laboratory test results will also be generated, and
           descriptive statistics summarizing the changes in laboratory tests over time will be
           presented. Exposure to study drug over time will also be summarized. The adverse events
           incidence rates, as well as the frequency of occurrence of overall toxicity, categorized
           by toxicity grades (severity) will be described for each treatment arm and be compared
           between two arms using two-sided Chi-square test or t-test.

        -  Quality of Life Analysis: Quality of life and health outcomes measures are being
           collected using EuroQoL instruments before the study and at the end of the study. Means
           and medians of raw scores of these questionnaires will be summarized for each treatment
           group for each domain and be compared between the two arms with t-test or Wilcoxon ranks
           sum test.

        -  Interim Analysis: Three interim analyses are planned after 11 patients in each arm have
           been randomized and their results have been obtained. Each interim analysis will focus
           on the primary endpoint, the proportion of patients with major bleeding ever noted
           during the study. To maintain an overall Type I error rate of 0.05 (1-sided), an O'Brien
           Fleming approach will be used which requires a 1-sided p-value < 0.001 at the first
           interim analysis (at 25% of total sample size). If this boundary is not crossed, then
           the study will continue and the second interim analysis will be conducted at 50% of the
           total sample side which requires a 1-sided significance level of 0.004. If this boundary
           is not crossed at the second interim analysis then, the study will continue and a third
           interim analysis will be conducted at 75% of the total sample side which requires a
           1-sided significance level of 0.019. If this boundary is not crossed, the final primary
           analysis will be performed after completing 100% of the sample size using a 0.043
           one-sided significance level.
    
  