
    
      This will be a pilot study that looks at the effect of exercise, while receiving
      anthracycline therapy, on mitigating the cardio toxic effects of anthracyclines as assessed
      by serial echocardiographic strain analysis.

      Potential participants will be identified during chart review in advance of a routine clinic
      visit or during a routine clinic visit with a provider. Individuals will be approached by the
      provider or study team to determine willingness to learn more about a study for which they
      may be eligible. Discussions regarding study participation will take place privately and
      individuals will be provided with the Institutional Review Board (IRB) approved consent form.

      In addition, potential participants may contact the study team directly. This contact may be
      in the form of telephone, email, etc. Initial discussions regarding study participation may
      take place by phone, email, etc., and individuals may be provided with the IRB approved
      consent form and other IRB reviewed and approved materials (e.g., Patient Handout), as
      applicable.

      In all cases, as much time as is needed to consider study participation will be allowed to
      possible participants; resulting in multiple phone calls, visits, emails, or other
      communication, as necessary. For individuals who choose to take part, informed consent will
      happen as per the consent process.

      Patients will be recruited from the Johns Hopkins Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center,
      Sibley Memorial Hospital and the community. The investigators anticipate that among roughly
      60 subjects approached for enrollment, 30 will be part of the final study. Participants who
      agree to participate will be asked to provide written consent. Participants will be
      randomized by an online system to one of the following two groups in a 1:2 ratio. Group
      1(Usual care group) will receive a fitness tracker and flyers that reference the American
      College of Cardiology/American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) guidelines for exercise and
      physical activity for the general population. In addition to fitness tracker and flyers,
      Group 2 (10,000 steps group) will receive additional messages and phone calls for motivation.
      This group of participants will also be asked to take part in 30 minutes of continuous
      exercise daily as part of their intervention.

      For motivation, messages will be sent to study participants in group 2 via the messaging
      center in the Under Armour application three times a week. With the application, study
      participant will receive a phone alert and an email message to which they may respond if
      needed. The frequency of messaging will be increased for participants who fail to meet their
      goals for three consecutive days. In addition to the Under Armour application, participants
      will be provided with a log sheet for recording their daily steps, whether 30 minutes of
      continuous activity daily was completed and the type of the activity done for the 30 minutes.
      Group two study subjects will also receive a weekly call to assess for side effects and
      provide additional encouragement. Log sheets will be collected during oncology clinic visits
      and the aforementioned intervention will be continued for the duration of their chemotherapy
      treatment. Group 1 study participants will be assessed for side effects through a phone call
      every 4 weeks.

      For the study, women will be given an Under Armour band that will monitor daily steps, amount
      of sleep and heart rate. Participants will be asked to download the Under Armour application
      to their mobile phones so the data from their bands can be synced with the application daily.
      For the intervention, study subjects will be asked to achieve a goal of 10,000 steps a day
      and to engage in 30 minutes of continuous exercise every day and this can be any form of
      exercise.

      All patients who agree to participate will be invited to the Johns Hopkins Hospital medical
      campus where all the testing will be performed. The investigators expect to complete the
      study in 9 months.

      Study participants who agree to participate will have the following assessments performed at
      baseline:

        1. A Cardiopulmonary Exercise Stress Test done using the standard protocol and supervised
           by an exercise physiologist.

        2. A 2D echocardiogram. The echocardiogram will include assessment of strain using speckle
           tracking and tissue Doppler and the determination of systolic ejection time. All
           patients routinely have an echocardiogram performed prior to the initiation of
           cardio-toxic chemotherapy such as doxorubicin (Adriamycin), trastuzumab (Herceptin) and
           pertuzumab (Perjeta), however, for the study, strain analysis will be performed off line
           on the images obtained during the clinically indicated baseline echocardiogram.
           Echocardiograms will be performed by experienced sonographers and on the same model echo
           machine to reduce variability.

        3. Bone densitometry assessment via a Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry to measure total and
           regional body composition in the frontal plane to determine bone, fat and fat-free mass.
           The Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry scan takes about 8-10 minutes. The total radiation
           dose is approximately 1 millirem, which is very small.

        4. Muscle strength will be measured using a hand grip tool.

        5. Habitual activity levels will be assessed using the Rapid Assessment of Physical
           Activity questionnaire, which categorizes activity levels on a scale from 1-7 (sedentary
           to active).

        6. Quality of life will be assessed with the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast
           survey

        7. Fatigue level will be performed with the Multidimensional Fatigue Symptom
           Inventory-Short Form

        8. All patients routinely have blood work collected, and as part of this research protocol,
           the investigators will also collect blood to determine baseline tumor markers (
           high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, Insulin-like growth factor 1, interleukin -6,
           interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor alpha, leptin, adiponectin, estradiol, DNA
           extraction, lymphocyte telomere length) and cardiac biomarkers (high sensitivity
           troponin, troponin, pro-brain natriuretic peptide). The investigators will also collect
           and store blood in order to keep open the possibility of doing a more extensive study to
           look at any future genes that might be related to the phenotypes in this study (cancer,
           cardiomyopathy, exercise response, etc.).

        9. Cardiac history will be obtained at recruitment, including clinical risk factors for
           heart disease (hypertension, diabetes and smoking history) and participants will be
           evaluated throughout the study for any cardiac symptoms especially those of Heart
           failure.

      All of the above assessments will all be performed at baseline and repeated within 2 weeks of
      the women completing their anthracycline-based chemotherapy. The investigators will also
      track the clinical echocardiograms obtained at 12 months, but these results are not required
      for the study.

      Other studies: Serum troponin levels will be checked with each cycle of chemotherapy. Height
      will be measured upon recruitment and weight and blood pressure will be measured at the time
      of each echocardiogram.
    
  