
    
      Arteriovenous fistulas (AVFs) are the preferred type of vascular access for dialysis, but
      many of them fail to mature. Despite concerted efforts to improve surgical AVF outcomes
      during the past 20 years, many new AVFs fail to mature, even after interventions to salvage
      them (assisted maturation). Postoperative ultrasounds of immature AVFs frequently demonstrate
      decreased flow with narrowing at the anastomosis . Surgically created AVFs typically have a
      90o angle at the anastomosis, yet computational fluid dynamics suggest that an anastomotic
      angle <30o improves the flow hemodynamics. Therefore, there has been great interest in novel
      AVF technologies to limit vascular injury and improve flow dynamics and maturation rates. The
      new technology evaluated herein (endovascular AVF (endo-AVF) has the potential to achieve
      these goals and reduce the cost of vascular access care.

      Endo-AVF, a novel per-cutaneous technique of AVF creation, was approved by the FDA in 2018,
      and has been used in U.S. hemodialysis patients . In contrast to the surgical technique (the
      current standard), this non-surgical approach (1) minimizes vascular injury at the time of
      AVF creation and (2) creates a channel between the artery and vein with an angle approaching
      0o. These two features provide a scientific rationale for superior maturation compared with
      that of surgical AVF Investigators will perform a single-center, prospective pilot randomized
      clinical trial. Investigators will recruit 80 patients who have advanced chronic kidney
      disease or on hemodialysis with a catheter ,who there pre- operative Ultrasound showed they
      are eligible to surgical or endo-vascular AVF. Participants will be randomized to one of two
      groups: an surgical AVF intervention group that will undergo a routine surgical fistula
      creation, or an endo-vascular AVF intervention group will undergo per-cutaneous fistula
      creation . Participants will be followed for 2 years.
    
  