
    
      The role of regenerative therapies has gained more importance due to increased number of SCI
      in the wake of recent anti-terrorism operations by the armed forces and non-availability of
      any curative treatment for this category of patients. The promising results of preliminary
      clinical trials have proved that adult stem cells especially multipotent mesenchymal stromal
      cells can be safely injected and well tolerated and have shown functional improvement in SCI
      patients. The successful treatment in these patients will not only improve functional status
      of these otherwise debilitating patients, but can also reduce the burden on health care
      facilities. Mesenchymal stem cells have been shown to promote anatomical and functional
      recovery in animal models of SCI by promoting tissue sparing, axonal regeneration, and
      remyelination. Therapeutic effects of MSCs are primarily due to the secretion of soluble
      factors and the provision of extracellular matrix that provide protection and support repair.
      MSC are attractive candidates for transplantation into human patients because they can be
      easily harvested, expanded and banked, or derived directly from the patient allowing for
      autologous transplantation, obviating the need for immune suppression. In this study patients
      suffering from sub-acute and chronic phase of spinal cord injury shall be included. Patients
      will undergo detailed screening through MRI and motor and sensory assessment by ASIA score.
      Further evaluation will include electromyography (EMG) and tests for
      electroneurophysiological assessment like nerve conduction velocity (NCV) will also be done.
      Bone marrow aspiration will be done from iliac crest of the patients, followed by mononuclear
      cells (MNCs) separation by density gradient centrifugation. MNCs will be washed and cultured
      in tissue culture flasks. After 48 hours non-adherent cells will be removed from culture.
      Medium will be changed twice weekly till MSCs reach 70-80 % confluence. At that point MSCs
      will be harvested and after microbiological and other quality control testing the cellular
      preparation will be diluted to final concentration and infused by intrathecal injection.

      Primary outcome measure is safety which will be determined by clinical evaluation by two
      independent neurologists during one month of hospital stay after receiving treatment course.

      Secondary outcome measures will include American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA) impairment
      scale and NCV/EMG.
    
  