
    
      The proposed study is a one center open-label randomized controlled clinical trial.Coronary
      Intensive Care of one hospital in the city of Curitiba, PR, Brazil will be assessed.

      Consenting eligible subjects will be randomized to either the intensive insulin infusion
      therapy group (ITG) or the conventional therapy group (CTG).

      This particular insulin infusion was adapted of a protocol has been used before in patients
      who underwent to cardiothoracic surgery and its efficacy has been reported in the literature.

      The control group will be selected following the same set of inclusion and exclusion
      criteria. Patients will be randomized to receive SC regular insulin 4 times daily (before
      meals and bedtime) or every 6 hours if they are NPO .

      Data will be collected for history of diabetes, heart disease ; hypertension; hyperlipidemia;
      Current smoker; Cardiac treatment (Aspirin, Beta Blockers, ACE inhibitor/A2RB, Nitrates,
      Statin, Fibrate) Diabetes treatment(Insulin, Metformin, Sulphonylureas) Data will be collect
      for Baseline BGL , A1C level, Troponin, CPK, CKP-Mb, K, Creatinine. Classify Infarct type :
      Anterior/anteroseptal, Inferior, Non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction, Not
      classified Cardiac intervention : PTCA , Thrombolysis,No reperfusion, Heparin or
      low-molecular weight heparin.

      Subjects allocated to ITG will be placed on Grady Health System protocol, and those in CTG
      will follow the sliding scale nomograms. Insulin replacement will start during first 24h of
      admission. Patients will be followed during all hospital stay, but only at ICU the CIII and
      SC insulin replacement will be compared. After ICU discharge they will follow they will be
      followed by their physician with recommendations to keep blod glucose<180mg/dL.

      Patients will be followed up to 90 days after hospital discharge with phone call.Subjects
      will be contacted to obtain information regarding the occurrence of cardiovascular events
      following discharge. If the subject is not contactable, the next of kin and/or the subject's
      general practitioner would be contacted. Where no information could be obtained, a request
      will be made to the Department of Births and Deaths.
    
  