
    
      The majority of studies with PMBL patients pinpoint the importance of being able to identify
      primary chemo refractory patients at an early stage, in order to be able to improve their
      prognosis. Indeed, a biomarker such as circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) monitoring would be of
      great help to better assess the therapeutic response and offer an individualized care given
      the frequent positive residual uptake of the mediastinum at end of treatment. Indeed, ctDNA
      can be detected with Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS).

      The hypothesis of this study is that it would be helpful to prospectively compare the
      predictive value of ctDNA versus PET on the capacity to detect primary refractory patients
      after 2 or 4 cycles of first line chemotherapy.

      To date, there are no prospective studies reporting the evolution of the tumor clone under
      treatment or after obtaining complete remission in PMBL. The establishment of this
      prospective, multicenter, ambitious and original pilot project will make it possible to
      structure the analysis of tumor DNA circulating within these centers caring for patients with
      lymphomas within LYSA group.

      The notion of minimal residual disease (MRD) has shown its interest in follicular lymphomas
      and mantle cell lymphomas. The level of sensitivity of NGS-type approaches on the one hand
      and the informativeness of the recurrent mutations recently described on the other hand
      constitute two elements for reconsidering the problem of MRD in PMBLs. Molecular MRD by
      analysis of circulating tumor DNA could constitute a new marker for monitoring response to
      treatment in addition to PET-CT and be useful as a tool for non-invasive tumor sequencing at
      diagnosis and at relapse, in order to to determine the eligibility for possible targeted
      therapies (based on the inactivation of mutated genes) or immunotherapies.

      This study will evaluate the prognostic value of obtaining a quantified complete molecular
      response (RMC) by analysis of free circulating DNA (ctDNA) after 2 and 4 cycles of first-line
      chemotherapy (C2 and C4) for the treatment of PMBL, and that of positron emission computed
      tomography (PET) performed at the same time, on overall survival and progression-free
      survival.

      The investigators will describe 3 different populations of patients included in the study:

        1. Patients with "negative" plasma DNA at diagnosis (defined by the absence of somatic
           mutation detectable at diagnosis by ctDNA analysis)

        2. Patients with "positive" plasma DNA at diagnosis (defined by the presence of at least
           one somatic mutation detectable at diagnosis by ctDNA analysis) and whose plasma DNA
           becomes "negative" after 2 cycles of chemotherapy

        3. Patients with "positive" plasma DNA and whose plasma DNA remains "positive" after 2
           cycles of chemotherapy For these 3 patient profiles, we will perform comparisons, search
           for correlations with different variables and perform univariate and multivariate
           statistical analyzes.
    
  