
    
      STUDY DESIGN This is a prospective, observational, multicenter, population-based incidence
      cohort study which will enroll cases of IBD (CD, UC, or indeterminate colitis) diagnosed in
      adults over 18 months in Spain.

      In addition, each incident case that gave his/her informed consent, will be followed up for
      12 months to determine changes in phenotype or disease location, the need for
      immunosuppressive and biologic treatments, and the need for hospital admissions and surgery
      during the first year after diagnosis.

      Samples of blood, urine and stool will be collected during the study visits.

      To achieve the aims this study will be Split in two studies.

        1. Epidemiology study to achieve aims 1 and 2.

        2. Characterization "omics" study to achieve aims 3, 4 and 5.

      CASES DETECION

      Case detection In Spain, health care is performed mostly by the public health services.
      According to recent data, approximately 15% of the Spanish population has private health
      insurance (Informe Sanidad Privada: Aportando Valor. Análisis de situación 2014 (Report on
      Private Health Care: Providing Value. 2014 Situation Analysis); available at:
      https://www.fundacionidis.com/wp-content/informes/informe_analisis situac_2014_0.pdf). In
      addition, of those persons having private health insurance, only about 15% make exclusive use
      of it. For these reasons and taking into account the specific characteristics of IBD, the
      risk of underestimating the incidence of IBD considering only cases seen in public health
      centers would be of little relevance. Therefore, this study will be conducted at centers
      providing public health care within the National Health System.

      To conduct this research project, an IBD specialist who is a member of GETECCU has been
      selected from each Autonomous Community, who will include patients from their health area.

      Each participating investigator will confirm the diagnosis at the time of entering patients
      in the study and 3 months later to assure this diagnosis and the phenotypic characteristics
      of the disease, and thereby have greater diagnostic accuracy. External monitoring of incident
      cases included in the registry will also be performed by review of cases selected at random
      by the research team of Hospital Universitario de la Princesa.

      DEFINITIONS

        -  Disease location and phenotype: IBD location and phenotype will be defined according to
           the Montreal classification.

        -  Time to diagnosis: It will be defined as the time from the first medical consultation
           made by the patient after onset of symptoms to the diagnosis of IBD.

        -  Population center: The type of population center at the patient's birth and at diagnosis
           of IBD will be recorded. Whether the population center of origin of the patient is
           considered rural or urban will be based on the classification of the National Statistics
           Institute (INE) of each municipality.

        -  Socioeconomic level: Socioeconomic level will be assessed through different variables,
           such as the patient's educational level (primary education or lower, secondary
           education, higher education or equivalent), occupational status (self-employed,
           employee, unemployed, retired), professional status (nonsalaried or salaried) and type
           of working hours (full time or part time).

        -  Number of cohabitants: The number of cohabitants in the patient's home during childhood
           (up to 16 years) and at diagnosis of IBD will be recorded.

        -  Smoking: Smoking status will be categorized as "nonsmoker", "smoker", or "ex-smoker",
           and will be considered at the time of diagnosis of IBD. Patients will be considered
           "smokers" if they have a smoked more than 7 cigarettes per week for at least 6 months or
           smoked at least 1 cigarette in the 6 months prior to diagnosis. Patients will be
           considered "ex-smokers" l if they quit smoking at least 6 months before diagnosis.
           Patients will be considered "nonsmokers" if they never smoked or did so in a very small
           amount or occasionally.

        -  Treatments: Treatments received by the patient in the 12 months since diagnosis of the
           disease will be included, provided they were received for IBD. Only the first
           prescription of each therapeutic group will be recorded.

        -  Changes in phenotype: Changes in phenotype will be considered as the appearance of new
           lesions not present at diagnosis subsequent to the initial tests performed to determine
           disease extent and severity. In these cases, the phenotype, the complication leading to
           classification of the patient in a different phenotype and date of occurrence of the
           complication will be recorded.

        -  Hospital admission Hospital admission occurring during the first year from diagnosis of
           the disease will be included. The date of admission, date of discharge, if related or
           not to IBD and the cause of admission.

        -  Surgical procedures: The surgical procedures performed on the patient since diagnosis of
           IBD (including those performed before knowing the patient had IBD and which led to its
           diagnosis), the indication for surgery and the date of surgery will be recorded. An
           emergency surgical procedure will be considered as any surgery performed within 24 from
           admission of the patient to the emergency department. An elective surgical procedure
           will be considered as any procedure performed subsequent to the first day of admission
           and by the usual surgical team.

      DATA COLLECTION

      Epidemiology study:

      Demographic data (age, sex, smoking), family history of IBD, socioeconomic characteristics,
      IBD type, pattern, and location and presence of extraintestinal manifestations at diagnosis
      will collected from each patient. The occurrence of complications (fistulas, stenosis,
      abscesses), changes in disease location, treatments for IBD, surgeries for IBD, and hospital
      admission during the first year since diagnosis will also be recorded.

      Characterization "omics" study Samples of blood, urine and stool. Date of collection and
      number of samples.

      STUDY VISITS

        -  Visit 0 (baseline): inclusion of patient in the study and collection of socioeconomic
           data and on diagnosis of IBD. Collection samples of blood, urine and stool.

        -  Visit 1 (month 3): confirmation of IBD diagnosis and updating of data related to
           treatment, changes in phenotype, hospital admissions, and surgery. Collection samples of
           blood, urine and stool.

        -  Visit 2 (month 12): confirmation of IBD diagnosis and updating of data related to
           treatment, changes in phenotype, hospital admissions, and surgery. Collection samples of
           blood, urine and stool. End of study.
    
  