
    
      Study Objectives

      The objectives of this study are to evaluate whether incorporating a simple low-cost, low
      resource intervention into routine diabetic care in General Practice is effective in
      producing a sustained change in activity levels across significant numbers of patients. Even
      if the change in activity level is small on an individual patient level but is widespread
      across the practice's diabetic population then the intervention will be of value. The primary
      outcome will be measured using a validated self reporting questionnaire (SPAQ-Scottish
      Physical Activity Questionnaire) to measure changes in the amount of exercise undertaken.
      During routine diabetic care a wide range of information is recorded on the clinical system
      in part to satisfy QoF (Quality and Outcomes Framework) requirements it will be possible to
      further analyse the dataset by parameters such as age, sex and social class as well as seeing
      whether there is a change in blood pressure, weight, lipid profile and HbA1C (glycosylated
      haemoglobin- a measure of medium term diabetic control). The intervention is simple and if
      effective could form part of the routine ongoing care of Type II Diabetics. If extended over
      a longer period it might be possible to extract data relating the intervention to illness and
      death rates.

      The delivery of an intervention, from a known Health Care Professional in a familiar setting,
      at an interview where the patient's expectation is to receive advice and hopefully therefore
      be receptive to that advice, with regular reinforcement as part of routine care may mean that
      the initial intervention can be straight forward. This study seeks to answer this question by
      deliberately choosing written information which was in an unsuccessful arm of a previous
      study ~ the Time2Act study.

      The original study design was to record baseline activity levels in the target population
      with an appropriate assessment tool, carry the intervention and then record any changes in
      activity levels and biometric and biochemical parameters at intervals . This could have been
      considered as an audit and part of 'normal care' and therefore some investigators might argue
      that formal patient consent was not required. However following discussions with the team at
      Queen Mary's University of London (QMUL) this would weaken the study as it would be difficult
      to assess the effects of any confounding factors. The presence of a control group would make
      the study more valid. A randomized controlled trial (RCT) would have been the ideal design
      but constraints of time and outcomes measured by a questionnaire would have required a larger
      than practical study of long duration. A Case Control study was therefore chosen and will act
      as a pilot for follow up work.

      Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria

      All Type II diabetics over 18 attending the Diabetic Annual Review (DAR) will be eligible to
      be included in the research. The DAR is offered between 3 and 12 months from initial
      diagnosis. This will exclude newly diagnosed diabetics who might have undergone DESMOND
      courses. Type II diabetics under 18 are followed up by the paediatric team and would not
      normally be called for review in the practice. Other exclusion criteria relate to conditions
      where the patient is either unable to understand the advice given or physically unable to
      follow it. Patients with dementia who are physically able to participate will not be excluded
      as long as consent can be obtained from them or their next of kin or legal representative.
      Input from their General Practitioner (GP) in the surgery will be valuable here.

      Consent

      Written consent will be sought from all participants. Consent will be obtained by the site
      investigator Dr J D Hill following a written invitation. They will be an opportunity for
      individuals to discuss the study face to face with Dr Hill or the registered GP. The GPs will
      have had information about the study in writing as well as discussed it at a Practice
      meeting.

      The benefits of activity should be available to all diabetics and it is important that
      patients with limited understanding are not excluded. Consent would therefore be sought from
      their responsible carer e.g. someone who hold power of attorney or similar instrument.
      Pre-notification lists will be passed to the registered GP prior to invitations being sent
      out to allow them to exclude inappropriate patients e.g. terminally ill. The main researcher
      has experience in assessing capacity in his full time work as a General Practitioner.

      Risks, Burdens and Benefits

      To a degree there is some risk to participants in both arms of the study. The intervention
      group who will be encouraged to increase their activity levels could be construed to be at
      risk from injury from unaccustomed exertion (e.g. muscle aches) or it may reveal an
      underlying undiagnosed pathology (e.g. angina). The advice leaflet has been carefully
      designed to provide a graded increase in activity to minimize these risks and participants
      will have the opportunity as the study is based in their surgery to seek advice regarding any
      unexpected symptoms.

      For the duration of the study the control group will receive 'normal care' in all respects
      including general advice to increase activity and access to information from Diabetes UK.
      They may perceive this as a lower level of care. Both groups will have increased contact with
      the surgery during the study which will be organized in such a way to minimize intrusion.

      The benefits are expected in two phases. Initially the intervention group should see a
      positive health return on their increased activity which will then be rolled out as part of
      normal care across the whole patient population.

      Confidentiality

      Data handling within the surgery is subject to tight controls overseen by the nominated
      Caldicott guardian and the practice is compliant with the regulations attached to the IMT DES
      (Information Technology Direct Enhanced Service) which is regulated by West Sussex PCT.
      Information will be held on the secure Clinical System. Staff handling patient information
      will have access to this data as part of their normal duties and will be subject to NHS codes
      of confidentiality. For statistical analysis off site patients surgery number (not NHS
      number) will be used as an identifier. The only way to trace this back to an individual would
      be to have access to the password protected Surgery system. Information which comes to light
      during the study indicating a serious risk will be fed back to the main investigator and
      thence to the registered GP.

      Investigator as General Practitioner

      During the study period patient contacts will take place where it may be clinically
      appropriate to encourage exercise to a study participant. One's primary responsibility is for
      patient care independent of the study so advice will not be withheld but any written
      information given will be from organizations such as Diabetes UK and not the study leaflet.
      Normal care will therefore be maintained. At the end of the study future practice will be
      guided by the results.
    
  