
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (recommended phase 2 dose, RP2D) of lenalidomide,
      when given in combination with fixed-dose durvalumab. (Phase 1) II. To assess the safety and
      tolerability of the lenalidomide/durvalumab regimen, and accompanying dose modification plan,
      by evaluation of toxicities including: type, frequency, severity, attribution, time course
      and duration. (Phase 1) III. To evaluate the anti-tumor activity durvalumab (MEDI4736) as
      single agent therapy and as part of combination therapy (+lenalidomide); activity assessed by
      overall response rate (ORR). (Phase 2)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate and assess response duration and survival probabilities (overall and
      event-free). (Phase 2) II. To summarize and assess toxicities by type, frequency, severity,
      attribution, time course and duration. (Phase 2) III. To assess clinically meaningful
      reduction in pruritus (CMRP) in patients with CTCL (critical quality of life measure). (Phase
      2)

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify the malignant CD4+ T cells within the skin microenvironment. II. To
      characterize the spatial and functional relationship of malignant T cells with other immune
      cells, their expression of key immune checkpoints and correlate with response.

      III. To identify aberrantly expressed micro(mi) ribonucleic acid (RNA)s involved in cutaneous
      T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) and messenger (m)RNAs that may predict response and/or
      treatment-related toxicity.

      IV. To evaluate whether or not the identified miRNAs are involved in regulating key immune
      checkpoints.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of lenalidomide followed by a phase II
      study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms,

      ARM I: Patients receive durvalumab intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats
      every 28 days (+/- 3) for up to 13 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive durvalumab IV over 1 hour on day 1 and lenalidomide orally (PO) once
      daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 (+/- 3) days for up to 13 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 12 months.
    
  