
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the predictive value of the circulating tumor DNA for disease-free
      survival/progression-free survival in patients with advanced head and neck carcinoma (HNC)
      and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To correlate the levels of plasma tumor DNA with the salivary tumor DNA. II. To correlate
      the mutations found in the circulating tumor DNA with the mutations in the tumor tissues.

      III. To evaluate the association between presence and absence of circulating tumor DNA
      mutation with the tumor burden assessed by using the radiological findings and pre-treatment
      fludeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET)-derived metrics: metabolic tumor
      volume (MTV), maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax), total glycolytic activity (TGA).

      IV. To quantify tumor-specific exosomes from plasma. V. To evaluate the utility of
      cancer-derived exosomes to serve as prognostic biomarkers for real-time monitoring of
      therapeutic efficacy and identifying early recurrence using longitudinal samples from cancer
      patients undergoing treatment.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo blood sample collection within 1 month before surgery, radiation therapy, or
      chemotherapy; within 1 week after surgical resection (for patients having upfront surgery);
      within 1 month before beginning of post-operative radiation therapy (for patients having
      upfront surgery); during the second week of radiation therapy, during the last week of
      radiation therapy; and at 1 and 3 months after radiation therapy and then every 3 months for
      up to 18 months. Patients also undergo saliva sample collection within 1 month before
      surgery, radiation therapy, chemoradiation therapy, or system chemotherapy and tissue
      collection at the time of surgery (if upfront surgery is indicated). Blood, saliva, and
      tissue samples are analyzed for tumor mutations via next generation sequencing.
    
  