
    
      We are proposing the first randomized controlled trial (RCT) to evaluate the benefits and
      harms of AD screening on family members of older adults. The proposed trial will randomize
      1,800 dyads (older adult and family member) into three groups. Older adults in the first
      group will be screened for AD at baseline coupled with disclosure of the screening results to
      the dyad and to the patient's primary care provider (Screening Only Group). Older adults in
      the second group will be screened for AD at baseline coupled with disclosure of the screening
      results and, if they screen positive, referred to the Aging Brain Care (ABC) Program for
      diagnostic evaluation and care, if AD is diagnosed (Screening Plus Group). Older adults in
      the third group will not be screened at baseline and will observed through surveillance of
      the patients' EHR for any screening or incident AD diagnoses that occurs as part of routine
      care. At the last follow-up assessment (24 months) we will we will screen the older adults
      and conduct an interview with the family caregiver to detect possible cognitive impairment
      (Control Group).

      Specific Aim 1: Evaluate the impact of AD screening on family members' quality of life.

      Hypothesis 1: In comparison to the control group, family members randomized to the screening
      only or the screening plus groups will express higher levels of health-related quality of
      life at 24 months as measured by the Short Form Health Survey (SF-36).

      Specific Aim 2: Evaluate the impact of AD screening on family members' mood and anxiety.

      Hypothesis 2: In comparison to the control group, family members randomized to the screening
      only or the screening plus groups will express lower rates of depressive and anxiety symptoms
      at 24 months as measured by the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) and the Generalized
      Anxiety Disorder Scale (GAD-7).

      Specific Aim 3: Assess the impact of AD screening on family members' caregiving preparedness
      and caregiving self-efficacy.

      Hypothesis 3: In comparison to the control group, family members randomized to the screening
      only or the screening plus group, will be more prepared for caregiving and have higher
      self-efficacy at 24 months as measured by the Preparedness for Caregiving Scale and the
      Revised Scale for Caregiving Self-Efficacy.

      Specific Aim 4: Compare the effectiveness of two strategies for diagnostic evaluation and
      management after AD screening.

      Hypothesis 4: In comparison to the screening only group, family members randomized to the
      screening plus group will express higher levels of health-related quality of life, caregiver
      preparedness and caregiving self-efficacy and lower levels of depressive and anxiety symptoms
      at 24 months, as measured by the SF-36, Preparedness for Caregiving Scale, the Revised Scale
      for Caregiving Self-Efficacy, PHQ-9, and GAD-7, respectively.
    
  