
    
      The purposes of the single-blind randomized, controlled comparative effectiveness trial are
      to determine if use of the Postoperative Care at Home (PoCAH) tailored self-management
      program delivered via mobile technology after discharge to home will result in: 1) fewer
      and/or less intense patient symptoms (pain, nausea and vomiting, fatigue, sore throat,
      constipation, sleep dysfunction); 2) enhanced patient satisfaction, perceived self-efficacy,
      and quality of life; 3) lower healthcare resource use (patient to healthcare provider calls;
      unscheduled patient appointments with healthcare providers; and hospital readmission and
      emergency department use). A secondary objective is to assess the utility and effectiveness
      of the mHealth app after orthopaedic ambulatory surgery. This is a single-blind, two-group
      randomized, controlled comparative effectiveness trial stratified by knee and shoulder
      surgical procedures (N = 40; 20 per procedure, with half in each procedure group randomized
      to each treatment group) to compare the effectiveness of treatment as usual to treatment as
      usual combined with PoCAH. PoCAH is a theory based, patient-centered, and tailored
      self-management program delivered via mHealth technology to orthopaedic ambulatory surgery
      patients. Patients in the treatment as usual group will receive standard discharge and care
      instructions provided on an iPad mini. Patients in the intervention group (treatment as usual
      combined with PoCAH) will have access to the PoCAH app, in addition to the standard discharge
      and care instructions. The PoCAH app will provide the patient with additional information
      regarding self-management of symptoms and other consequences of surgery. Orthopaedic patients
      who undergo knee and shoulder ambulatory surgery will be recruited because these patients
      typically report more postoperative symptom distress than patients undergoing other surgical
      procedures. The sample will consist of 40 adults recruited from the University of Kentucky
      Orthopaedic Surgery and Sports Medicine Clinic in Lexington, Kentucky. After consent is
      obtained, all patients, regardless of grouping, will complete assessments (a Patient Diary)
      at enrollment (i.e., baseline), which will query/assess demographic information, health
      literacy, quality of life, quality of recovery and perceived self-efficacy of symptom
      management. Health literacy will be acquired preoperatively in the event literacy is a
      confounding factor in use of the app. These materials will be collected by the researcher at
      that time. During surgery, patients will undergo anesthesia as determined by the anesthesia
      provider and receive usual surgical care preoperatively and postoperatively. Medical chart
      data regarding the surgery will be abstracted and will include length of surgery, length of
      stay in the Post Anesthesia Care Unit (PACU), medications/anesthetics administered, and
      information regarding pain and nausea in the PACU and Phase 2 Recovery (Step-Down Unit).
      After surgery, data will be collected daily for 5 days from all participants (Day 1 through
      Day 5) via a Patient Diary. The Patient Diary will contain previously validated
      questionnaires that will assess Quality of Life, Quality of Recovery, and postoperative
      symptoms. The Patient Diary will be completed in the patients' homes while they recover. The
      investigators will call the patients at home on Day 2 to facilitate data collection. At the
      conclusion of the study (Day 5), participants in the intervention group will evaluate the
      utility and effectiveness of the PoCAH app. The iPad minis and Patient Diaries will be
      returned to the research staff when the patient attends the physician's office on the first
      office visit at 5 days post-surgery. Because the course of post discharge symptoms extends
      past 5 days, phone interviews at 2 weeks and 4 weeks are included to better describe the
      recovery trajectory and outcomes for operative patients.
    
  