
    
      After cardiac surgery, patients can have poor respiratory function and hemodynamics. The
      exact cause and contributing factors of this deterioration are not usually known and, often
      these patients demonstrate normal parameters at the end of surgery, but are significantly
      altered upon arrival in the ICU. Transportation of patients from the OR to the ICU is a
      period of significantly less intense monitoring and less well-controlled interventions (for
      example tidal volume (Vt) is largely arbitrary). Recent evidence suggests that the risk of
      intra-hospital transportation is significantly higher for ventilated patients than for all
      other patients. Some of this risk might be mitigated by the mode of ventilation because
      pulmonary and hemodynamic parameters are rarely measured during transportation. If the method
      used for ventilation and oxygenation during transport is important in maintaining stability
      upon presentation to the ICU, clinicians might choose one method over another. This would
      change clinical practice.

      This is a prospective observational study assessing the effect of different modes of
      transport ventilation on respiratory and hemodynamic parameters on post cardiothoracic (CT)
      surgery patients admitted to the ICU. It is standard of care to measure peripheral blood CO2
      (either end-tidal or arterial), minute volume, heart rate, blood pressure, cardiac output and
      pulmonary artery pressure for all patients admitted to the ICU after cardiac surgery. The
      investigators will simply record these values during transport and immediately on arrival in
      the ICU. At a 2 sided significance level of 0.05, the investigators will enroll 32 patients
      to detect a minimal difference from baseline ETCO2 of 15% at a power of 0.8.

      The investigators will review each subjects medical record to obtain vital sign information
      and ventilatory parameters. The investigators will obtain individual HIPAA authorization from
      each subject.

      All subjects will have just undergone cardiac surgery are intubated and are being transported
      to the ICU with either method of ventilation. The patients will be adult (age 18 and over who
      are competent to give their own consent). They will be recruited prior to surgery according
      to the inclusion and exclusion criteria listed below. No consideration will be made to
      gender, race, sexual orientation or national origin.
    
  