
    
      This study is a prospective, open label, blinded endpoint (PROBE),European, two-arm,
      randomized, controlled, post-market study to compare the safety and effectiveness of
      endovascular thrombectomy as compared to best medical care alone in the treatment of acute
      ischemic stroke (AIS) in patients with extended stroke lesions defined by an ASPECT score of
      3-5 and in an extended time window (up to 12 hours, or unknown time of symptom onset). This
      is an adaptive design study, with prospectively stated interim analyses with specified
      stopping rules allowing for the possibility early termination based on either a determination
      of study success or futility.

      Up to 665 subjects will be enrolled in the study and randomized for the Intention to treat
      analysis set. The randomization will be stratified by time from symptom onset (0-6h and
      6-11h/wake up stroke), and stroke severity (NIHSS ≤18, NIHSS >18).

      Interim data analysis is planned after the primary endpoint has been obtained for one third
      and two thirds of the patients. At each of these sample sizes, the available 90-day mRS data
      for each treatment arm will be evaluated. Safety interim analysis will be performed after one
      third and two thirds of the patients have been included.

      Subjects who meet the inclusion criteria will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to one of the
      following two treatment arms:

      Arm 1: best medical care Arm 2: endovascular thrombectomy and best medical care The primary
      objective of this study is to test efficacy and safety of thrombectomy in acute stroke
      patients with uncertain benefit of endovascular stroke treatment, i.e. extended ischemic
      lesion size with an ASPECT score of 3-5 or late (up to 12 hours) or unknown time window as
      compared to best medical care alone.

      Approximately 40 sites in Up to 20 sites in 8-10 European countries Patients presenting with
      acute ischemic stroke (AIS) based on focal occlusion in the M1 segment of the middle cerebral
      artery (MCA), and/or the intracranial segment of the distal internal carotid artery (ICA),
      determined by Magnetic Resonance Angiography (MRA) or Computed Tomographic Angiography (CTA),
      and who meet all eligibility criteria will be considered for study enrollment.
    
  